Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
ReNC N   12080
PROJECT C0MPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
(.REDIT 1457-GUI)
JUNE 30, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
EReport No: 12080
Type: PCR
Infrastructure Operations Division
Occidental and Central Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reipients only in the performaace of
their official duties. Its contents may not othenrise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES
Name of Currency: Syli (GSY)
1984 .        23.0
1985 .        62.0
1986 .        352.0
1987 .     398.0
1988 .        520.0
1989 .        590.0
1990 .        647.0
1991 .          781.0
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
item                                  English-French
ADT          Average Daily Traffic/Trafic Journalier Moyen
AfDB         African Development Bank/Banque Africaine de Developpement
BADEA        Arab Bank for Economic development in Africa/Banque Arabe pour le
Developpement Economique en Afrique
CGPR         Managemetit Council of the Road Project/Conseil de Gestion du Projet Routier
CNR          National Road Council/Conseil National des Routes
EEC          European Economic Community/Communaute Economique Europ6enne
ERR          Economic Rate of Return/Taux de Rentabilite Economique
ICB          International Competitive Bidding/Appel d'Offres International
IDA          International Development Association/Association Internationale pour le
Developpement
IMF          International Monetary Fund/Fonds Monetaire International
MATHU        Ministry of Land Development, Housing and Urbanism/Ministbre de I'Amenagement
du Territoire, de l'Habitat et de l'Urbanisme
MIGAT        Ministry of Infrastructure and Land Development/Minist4re de l'Infrastructure et des
Grands Amenagements du Territoire
OPR          Road Project Office/Office du Projet Routier
PCR          Project Completion Report/Rapport d'Achbvement de Projet
SOGUITRO   Guinean Road Works Company/Societe Guin6enne de Travaux Routiers
USAID        United States Agency for International Development/Agence des Etats Unis pour le
D6veloppement International
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report/Rapport d'Evaluation



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.SA
Office of Director-General
Operations lvaluation
June 30, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECTs    Project Completion Report on Guinea
Third HighMa- Project (Credit 1457-GUI)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Guinea - Third HiSghay
Project (Credit 1457-GUI)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No Part It
was prepared by the Borrower. The Credit (SDR26.5 million of May 1984) vas to
support rehabilitation and maintenance of the road network, institution-building
within the Ministry of Works, staff training, and medium-term planning. The
Credit was closed two years behind schedule and has been fully disbursed.
Bank assistance to Guinea has always emphasized strengthening of
maintenance capacity and efficiency. The First Highway Project of 1976 created
an autonomous road maintenance operation; the Second Highway Project of 1980
transformed this autonomous body into a departmental operation; the Third Highway
Project transformed the departmental operation back into a unit that was
theoretically autonomous but, in fact, had no independence.   Little of the
training program was implemented.
Physical targets were met, but with long delays, with cost overruns
of more than 60S, and with substantial quality shortcomings. The economic rates
of return are acceptable but disappointing when compared to expectations.
Institutional development objectives which zere preeminent in this repeater
project were only partially met. Overall, the project is rated as marginally
satisfactory and sustainability as uncertain.
The PCR is of satisfactory quality. The project may be audited along
with the first two highway projects and the port project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipfents only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise h- ---closed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
CREDIT 14S7-GUI
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CONTENTS
Preface
Evaluation Summaqy
PART I.  PROJEliCT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity  .......... .................... 1
B. Background ....................1
C. Experience under the First and Second Projects  ....         ....... 2
D. Project Objectives . ............................. 3
E. Project Description and Costs  ........           .............. 4
F. Project Organization . ............................ 5
G. Project Implementation  ...........            ............... 6
H. Project Results and Sustainability  .......         ............. 9
I.  Bank Performance  .        ...........................  17
J.  Borrower Performance .............             .............  18
K. Project Relationship ............................ 18
L. Consulting Services . ...........................  19
M. Project Documentation and Data .......             ............. 20
N. Findings and Lessons Leaned  .......             .............. 20
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
PART HI. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.  Related Bank Loans and/or Credits ......           ............ 23
2.  Project Timetable ............................. 24
3.  Credit Disbursements  ...........            ...............  24
4.  Project Implementation  ............            .............  25
5.  Project Costs and Financing  .........           ............. 25
6.  Project Results ...............................   26
7.  Compliance with Legal Covenants .......            ............ 27
8.  Use of Bank Resources  ............            .............  28
Annex    Economic Evaluation .............................. 30
Map - IBRD No. 17479
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offlcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
CREDIT 1457-GUI
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report for the Third Highway Project in the Republic of
r iinea, for which Credit 1457-GUI in the amount of SDR 26.5 M was approved on May 1,
1984. The Credit was closed on September 30, 1991, two years behind schedule. The Credit
was fully disbursed as of March 3, 1992.
ITe PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division of the Occidental and
Central Afri X 'Department on the basis of the Staff .1ppraisal Report, the Credit Agreement and
Amending Agreements, the Project Agreement and !DA correspondence files. The Borrower has
not yet submitted its own assessment of the Project for Part II of this report.



- ii -
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
CREDfT 1457-GUI
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
i.    Heavy rainfall and steep terrain make Guinea's roads hard to maintain. For many years,
the country's economic isolation and low level of agricultural production contributed to the
neglect of road infrastructure, except for roads linking bauxite mining areas to Conakry's port.
Beginning in 1976, a road maintenance office was created under the Ministry of Public Works
and received $US27 million in IDA funds to support its operations under the First and Second
Highway Projects (1976-1984). Initially, an autonomous force account operation, this office
carried out rehabilitation and maintenance of 2,100 km of paved and gravel roads under the First
Project and 3,575 km of rehabilitation and maintenance of earth and paved roads under the
Second Highway Project. ITese were impressive achievements, but fell short of appraisal targets
in physical terms. The Third Highway Project was built on the experience of the first two
projects as part of a program now being supported by two ongoing projects: a Transport Sector
Project and a Fourth Highwdy Project, and one just appraised, the Transport and Urban
Infrastructure Project (paras. 1-9).
Objectives and Description
ii.    The objectives of the Third Highway Project were to assist Government with:
(a) rehabilitation and maintenance of the priority road network; (b) institution building for road
maintenance and rehabilitation; (c) staff training; and (d) defnition of medium-term priorities for
the transport sector. The maintenance office was to be made autonomous, as it had been under
the First Highway Project, and more emphasis was placed on the training of local staff. The role
of consultants was also increased, compared to the Second Highway Project, to manage the
operation itself and introduce private sector style record keeping, cost monitoring, and work
programming in order to prepare the organization for future privatization. This was necessary
because force account was not intended to be a long-term solution to road maintenance. The
ultimate objective was not self-sufficient force account operations, but Government-managed
private contracting (para. 10,15).
iii. The US$73.7 million Project approved by the Board for US$28 million IDA financing
was to be cofinanced by BADEA (US$9 million for equipment, spares and transport studies) and
AfDB US$14.6 million for civil works) with Government providing US$22.1 million (equivalent)
in loczl cost financing. Civil works components making up 53% of Project costs involved the
reconstruction or rehabilitation of half the primary paved road network, including its "backbone,"
the Conakry-Mamou Road, and two "ribs," (Mamou-Labe and Mamou-Kissidougou, about
600 km) through ICB (see Map. IBRD-17479). The Road Project's Office force account brigades
were also to carry out the regravelling and rehabilitation of 1,100 km of gravel and earth roads,
3,000 km of equipment-xi.based routine maintenance (grading and patching). Labor based
maintenance of shoulders and drains over 2,500 km would also be carried out with project
support through cantonnage (paras. 11-14).



- iii -
Implementation Experience
iv.   Tle Project was to start in July ,984 and take four years. It was negotiated in Ma ,u
1983 and became effective only in December 1984. This delay was due to difficulties in
identifying cofinancing and rot related to the advent of a new regime following the death of
Sekou Toure in 1984. Consultants were slow to set up new procedures for maintenance
operations. and the procurement of equipment and spares was also delayed. Relations between
the contractor-consultants and their supervisors (engineering consultants in the Ministry) were
strained. The contractor-consultants failed to adequately supervise brigade work and train staff,
and the hoped-for partnership among consultants and local staff never materialized. Unexpectedly
rapid political and economic change wider the new regime gave new impetus to the privatization
of the road maintenance office. Internal record keeping and work planrAing procedures were
gradually and successfully introduced; however, the maintenance office, from a financial point
of view, never became fully autonomous. The closing of the special project accounts in 1986-87
during bank reform, de.ays in the Government's disbursement of salaries and bonuses and
processing of local purchases during the 18-month closure of the special accounts, and internal
reorganizations of the maintenance office and its parent Ministry (beginning in 1986), all furither
handicapped equipment-based maintenance operations. Nonethe.ess, the number of brigades was
expanded to seven from the three which were foreseen at appraisal, and maintenance brigade
operations averaged 200 km per year of regravelling, and 900 km per year of regrading during
the 1985-88 seasons (paras. 21, 24-29).
V.    Civil works for reconstruction and repaving also started late and took longer than
anticipated, because the works required were substantially greater than anticipated, the contractor
performed poorly, and payment by the Government of local cost invoices to contractors was
delayed. The Closing Date for the Project was extended twice, primarily because of the lateness
of these works. The Project was closed two years late, in September 1991. The implementation
took nearly seven years, from effectiveness to closing, and covered six rather than the four
m aintenance seasons anticipated at appraisal (paras. 22-23).
Results
vi.    Reconstruction and repaving targets were largely achieved (about 580 of 615 km, or
94%). However, they took much longer and cost 65% more than estimated at appraisal, because
of greater than anticipated increases in drainage works and surface deterioration. Part of the
increase was due to unforeseen implementation delays and to the failure to plan for culverts and
other drainage works needed in Guinea's climate and terrain. Maintenance works were
impressive - 3,048 km of grading (114% of appraisal target), 830 km of regravelling (186%),
and 410 kn of earth road rehabilitation (63%) during the first four seasons - the quality,
however, is uncertain. The Bank's insistence upon initial standards, even when the roads
necessitated rehabilitation rather than maintenance, also contributed to the poor end result. A
contract for 19 bridges and culverts on a single paved section was added to the Project works as
a first step toward the correction of drainage inadequacies. This accounts for much of the
increase in cost (paras. 31-35).
vii.  Institutionally, the Project represented an important transitional period between the
traditional, centralized force account operations and a future setup involving fully competitive
private contracting. The results can be seen as having exceeded expectations in that the mnmber



- iv -
of maintenance brigades was larger and force account operations were privatized, all within the
Project's lifetime. However, the Govemment's preference for contracting works to the privatized
maintenance office, SOGUlTRO, over capable, small local contractors has resulted in a local
construction market which has not grown to its full potential. Moreover, labor-based routine
maintenance was only implemented under the Fourth Highway Project. Little of the training
program foreseen at appraisal was implemented, due to the neglect of on-the-job training by
consultants, and tardiness in the preparation of a training plan. The transport plan study led to
the establishment of an effective local planning unit within the Ministry (computer training of this
staff is one of the Project's few successful training activities), and, under the Transport Sector
Project, to the establishment of the Road Fund, a domestic financing mechanism for road
maintenance (paras. 36-44).
viii. The Project cost US¢95.7 million, or US$22 million over appraisal estimates. This does
not include the cost of completing road paving undet the Transport Sector Project. A substantial
reallocation of MDA funds was made, thereby reducing funds intended for maintenance and
rehabilitaton to an eighth of the original funding level, and increasing threefold funds used for
reconstruction and repaving. IDA funding for equipment and spares purchases was also three
times higher than anticipated, in part because intended BADEA cofinancing was not disbursed.
In addition, disbursements for maintenance were made to suppliers rather than to the maintenance
office, on the basis of the brigade performance foreseen in the appraisal report, and in spite of
the introduction, in 1989, of internal contract agreements with each brigade, on the basis of cost
accounting (paras. 45-54).
Sustainabifity
ix.    Regarding the institutional arrangements which will allow for competitive local bidding
on most works, it is difficult to measure the extent of sustainable improvements and whether the
new institutional setup will prove satisfactory. SOGUITRO, a public works contractor and
equipment rental company, formed from within maintenance office operational divisions, has a
substantial advantage in local bidding for maintenance works paid for under the Road Fund
(paras. 39-41, 56).
x.    Institutional arrangements, which have been supported under subsequent projects, can be
sustained. Sustainable road maintenance and investment in Guinea require sound planning, a self-
sustaining source of domestic funding. Judging from Third Highway Project completion data,
efforts initiated under this project and followed up under the Transport Sector and Fourth
Highway Projects have been successful in establishing these two conditions. A fully operational
transport planning unit was created with computer modelling and up-to-date traffic data. A
domestic financing mechanism (Road Fund) was established for providing funds for road
maintenance (paras 42-44, 57).
xi. In view of the rates of return (para. 55), the rehabilitation of the Conakry-Mamou Road,
and the resurfacing of Mamou-Labe, Mamou-Kissidougou, and Dubreka-Forecariah, are
sustainable. The 36% rate of return for the maintenance operations executed under the Project,
is disappointing. This is explained by the lack of continuity in routine maintenance operations
which were carried out once only instead of every year. Therefore, the sustainability of the
maintenance operations is poor. Moreover, despite the implementation of a labor-based routine
maintenamce program under the Fourth Highway Project and the availability of good local
contractors and funds, maintenance was given a low priority.



v
xii.  Institutional sustainability also requires an adequately trained and remunerated staff, and
the Government's commitment to the cost effective use of resources and giving first priority to
routine maintenance. Inadequate training programs under the Third Highway Project are being
compensated for under follow-up projects; however, staff salaries have remained inadequate.
(para. 57).
Findings and Lessons Learned
xiii.  Project Preparation
(a)    At the time of appraisal, closer attention needs to be given to accurate assessment
of work volume and definition of realistic and appropriate physical standards,
including drainage (para. 69).
(b)   Implementation schedule and related contingency allowances should be based in
light of experience in previous project in the country (para. 69).
(c)    Dettiled engineering studies should be available before Credit effectiveness to
allow an early start-up of the Project (para, 69).
(d)    Standard bidding documents should be furnished to the Borrower to accelerate
procurement procedures and review by the Bank (para. 69).
(e)    Detailed terms of reference for training should be prepared in order to implement
an adequate training program and to be able to assess its execution (para. 72).
xiv.   Project Implementation and Supervision
(a)    More resources should be allocated by the Bank for supervision. At the time of
the Third Highway Project, internal coefficients used in Bank-wide resource
allocation favored new loan preparation to the detriment of project supervision.
Some Project issues could have been addressed more quicldy through longer
supervision missions (para. 70).
(b)    More coordination is needed between sector operations teams and country
operations teams and with IMF teams (para. 71).
(c)    The impact of a significant change in the political, economical and financial
situation of the country on the Project should be assessed and the Project should
be redefined on the basis of this assessment, as necessary (para. 71).
(d)    When possible, consultants should be subject to incentives to improve their
performance (para. 72).
(e)    Detailed review of documents and rigorous adherence to Bank's procurement
guidelines do not in themselves guarantee a good performance of the contractor
(para. 72).



- vi -
(t)    The issue of Borrower's failure to provide counterpart funding and timely
payment of staff salaries, has to be addressed on a country basis to avoid
compromising the Project's objectives (para. 75).
y .   Insfludons
(a)    Setting-up new institutions or reforming existing ones requires careful and time-
phased design of components. Specific definition of institutional arrangements,
a detailed action-plan and timetable are preferable to vague assurances concerning
the establishment of a new structure or organization (para. 73).
(b)    Some institutional arrangements may be difficult to implement. Decision can be
taken either to go ahead or to wait that the overall framework be ready for this
implementation. The choice made under the Third Highway Project, to go ahead
proved to be adequate because the preliminary measures led to a better
preparation of future projects, and finally to an acceleration in imnproving the
institutional framework (para. 74).



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
CR)ED)T 1457-GUI
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Project Identity
Project Name        : Third Highway Project
Credit Number       : 1457-GUI
RVP Unit            : Africa Region
Country              Republic of Guinea
Sector               Transportation
B.    Background
1.    The highway Project being evaluated here is the third such project to be completed with
Bank support over the last 20 years, in a program now being continued by two ongoing projects:
a Transport Sector Project (appraised 1987) and the Fourth Hiahway Project (appraised 1988).
This PCR presents the accomplishments and shortcomings of the Third Highway Project in the
context of past Bank involvement in the sector and with a brief indication of later developments.
An overall evaluation of the program as a whole should ioe possible only at the completion of the
two later projects.
2.    The Republic of Guinea presents an unusually challenging enviromnent for a highways
project, particularly one focussing on maintenance and rehabilitation as well as on paving and
new construction. Meteorologically, Guinea's coastal area and the highlands where most of the
population lives are subject to four meters of rain annually, falling between April and October,
compared to about one meter a year for most other areas of the West African coast. Geologically,
Guinea is blessed with a large area of central highlands, the Fouta Djallon. Rising rather abruptly
from a many-rivered coastal area, this plateau lies between 500 to 1,500 m above sea level.
Guinea's southern forest area is also quite elevated (500 -1,000 m ), and together with the Fouta
Djallon, separates the coast from the upper Niger basin in the eastern part of the country. The
only other area in West Africa where such rain and terrain is found is in Cameroon. As a result
of the heavy rains and steep grades, road surfaces in Guinea erode relatively quickly: gravel
losses on most gravel and earth roads average 1.5 cm to 2 cm per year, ranging up to 4 cm to
6 cm on the most heavily travelled sections (SAR, Annex Table 2-3).
3.    Guinea's longstanding political and economic isolation had also contributed to the difficult
nature of the road transport environment. Protected by a treacherous Atlantic coastline and well-
armed tribesmen, this area was bypassed during the early colonial area. It was eventually annexed
by the French, who built a 600-km railroad from Conakry to Kankan on the Niger across the
Fouta Djallon, and a road system to feed the rail line. This transportation system was abandoned
along with productive plantations when in 1958, under Sekou Toure's leadership, Guinea declined
to join the French franc zone. Centralized economic policies oudawing private enterprise and
fixing producer prices below production cost forced producers in one of the region's richest



- 2 -
farming areas to export illegally much cash crop production. rhe public sector came to be
finariced almost exclusively out of receipts from enclave bauxite operations, developed in part
with World Bank financing in the late 1960s, while the rest of the economy made its own
arrangements. Dual markets and dual exchange rates became a way of life.
4.    Roads first constructed by the French in the early part of tfe century, including the 600
km east-west section linking the coastal capital, Conakry, with Mamnou in the central highlands
and Kournissa on the Niger River, were left to deteriorate during the 1960s and early 1970s.
Falling agricultural exports and restricted vehicle and fuel imports led to reductions in road
traffic. For many years, highways were seen not as the backbone of the transport system, but
mainly as feeders to the rail system, which carried most goods traffic until the 1970s, by which
time long neglect had rendered it uneconomic to rehabilitate. Another major factor in the decline
of the road system was the Government's preoccupation during the 1960s and 1970s with the
infrastructure needs of the nascent bauxite mining operation, an enclave located 200 km north of
Conakry on the Atlantic Coast. The Bank's 1970 proposal to prepare a highway maintenance
project was only taken up by Government in 1974, following a shift in economic strategy to
renew the emphasis on agriculture, and preparation of a first Transport Sector Paper for Guinea.
5.    The Third Highway Project also faced new opportunities and difficulties engendered by
unexpectedly rapid political and economic change following Sekou Toure's death in 1984. In
post-Toure Guinea, new opportunities for private enterprise, combined with the continued low
level of Governnment revenue, increasing inflation and shortages of imported goods, served only
to intensify incentives to divert Government property, esp. cially fuel, spare parts, vehicles and
equipment. While economic liberalization and reform opened the door for private enterprise, put
goods back on the shelves, farmers back in their fields, and brought foreign suppliers of goods
and services back into Guinea, it will take a long time for the economy to recover from 25 years
of isolation, and for suspicion of capitalism to subside after 25 years of Marxist ideology. In the
meantime, the increased pressure from heavier traffic due to economic revival shortened the
lifetime of any road improvements made, and hastened surface failure on unimproved sections,
compared to what was anticipated at appraisal of the Third Highway Project.
C.    Experience under the Flrst and Second Projects
6.    By the time of the First Highway Project (IDA US$14 million, total US$18.6 million,
1976-1980), years of economic decline and lack of maintenance had led to a severely dilapidated
road system. The network consisted of 4,300 km primary roads, of which about 1,100 kan paved,
1,200 km secondary, and 5,000 km tertiary roads. The First Highway Project supported the
maintenance or rehabilitation of about 2,100 km of paved and gravel roads by force account, or
about 85% of the appraisal estimate. Guinean staff commitment resulted in a high output at the
brigade level. Travel times were substantially reduced, resulting for example in a doubling of
traffic on the Mamou-Dabola section of the main east-west road, compared to the pre-project
level, and access was substantially improved to many farming areas. The main shortcomings in
the First Highway Project execution were slow startup, considerable diversion of equipment to
non-project uses, and a drop in efficiency following brigade reorganizations. A reduced scope
of works was completed 14 months later than foreseen; completion of road works planned under
the First Highway Project was financed with about US$1 million of Second Highway Project
funds (see PCR No. 4358, March 1983).



-3-
7.    Diversion of equipment continued to be a problem during the Second Highway Project
(IDA US$13 million, EEC US$4 million, total US$29.5 million, 1980-1984), despite further
measures to reduce it. The overwhelming economic incentives fostering diversion of all project
inputs, including fuel and spare parts, derived from the simple fact that the equipment for these
projects was virtually the only such equipment in the entire country, and from the inadequacy of
public sector wages. Low even by West African standards, wages could cover only a part of a
family's basic needs, with the result that workers could survive only by diverting the goods to
which their jobs gave access ( two liters of fuel equalled a day's wages for most workers, a
tankful more than a monthly salary).
8.    By linking appraisal of the Third Highway Project with meeting targets for the Second
Highway Project, IDA put pressure on Government to greatly improve output, and rehabilitation
brigades were able to meet targets during the 1982 and 1983 campaigns. The equipment diversion
problem appeared to have been resolved, with most of the diverted equipment returned to the
units by late 1983, except for some intended for the resurfacing unit. However, overall
production shortfalls at the end of the Second Highway Project were considerable: the 975 km
of earth roads rehabilitated by December 1983 met only 63% of the appraisal target; maintenance
and grading on unpaved roads covered 2,420 kam (70%), only 180 km of patching of paved roads
was carried out ('4%), and no resurfacing of paved roads was done, though 300 km had been
included at appraisal. As in the case of the First Highway Project, startup delays were
experienced and project completion was delayed by a year (see PCR No. 5653, May 1985).
9.    A major assignment facing the Bank team when preparing the Third Highway Project in
1981-82 was to redress the main factor held to be responsible for poor performance under the
Second Highway Project, namely project organization and leadership. This included rethinking
the role of consultants versus local staff both in project management and works execution. Other
problems in the Second Highway Project requiring resolution involved poor quality of patching
and resurfacing work, poor consultant performance, and Government difficulties with meeting
local and foreign exchange contributions to project costs. Problems ancountered in both the First
and Second Highway Projects included inadequate routine maintenance through cantonnage,
emphasis on quantity rather than quality of works, delayed repair works due in large part to spare
part shortages resulting from procurement delays, and administrative delays in purchasing fuel
and materials and paying wages and bonuses.
D.    Project Objectives
10.   The objectives of the Third Highway Project were to assist Government with:
(a) rehabilitation and maintenance of the priority road network; (b) institution building for road
maintenance and rehabilitation; (c) staff training; and (d) definition of medium-term priorities for
the transport sector. The ultimate purpose of the highway network is to support agricultural
development. The ultimate purpose of the Third Highway Project was not self-sufficient force
account operations, as foreseen under the First and Second Highway Projects, but the eventual
transformation of the existing force account road maintenance office into an entity that would
function like a private contractor. This was possible under the Toure regime because the Public
Works Secretary at the time favored introduction of more efficient work programming and other
practices borrowed from private sector practice. Then, after Sekou Tour6's death in 1984, the
goal shifted to conversion to Government-managed private contracting of equipment-based road



-4 -
maintenance, with privatization of the road maintenance office seen as an intermediate step
toward this ultimate institutional goal.
E.    Project Description and Costs
11.   For cofinancing purposes, the project was divided into two packages is follows:
Package A                        Total Cost (1984US$ M)
1.    Equipment-based rehabilitation and
routine maintenance of unpaved priority network      15.8
2.    Equipment and building construction                   7.4
3.    Labor-based routine maintenance of
shoulders and drainage along priority network        2.9
4.    Technical assistance, training, transport plan        8.8
Subtotal, Package A                                        34.9
Package B
1.    Reconstruction of paved Conakry-Mamou Road (255 km)    27.7
2.    Resurfacing of 360 km of most trafficked paved roads  11.0
Subtotal, Package B                                        38.7
Total Project Cost                                   73.6
12.   Cofinancing arrangements for foreign exchange costs (70% of total) included US$28
million IDA, parallel financing of US$9 million for equipment and spare parts by BADEA (Arab
Bank for Economic Development in Africa), which had also cofinanced the Second Highway
Project, and joint financing of the Conakry-Mamou Road by IDA and the African Development
Fund (US$14.6 mnillion from AfDB). Government was to cover all local costs, in part with the
use of Government funds earmarked for PL 480 counterpart use, with USAID's approval.
13.   The Third Highway Project was ambitious in attacking head-on two areas that had not
been receiving major attention in the earlier projects: the paved network and routine maintenance.
Half the paved road network (615 km out of 1,140) would be reconstructed or rehabilitated,
including the heavily trafficked Conakry-Mamou Road (255 km), the backbone of the network,
carrying in 1980 3,000 vpd near Conakry and about 600 vpd near Mamou, and 360 km of the
north and south "ribs," Mamou-Labe and Mamou-Kissidougou. On the unpaved priority network
which had been the focus of the earlier projects, periodic regravelling of 445 km of laterite roads
(most of which had been rehabilitated under the First Highway Project), and rehabilitation of 640
km of earth roads. These works were to be carried out by contractors, rather than by force
account which had given poor results in earlier projects. In addition, routine maintenance would
be carried out on the rest of the unpaved network (3,000 km), including bridge maintenance,
grading of gravel roads, and patching of paved roads, by the force account brigades. Finally,
labor-based routine maintenance would be carried out on shoulders and drains through lengthmen
or cantonnage along 2,500 km of roads with over 40 vpd in traffic, or virtually the entire priority
network. IDA would provide assistance for staff training and Government would finance local
maintenance costs.



-5-
14.   Taking into account the financial constraints, compromises had to be made in physical
sta.ndards of the more cosdy components for stretching project design to cover the entire spectrum
of roadwork needs. For example, on the Conakry-Mamou Road, the most expensive single
section, substantial realignment would have been economically justified but the least-cost
alternative was chosen. Therefore, only spot geometric improvements on 10 km were included,
because they could not safely be postponed, with selective strengthening on the remaining 245
km. For the resurfacing of other paved roads, the standard adopted was to lay a single bituminous
surface treatment where traffic exceeded 200 vehicles per day, and sand slurry where traffic fell
below that level; the stated objective was simply to halt base deterioration and to postpone the
need for reconstruction or overlay for some five to eight years. All of these works were intended
to be completed within the four-year project period, starting in July 1984.
15.   Training received particular emphasis in the Third Highway Project. Non-works
components accounted for about 20% of total estimated project cost, and provided for renewal
of highway and workshop equipment, rehabilitation and construction of buildings, technical
assistance, training, and a medium-term transport plan. About 300 road maintenance office staff
would be trained, including all division-level supervisory staff and all technical and administrative
tasks essential to the supervision and operation of the DT or Division of Works. At the provincial
level, 200 or so engineers, assistant engineers and field supervisors would be trained in planning
and implementing routine maintenance on a task basis, a new approach in six of the seven
Provinces. Moreover, technical assistance input was beefed up by comparison with the earlier
projects: a team of eight experts would assist the road maintenance office by providing 213 staff-
months of engineering consultant input, plus a further 276 staff-months of contractor-consultant
assistance to the force account brigades. This was a substantial increase compared to the 264
staff-months total provided under the Second Highway Project.
F.    Project Organization
16.   Institutional arrangements established during preparation of the Third Highway Project
were considerably more complex than for the earlier projects, and were designed to correct
problems encountered during their implementation. During the First Highway Project, works had
been carried out by a highly successful Project Directorate which had been set up to function
autonomously from the then Ministry of Public Works. It had been an objective of the Second
Highway Project to integrate this unit into the Ministry but this did not work; a new Minister
with less commitment to the project had been appointed at the beginning of the Second Highway
Project and used the centralized structure of the Ministry to divert project equipment and
materials, and overruled project staff orders with his own verbal instructions. This interference
could not be prevented by institutional means, nor were there any control systems in place to
monitor resource use.
17.   Several major institutional changes were made in 1982 taking into account the lessons
learned from the previous projects. They aimed at improving the productivity of mechanized
maintenance and establishing an effective labor-based maintenance program. The former Road
Project Directorate in the Ministry was made into an autonomous Road Project's Office (Office
du Projet Routier, OPR) independent from the Ministry, as under the First Highway Project.
OPR was given discretion to hire and fire staff and determine their compensation, to procure
materials and spare parts, and was assigned full responsibility for carrying out all project tasks



-6-
and managing project resources. Within OPR, the unit responsible for works execution, the DT
(Direction des Travaux or Division of Works ), was clearly separated from other units
responsible for project financial administration, works supervision, manpower planning and
training, and studies and data collection. This IDA-prompted change took place in the context of
Government's decision in 1982 to reorganize the Ministry of Public Works into the Ministry of
Infrastructure and Major Works (Ministere de l'Infrastructure et des Grands Amenagements du
Territoire, MIGAT). Responsibility for labor-based routine maintenance was transferred to the
provincial level of Government, along with the corresponding staff, about half of the former
ministerial maintenance staff. The Ministry's Secretariat for Public Works retained responsibility
for mechanized periodic and routine maintenance and for major infrastructure construction works.
18.   Institution-building under the Third Highway Project focussed on road maintenance. The
project included 200 man-months of engineering consultants and 276 man-months of contractor
consulting services. OPR's role in the execution of reconstruction and resurfacing works would
consist of contracting and supervision works. Therefore, the Project included 113 man-months
of engineering consultants for design and supervision of works.
19.   A new organization was defined for mechanized maintenance which would combine the
advantages of an integrated management package, critical with respect to cost controls, with on-
the-job training for local staff in management, administration, and construction at senior and
intermediate levels. Mechanized maintenance would be carried out by the DT within OPR.
Managerial responsibility would be assigned to an expatriate consultant contractor. DT works and
performance would be supervised by OPR, while OPR itself would be overseen by an
interministerial Road Project Management Council (CGPR, Conseil de Gestion du Projet
Routier), which was to meet at least once a year. Staff from the 12 former force account
brigades, remaining in OPR and not transferred to the provinces, would be reassembled into three
field brigades, each assigned to a specific region of the country.
20.   The Government agreed to the transfer of force account staff to the Provinces for labor-
based maintenance, and to other changes. However, these arrangements were not implemented
before Board presentation. Therefore, issuance of official instructions to provincial authorities to
apply this new policy was made a condition of credit effectiveness. Annual maintenance programs
and budgets would be prepared by a National Maintenance Coordinator within MIGAT, and
approved by a second interministerial body: the National Road Council (CNR, Conseil National
des Routes). CNR was also to review MIGAT road investment plans and road classification
proposals. A significant policy change would be introduced regarding the remuneration of
laborers, in order for labor-based provincial operations to succeed. Laborers would be
remunerated on a task basis rather than a monthly basis, and at a level about three times higher
than previously, in order to compete with returns to agricultural work by casual workers. (In
actual fact, neither the CGPR nor the CPR ever met, and the task-based remuneration scheme
was never implemented.)
G.    Project Implementation
21..   The Third Highway Project was identified in 1981 and appraised in 1983. It became
effective only in December 1984, due to a one-year delay in finding cofinancing for the US$73.7
million project, and a nine-month delay to satisfy effectiveness conditions concerning counterpart



-7-
funding and special accounts. Both supervising and contractor consultants to OPR were in place
by early 1985 but were slow to set up new programming, organizational and management
structures. Slow procurement further contributed to delays in slow startup of reconstruction and
paving works, which began in late 1987 and early 1988 instead of September 1985, as foreseen
in the appraisal report. Moreover, these works took longer than anticipated, resulting in two
postponements of the project closing date. Project implementation took nearly seven years from
effectiveness to closure. Its lifetime spanned six maintenance seasons rather than three (1985-
1990, Octber-July) and covered ten years from identification to closure. All Project components
were delayed and the Project closed two years late, in September 1991.
22.   Reconstrucdon and Resurfacing of Paved Roads. Reconstruction of the Conakry-Mamou
Road and paving of the Dubreka-Sierra Leone, Mamou-Labe and Mamou-Kissidougou roads was
delayed because of the need to update the 1981-82 technical documents for early 1986 startup
conditions, and by slow procurement review on the Bank's part. On the other hand, the improved
political climate in Guinea and stricter observance of ICB procedures resulted in stiff competition
for the Conakry-Mamou contract and dramatically reduced bid prices compared to the appraisal
estimates. Lower cost and failure to comply with Bank procurement procedures resulted in
fnancing of the Conakry-Mamou Road being taken over by AfDB. This allowed IDA funds to
be reallocated to the resurfacing of other paved roads (Dubreka-Sierra Leone, Mamou-Labe,
Mamou-Kissidougou), urgently in need of additional funds because of severe road deterioration
since appraisal.
23.   Road works started two to three years late, In early 1987 (Conakry-Mamou) and early
1988 (Dubreka-SierraLeone, Mamou-LabelKissidougou), and completed five years late (1990/91)
compared to appraisal estimates. In addition to taking longer because the volume and nature of
works were substantially greater and more complex than what had been anticipated at appraisal,
these works were slowed down by poor contractor performance. Poor on-site organization and
other internal problems were compounded by conflict between the contractor and Government
over 9 to 12-month delays in the payment of large local cost invoices by Government. Primarily
due to the lateness of these works, the closing date for the Project was extended twice, from
September 1989 to September 1990 in July 1989, and from September 1990 to September 1991
in May 1990. The Conakry-Mamou Road did cost less than estimated at appraisal (although more
than the contracted bid), and the Dubreka-Sieria Leone Road about 50% more, but the other two
roads cost several times above appraisal estimates. Works required on the second section of the
Mamou-Kissidougou Road (Faranah-Kissidougou) were actually only completed under the
Transport Sector Project.
24.   Periodic and Routine Maintenance. The major handicaps encountered for periodic and
routine maintenance during period implementation were: IMF-inspired closing of the special
project accounts in December 1985 for an 18-month period, long delays in Government payment
or non-payment of local costs (consultants' invoices, project unit staff, laborers' salaries and
bonuses), difficult relationships between the two technical assistance teams, poor performance of
the contractor-consultant, and several reorganizations of both OPR and its parent Ministry.
According to OPR records, brigade operations over the 1985-88 seasons averaged about 200 kam
a year of regravelling and about 900 km a year of regrading, plus about 350 km of rehabilitation
of earth roads in 1986. The contractor consultants in particular failed to design appropriate
procedures which could make the unorthodox institutional arrangement fulfill its promise to
improve maintenance performance, preferring rather to fall back on inappropriate past experience



- 8 -
in new road construction operations. The initial 1985 (October 1985-March 1986) maintenance
program suffered so much from these shortcomings and from the contractor-consultants'
additional failure to supervise the brigades or to provide on-the-job training, that much of the
work had to be redone the next year. While internal record keeping and work planning
procedures were gradually and successfully introduced over the next few years, OPR never
became fully aultonomous from a financial point of view, and the hoped-for partnership between
the two consultants and between consultants and local staff never fully materialized.
25.   Some failures by the Bank and the Borrower contributed to the poor actual result for road
maintenance despite the impressive numbers of kms !naintained. The maintenance program did
not include culverts and other drainage works, which would have contributed to improve road
preservation although these works are not normally part of routine maintenance in countries with
more normal rainfall. Without drainage works carried out, some roads whose surfaces had been
maintained could be impassable during four months of rains. The Bank insisted on remaining
within standard maintenance guidelines defined at appraisal although some roads needed
rehabilitation more than maintenance. As a first step towards correcting drainage inadequacies,
a contract for 19 bridges/culverts on the Kindia-Gaoual Road was added in 1986 to works
financed under the Project. Drainage works were also added to the road paving contracts
(Mamou-Labe, Mamou-Kissidougou); these supplementary works increased the amo-nt of the
civil works component as determined at appraisal.
26.   Contracting out road maintenance works was part of the Project's objectives but
encountered implementation difficult-es. The 19 bridges contract under the Third Highway Project
was awarded to the same firm that had demonstrated consistently poor performance as contractor
consultant. The rehabilitation of 1,085 km of unpaved roads, which originally was to be
contracted out because of the poor quality of rehabilitation work carried out by force account
under earlier projects, actually remained on OPR's work program. A mid-project attempt to fimd
a way to contract these works out to reliable local contractors failed for lack of an adequate legal
definition of small entrepreneur, among other reasons. Only about 400 km of rehabilitation was
actually done under the Third Highway Project and executed by OPR, despite the Bank's repeated
recommendations for these works to be contracted out. Routine labor-based maintenance
(cantonnage) got underway very late because the provincial branches of the Ministry which were
to oversee these works were not operational. It took a long time for the Government and the Bank
to agree on specific arrangements for carrying out these works, despite assurances given at
effectiveness. Finally, this component was transferred to the Fourth Highway Project over the
course of 1988, and by early 1990 a frst group of lengthmen had begun cantonnage on the
Conalry-Kindia Road, with two more to start on the Kissidougou-Kankan Road in May 1990.
27.   BuUding Construction and Equipment Purchase. This component of the Project was
executed without major difficulties, but for the supply of spare parts. OPR office and workshop
rehabilitation were carried out expeditiously and the renovated facilities were ready for use in
May 1986. Computer equipment purchased and installed in these facilities proved a valuable tool
in startup of transport planning activities (see para. 28). Road maintenance equipment and spare
parts financed under the project cost more and arrived later than expected (January-May 1986).
This hindered maintenance operations in the project's first years (1984-85). By 1988, a
multiplicity of additional, bilaterally financed, road maintenance equipment was delivered to
OPR, none of which had been discussed with the Bank. Therefore, more equipment was arriving
than could usefully be employed by OPR. Supply of spare parts and road maintenance inputs



-9-
(chiefly fuel) was an endemic problem. A purchasing agent was engaged in early 1987 because
of inadequate Government purchasing procedures. Lengthy procurement disputes delayed the
selection of the agent. However. neither the use of this agent nor cther procurement alternatives
proposed was acceptable to BADEA, which was to have financed some equipment and most spare
parts purchases. A Japanese grant later became available under the Special Fund for Africa for
equipment supply. However, the deficit in financing for spareparts was never made up.
28.    h-ansport Plan and Staff Training. Although a first phase of the Transport Plan was
carried out in late 1985, the final Plan was delayed until the Transport Sector Project to take into
account, on the one hand, the lack of data on infrastructure conditions and traffic, and on
development programs for agriculture and industry which could have provided a basis for
transport demand forecasts, and on the other hand, the coverage of macroeconomic aspects of
transport sector needs under the structural adjustment effort. Therefore, the second phase of the
plan under the Third Highway Project, carried out traffic counts and origin-destination surveys.
A qualitative "sketch" transport plan was prepared and more substantive work was carried out
once the data became available. The plan also included a proposal for restructuring the Ministry,
including analysis of staffing and training needs. A new transport planning division was created
and staff trained to collect traffic and origin-destination data and analyse it using computer
models. This work was continued under the Transport Sector Project, under which an updated
transport plan provided a good basis for medium-term planning as originally intended.
29.   Although training was one of the major objectives of the Project, results were mitigated.
Computer training was the most successful training activity under the Third Highway Project. On-
the-job training of field crews in road maintenance operations fell far short of what was needed
and expected: supervision missions repeatedly commented on the negative impact on maintenance
work of negligent or inexistent supervision and training, and reported that the contractor
consultants' training advisors were assigned by the Ministry to works not included in the project.
The training program for mechanics was hampered by delays in arrival of spare parts and
equipment in the early years and lack of logistical support necessary for the mechanics in training
to accompany the brigades to service on-site equipment. Mechanic trainees were not well
motivated due to the untimely payment of salaries, and because OPR had no policy concerning
employment opportunities for those who would complete the training. Although the supervising
consultants had prepared a training study in 1986, no training proposals for other OPR staff had
been financed in July 1987. A contract for courses abroad was signed (Tractebel) only in
November 1987. Training activities linked to labor-based maintenance (cantonnage) never
materialized (support of cantonnage activities was transferred to the Fourth Highway Project).
H,    Project Results and Sustainability
'30.   Overview. In view of the rates of return (see para. 55), the rehabilitation of the Conakry-
Mamou Road, and the resurfacing of Mamou-Labe, Mamou-Kissidougou, and Dubreka-
Forecariah, are sustainable. The rate of return of maintenance operations is disappointing for such
operations. This is explained by the lack of continuity in routine maintenance operations, which
were carried out once only, instead of every year. Therefore, the sustinability of the maintenance
operations is poor. However, institutional arrangements, which have been supported under
subsequent projects, can be sustained.



- 10-
31.   The Third Highway Project fell short of attaining its stated objectives with respect to
maintenance, and completed road reconstruction and repaving works only at a much higher cost,
due to a powerful combination of factors: radical shifts in the larger political, economic and
financial environments just after negotiations, initial technical optimism (or underdesign) at
appraisal, chronic non-performance of consultants, constantly changing institutional environment
within the ministry involved, flawed procurement review and limited supervision resources on
the part of the Bank, and dominance of personal over public interests on the Borrower's side in
the later years of projet implementation. In this case, all of these factors may be seen to stem
from deep-rooted institutional blind spots and rigidities. At the present time (Spring 1992), some
of the changes required to create and sustain an adequate road transport sector in Guinea have
been made, and others are underway.
32.   Thus the Third Highway Project should perhaps be seen as a transitional project, spanning
the difficult period between traditional force account maintenance operations and a future setup
where a competent and competitive private contracting sector performs road maintenance and
construction. During such a period, it is perhaps inevitable that physical work targets will fall
victim to institutional transformation. Viewed from this perspective, the project's failure to
improve road conditions as much as expected may be seen as an acceptable price for unexpectedly
rapid institutional evolution. At appraisal, no one could have foreseen that by the end of the
project period, force account operations would be abolished and a local private construction sector
would be vigorously budding and ready to take on routine maintenance operations.
33.   Impact on Road Conditions. Compared to appraisal targets of 3,000 km of grading,
patching and other mechanized routine maintenance, 445 km of regravelling, and 640 km of
rehabilitation of earth roads, OPR records for the 1985-1988 seasons show a total of 3,408 km
graded (net of 356 km which had to be redone because of poor quality of works), or 114% of
target, 829 km regravelled (186%), and 410 km rehabilitated (63%). Nonetheless, at the time of
the appraisals of the Transport Sector Project (April 1987) and the Fourth Highway Project
(January 1988), little improvement in the status of the road network could be noted, except for
reconstructed and repaved prinary sections. Large areas of the countryside were still said to be
isolated, with flows of agricultural products far below potential levels and transport costs
remaining high. Traffic levels were said to be low mainly because of the severe deterioration of
the trunk network in 1985-86 when Guinea experienced exceptionally heavy rains, compounded
by a breakdown of the fuel distribution system outside Conakry, fourfold increases in fuel costs,
and shortages of spare parts. However, despite improvement of maintenance, which was one of
the objectives of the Third Highway Project, Guinea still lacked periodic maintenance capability
and had therefore elected to focus on rehabilitation along with construction of new paved roads
rather than on road maintenance. Severe rainfall conditions in the coastal areas also explain why
road regravelling under the First and Second Highway Projects resulted in only short-lived
improvements.
34.   Of the 615 km of paved roads to be reconstructed under the Third Highway Project, all
but 30 km were built: Conakry-Mamou (255 km), Dubreka-Forecariah (60 km), Mamou-Labe
(148 km), and Mamou-Faranah (120 of 190 km). Work on the Faranah-Kissidougou section (of
which 30 of 140 km were also to be repaved) was carried over to the Transport Sector Project,
and this follow-on work appears to cover actually part of the Mamou-Faranah section as well.
In addition to these works, an additional contract to rebuild 19 metal bridges was added during



- 11 -
implementation, along with substantial increases for drainage works on the road reconstruction
contracts.
35.   There is little information in Bank supervision reports on the final result of the Conakry-
Mamou road reconstruction, since financing of this component was wnolly assumed by AfDB.
The least cost alternative selected in 1981 deferred all geometric improvements which could
safely be postponed and included only selective strengthening and spot geometric improvements,
despite the fact that a large part of the road was nearing the critical fatigue point even at that
time. By the time of the 1985 update of engineering documents for the Conakry-Mamou Road,
the collapse of the road base was no longer imminent but actual. With respect to the other road
repavings, supervision reports indicate both a cost-containment attitude by the Bank, and an
acknowledgement that work volumes on the highland roads (Mamou-Labe, Mamnou-Faranah) had
to be increased substantially because of their deterioration since the time of appraisal.
36.   Operational Impact. Operational performance of OPR and its road maintenance brigades
increased during the project's lifetime. In 1985, operations were limited to a single brigade
because of the lack of equipment and spare parts. Although handicapped in 1986-88 by the
closure of special accounts and delayed salary payments, OPR records nonetheless show an
average of 900 km grading and 200 km regravelling in each of the three seasons 1986-1988. By
the end of this period, it was operating seven brigades, including one in the Conakry urban area.
37.   A number of measures were introduced under the Third Highway Project which improved
the operational performance of the brigades and succeeded in large part in transforming OPR
operations from force account to a private-oriented entity. The 12 small brigades of the Second
Highway Project were reorganized into three regional brigades with mobile field offices. Cost
accounting (comptabilite analytique) and work programming were introduced by the contractor-
consultant and later taken over by OPR staff. By early 1991, the maintenance programming and
contracting unit, transferred from OPR to the Ministry, was preparing standard contract forms
for small operators to carry out equipment-based maintenance of unpaved roads, in competition
with larger contractors and, later, with the privatized OPR (SOGUITRO). Such standard forms
were also developed to allow competitive bidding for labor-based routine maintenance works by
individual lengthmen (cantonnage). This represented a long-awaited agreement by the Government
as to how labor-based maintenance (drain and brush clearing) should be handled, after a long
period of inactivity by the provincial Ministry offices which were to manage the cantonnage, and
lengthy discussions on a number of other alternatives.
38.   Despite these measures, the sustainability of the road maintenance system in place is
questionable. Extensive site visits carried out by the May 1990 Bank supervision mission found
no sign of any routine maintenance during the 1989 season, particularly on some vulnerable
sections awaiting reconstruction where surface failure was occurring (Faranah-Kissidougou and
others). The performance of hie contractor consultant for on-site supervision and training was
poor. This had already been a problem during the Second Highway Project, and continued
throughout the Third Highway Project. Although the Ministry had contracted with OPR instead
of local private construction firms to carry out mechanized routine maintenance of unpaved roads,
OPR's complement of graders was inadequate to do the work. Emergency repairs were agreed
upon but never carried out, despite the availability of local funds and local contractors.



- 12 -
39.   Institutional Impact. Over the ten-year period covered by this report, OPR has been
transformed from a force account operation into a parastatal (SOGUITRO) in search of a private
partner. First established under the First Highway Project as a separate force account unit with
its own budget and staff, an arrangement which worked reasonably well, the unit was brought
into the Ministty under the Second Highway Project, with engineering consultants acting in an
advisory role. No longer autonomous, the unit fell prey to a self-serving minister until early
1982, at which time consultants were given responsibility in order to control project resources.
Beginning in 1984 utnder the Third Highway Project, management of the unit's road maintenance
operations was taken over by contractor consultants, while administrative functions such as
supervision, planning and training were handled by a separate set of engineering consultants. The
consultants were to set up internal work programming, cost accounting, and other management
procedures required to improve efficiency so that the organization could function as a contracting
outfit rather than as a force account operation.
40.   This arrangement failed to work because the unit was never given financial autonomy and
because of chronic and unresolved conflicts between the two consultant teams. In 1986,
consultants were again made advisory, and the planning, supervision and training functions were
transferred back to the Ministry, as a first step towards privatization. However, a 1988 study
indicated there was little private sector interest in forming a joint venture. It was then proposed
that OPR be transformed into a private company (SOGUlITRO) which would acquire and rent out
to local contractors, Government's considerable pool of road maintenance equipment.
41.   But this would have required dismissal of most brigade staff, with the expectation that
they then might have joined or started local private firms eligible to rent equipment and compete
for road maintenance contracts. Although IDA was prepared to finance training assistance to
those wishing to set up their own firms, the Government was anxious that in a new competitive
environment, some staff might find themselves unemployed, or local firms might find themselves
underbid by foreign firms established in Guinea. Therefore, SOGUlIRO was created with both
operational (brigades) and equipment rental divisions. This option represented the best
compromise possible at the time, although two other optiont could have been envisaged: (a) a
series of small contracts with competent local entrepreneurs in a competitive environment with
equipment rental available to all (not favored by Government for the reasons mentioned above);
and (b) an incentive-based, self-contained, all-encompasing contract with a single foreign
contractor (virtually impossible under Bank procurement guidelines).
42.   Policy Impact. The policy impacts of the Third Highway Project have been much greater
than foreseen at appraisal: (a) a domestic financing mechanism (Road Fund) was established for
providing funds for road maintenance; and (b) a fully operational transport planning unit was
created with computer modelling and up-to-date traffic data.
43.   The provision of local financing for maintenance operating costs, particular by foreign
currencies needed for annual equipment renewal, was a major issue during Project preparation.
Thus, during this phase, the Government failed to fulfill a covenant of the Second Highway
Project, to provide US$1.5 million for equipment renewal likely because, in the meantime, it was
taking delivery of some US$12 million of maintenance equipment financed by other donors,
without consultation with the Bank. The Bank accepted the transfer of operationally sound
equipment from the Second Highway Project to the Third Highway Project in lieu of the US$1.5
million and the covenant was considered complied with. To implement a permanent financing



- 13 -
mechanism, the Bank suggested customs duties on vehicle imports be payable directly by the
importer into a foreign bank in foreign currency. The first US$5 million would have been used
for financing spare parts, fuel and equipment replacement. Similarly, earmarking a fixed amount
of excise duties on fuel imports would have provided the local currency for road maintenance
financing. The Guinean Govermnent agreed to consider implementation of such measures
following the first phase of the transport study to be carried out under the Third Highway Project.
Establishment of the Road Fund was made a condition of effectiveness of the Fourth Highway
Project, and was in place by 1989.
44.   The rationalization of transport investment was another major policy issue. Government
h-'4 agreed at negotiations: (a) to include in its transport investment plan only the priority
iuivestments which would be identified in the transport plan study to be financed under the
project; (b) to carry out only works included in this investment plan; and (c) to establish an
organization for transport planning based on the study. However, following the change in regime
after Sekou Toure's death in March 1984, the regulatory environment of the sector changed
considerably, and a number of transport investment initiatives were promoted by foreign
contractors before the transport study could be launched. The Bank acted consistently and
vigorously to bar any major infrastructure investments until a medium-range transport plan could
be prepared in 1987. This plan formed the basis for the investment program agreed on during
appraisal of the Fourth Highway Project, which was also circulated by Goverment during the
April 1988 Donor's Conference. However, the Government had accelerated the time span for
program execution from 20 to 10 years, included in the program the US$12 million Fatala bridge
(considered a major white elephant by the Bank), and left unclear the future of the OPR road
maintenance brigades. Nevertheless, the preparation of this investment program remains one of
the major achievements of the project.
45.   Project Costs and Financial Managemnen. Overall, the Third Highway Project cost
US$10 million (13%) more than the appraisal estimates. This overrun does not include the cost
of finishing up road paving under the Transport Sector Project. Substantial reallocation of IDA
funds was made on two occasions during project implementation. Funds in Category 1, for
periodic maintenance and rehabilitation of earth roads, were reduced by half, in late 1988, and
then by more than half again in late 1990. Funds in Category 4B, for reconstruction and repaving
work on paved roads, were increased by threefold (see Part m, Table 3-B). In the case of
maintenance, this is explained by the shortcomings of consultants and institutional arrangements,
and the freezing of special accounts and then counterpart funding shortages. In the case of major
works, higher costs came from an initial technical underdesign, compounded by the three-year
delay in startup of works. Amounts of funds under Category 3, equipment and spares purchase,
were also three times higher than anticipated at appraisal, in part because BADEA cofmancing
intended for this purpose could not be used due to BADEA's inacceptance of use of a purchasing
agent.
46.   Price Waterhouse's first annual audit report covering OPR's 1985 operations points out
a number of administrative and accounting deficiencies, including lack of controls of OPR
inventories, maintenance costs analysis, and progress reports, and poor programming of field
activities. These deficiencies were mostly due to slow startup of internal procedures by
consultants and were corrected in subsequent years. OPR also acquired a PC/AT computer and
trained staff in using it to help improve its performance. In 1986, when management control was
formally transferred from consuitants to Guinean staff, operation of these procedures was also



- 14 -
successfully transferred. Despite the introduction of internal contract agreements ("para-contrats")
with each brigade based on cost accounting procedures beginning with the 1989 road maintenance
campaign, the mechanism specified in the appraisal report for disbursement of funds under
Category 1 for maintenance work was never actually applied. While the SAR stated that IDA
disbursements for maintenance would be paid directly to OPR on the basis of annually reviewed
cost performance of the brigades (actual versus agreed unit billing rates), IDA simply paid
suppliers' bills and Government paid staff salaries.
47.   Procurement and Disbursement. The Bank did not help accelerate the procurement
process. Procurement for major works and equipment purchases for the Third Highway Project
took place prior to the 1987 regionalization of procurement review within the Bank, which tended
to correct the kinds of problems experienced in this and other projects. Under the centralized
review process, three- to five-month delays in Bank approval at various stages of procurement
were cowmon because of the slowness of the centralized review process. Also, while great care
was given to detailed review of documents (for example, four-page telexes listing detailed
changes in wording were common) and to monitoring rigorous adherence to Bank Guidelines, in
no case did the Bank fail to concur with the final selection of winning bidder.
48.   The adherence to Bank's guidelines was not a guarantee of good performance by the
contractor. This is particularly puzzling in the case of the repeated selection of one particular
contractor with an ibysmal performance record (Astaldi) during previous Bank's projects. The
contractor was first selected as contractor-consultant for maintenance operations, despite the
Guinean project manager's lack of confidence in its ability to perform. Although the Bank
required extension of prequalification procedures to allow six other contractors to submit
proposals, this contractor was selected. At the time of prequalification in 1984, few firms were
interested in working in Guinea, aad apparently the only ones deemed to have proven their ability
to carry out the works according to prequalification criteria, were those few, like this one, who
had been operating in Guinea for some time. The contractor continued to perform poorly for
paving works on Mamou-Labe, Mamou-Faranah, and the 19 metallic bridges contracts. The
prequalification of this contractor is hard to understand because it was already acting as contractor
consultant for maintenance operations under this project and therefore should have been excluded
from prequalification for other project works.
49.   Procurement performance was relatively satisfactory on the Guinean side for this project,
since most procurement took place before the unfortunate change of procedures in mid-1989 when
non-technical representatives from other ministries were allowed to challenge public works
contract awards on spurious technical grounds, thereby delaying them. Bid evaluation reports
were prepared by technical staff in the Ministry concerned, and reviewed by the National Tender
Board. The Third Highway Project thus escaped from serious delays in contract award which
slowed startup of the Transport Sector and Fourth Highway Projects.
50.   Problems with road maintenance equipment and spares procurement led first, to shortages
of critical equipment and spares, and later to excess of equipment which OPR was unable to fully
mobilize or which was inadequate. Early in the project (Spring 1985), because local suppliers
demanded very high prices and because normal Government procurement and payment procedures
resulted in very long payment delays which discouraged firms from doing business in Guinea,
it was decided to purchase a first lot of urgently ne1ded equipment and spares through local
competitive bidding and a second lot through ICB. For further supply of spare parts, OPR would



- 15 -
contract a purchasing agent from a shortlist established by IDA. Delivery of critically needed
shipments was delayed in the early part of the project; then, during the 1985 road maintenance
campaign, only a single brigade was able to operate using equipment from the Second Highway
Project that had been temporarily repaired. However, by 1989, large amounts of bilaterally
financed road maintenance equipment were arriving, intended for use by provincial maintenance
units; since these units had never been set up (contrary to assurances at effectiveness of the Third
Highway Project), OPR became responsible for the new equipment. Therefore, OPR ended up
with a plethora of trucks, which often carried goods and were used for other purposes unrelated
to the project, but without enough graders, urgently needed for maintenance.
51.   The purchasing agent for spares was engaged in January 1987 but ended up purchasing
only minor amounts of spares financed under the IDA credit. The bulk of spares and materials
purchase was to have been financed by BADEA, but BADEA rejected both the purchasing agent
arrangement and every other spares procurement arrangement proposed. According to the
Completion Report completed by project consultants, no equipment or spares was ever purchased
for this project with BADEA funds.
52.   The closing of the special accounts from December 1985 to June 1987, through which
much of the original SDR 3.2 million in Category 1 for equipment-based maintenance and
rehabilitation was to have been disbursed, resulted in major disbursement delays in 1985-89, as
well as contributing to the reallocation of most of the amount under this Category to resurfacing
works (Category 4B). Another cause of IDA disbursement delays was the two-year delay in
startup of major reconstruction and resurfacing works (from 1985 to 1987). Actual IDA
disbursements as a percent of appraisal estimate were only 6% in FY85, rising to 58% by 1989;
the addition of US$10 million to project cost in 1990 resulted in disbursements of 103% and
120% in 1990 and 1991 (see Table 3-A, Part IH).
53.   On the Borrower's side, shortages of counterpart funding to pay contractors and
consultants, particularly acute from 1988, and chronic inability to pay staff salaries on time
(delays of three to six months were normal), along with non-payment of bonuses required to
increase performance in operations where wages and salaries remain below survival level, were
also a major cause of shortfalls in performance and delays throughout the Third Highway Project.
Despite assurances at effectiveness, either the special local counterpart funding account was never
opened, or it was opened but never functioned prior to the December 1985 shutdown of the
special accounts, because in July 1988, an IDA supervision mission was happy to note that this
account had recently been opened for the first time. In the absence of local currency accounts,
all local payments had to follow Government's time-consuming payment process. Even after
accumulating the more than 30 signatures required, an invoice would only be paid if sufficient
funds were available, a fact known only to the signatory of the final check, Guinea's Treasurer.
54.   Counterpart funding shortfalls and delayed local cost payments penalized the labor-based
maintenance program (cantonnage); according to the Completion Report prepared by project
consultants, the pilot cantonnage teams which were organized in the Mamou district inl990 could
not be sustained because payments were not regular and adequate. Cantonnage contracts including
training and monitoring of 10-15 man jobber teams are now being financed under the Fourth
Highway Project. Other delays attributed to local counterpart funding problems in the Third
Highway Project are the preparation of final enginering and bidding documents for the repaving
work which were held up because a minor topographical task could not be paid for, and the



- 16 -
execution of the paving works themselves (the contractor threatened on two occasions to abandon
the works if huge backdue invoices of local costs were not paid).
55.   Economic Impact. For the road maintenance component, the rate of return is estimated
at 36%, compared with more than 100% in the SAR. The SAR assumed that maintenance would
be regularly carried out, and in particular, that routine maintenance would be carried out every
year. Under these conditions, periodic and routine maintenance together would give rise to a
stream of benefits over the lifetime of the roads. Actually, this was not the case. Grading was
carried out once only, and not on rehabilitated or regravelled roads. For the construction and
resurfacing component the rate of return is 24%. ERRs per subcomponent are as follows:
- Conakry-Mamou    :      26%
- Mamou-Labe        :     17%
- Mamou-Kissidougou:      25%
- Dubreka-Forecariah  :   32%
In the SAR, the rate of return for the construction of the Conakry-Mamou Road was estimated
at 75%. The difference can be explained by cost escalation and traffic shortfalls compared to
1980 traffic levels which were used in calculating SAR rates of return. The SAR estimated the
rate of return of the resurfacing subcomponent at 41 %. Rates range from 17% to 32%.
56.   Project Sustainability. By the completion of the Third Highway Project, efforts initiated
under this project and followed up under the Transport Sector Project and the Fourth Highway
Project had established in Guinea four conditions required for a sustainable framework for road
maintenance and investment: (a) sound planning, including regular traffic data collection; (b)
development of maintenance and construction standards based on local conditions; (c) a self-
sustaining source of domestic funding for maintenance and rehabilitation; and (d) institutional
arrangements which allow for competitive local bidding for routine maintenance and periodic
mantenance works, with frequent visual and geotechnical supervision to assure quality of work
performed. The transport planning unit first established within OPR and transferred into the
Ministry during the 1986 reorganization, has continued to collect traffic data, an activity begun
by consultants financed under the Third Highway Project. The road system has been classified,
and typical technical and standard bidding documents, which take into account Guinea's rainfall
and terrain conditions, are being prepared for spot improvement works under the Fourth Highway
Project. Establishment of the Road Fund in 1990, a condition of effectiveness of the Fourth
Highway Project, is intended to provide a sustainable local funding source for road maintenance
and rehabilitation. The new institutional setup allows SOGUITRO (a works contracting and
equipment rental company formed from OPR's operational divisions) to bid for maintenance
works, to be paid for by the Road Fund. Whether this will prove a satisfactory arrangement
remains to be assessed after completion of the ongoing projects.
57.   For such a program to be institutionally as well as financially sustainable with local
resources, two further conditions would have to have been fulfilled: adequately trained and
remunerated local staff, and Government commitment to cost-effective resource use, i.e., giving
first priority to routine maintenance, especially of newly paved or regravelled roads. Despite the
Third Highway Project's ambitious objectives, these objectives were poorly achieved except for
early successful computer training, and later short courses in Belgium, of which no report on



- 17 -
results is yet available. Therefore, staff training continues to be a priority under the follow-on
projects. Because basic road infrastructure were lacking at the end of the First Republic,
Government priorities have so far left routine maintenance in last place, with first place going
to large-scale paving works and spot improvements. However, a pilot labor-based routine
maintenance component is now underway with IDA support under the Fourth Highway Project,
and more emphasis is given on road maintenance in the future Transport and Urban Infrastructure
Project under preparation (FY93).
I.    Bank Performance
58.   Although the highway engineer who had supervised the Second Highway Project and
appraised the Third Highway Project went on record in 1984 saying that two short supervision
missions during the dry season were not enough to adequately supervise a single highway project,
two-person supervision missions with both engineer and economist were carried out but once a
year, complemented by one-week, one-person missions once or twice a year. Despite the
substantial resources allocated to the project, these were mostly concentrated in the appraisal and
startup stages. Bank staff carried out nine missions, including four by the Loan Officer, prior to
project effectiveness, and 24 supervision missions between November 1984 and October 1991
(three to four missions a year). However, from mid-1987, the supervision missions covered both
the Third Highway Project and the Transport Sector Project; in mid-1988, the Fourth Highway
Project was added to the supervision load. Therefore, none of the six missions which addressed
problems in the Third Highway Project between October of 1986 and August of 1988, a period
of intensive preparation and startup for the Transport Sector Project, filed a supervision summary
(Form 590) for the Third Highway Project.
59.   Not enough engineering staff were available to supervise the project. Because of the
organizational and institutional issues which had to be addressed in Conakry, no time was
allocated to visit roads and works. Over its ten-year lifespan, the project had four task managers,
of which the first and last were highway engineers; during the five core years of implementation
(1986-1990), an economist and then a financial analyst managed the project. While the economist
was almost always accompanied by an engineer, from 1988 to mid-1990, a staff engineer
accompanied Third Highway Project supervision missions only once a year, with a short interim
visit by a Senior Engineer on two other occasions. The May 1990 supervision mission was the
first to include a highway engineer who would also soon be taking over as task manager, which
would ensure a smoother transition between the two task managers. This mission was also the
first time in at least two years that a Bank mission had taken a comprehensive first-hand look at
road maintenance, based on site visits covering thousands of kilometers of road. Such first-hand
visits are especially important in situations, such as those in Guinea during this period, when the
maintenance and rehabilitation works were suffering from a number of problems, and the
incentives were great for local staff and consultants to overstate achievements.
60.   Some other weaknesses can be found in Bank supervision: (a) the procurement reviews
appeared to focus more on details of wording than on selection of competent bidders or solving
problems; (b) information on the progress of the most expensive single project component, the
Conakry-Mamou Road, goes virtually unmentioned in Bank supervision reports (only works
supervision was IDA financed since AfDB had taken over financing of construction following a



- 18-
procurement dispute); Bank staff also understated project problems in the supervision summaries,
in contrast to the stronger wording of aide-memoires left in the field.
61.   A more substantive, technical issue is raised by the reluctance of Bank staff to face up
to the issue of gross underestimates of works required for road maintenance and rehabilitation.
Despite admissions in a number of supervision reports that in fact, adherence to specifications
established at appraisal could barely keep road surfaces from deteriorating further, these were
coupled with insistence on keeping costs down as much as possible. Only when faced with
incontrovertable evidence in the case of the repaving of the Labe-Mamou-Faranah sections in the
later years of the project, did the Bank accept the tripling of the cost over appraisal estimates in
order to compensate for overly optimistic feasibility study estimates of road works and omission
of essential drainage works in these estimates, and severe deterioration over the six to seven years
since the feasibility study's completion.
62.   The lack of coordination between the various parties involved in Guinea was also an
issue. Supervision reports did not record any communication or coordination between the Bank
project teams and the IMF and Country teams during economic reform. The reports deplored the
closure of special accounts in 1986 and 1987 but did not indicate whether this was a deliberate
and necessary, or only an accidental, casualty of banking reform under structural reform
programs designed by IMF and Country teams. However, Programs' loan officer must be
credited with successfully quashing French-led efforts to push through economically unjustified
investment in rail infrastructure during 1985 donors' meetings, since Government and donors had
in principle agreed to postpone any new transport investment until after completion of the
transport investment study financed under the Third Highway Project.
J.    Borrower Performance
63.   Government's failure to provide adequate counterpart funding, delays in the payment of
wages and salaries, non-payment of bonuses, and inability or reluctance to simplify local cost
payment procedures have already been noted, along with the tendency to solicit bilateral
equipment purchases without reviewing actual needs or discussing them with Bank staff. Also,
despite strong and effective leadership by the Guinean Project Director and the Secretary for
Public Works, particularly prior to merging of Transport and Public Works into a single Ministry
in mid-1988, and efforts made to achieve the Project's objectives, other priorities, more oriented
towards new construction than towards road maintenance, came from outside the Ministry. For
example, much of the year lost seeking cofinancing for the project in 1982 could have been
avoided, had Government preferred to request that financing zrailable from Middle Eastern
sources be used for the Third Highway Project, rather than for the paving of a 132-km road in
the southeast region (Nzerekore-Gueckedou) at a cost of US$96 million. This preference for new
construction emerged more definitely following a change of Works Secretary in mid-1988.
K.    Project Relationship
64.   While differences in legal requirements and procurement procedures ultimately led to non-
disbursement of BADEA cofinancing for equipment, spares and supplies, coordination with
AfDB, the other major project cofiancer, during implemention was good, including



- 19 -
coordination of supervision missions at the first stage of Project implementation. AfDB had been
able to take over financing of the Conakry-Mamou Road in early 1986 when Bank objections to
procurement procedures for this contract threatened to delay its startup. Fortuitously, improved
working conditions following economic liberalization had drawn more bidders and lowered bids
compared to what had been anticipated at appraisal, so that AfDB funds were sufficient to finance
the entire foreign exchange needs of the contract (although cost overruns later necessitated
supplementary AfDB financing).
L.    Consulting Services
65.   The institutional arrangements devised at appraisal sought to establish clear
responsibilities for works program supervision and works execution within OPR by assigning
separate consultants to support each function. Tbis arrangement, developed in a political context
in which privatization of works execution was impossible, proved unworkable and was revised
in 1986 in the more liberal economic context of the next regime. The engineering consultant
recruited under the Project was the same firm which had performed variably, at times
unsatisfactorily, as project consultants in the First and Second Highway Projects (Louis
Berger/Tractionnel). Therefore, this firm was supervising another group of consultants selected
as contractor consultants who were in fact replacing them in their former operational role. This
was infortunate and set the scene for the worst possible working environment, in which the
Guinean project director (OPR head) found himself arbitrating between the two groups of
expatriates. Moreover, the contractor consultants performed poorly in support of maintenance
operations: slow startup, failure to establish cost accounting procedures until late 1988, failure
to assign needed technical staff to maintenance brigades and to carry out on-the-job training,
repatriation of a works supervisor and a mechanic following irregularities (sale of project spare
parts) in March 1986, and failure to replace the repatriated staff for nearly a year. The same firm
also performed poorly on three contracts (repaving of Mamou-Labe, Mamou-Faranah and 19
bridges) because of poor worksite organization and poor choice of supervising staff. The situation
deteriorated further when the same engineering consultant was selected for supervising these
works.
66.   The operational framework within which consultants had to provide assistance was not
designed for encouraging good performance. Successful execution of the assignment which these
consultants had been given would have required a creative response to a challanging situation,
but this did not happen. The consultants were unable to perform tasks required in order to carry
out good maintenance works: careful analysis and tailoring of technical solutions to the specific
conditions of each portion of the road section; an ability (and desire) to work closely with, and
foster skill development in, local maintenance brigade staff; and above all, an underlying level
of interest in succeeding at a specialized task which this contractor had not previously undertaken.
These responses would have been expected from the contractor if financial incentives had been
included in its contract, but the provision for performance-related bonus payments had been
stricken from the firm's original contract with Government because this type of clause was not
permitted under Bank procurement guidelines for consultants. Finally, all this was taking place
in an organizadon which was supposed to be learning how to operate as if it were actually a
contractor. However, OPR's management had neither the ability to hire and fire staff (antil
1987), set salaries or wages, nor pay its suppliers.



- 20 -
M.   Project Documentation and Data
67.   Filing and reporting were uneven. An enormous amount of documentation was available
for the preparation of this completion report, including about 4,000 pages of internal files
covering a ten-year period. Absorbing and synthesizing the mass of material would have been
made much easier if as suggested by a Bank reviewer of the July 1986 supervision report, all
supervision reports had included a tabular format recording for each component, achievements
in kilometers during the period under review, compared to targets set at appraisal. The November
1987 supervision report was missing from the files and had to be retrieved from Transport Sector
Files. Another missing report, that of the November 1984 effectiveness mission, could not be
located, nor could a number of annual maintenance operations reports and audit reports prepared
by consultants. Also from 1987, when the Bank reorganized and available resources for
maintaining files and other support tasks were reduced, the files contain much less
correspondence than in the earlier years and many more "loose ends" (beginnings of stories to
which the ends are missing or vice versa).
N.    Findings and Lessons Learned from Experience
68.   Project Preparadon
(a)    At the time of appraisal, closer attention needs to be given to accurate assessment
of work volume and definition of realistic and appropriate physical standards,
including drainage.
(b)   Implementation schedule and related contingency allowances should be based in
light of experience in previous Projects in the country.
69.   Project Implementaton and Supervision
(a)    More resources should be allocated by the Bank for supervision. At the time of
the Third Highway Project, internal coefficients used in Bank-wide resource
allocation favored new loan preparation to the detriment of project supervision.
Some Project issues could have been addressed more quickly through longer
supervision missions.
(b)    More coordination is needed between sector operations teams and country
operations teams, and eventually with IMF teams.
(c)    The impact of a significant change in the political, economical and financial
situation of the country on the Project should be assessed and the definition of
the Project should be redefined on the basis of this assessment, if necessary.
(d)    Although the Bank recommends a system of incentives, for example in order to
improve the performance of staff in the ministries in developing countries,
consultants hired under Bank's financing are not subject to a similar system
which is not allowed by the Bank's procurement procedures. Poor performance
of consultants is an issue that still needs to be addressed in Sub-saharan Africa.



-21 -
Improved performance of technical assistance would accelerate capacity-building
and reduce supervision needs.
(e)    Detailed review of documents and rigorous adherence to Bank's procurement
guidelines do not guarantee a good performance of the contractor.
70.   Insitutions
(a)    Setting-up new  institutions requires careful and time-phased design of
components. Specific definition of institutional arrangements, a detailed action-
plan and timetable are preferable to vague assurances concerning the
establishment of a new structure or organization.
(b)   Some institutional arrangements may be difficult to implement. Decision can be
taken either to go ahead or to wait that the overall framework be ready for this
Implementation. The choice made under the Third Highway Project, to go ahead
proved to be adequate because the preliminary measures led to a better
preparation of future projects, and finally to an acceleration in improving the
institutional framework.
(c)    The issue of Borrower's failure to provide counterpart funding and timely
payment of staff salaries has to be addressed quickly to avoid compromising the
Project's objectives.



- 22 -
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
TIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
CREDIT 1457-GUI
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Borrower's input pending



- 23 -
REPUBUC OF GUINEA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
CREDIT 1457-GUI
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART IH. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. RELATED BANK LOANs AND/OR CREDfTs
Credit Title:       Credit 953-GUI and EEC-33-GUI, Highways II
Purpose:            Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance
Year of Approval:    1979
Status:             Completed in mid-1984
Credit Tide:        Credit 1815-GUI, Transport Sector
Purpose:            Sectorwide rehabilitation and upgrading of essential transport infrastructure
and policy program.
Year of Approval:    1987
Status:             On going
Credit Title:       Credit 1915-GUI, Highways IV
Purpose:            To increase the National Road Network and enhancing its level of service; and
strengthening the new Ministry of Transport and Public Works' capability for
managing the National Road Network.
Year of Approval:    1988
Status:             On going



- 24 -
2. PROJECr TIMErABLE
Item                    Original Date      Revised Date       Actual Date
Identification                                                11/81
Pre-appraisal Mission
Appraisal Mission       01/83                                 01/83
Credit Negotiations     06/83                                 03/83
Board Approval          08/83                                 04/17/84
Credit Signature                                              05/01/84
Credit Effectiveness                                          12/06/84
Credit Closing          09/30/89           09/30/91           09/30/91
3. CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS
A. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
Fiscal Year        FY85  FY86  FY87   FY88   FY89  FY90   FY91  FY92
Appraisal Estimate         --   10.5   17.4   23.1  26.6   28.0 
Actual                     1.6   2.9    5.5    9.2  16.1   28.7   33.5   --
Actual as % of Estimate       6%   11    20%    33%   58%   103%   120%  --
B. Allocation of Credit Proceeds
(SDR million)
Original            Actual
Category                            Allocation         Disbursement
(1) Maintenance Rehab. Works PTA              3.210                0.455
(2) Civil Works & Materials 12 81             0.170                0.295
(3) Equipment for PTS B2, C3                  0.850                2.54S
(4-A) Reconstruction of the                   4.320                0.000
Conakry-Mamou Road
(4-8) Resurfacing for PT E2                   5.820               15.334
(5) Consultants-Training PTS C,D              5.640                7.209
(6) Initial deposit Special Account           0.500                0.113
(7) PPF 279-GUI                               0.950                0.210
(8) Unallocated                               5.040                0.000
TOTAL                              26.500               26.'.61
in"gt :mm=



- 25 -
4. PRoJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Indicators             Appraisal Estimate                    Actual or PCR Estimate
Indicator I            Establishment of the Road Project Office
Indicator 2            Road Construction Equipment Renewal
Indicator 3            Reconstruction of Conakry-Mamou Road by
Contractors
Indicator 4            Periodic Maintenanc of Paved Roads by Contractors
5. PRoJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Project Costs
SAR Esimates                      Actual Costs
itLln             Local Cos     o          Toa       Loa     t 1 Foreign T  Total
Plus Taxes j_Costs__    Cost       Plus Taxes j_Costs     Cost
A-1. Labor-based Maintenance   2.867        0.0       2.867       0.675      0.583     1.258
Works
A-2. Equipment-based
Maintenance and             8.377       7.446      15.823      6.766      10.422    17.188
Rehabilitation Works                                                   I
A-3. Equipment renewal,        0.150       7.281      7.431       0.081      3.259     3.340
buildings
A-4. TA, audit, traiing        0.668       8.174      8.842       0.483       9.500    9.983
B-1. Rhabilitation Conakry-    7.217       20.S42     27.749      3.778      34.056    37.834
Mamou Road
B-2. Resurfacing of paved      2.856       8.130      10.986       6.417     19.636    26.053
roads
GRAND TOTAL              22.136      51.572   I____70    ____9_ 7.4



- 26 -
B. Project Financing
Source         SAR Estimates        Actual Total         Highway III          Other Projects
l_________ |USS Million                   USS Million            Project
IDA                      28.0               41.9                  33.5                  8.4
ADB|                     14.6               36.8                  34.1                  2.7
BADEA                    9.0                 4.8                  4.8                   0.0
JAPAN                    0.0                 5.1                  5.1                   0.0
Government               22.1               20.3                  18.2                  2.1
_TOTAL      I       737                108.9                 9 57                  13.2
6. PROJECT RESULTS
A. Economic Impact
Economic Rate of Return    |          SAR Estimate           |   Actual (at Fial Development)
Highway Maintenance Program                    100%                              36%
Paved Road Rehabilitation and                  65%                               14%
Resurfacing
Total Project                                                                    16%
B. Studies
Purpose as Defined
Item                           at Appraisal                    Status         Impact of Study
Transport Plan Study           Prepare medium-term             Study completed
transport plan and a
follow-up road mainte-
nance & rehabilitation
program.



- 27 -
7. COMPLIANCE WITH LEGAL COVENANTS
Credit Asreenent   Condition                                                           Statw
Section 2.02 (b)   Borrower to open and maintain in a Special Account, and operate It  Complied.
in accordance with Schedule 4 of the Credit Agreement
Section 3.03       For the purposes of Parts A, B and C of the Project, the Borrower  Complied.
shall:
(a) not later than 10/31 of each year, submit to IDA for its
review, a program for road construction, spot improvement and road
maintenance to be carried out during the following year;
(b) establish and maintain a Road Fund on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA and replenish said fund on the 1st day of each
quarter during which the Project is executed.
Section 3.04       For the purposes of Part B, the Borrower shall:
(a) submit to IDA for approval, model technical and standard
bidding documentsfor spot improvement works;                        Final draft submitted.
(b) circulate after consultation with IDA, guidelines for the
identification, selection and execution of spot improvement works.
Complied.
Section 3.05       For the purposes of PArt C.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall  In progress.
submit a program to IDA for review for the periodic maintenance of
the national road network by qualified and experienced
contractors.
Section 3.06       The Borrower shall  employ  consultants  to  assist  the  road  Complied.
maintenance division of OCTP in the execution of Part C.2 of the
Project.
Section 3.07       For the purposes of Part D, the Borrower shall not carry out any  Not complied.
final engineering design unless the estimated ecornmic rate of  Kankan-11  Zerekore
return, calculated on the basis of methods satisfactory to IDA  engineering  design  is
exceeds 10X, and works are expected to start within a period of  on-going    without
three years.                                                        feasability    study
carried out.
Section 3.08       For the purposes of Part E, the Borrower shall:                      Complied.
(a) submit to IDA the training program to be undertaken by the
candidates for foreign felLowships;
*b) take all necessary measures to ensure all staff having
received such training, remain assigned for a period of at least
3 years.
Section 3.09       The Borrower shall complete the transfer of responsibilitiesfor  Complied.
maintaining and improving rural tracks from DGTP to the Ministry
of Agriculture and Animal Resources.
Section 4.01 (a)   Maintain recors and accounts adequate to ref tect resources and  Complied.
expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the department or the
agencies of the Borrower.
Section 4.01 (b)   Have the Special Account and all other Project Accounts audited  Complied  with  before
for each fiscal year by independant auditors acceptable by IDA.   1990.
1990 audit on-going.
Section 4.01 (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the  Complied.
Credit Account were made on the basis of SOE, the Borrower shall
maintain records and accounts; retain, until at least one year
after issue of audit report; enable IDA's representative to
examine such records; and ensure that the audit report contains
separate opinion by the auditor as to the reliability of the
raised withdrawals.



- 28 -
8. USE OF BANx RESOuRCES
A. Staff Inputs
(Staff Weeks)
Activity      PY81 1.Y82 I Y      Y84 FY8  PY86 E Y87 FY88 M89 FY90 FY91 FY92                  TOTAL
Preappraisal    5.2   6.9     -     -            -                                                12.1
Appraisal        -   12.9  39.2  23.4      -     -     -      -     -     -      -     -          75.5
Negotiations     -      -     -   4.7      -     -     -      -     -     -      -                 4.7
Supervision      -      -     -    1.7  18.9  19.8  12.4   7.9  15.2  12.5   4.5   1.1            94.0
Other            -      -     -     -      -     -     -      -     -     -      -     .9           .9
TOTAL   5.2  19.8  39.2  29.8  18.9  19.8  12.4   7.9  15.2  12.5   4.5   2.0              187.2



- 29 -
B. Mission Data
Month/ No. of Days in                   Performance    Types of
Activity         Ya   Persons Eld   Siccialization        Ratine P
Identification          02/81   2       12      HE,TE            n.a
Prparation              06/81   1        7      HE               n.a.
Preappraial             03/82  4        17      HE,EC            n.a.
Appris                  02183  4        18      E,EC,TRP,EDC   n.a.
Post Appraisal 1        03/83   1       14      LO               n.a.    Availability of Corinancing
Post Appraisal 2        08/83   1        5      EC               n.a.    Availability of Cofinancing
Pro-Negotiations        11/83   1       12      LO               n.a.    Availability of Cofinancing
Negotiations            03/84  5        -       LE,HE,EC,LOA,LO
Post Negotiations       06/84   1        4      LO               n.a.    Transport Investmnent
Supervision 1           11/84  2        10      HE,EC            n.a.    Effectiveness and startup
Post Effectiveness      03/85   1       12      LO               n.a.    Procuremnent
Supervision 2           04/85   1        7      HE               n.a.    Limited Supervision
Supervision 3           05/85  4        12      2 E,EC,DF        2       Managerial, Technical
Supervision 4            11/85  4        9      E,EC, 2TRP       2       Project Management
Supervision 5           02/86  3        12      EDC,E,EC         2       Availability of Funds, and bMm_t
Supervision 6           04/86   1        2      EC              n.a.    Limited Supervision
Supervision 7           06/86  2        20      HE,EC            2       Availability of Funds, and
Management.
Supervision 8            10/86   1      12      HE               3       Availability of Funds, and
Management.
Supervision 9           01/87  2         S      HE,EC            n.a.    Limited Supervision
Supervision 10          07/87  2         4      EC,HE            n.a.    Limited Supervision
Supervision 11          11/87  2         3      PA,HE            n.a.    Limited Supervision
Supervision 12          03/88   1        2      TB               n.s.    Limted Supervision
Supervision 13          07/88  2         6      FA,CIS           2       Availability of Funds
Supervision 14          11/88   1        4      PA              n.a.    Limited Supervision
Supervision 15          03/89   1        3      PA               2       Technical and Organizational
Supervision 16          06/89   1        2      TE               2       Technical and Organizational
Supervision 17          07/89  2         3      FA,CIS           2       Compliance with Legal Covenants
and Procurement Progress.
Supervision 18           10/89   1       3      PA               3       Availability of Funds.
Supervision 19          01/90   1        3      FA               2       Compliance with Legal Covenants
and Availability of Funds.
Supervision 20          05/90  2         5      FA,HE            2       Availability of Funds.
Supervision 21          09/90  2         4      FA,HE            2       Management
Supervision 22          01/91  2         3      HE,TE            2       Management
Supervision 23          05/91  3         6      HE,TE,FA         2       Procurement, Management
Supervision 24           10/91  4        S      HE,TE,2FA        2       Development Objectives
E = Engineer, EC   Economist, DC = Division Chief, TRP = Transport Dcpartment People
EDC = Education, HE = Highway Engineer, CIS = Construction Industry Specialst,
PA = Fmancial Analyst, TE = Transport Engineer, LE = Legal, LOA = Disbursement Officer,
LO = Loan Officer, TEC = Transport Economist



- 30 -
Annex
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
CREDIT 1457-GUI
PROJECT COMPLEIION REPORT
ECONOMIC EVALUATION
Road Maintenance
1.    The detail of maintenance works carried out under the Project by OPR is provided in
Table 1. From 1985 to 1988, 829 km of roads have been regravelled, 409.5 km have been
rehabilitated and 3772 km have been reprofiled. A force account brigade was specialized on the
urban network but no assesment of its activities was established.
2.    OPR has not been able to sustainably maintain the roads and was consequently liquidated.
This situation has been taken into account in the economic evaluation of the project when
considering that, in the situation with project, roads on which maintenance operations had been
carried out, were no further longer maintained. In the situation without project, roads were
supposed not to be maintained.
3.    Grading operations are supposed to be carried out on roads in average condition. The
benefits of grading are measured only during one year. Regravelling operations are executed on
roads in poor condition, and rehabilitation on roads in very poor condition. Benefits are measured
during a period of time depending of the traffic volume:
(a) less than 25 veh/day        8 years;
(b) from 25 to 50 veh/day    :  7 years;
(c) from 50 to 100 veb/day   :  6 years; and
(d) more than 100 veh/day    :  5 years.
4.    During this period, the condition of roads is deteriorating and roads are in poor condition
at the end of the period.
Road construction works
5.    The road construction works consisted in paving the following sections:
(a) Conakry-Mamou;
(b) Mamou-Labe;
(c) Dubreka-Forecariah; and
(d) Mamou-Kissidougou.



-31 -
6.    Roads were earth roads in very poor condition before the execution of works. The
pavement design was calculated for a 15-year period, at the end of which roads would be in poor
condition and need rehabilitation. Maintenance carried out on the new roads consists of a
strengthening 7 years after construction. In the without project situation, roads are supposed not
to be maintained.
Traffic
7.    Traffic volumes are indicated in Table 2. Basic data are coming from a 1990 origin-
destination survey. Traffic before 1990 were estimated by applying to the 1990 traffic the average
annual growth rate for passengers (8.4%) and goods (7.2%) corresponding to the variation of
vehicle-kilometers at 12 stations during the 1986/1991 period. Traffic volumes represent the long-
distance traffic and consequently underestimate the values.
8.    The 1990 OD survey was carried out during the months of July and August.
Consequently, traffic volumes were adjusted by a coefficient taking into account the monthly
variation of traffic, supposed equivalent to the monthly variation of fuel consumption amounting
to 1.31.
Project Cost
9.    The final report of the Technical Assistance gives an assessment of the works, goods and
services contracted during the period of the Project. The money of payment is also indicated.
However, the exact period of disbursement is not known but for road construction contracts. For
other contracts, the annual amounts have been estimated based on the date of signature of the
contract and its forecasted period of execution.
10.   The local counterpart provided by the Government for OPR operating expenses are
indicated for each year of the Project in the above report.
11.   All foreign currency expenses have been converted in local currencies using tie average
annual exchange rate which gives a result in current Guinean Francs. These amounts were
converted in constant prices using the local consumer price index. Results are given in Table 3.
12.   Works on Mamou-Labe and Mamou-Kissidougou were not completed when the Project
was closed, and are still financed under the Fourth Highway Project. However, the economic
evaluation has been carried out assuming that all costs and all benefits were charged to the
Project.
Project Benefits
13.   Benefits are coming from the reduction of vehicle operating costs (VOC). 1996 values
on paved road in good condition are coming from the 1987/1996 Plan of Transport carried out
during the Project. Values in 1985, starting year of the Project, are deducted from the 1986
values by the application of the price revision index between 1985 and 1986 and ratios provided



- 32 -
by the Third Highway Project Staff Appraisal Report for other conditions and other qualities of
roads. The road condition deteriorating after road improvement, annual VOCs values are
interpolated between the value after works are executed and the value at the end of the period of
life of the works according to the periods of time defined in para. 3.
Results
14.   Costs and benefits flows are presented in Tables 4 to 9 for the road maintenance
component, for the road construction works and for the entire Project. OPR operating expenses
were charged to the road maintenance component. Rates of retrun are as following:
(a) road maintenance              :     36%
(b) Conakry-Mamou                 :     26%
(c) Mamou-Labe                          17%
(d) Mamou-Kissidougou                   25%
(e) Dubreka-Forecariah                  32%
(f) entire Project                      26%



-33 -
GUINEA -- Third Highway Project Credit 1457-GUI
Project Completion Report
ECONOMIC STUDY
CONAKRY-MAMOU                                  15.50887
Investment  Maintenance  Benefits  Total          1.263
1986         919                             -919      -919
1987        2788                            -2788    -2208
1988        2076                            -2076    -1301
1989        1978                            -1978      -982
1990        3074                            -3074    -1208
1991         843                             -843      -262
1992                      -20      5474      5454      1344
1993                      -20      5473      5453      1064
1994                      -20      5483      5463       844
1995                      -20      5503      5483       670
1996                      -20      5533      5513       534
1997                      -20      5573      5553       426
1998                      -20      5621      5601       340
1999                   -3893       5677      1785        86
2000                      -20      8459      8439       321
2001                      -20      9128      9108       274
2002                      -20     10052    10032        239
2003                      -20     11313     11293       213
2004                      -20     13024    13004        194
2005                      -20     15337    15316        181
2006                      -20     17646    17626        165
GUINEA -- Third Highway Project Credit 1457-GUI
Project Completion Report
ECONOMIC STUDY
MAMOU-LABE                                          -3
Investment  Maintenance  Benefits  Total          1.172
1986         420                             -420      -420
1987         502                             -502      -428
1988        1219                            -1219      -887
1989        1504                            -1504      -934
1990        2650                            -2650    -1404
1991         257                             -257      -116
1992                      -12      1497      1485       573
1993                      -12      1534      1522       501
1994                      -12      1572      1560       438
1995                      -12      1611      1599       383
1996                      -12      1651      1639       335
1997                      -12      1692      1680       293
1998                      -12      1734      1722       256
1999                    -2184      1777      -406       -52
2000                      -12      2327      2315       251
2001                      -12      2494      2482       230
2002                      -12      2710      2698       213
2003                      -12      2992      2979       201
2004                      -12      3363      3351        193
2005                      -12      3856      3844        188
2006                      -12      4378      4366        183



. 34 -
GUINEA -- Third Highway Project Credit 1457-GUI
Project Completion Report
ECONOMIC STUDY
MAMOU- KISSIDOUGOU                                 -4
Investment  Maintenance  Benefits  Total         1.251
1986          0                                0         0
1987         220                            -220      -175
1988        470                             -470      -300
1989        896                             -896      -458
1990       2059                            -2059      -841
1991        1331                           -1331      -434
1992         125                            -125       -33
1993                     -15       1978     1962       409
1994                     -15       2027     2011       335
1995                     -15       2077     2062       275
1996                     -15       2128     2113       225
1997                     -15       2181     2166       184
1998                     -15       2235     2220       151
1999                     -15       2291     2276       124
2000                   -1700       2348      647        28
2001                     -15       3215     3199       111
2002                     -15       3492     3477        97
2003                     -15       3856     3840        85
2004                     -15       4334     4319        77
2005                     -15       4969     4954        70
2006                     -15       5817     5802        66
2007                     -15       6744     6729        61
GUINEA -- Third Highway Project Credit 1457-GUI
Project Completion Report
ECONOMIC STUDY
DUBREKA- FORECARIAH                                -1
Investment  Maintenance  Benefits  Total         1.316
1986           0                               0         0
1987          0                                0         0
1988        582                             -582      -336
1989        360                             -360      -158
1990         71                              -71       -24
1991          0           -4       457       453       115
1992          0           -4       468       464        89
1993                      -4       480       476        70
1994                      -4       492       488        54
1995                      -4        504      500        42
1996                      -4        516      512        33
1997                      -4       529       525        26
1998                    -338        542      204         8
1999                      -4        710      706        20
2000                      -4        728      724         15
2001                      -4        780      776        13
2002                      -4        847      843         10
2003                      -4        935      931         9
2004                      -4       1051      1048        7
2C-1                      -4       1169      1166        6



- 35 -
GUINEA - - Third Highway Project Credit 1457-GUI
Project Completion Report
ECONOMIC STUDY
TOTAL INVESTMENT COMPONENT                         17
Investment  Maintenance  Benefits  Total         1.243
1986       1339            0         0    -1339    -1339
1987       3510            0         0    -3510    -2824
1988       4347            0         0    -4347    -2814
1989       4738            0         0    -4738    -2467
1990       7853            0         0    -7853    -3290
1991       2431           -4       457    -1978      -667
1992        125          -36      7439      7278      1973
1993          0          -51      9464      9413      2053
1994          0          -51      9573      9522      1671
1995          0          -51      9695      9644      1361
1996          0          -51      9829      9778      1111
1997          0          -51      9975      9924       907
1998          0         -385     10133      9748       717
1999          0        -6095     10456      4360       258
2000          0        -1737     13862    12125        577
2001          0          -51     15616    15565        596
2002           0         -51     17101    17050        525
2003          0          -51     19096    19045        472
2004          0          -51     21773    21722        433
2005          0          -51     25331    25280        405
2006          0          -47     27841    27794        359
2007          0          -15      6744      6729        70
GUINEA -- Third Highway Project Credit 1457-GUI
Project Completon Report
ECONOMIC STUDY
TOTALTHIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT                        -37
Investment  Maintenance  Benefits  Total         1.262
1985        362            0         0      -362     -457
1986        1842           0       660    -11e2    -1182
1987       6403            0      1724    -4679    -3708
1988       4837            0      1723    -3114    -1955
1989       5321            0      1802    -3518    -1751
1990       8376            0      1526    -6850    -2700
1991       2435           -4      1874      -565     -176
1992        125          -36      8324      8163      2021
1993          0          -51     10074    10023       1966
1994          0          -51      9822      9771      1519
1995          0          -51      9956      9905      1220
1996          0          -51     10047      9996       975
1997          0          -51      9975      9924       767
1998          0         -385     10133      9748       597
1999          0        -6095     10456      4360       212
2000          0        -1737     13862    12125        467
2001           0         -51     15616    15565        475
2002          0          -51     17101    17050        412
2003          0          -51     19096    19045        365
2004          0          -51     21773    21722        329
2005          0          -51     25331    25280        304
2006          0          -47    27841    27794         265
2007          0          -15      6744      6729        51



IS                                                                IB~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lRD 174798
S  E  N   E, G- A,.h             12:o-                                                                                                    OCTOBE9R 19E
-nm;;;;'- 4dii                                                                              '                                                       y<80mckS
Komar                                                                 - ''b,lo
Is.~~~~~~~~~~~i
)/ /m M1'--'e j    )  l   \   1   /   b  beyo                  IVORY
~~~~~~s~~~~~t       /         v           s>Sv ~~~~~~~~~Roads tobe regrrvelled or rehabili-9    \     L              /(                                                 O S
mts _fd     0"*         Conakry                                             toted under the project by:
r0      7he *4-1c1i", ^/    -                                           Field group l                         _1\                              
loodowt_b.ilifo,                                                     --J Field group 2                                                                J.i- *_/A
Wnne.=     r- oooao,                                      '         *a.     Field grouP 3                         ?     '          ,                   run/
&O..oo                                     n YqP.b  -,   Priority network paved roods                                    l«oo                                         <(
owx-#- mootnl ,0.
etmrwotv on,                                                                Priority netwCork unpaved roads                                          /
ootr_ o,S                                                                   Railways )\_    
THG8A_ _                \<                                               -   Administrative region boundaries      jj   ;    j*                                                      j
o,,,ft b. (.WKIA                                                                                              i
o-7                                                       Riverss                                                                     n                   o--.
BIsSAU5 s'IEuAf GiUINEA UA                                              AirfINEld
vSIERRA_           _ ilNot-/                     HIGHoWAYS l        co1it                                                         Nzl ,4ko
SICRRA                                                                                                   IM~~~~BUKIA 
LEKONE 4%f' '-     
; 2v    t p, IVORY COAST  /
/ tlIERIA                   j            KILOMETERS 0       40        80        120      160                                Y
/jI     ---                                                                                                   LIERIIA-
A, ~~~~~ -, , 1, ,  .   "I  1- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~s.It
-4                                           ,-                                                           L I B E R I A    v   J\ 



