Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
.,  -  ,t
Report No. 4507-GUI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
March 26, 1984
Western Africa Projects Department
Transportation Division 1
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =     Syli (GSY)
US$1.0              =     GSY 23.0
US$1.06013          =     SDR 1
FISCAL YEAR
July 1  -  June 30
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC)
1 meter (m)                        =   3.28 feet (ft)
1 square meter (im2)               =   10.76 square feet (sq ft)
1 cubic meter (m3)                 =   35.3 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 kilometer (kin)                      0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)           =   0.39 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (t)                   =   2,205 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Ehglish                              French
adt     average daily traffic                    trafic journalier moyen
AfIDf    African Development F nd                Fond Africain de Developpement
CGPR    Maragement Council of the Road Project   Conseil de Gestion du Projet Routier
COTRA   Public Road Transport Compawy            Compagnie de Transports Routiers Autonomes
CNR     National Road Council                    Conseil National des Routes
DIT     Division of Works, OPR                   Division Travaux, OPR
ENTRAT  National Stevedoring Company             Entreprise Nationale de Transit et de Transport
ERR     Economic Rate of Return                  Taux de Rentabilite Economique
FRIGUIA Fria Mining CoMpany                      Compagnie Miniere de Fria
GTZ     (Gesellschaft fur Technishe              Societe pour la Coop4ration
Zusammenarbeit) Society for Technical    Techrique, Republique Federale
Cooperation, Federal Republic of Gernany d'Allaemgne
HDM     Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Modele pour les Normes de la
Model                                   Constraction et de 1'Entretien Routiers
KfW      (Kreditanstal ftir Wiederaufbau);       Agence Allemande Bilaterale d'Aide
German Bilateral Aid Agency             au Developpement
ITGAT   Ministry of Infrastructure and Major     MinistEre de l'Infrastructure et des
Works                                   Grands Amrnagements du Territoire
m       million                                  millior.
m-m     man-month                                homme-mois
MOT     Minri-stry of Trainsport                 Ministere des Transports
NWV     Net Present Value                        Valeur Nette Actualisee
O3K     Kindia Bauxite Office                    Office des Bauxites de Kindia
OFERGUI Guinean Railway Company                  Office National de Chemin de Fer de Guin.e
OPR     Road Project Office                      Office du Projet Routier
PAC     Port Authority of Conakry                Port Autonome de Conakry
PPF     Project Preparation Facility             Fonds pDur la preparation des prvjets
voc     vehicles operating cost                  cout d'operatoin des vehicules



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.      THE TRANSPORT SECTOR . ...................... . .................    1
A.    The Land and the Economy  ......**......... ...............*               1
B.    Transport Infrastructure ................................                  1
C.   Transport Sector Planning ........... o .................*.    3
D.   Bank Group Assistance in the Transport Sector                               4
II.     THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR ............. . .... ... .... ............    5
A.   The Network .                                                               5
B.   Recent Road Construction and Maintenance Activities .....                   5
C.   Road Planning .........  ..  ..........                                     7
D.   Road Administration ....... ..........................    8
E.   Traffic and Road Transport  ........................... e                    9
III.    THE PROJECT ........................          ...1...............                11
A.   Objectives and Content ................1...............                    11
B.    Institutional Development and Project Description........    12
C.   Cost Estimates and Financing                    ...................    17
D.    Implementation Schedule and Reporting Requirements .......   19
E.   Procurement    ..       .......      ..     ...... ................   20
F.   Disbursement ..........  .....   ....... 21
IV.     ECONOMIC EVALUATION ............. ... .... . ................... .    23
A.   General ...............................                                   23
B.    Economic Rates of Return ............... ....... ....               .    24
C.    The Gravel and Earth Roads Rehabilitation and
Maintenance Program ... .............. ....... o......    24
D.    Reconstruction of Conakry-Mamou Road .......... o   .........   25
E.    Periodic and Routine Maintenance of the
Remaining Paved Road Network .........iPa..dk............              26
F.    Project  Beneficiaries ........... ...... . .. ............  .    27
G.   Project Risks ........ e....................................    27
V.      AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ........................   27
This report was prepared on the basis of an appraisal mission in
February 1983 by Mr. Jaffar Bentchikou (mission leader), Mrs. Brigitta
Mitchell, Messrs.   Ernesto Henriod and Jean-Michel Verdier.   It was typed by
Jacqueline Williams.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 11 -
Table of Contents (continued)
Page No.
ANNEXES
2-1    Regional Distribution of Population and Road
Infrastructure, 1982 . ............' . . ............... .. .. *   29
2-2    The Priority Network:  Present Status and Proposed
Project Works - A. Paved Roads    ..30
2-3    The Priority Network:  Present Status and Proposed
Project Works - B.  Laterite and Earth Roads .... .......  31
2-4    Interventions under First and Second Highway Projects  2....   2
2-5    Share of Transport Sector in Total Investment
Expenditure by Plan Period, 1960-85      ..33
2-6    Total Highway Expenditures and Regional Road
Maintenance Allocations, 1978-81          .                  34
2-7    Organization Chart for the Ministry of Infrastructure
and Major Works (MIGAT) .......              ..     .....   35
2-8    Estimated Vehicle Park, 1974-82 ..............  ......   36
2-9    Total Fuel Imports and Consumption by Province,
1972-80 .37
2-10   Estimated Revenue from Road User Taxes               .38
2-11   Economic and Financial Cost of Gasoline and
Diesel Fuel .........................         .39
3-1    Outline of the Proposed Organization of
the Road Project Office      ................................  40
3-2    Outline Terms of Reference for the
Engineering Consultant ......45
3-3    Outline Terms of Reference for the
Consultant Contractor .............   .......... . ....   57
3-4    Detailed Project Cost Estimates .71
3-5    Proposed Schedule of Project Implemsntation.                   74
4-1    Estimated Vehicle Operating Cost (VOC)                         75
4-2    Road Maintenance Strategies for the Unpaved
Priority Network:  Without and With Project Case .......     77
4-3    Economic Evaluation of a Program of Periodic
Regravelling and Rehabilitation of Laterite and
Earth Roads and their Routine Maintenance        .............  78
4-4    Conakry-Mamou Road:  Estimated Cost of Reconstruction,
Link Characteristics and Traffic, 1980 .................     79
4-5    Conakry-Mamou Road:  Estimated Costs of Road
Construction & Road Maintenance (Without and With
the Project), and Estimated Savings in the Cost of
Vehicle Operation and Maintenance with the Project           80
4-6    Road Maintenance Strategies for the Paved Priority
Network:  Without and With Project Case  .................  81
4-7    Economic Evaluation of a Program of Paved Road
Resurfacing and Routine Maintenance       ....................   82
MAP
IBRD-17479 Guinea: Highways III



- iii -
Guinea
Third Highway Project
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE                         File Code No.
A.  Selected Reports and Studies on the Transport Sector
Al. Rapport Sectoriel Portant sur le Transport, Programme
de Cooperation Canado - Guineenne, Mars 1982.                Doc# 128764
B.  Selected Reports Relating to the Project
B1. Etude de la Refection de la Route Conakry-Mamou,
SETEC International, February 1982.
Phase I        Etude de Factibilite                          Doc# 124786 (K1-4)
Vol. 1 - Rapport General; Vol. 2 - Plans
Vol 3 - Annexes Economiques, Vol. 4 -
Annexes Techniques
Phase II       Projet d'Execution, 7 Vols.                   Doc# 124786 (N1-6)
N31 N6-OVERSIZE
B2. Definition et Evaluation d'un Troisieme Projet               Doc# 127433
d'Entretien Routier, Louis Berger International,
Inc./Tractionel (LBT); November 1981, 2 Vols.
B3. Auscultation des Chaussees Bituminees pour la                Doc# 128923 (A)
Definition du Troisieme Projet Routier, Louis Berger
International, Inc., January 1983.
B4. Recherche de Sites de Carrieres pour la Production           Doc# 128923 (B)
de Granulats Routier dans le Cadre du Troisieme
Projet Routier, Louis Berger International Inc.,
January 1983.
B5. Dossier d'Appel d'offres - Entretien des routes              Doc# 220196 (1-3)
revetues, Troisieme Projet Routier.
B7. Miscellaneous computer printouts and mag cards               Doc# 220197
for Economic Calculations.                                        (6a-e)



- iv -
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPU3LIC OF GUINEA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:    Revolutionary People's Republic of Guinea
Amount:      SDR 26.5 million (US$28.0 million equivalent)
Terms:       Standard
Co-Lenders:  African Development Fund (US$14.6 equivalent);
BADEA (US$9.0 equivalent)
Project Description:       The project would continue to assist the Government
in the rehabilitation and maintenance of a priority
network of roads essential for adequate functioning
of the country's productive sectors, and extend the
ongoing institution building effort for improving
Guinea's civil construction capacity. The project
provides financing for the regravelling or rehabil-
itation of 1,085 km of unpaved roads by force
account; for reconstruction of the country's
resurfacing of some 360 km of other paved roads by
contractors; and for the technical assistance
required to execute and supervise the above works,
to intensify training and to define medium term
development priorities for Guinea's transport sector
as a whole.
Benefits and Risks:        The project would ensure that essential flows of
imports from Conakry to the regions, and of agricul-
tural surplus production from the regions to markets
of the capital, can be maintained and handled at
reasonable economic costs.   It thus benefits both
the rural and urban populations; most directly road
users including vehicle owners and paying passen-
gers. Project design minimizes the risk of a
repetition of earlier difficulties and exposure to
pressures for carrying out non-project works. With
the new project organiization and the full support
pledged by the GoverrLment these risks are considered
minimal.



ESTIMATED PROJECT COST                      ---------------US$ million-------------
Foreign   Local    Net    Taxes   Total
A-I  Labor-based maintenance works              -       2.1      2.1       0.1     2.2
A-2  Equipment-based maintenance and
rehabilitation works                 5.9       6.8    12.7        0.3   13.1
A-3  Equipment renewal, buildings             6.6       0.1      6.7          -    6.7
A-4  Technical assistance, audit,
training                             6.0       0.5      6.5          -    6.5
A-5  Refunding of PPF advance                 1.0          -     1.0          -    1.0
B-1  Rehabilitation Conakry-Mamou            15.8       5.5    21.3           -   21.3
B-2  Resurfacing of paved roads               6.2       2.2      8.3          -    8.3
Base Cost                    41.3      17.3    58.6        0.4   59.0
Physical Contingencies        3.1       1.0      4.1          -    4.1
Price Contingencies           7.2       3.3    10.5         0.1   10.5
TOTAL       51.6      21.6    732          0     73.
INANCING PLAN                               ----US$ million--
IDA     AfDF       BADEA    Govemment    Total
(Foreign  (Foreign   (Foreigni  (Local Costs
Costs)    Costs)    Costs)    and Taxes)
A-1 Iabor-based maintenance works       -         -          -         2.9        2.9
A-2 Fquiaent-based maintenance
and rehabilitation worls          4.4         -        3.0         8.4       15.8
A-3 Bquipment renewal, buditings       1.3        -        6.0         0.2        7.4
A-4 Technical Assistance, Audit,
Training                        8.2         -          -         0.7        8.8
B-1 Rehabilitation of Coakry-Mamou     6.0      14.6         -         7.2       27.8
B-2 Resurfacing of paved Roads        8.1         -          -         2.9       11.0
TOTAL              28.0     14..6      9_.0        22.1       7_7
ESIMAE   IDA DISBJRSE       __   ---Us  million--- --
_Y85   ?i6   FY87   PYM    Y189  PF90
Arual                      3.8     6.7    6.9    5.7    3.5    1.4
Cumulative                 3.8    10.5   17.4   23.1   26.6   28.0
Econcnic Rate of Return
Package A exceeding 10i; B/C ratio at 12% discount rate: 5.3
Package B 65%; B/C ratio at 12% disoount rate: 4.9 for B-1 and 2.2 for B-2
Tiote: Figures may not add because of rounding.






REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. The Land and the Economy
1.01     Guinea's land area covers some 246,000 km2.  The country's population
in 1982 was estimated at 5.7 million growing at 2.9% per year; close to 90%
live in the rural areas and depend on agriculture for their livelihood. Soils
and climate allow cultivation of a wide range of crops and favor the raising
of cattle. Potential for hydroelectric power and mining is exceptional: the
source of West Africa's largest rivers lies in Guinea, and the country has
close to a third of the world's known bauxite reserves; considerable deposits
of high grade iron ore; gold and diamond mines; and good geological prospects
for uranium and off-shore oil.
1.02     Despite its potential, the country's economic performance, except for
the enclave mining sector, has been poor. GNP per capita in 1980 was US$290
equivalent; it grew at only 0.6% per year between 1970 and 1980, while GDP
grew at 3.6% per year over the same period. The major concern is the con-
tinuing decline in agricultural self-sufficiency: since 1955, the area under
cultivation has increased by 30% and population by 115%. With hardly any
changes in production technology and yields, local food availability per head
of population has declined significantly over the last three decades. The
Government is giving high priority to the regeneration of the rural sector and
is actively considering the introduction of adjustments in agricultural prices
to change the structure of production incentives to smallholder farmers.
Transport sector policy has an important supporting role to play in this,
since intra- and inter-regional exchange depend on adequately developed and
reasonably maintained transport infrastructure.
B. Transport Infrastructure
1.03     At present, Guinea's transport infrastructure consists of:
-    14,000 km of classified primary and secondary roads, 1,145 km of
which are paved; and some 6,000 km of unclassified local roads and
tracks;
-    a public rail line from Conakry to Kankan (660 km); and three enclave
rail lines - Conakry-Fria (145 km, for alumina); Conakry-Kindia (105
km, for bauxite) and Kamsar-Sangaredi (136 km, for bauxite);
-    two deep-water ports at Conakry and Kamsar, and a small secondary
port at Benty;



- 2 -
an international airport at Conakry, and nine regional airports, only
two of which - Faranah and Labe - have serviceable paved runways.
While the volume of infrastructure facilities night appear satisfactory for a
country of Guinea's size, their adequacy has been considerably reduced by
chronic neglect of maintenance.
1.   Railways
1.04     The Conakry-Kankan Railroad was constructed before World War I (1900-
1914) and through the mid 1940s carried most o:F the country's agricultural
exports to the Port of Conakry. Later paralleLed by a road which is paved up
to Mamou (255 km), the railway has been poorly maintained. As the one meter
gauge track deteriorated and rolling stock fel:L into disrepair, OFERGUI's
(Office National du Chemin de Fer de Guinee) level of service steadily de-
clined; by 1981, the railroad carried no more than 10,000 tons of freight and
288,000 passengers, three quarters of whom were suburban commuters. At pre-
sent, OFERGUI's revenues barely cover operating expenses with no margin for
maintenance and renewal. Government has recently examined the potential for
rehabilitating the railway. A detailed study carried out by French consul-
tants during 1980/81 concluded that rehabilitation of the Conakry-Kankan line
would require US$48 million. 1/ It is highly unlikely, however, that present
and projected traffic volumes would justify an investment of this magnitude.
To date, not even financing for the proposed first phase of the line rehabili-
tation involving 35 km of track from the center of Conakry to Dubreka, which
may be economically justified, has been found. However, the recent acquisi-
tion of two Alsthom locomotives and eight railcars with French financing has
improved long distance passenger service somewhat. A second study of the railway
was undertaken December 1982/February 1983 with AfDB financing; its results are to
be evaluated under the transport planning element under this project.
1.05     The three enclave mining railway lines, constructed since 1965, all
handle major transport flows: the Sagaredi-Kamsar line transports currently
about 8 million tons per year (tpy) of bauxite, the Kindia-Conakry line
carries some 2.5 million tpy of bauxite and the Fria-Conakry, line 600,000 tpy
of alumina.
2.   Ports
1.06     Bauxite and alumina provide the bulk of Guinea's exports through the
two deep-water ports at Kamsar and Conakry. Kainsar, constructed as part of
the Boke Bauxite Project (para. 1.12) in 1973, has a capacity of 9.2 million
tpy. Of the current through-put of about 8 million tpy, less than 10% are
imports, almost exclusively for the account of the mine. The Port of Conakry
has two bulk-handling facilities for export: a 350 m alumina berth and a 390
m bauxite berth. These currently handle about three million tpy reasonably
efficiently. Located between these facilities are four general cargo berths,
1/   At January 1981 prices:  track repairs, US$11 million; equipment and
spare parts, US$25 million; telecommunication equipment, US$4 million;
and extensive management and personnel training, US$8 million equivalent.



bulk petroleum handling facilities, and a basin of varying depth to accommo-
date fishing, coastal and general service vessels. The condition of the
general cargo port had deteriorated to the point of threatening to cause a
break in the inflow of essential goods (some 300,000 tpy) into the country.
An IDA Port Project, jointly financed with AfDB and the Federal Republic of
Germany (KfW and GTZ) was approved in June 1983. At an estimated cost of
US$38 million, the project will rehabilitate the existing general cargo port
infrastructure and replace floating craft (two tugs), port handling equipment
and vehicles. Most importantly, the project has been instrumental in the
recent establishment of an independent port authority (Port Autonome de
Conakry-PAC) and has provided the necessary technical assistance to ensure
that the renewed facilities will provide technically efficient and financially
sound port services.
3.   Airports
1.07     Guinea's airports at present provide only a minimum level of service.
Three of the regional airfields - Macenta, Siguiri and Boke - are currently
closed to commercial traffic. Airport facilities in Conakry itself have com-
pletely deteriorated. New facilities are being financed by France, including
a terminal (US$13 million equivalent), runway improvements (US$10 million) and
navigational aids (US$2 million). Works were started in November 1982.
Creation of an autonomous airport authority to administer the new facilities
is under discussion. International passenger traffic is modest, totalling
about 10,000 passengers in 1Q81. In contrast, due to the poor state of road
and rail infrastructure and subsidized fares, local air passenger traffic
between Conakry and regional centers is very important; demand in fact ex-
ceeds capacity, which is at present about 100,000 passengers per year, with
some 40% Government officials. Annual air freight traffic is negligible at
about 500 tons.
1.08     AIR GUINEE, created as a public enterprise in 1960, has replaced five
of its fleet of seven turbo-prop aircraft by B707, B727 and B737 craft in
1980. Government has started discussions with Canada for possible reforms at
AIR GUINEE and assistance to domestic aviation, at present handled by one Il-
18 and one AN-12 flight carrier. Although tariffs on local flights which are
set by the Government do not cover costs, the company in 1981 showed a profit
on books of some GSY 5 million, because all equipment overhauls, personnel
training etc., were financed as investments from the Plan budget.
C. Transport Sector Planning
1.09     Nominal responsibility for transport planning and coordination lies
with the Ministry of Transport (MOT). In the absence of competent personnel,
funds and data, however, investment planning in practice is no more than a
listing of projects by the various bodies responsible for the different sub-
sectors, i.e., the Ministry of Infrastructure and Major Works (MIGAT) for the
all-important highway subsector; OFERGUI for the railways; ENTRAT and COTRA
for road freight transport; AIR GUINEE for air transport, and, since 1982, the
seven Provinces for intra-regional transport and routine road maintenance.
Since little or no scrutiny or arbitration takes place, investment proposals
for the transport sector in both the 1973/4-1977/8, and the 1981/2-1985/6



- 4 -
Five-Year Development Plans have been overly ambitious and poorly focussed,
and thus largely unrealized.
1.10     Following independence, the Government's main priorities were to
satisfy the transport demand of the enclave m:Lning sector and to pave the
major road links from the coast to the interior. Attention over the past
five-year period has slowly shifted towards the rehabilitation and maintenance
of transport infrastructure which had been al:Lowed to deteriorate.
1.11     Despite the progress achieved, substantial improvements are still
needed if the all-important agriculture sector is to be served adequately:
rehabilitation of the priority road network to acceptable standards of service
should be at the center of the Government's investment strategy in the road
subsector. The road transport industry is also hampered by an over-aged and
poorly maintained vehicle and equipment fleet, due mainly to a critical lack
of foreign exchange for spare parts, lubricants, etc. While it more or less
manages to carry current low agricultural and import traffic, plans should be
made to allow road transport capacity to be upgraded considerably if Guinea's
agricultural production and export objectives are realized. For long distance
passenger traffic to remote regions of the country, the relative advantages of
road and air transport should be evaluated in a framework of realistic
transport sector planning (para. 2.07); the railway improvement is of doubtful
justification and certainly of lower priority than those of the other
subsectors.
D. Bank Group Assistance in the Transport Sector
1.12     The Bank Group has until recently been the principal source of exter-
nal financing for transport development. Sincs 1966, it has made three loans
and three credits in the sector. The former (Loans SI-GUI, 1966; 577-GUI 1968
and 766-GUI, 1971; US$75.2 million in all) financed the mining town site at
Boke and related port and rail infrastructure for the export of bauxite from
the mining development and were successfully completed in 1975. The latter
have funded the First (US$14 million, Cr. 596-GUI, 1976) and the still ongoing
Second (US$17 million, Cr. 953-GUI and EEC-33 GUI, 1979) Highway Projects, and
a Port Project (US$38 million, Cr. 1382-GUI, 1983; see para. 1.06). The two
highway projects financed extensive road rehabiLlitation and maintenance pro-
grams. The First Highway Project was satisfactorily completed in 1980 by a
virtually autonomous project unit (PCR No. 4358, March 1983). The Second
Highway Project was designed to incorporate the unit into the Ministry of
Public Works organization and achieve a wider institution building impact.
This objective proved premature under the prevailing conditions (lack of an
adequate management structure for planning and controlling equipment and staff
and lack of practical construction know-how due to insufficient technical
assistance in an advisory role only) and resulted in wide variations of works
output due to diversion of project resources and outside interferences.
Nevertheless, the project still yields a very satisfactory rate of return.
Completion is expected by December 1983, and the lessons learned have been
incorporated in the design of the proposed Third Highway Project (para. 3.03).



- 5 -
II. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A. The Network
2.01     The classified road network, which covers the primary and secondary
links, has increased only moderately (12%) over the past fifteen years and has
been only partially upgraded. Primary road density averages 1.9 km/100 km2,
while total road density averages 5.7 km/100 km2 (Annex 2-1). These figures
compare to total road densities of 14 km/100 km2 in neighboring Ivory Coast
and 7.1 km/100 km2 in Liberia.
Guinea - Length of Road Network by Type
(km)
1967    1975    1982
Paved roads                              188   1,056   1,145
Unpaved roads-primary                  4,292   4,941   3,409
Unpaved roads-secondary               8,146   7,266   9,450
Total                           12,626  13,263  14,004
At present, there are some 4,550 km of primary roads. However, as this class-
ification does not always reflect the state and usefulness of the roads, a
priority network has been defined under the present project. It covers about
4,220 km (Annexes 2-2 and 2-3) and its rehabilitation is programmed to be
completed under the present project.
B. Recent Road Construction and Maintenance Activities
2.02     The only road construction work undertaken since 1975 is the ongoing
paving of the Kissidougou-Kankan Road (190 km), which is being carried out by
a Guinean-Cuban team at an annual output of 15 km.  In early 1982, bids were
called for constructing the Gueckedou-Seredou (135 km) Road to paved stan-
dards; financing of US$40 million is secured from the Saudi Fund (which had
also supported the feasibility and engineering studies), US$10 million from
the Islamic Development Fund, US$20 million from the Kuweit Fund and US$5
million from the OPEC Fund. Contractors and supervisory engineers have been
chosen. Construction standards for the road are higher than warranted by
current traffic levels (60-80 vpd); however this road would link Conakry and
the southeastern region, an area which has important agricultural and forestry
potential and the medium term prospect of developing the Nimba iron ore
deposits.
2.03     Maintenance of the road network had been severely neglected up until
the mid-70s. Due largely to IDA involvement, the situation has improved con-
siderably since 1977. Under the First Highway Project, five regravelling
brigades were set up and carried out rehabilitation works on 927 km of gravel



- 6 -
and earth roads; five mobile patching brigades worked on 900 km of paved
roads. Labor based routine maintenance on paved and gravel roads was also
reinforced: 21 of the 33 subdivisions of the General Directorate of Roads and
Bridges (DGRP) were provided with small equipment and trucks. The Second
Highway Project continued to support priority road maintenance, (970 km of
earth roads expected to be rehabilitated by December 1983, Annex 2-4). A
considerable backlog of priority road rehabilitation remains to be done, and
routine maintenance capabilities will need be++er organization and further
reinforcement to become effective (paras. 3.06, 3.07 and 3.12). Both objec-
tives will continue to be supported under the project.
2.04     Public works investment as a proportion of total investments declined
by about half under Guinea's Third Plan (FY73-78) to about 15%; it is likely
to fall further under the ongoing (FY81-85) Fourth Plan (Annex 2-5). Highway
expenditure patterns over the recent years have reflected the shift in priori-
ties from new construction to rehabilitation and maintenance of the existing
road network: while on average some GSY 370 million (US$18 million) were
spent annually on new construction and GSY 70 million (US$3.5 million) on
maintenance during the 1970-75 period, investments over the 1978-81 period
averaged a low GSY 4 million per year (mostly for minor bridge construction),
while GSY 230 illion (US$11 million) were allocated for rehabilitation and
maintenance. While financing of new construction in the early seventies was
usually done through suppliers credits provided by foreign contractors, minor
construction since then has been financed domestically, while rehabilitation
and maintenance have been financed both by the Budget and the First and Second
Highway Projects (Annex 2-6). Budget financing mostly covers routine
maintenance carried out labor-intensively at the regional level.
2.05     Under the Second Highway Project the Government agreed to increase
its allocations for routine maintenance operations and earmark some US$1.5
million annually in foreign exchange for renewal of highway maintenance equip-
ment and spare parts, but lack of foreign exchange has so far prevented this.
The Government has made arrangements to contribute US$1.0 million equivalent
for project equipment renewal and US$500,000 equivalent for fuel and spare
parts acquisition during the transition period between the Second ard the
proposed Third Highway Project. However, in order to ensure that a fair share
of scarce foreign exchange is allocated to the Highway sector for subsequent
years, a system for financing of foreign exchange costs of highway maintenance
should be studied and set-up (preferably revenues directly linked to the
highway subsector). The study will be carried out by consultants under the
project and the system would be instituted before project completion (para.
3.16).
2.06     At present, there are no private domestic road contractors in
Guinea. There have been several attempts in recent years to establish a local
road construction firm under mixed ownership, Government with either French or
German private partners. These have not been successful, largely because of
the lack of a Guinean construction entity able to be the recipient of technol-
ogy transfers and thus to become a substantive Guinean partner. The proposed
project will develop such an entity by the transformation of the existing
force account brigades into a self-contained Road Project Office with a
Division of Works run closely along the lines of a construction enterprise
(para. 3.06). This is expected to lead, in a second step, to the future
establishment of a construction enterprise which could act by itself, or
become a domestic partner in a mixed-ownership firm.



-7-
C. Road Planning
2.07     The road construction programs included in the last two development
plans are good indicators of the lack of effective planning capability for the
sector: both programs exceeded available financing for their implementation
and both failed to set clear priorities. Of a total road improvement program
of some 2,500 km included in the Third Plan, only 20% were actually completed.
The current Fourth Plan states as its objective an extension of the national
road network from its present 14,000 km to no less than 30,000 km by the end
of the Plan period -- without any supporting detail on the sources of
financing and the road sections to be upgraded or constructed. It is clearly
urgent to set realistic priorities for investments in the medium term and to
develop a modest planning capacity for the transport sector. The project
finances a transport plan for this purpose (para. 3.16).
2.08     A first step in the direction of more rational investment planning
has been made over the past three years, during which a series of preinvest-
ment and detailed engineering studies have been carried out by consultants.
From these, a clearer picture of the most urgent needs for maintenance, rehab-
ilitation and upgrading has emerged, although it has not yet been translated
into agreed investment priorities. Clearly the first priority for reconstruc-
tion is the country's central highway Conakry-Mamou; it carries the highest
traffic of all Guinean roads, since all traffic to and from the capital feeds
into it. Preinvestment studies and detailed engineering for the rehabilita-
tion of this essential link have been carried out under the Second Highway
Project and it is scheduled to be reconstructed under the project. Preinvest-
ment studies for five other roads have been financed by the European Develop-
ment Fund. These roads were chosen mainly with a view of providing year-round
access from the capital to some isolated outlying regions and establishing or
improving links to neighboring countries. The studies show that with present
and forecast traffic volumes, only one of the roads studied (first section of
Dubreka-Bokle) has an economic rate of return above 10% for paved standards.
It is therefore clear that the goal of providing the border regions with paved
access should wait until the rehabilitation of priority roads has been com-
pleted and an effective maintenance program instituted.
2.09     To improve and guide road investment and maintenance planning, a
National Road Council (Conseil National des Routes, CNR) has been created in
early 1982, following IDA's advice. It includes the Prime Minister, the
Ministers of MIGAT, Transport and Finance, the Director General of Plan and
the seven General Commissioners of the Revolution. A National Maintenance
Coordinator located in MIGAT (in a position somewhat analogous to that of the
earlier Director of Maintenance, but without operational authority over the
regional divisions) serves as the head of the Secretariat for the Council. He
is charged with preparing, in collaboration with the CGR maintenance direc-
tors, annual work programs and annual budgets for road maintenance to be
reviewed and approved by the CNR. The first such review session was scheduled
for January 1983 but was postponed, since neither budget nor maintenance
program proposals were ready. The CNR is also responsible for reviewing road
investment plans and road classification proposals prepared by MIGAT.



D. Road Administration
1.   Organization
2.10     Responsibility for the administration of the road sector in Guinea
has recently been reapportioned. Until April 1982, the Directorate General of
Roads and Bridges (DGRP) of the Ministry of Public Works had overall responsi-
bility for engineering, construction and maintenance of the national road
system. DGRP had two subdirectorates - for road maintenance and for equipment
- in Conakry, and divisions in each of the seven Province. These in turn were
divided into 33 subdivisions, one for each administrative region of the coun-
try (Annex 2-1). Each subdivision was headed by an engineer who had about 60
employees to supervise. The main task of these subdivision chiefs was the
maintenance of classified roads in their area. They reported to an inspector
at Province level who had authority to allocate the Province maintenance
budget within his zone. The seven inspectors reported to an Inspector General
in the Ministry who, in turn, reported to the Minister. However, despite this
organizationally decentralized structure, decision-making regarding all road
rehabilitation and maintenance was in practice highly centralized in the
Office of the Minister, whose ad-hoc arrangements for the deployment of avail-
able equipment and materials often interfered with established maintenance
programs.
2.11     In response partly to the concerns of regional authorities, MPW was
reorganized into the Ministry of Infrastructure and Major Works (Ministere de
l'Infrastructure et des Grands Amenagements dii Territoire, MIGAT) in 1982.
The new Ministry is responsible only for the construction of major infrastruc-
ture (Annex 2-7) and periodic road maintenance. In an effort to give the
regions greater autonomy in the upkeep of their roads, the responsibility for
routine maintenance has been transferred to the Provinces, who have also taken
over the personnel and equipment of the earlier MPW divisions and subdivi-
sions. The practical extent of the Provinces' responsibilities is still in
the process of being worked out between MIGAT and the regions. The latter
have a potential advantage over a central Ministry in defining priority tasks
for labor-based road maintenance (clearing of side drains and shoulders,
maintenance of drainage structures and patchirg on paved roads) in their
regions and organizing and supervising their execution, provided that a
suitable planning capacity and adequate budgetary resources are acquired. As
regards more extensive equipment-based operations, however, the Provinces face
overwhelming constraints such as insufficient equipment, absence of qualified
operators and mechanics, scarcity or non-availability of fuel, spare parts and
lubricants on local markets and the absence of adequate workshop facilities in
most of the regions. The Government has therefore agreed and confirmed at
negotiations that Provinces will limit their responsibilities to labor-based
operations for the entire network and only minor equipment-based operations,
while the Road Project Office will be responsible for equipment-based periodic
and routine maintenance of the priority network (paras 3.03 - 3.12).



-9-
2.   Staffing and Training
2.12     Since the recent reorganization, MIGAT personnel is about half that
of the previous Ministry's. A total of 46 engineers and 48 assistant engi-
neers, and about 1,300 technician and workers have been transferred to the
Provinces. Guinea has a relative large number of locally trained civil and
mechanical engineers and technicians. The latter follow a three-year course at
the Ecole Nationale des Arts et Metiers, and the former are given an
additional two years of training at the Conakry Polytechnical Institute.
However, the level of training received is inadequate: the subjects covered
are not adapted either to road maintenance or to the types of equipment used
for road construction; they do not include equipment management systems; and
the schools lack both training equipment and teachers with good practical
experience.
2.13     Under the First and Second Highway projects a small training program
for mechanics was set up and a number of staff have received on-the-job train-
ing complemented by short training periods abroad. The output of the training
program has been low due to the poor basic education level of the trainee-
mechanics. The impact of technical training has been substantial, although
lessened by difficulties of general project administration and reassignment of
trained staff to other duties. The proposed project will provide more inten-
sive and practical on-the-job training complemented by short and custom-
tailored seminars coordinated by a training officer (paras. 3.13-3.15).
E. Traffic and Road Transport
2.14     Traffic data for most of the country's roads are scarce.  The only
counts that have been undertaken are on links being improved under the IDA
assisted Highway Projects (Annex 2-4) and roads for which feasibility studies
have been carried out. In 1980, traffic on the central axis from Conakry to
Mamou varied from 3,000 vpd in the vicinity of Conakry to about 400 vpd near
Mamou and about 100-75 vpd between Faranah, Kissidougou and Kankan. Traffic
on the unpaved network is generally below 50 vpd; only two sections carry
more than 100 vpd. The program of traffic counts on the priority network will
be improved under the project (para. 3.04(e)) to provide a better basis for
effective planning and scheduling of maintenance activities and upgrading of
roads.
2.15     Guinea's vehicle fleet is among the most heterogeneous and over-aged
in all of West Africa. At the end of 1981, the Vehicle Registration Office of
MIGAT registered close to 80 different makes of private cars and about 40
different types of trucks in a presumed total vehicle population of 41,000.
The latter figure is greatly overestimated however, since it is arrived at by
adding all new registrations since 1975 to the base figure of the most recent
(1974) census of motor vehicles. The 1982 licenses for existing vehicles and
new registrations represent no more than 16,047 vehicles (Annex 2-8). Allow-
ing for a certain amount of under-reporting and for a number of temporarily
inoperative vehicles, it is improbable that the vehicle fleet exceeds 21,000
vehicles. Between 1977 and 1980, when Guinea's borders with neighboring
countries were opened and many Guinean residents abroad returned home bringing
vehicles with them, vehicle fleet growth was about 15% per annum; it is worth



- 10 -
noting that as a result the proportion of used vehicles increased from 17% of
total imports in 1977 to 76% in 1980, a trend contributing further to a gene-
rally over-aged and inefficient fleet. New registrations declined signifi-
cantly during 1981/2, when fuel and spare parts were in critically short
supply throughout the country.
2.16     Fuel consumption is irregular (Annex 2-9) due to difficulties in
financing supplies (severe shortages of foreign exchange), and to the lack of
a long-term contract with any oil company (except for aviation fuel stc"L .
abroad). These circumstances lead to frequent periods of shortages and sub-
sequent rationing of fuel in the country, which affects up-country users
disproportionately.
2.17     The road transport industry has undergone a number of changes in
recent years. Freight transport is basically a public sector function. In
1975, a state-owned road transport company (Compagnie des Transports Routiers
Autonomes, COTRA) was established in Conakry, with subdivisions in each
region; they handle 80% of long distance freight with a total fleet of about
400 twelve-ton trucks. In 1980, COTRA transported about 132,000 tons of
freight. A separate state agency, Entreprise Nationale de Transit et de
Transport (ENTRAT) with about 55 vehicles is responsible for cargo handling
within a 30 km radius of Conakry Port. In 1980, ENTRAT distributed 256,000
tons of freight. Responsibilities for public sector transport were also
decentralized to the Provinces in 1982. COTRA retains a fleet of some 80
trucks to handle freight beyond ENTRAT's limits of operation.
2.18     For passenger transport the situation is reversed.  The bulk of
passenger transport throughout Guinea has always been handled by small private
transporters.   It is estimated that they currently operate some 6,600 vehi-
cles in all, 66% of them in Conakry. Thirty-two percent of the fleet consists
of trucks modified for passenger transport and 68% of taxis and minibuses.
Most of these vehicles are in precarious condition. Access to the industry is
open, limited only by the supply of vehicles and the payment of a modest fee
(GSY 12,000 to 24,000) for the issuance of a license. However, demand for
passenger transport is consistently higher than supply, and transport of
passengers by Government vehicles is quite important. Transport workers,
grouped in syndicates, organize terminals and distribute scarce fuel and spare
parts. The role of public sector companies is confined almost exclusively to
the capital. With 28 buses remaining operational in 1982, Urban Transport of
Conakry (TUC) output has declined to 15 million passengers transported. A
public taxi company, COTAX, provided in-town service with a fleet of 30 new
cars in 1983.
2.19     Road transport tariffs are set by the Ministry of Transport.  How-
ever, actual charges, especially for long distance travel often are a multiple
(3-5 times) of official rates, reflecting frequent supply scarcities. In any
event, rates seem to be remunerative enough to make passenger transport a
popular business for Guineans. In 1982, the official tariff for freight
transport was reportedly set at GSY 3.5/ton/km. Official long distance pas-
senger tariffs for private transporters range from GSY 1.0/pass/ km for small
vans on paved roads to GSY 0.8/pass/km for trucks on earth roads (the lower
tariff is due to the higher capacity of the tricks).



- 11 -
2.20     Both freight and passengers transport capacity is fully utilized,
while at the same time suffering from significant shortcomings. Besides fuel
and vehicle shortages (para. 2.16), the road transport industry also suffers
from lack of spare parts, lubricants and trained mechanics. These
difficulties result in low vehicle utilization rates and considerable unmet
transport demand, which increasingly impedes the country's economic develop-
ment. With a view to assisting and improving road passenger transport, German
aid agencies have recently studied mass transport demand patterns for Conakry
traffic; they evaluated alternative ways of providing passenger transport ser-
vices that would ensure acceptable levels of service and minimize foreign
exchange requirements through provision of energy efficient vehicles and
appropriate vehicle renewal and maintenance facilities for transport opera-
tors. The Transport Plan Study should monitor the implementation of these
proposals; if successful, this pilot operation should be extended throughout
the country and applied to freight transport as well. If the pilot does not
prove successful, alternative ways to improve transport industry efficiency
should be proposed by the Transport Plan.
2.21     The charges levied from private road users contribute substantially
to Government revenues. Through annual vehicle registration and inspection
fees, transport licences, import duties on vehicles and taxes on fuel, annual
revenues from road users during 1979-81 should have averaged GSY 760 million
(Annex 2-10). In May 1981, fuel taxes were raised from GSY 6.10 to 11.10 per
liter of gasoline and from GSY 3.49 to 8.49 for diesel fuel and now represent
44% and 42% respectively of the pump price (Annex 2-11). However, since a
large part of the fuel is bought by the Government for its own vehicles, and
since the full amount of import duties and taxes is not paid on all imported
vehicles, actual revenues (statistics not available) probably fell consider-
ably short of estimated amounts. Nevertheless, the differential between road
expenditures and estimated road user tax revenues is large enough to conclude,
that a greater share of these funds could and should be channeled into highway
maintenance, once the system for financing the foreign exchange costs of road
maintenance works is set up. This question will also be addressed by the
consultants under the project and will be an important part of the ongoing
sector and country policy dialogue.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Content
3.01     The proposed project is the third phase of a road rehabilitation and
maintenance program which the Government began with IDA's support in early
1977. The project addresses four interrelated objectives:
(a)  to provide continued assistance to Government for the rehabilitation
and maintenance of the priority network so that it can adequately
fulfill its essential role for the country's economy;
(b) to continue and expand the ongoing institution-building effort for
improving Guinea's highway maintenance and rehabilitation capacity;



12
(c)  to provide more i ntensive and structured training to local staff than
under previous projects; and
(d)  to assist the Government in defining medium-term development priori-
ties for the transport sector.
3.02     To achieve these objectives, the project includes the following
related elements which, for cofinancing purposes, are divrided into two sepa-
rate packages. Package A groups two components which feature important insti-
tution-building aspects:
(a)  a third three-year program of road rehabilitation and maintenance
comprising:
(i)   equipment-based rehabilitation and routine maintenance (in the
proportion of 75%-25%) or. the unpaved priority network, to be
carried out by luhe Division of Works (Di vsion Travaux - DT)
of the Road Project Office (Office du Projet Routier - OPR);
(ii)   renewal of highway and workshop equipment, and rehabilitation
and construction of buildings for the DT;
(iii)   labor-based routine maintenance ol drainage system and
shoulders throughout the priority network, uo be carried out
by the Provinces' road maintenance force account staff;
(iv)   technical assistance:  a consultant-contractor to support the
DT, and engineering consultants for supervision of packages A
and B works and trainring of MI GAT and Province road mainte-
nance staff; and
(b) a medium-term transport plan, to be carried out with the assistance
oft the engineering consultants.
Package B consists of discrete and well-defined reconstruction and resurfacing
works on the paved network. These are of the highest priority, if pavement
failure and more costly reconstruction in the inear future are to be avoided.
Works are to be carried out by contractors, and start-up of works does not
necessarily have to coincide with that of Package A. The proposed Package B
works include:
(a) reconstruction of the Conakry-Xaamou Road (255 km); and
(b)  resurfacing of 360 km of the most trafficked paved roads.
B. Institutional Development and Project Description
1.   Project Administration, Coordination and Supervision
3.03     The organization of the proposed Third Highway Project has been
designed to reflect the recent changes in the administration of the road
sector (para. 2.11), and to avoid some of the serious problems experienced for



a time under the Second Highway  Fojsc       Follo-ving intensive discussions
between the Guinean authorities and 1DA, -t haE been agreed that the existing
Road Project Directorate in MIGA-T will    tra.asformed into an autonomous Road
Project Office.  OPR will be supervised biy- a Road Project Management Council
(Conseil de Gestion du ProJet Routier, CeGFPR  pr es ded over by the Secretary of
State of the MIGAT, but also including representatives of other Ministries.
CGPR's functions are supervisory and at-dsory, wh.4ile OPR will be responsible
for carrying out all project tasks   OPR d1 operate independently from the
Ministry's administration, with diecrc  poart-cularly to hire and fire
personnel and determine their c.map satE          tc procure materi als and spare
parts; and to manage Project resources           most effici ent marmer.  The
proposed OPR organizational strauctvaur e -a 3 presented in Annex 3-1 , together with
OPR staffing; it was agreed at negoti- a to ns      P A.; Pesid`en-tial decree defining
project organization has been Loml ished,
3.04     Within OPR there wil.l. bhe cle_ar separation between the unit responsi-
ble for the execution of works (para. 3.06) and tlose for other project tasks,
which essentially cover the fo-lloTw,TiJIng f-ive areas of respponsibility.
(a)  administration of all poroject activiti.es, i.ncluding budgetary
control, accountcing, and pre-pe.-rf,tio-r of disbursement requests to the
different cofinanciers expected to finance t-he project;
(b)  supervision of works carried 3Ut by contractors on the paved network,
including quality and quantity controls f'or reconstruction of the
Conakry-Mamou Road anc tfor resurfeaing works on other links;
(c)  superv4sio, of works carled out b- O?PRs Division of Works;
(d)  development and supervisior.0_n of training assistance to OPR and CGR
maintenance staff and other project personnel; and
(e)  coordination of transport plaa studies, traffic counts and other road
data collection.
3-05     A technical assistance teauL of aldht expe ts will be required to
assist OPR for varying periods- of tirde .n thbse tasks. In addition to 29 m-m
of extension of the Second H-ighway Fr      t Technical Assistance contract under
a Project Preparationr Facility (PFF) adkranoes 213 man-months of engineering
consultant input will be requiySd, o'f -.hich 9 m-m are for the OPR initial set
up, 21 m-m for supervlsion of  In wOxkS       . -inm for supervision of Conakry-
Mamou Works, 38 mm -for supervision. o- . r-asix"rfacing works and 70 m-m for other
tasks.  Outline Terms of Referenco fotr t`whe engin.o.eeL-ing consuiltant are in Annex
3-2 and were discussed and agreed at negotiations.
2.   Organization and Oreration- of Equipment-Based Maintenance
and Rehabiliation Works on the Unpaved Roads of the
Priority Network
3.06     The principal thrust of` instituti on builaing in the project will be
the introduction of a better managemen-t strut-ure for the force account
brigades of MIGAT which, together wiith a stronger technical assistance input,



- 14 -
is expected to improve construction know-how and brigade productivity. Works
execution will be the responsibility of the DT, organized along the lines of a
construction enterprise and supported by a Consultant-Contractor.
3.07     Within DT, the present twelve MIGAT force account brigades will be
re-assembled into three field groups, each in charge of regravelling, earth
road upgrading, spot regravelling and mechanized routine maintenance within a
specified territory, roughly corresponding to the regions west of Labe, east
of Labe, and south of Kankan. During the project period, DT will carry out
445 km of periodic regravelling of laterite roads, most of them rehabilitated
under the First Highway Project; 640 km of rehabilitation of earth roads; and
equipment-based routine maintenance on some 3,000 km, the remainder of the
unpaved priority network (Annex 2-3)o  Works will be carried out at standards
which will take into account traffic ard annual gravel  Qoss, estimated to
average 20 mm on the unpaved priority network; they will include clearing of
vegetation, cleaning of side drains, rehabilitation and/or construction of
drainage structures where needed.
3.08     A large part of the equipment fleet, procured under the First Highway
Project, is now at the end of its useful life and will be renewed under the
proposed project.  Although the DT will require somewhat less equipment than
was available under the Second Highway Project, procurement of some additional
pieces under OPR responsibility will be necessary to complement existing
operational equipment (Annex 3-3 Attac ment 2).
3.09     The DT will receive intensive assistance over a period of three
years, to be provided by an experienced international contracting company.
The advantages of employing a contractor are an integrated management package
(particularly in the area of cost controls), and a reasonably homogeneous team
with practical experience in the procedures and disci-lines to be introduced.
The consultant-contractor personnel will have in-line responsibility in the
DT, but will train Guineans in management, as well as providing practical, on-
the-job training in administration and construction technology at senior and
intermediate levels. This input will strengthen management and technical
discipline in the operation of the force account groups, and should lead to
much improved brigade outputs and significant long-term economies. Outline
terms of reference for the provision of consultant-contractor services for the
DT are in Annex 3-3; they have been discussed and agreed at negotiations. In
all, DT will have the support of 10 experienced construction personnel for
varying lengths of time over three years, (276 m-m) to embrace the stages of
preparation (58 m-m), construction (210 m-m) and handing over to Guinean
management (8 m-m).  With the 21 m-m of the engineering consultant, the total
input of foreign expertise for unpaved road works corresponds to 17% of the
cost of corresponding works.
3.10     The OPR will supervise the work of the DT and will certify progress
and quality of work for the purposes of authorizing disbursements (para. 3.29).
The OPR will also carry out a quarterly assessment of DT productivity, which
will serve as the basis for determining productivity bonuses payable to local
project personnel and release the retention to the consultant-contractor.



3    Audi 't
3.11     An opening audit of assets transferred to 0HP will be carried out,
and thereafter 0PR accounts will be audited annually by independent auditors
to be appointed by the Oovernswernt unler terms and on conditions acceptable to
the Association.  The auditors 'fill '0 particular audit supporting documents,
cross-referenced to applicationls or disburserirent against Statement of Expendi-
tures, for DT operating costs  o-.-;ginal and latest cost estimates, contracts,
bills, salary statements, xork cert'fications ard other relevant documents).
This audit was agreed during nego-`lat` eiG s.
4.   Organization and Operat`on  o  Labor-Based Routine
Maintenance Works or tbee    ority Network
3.12     Tshe projecrot wTill. asS'ist th'e Th.3R JiM programming and budgeting for
labor-based main'enance operations and the - rov-nces (C Us) in solving present
constraints to their e:fLective implementfati-on.  In the past, routine main-
tenance suffered from the low priority, accorded it by iPUW, from insufficient
budgets, and from an unattract-ive nand.ateed monthly -wefage rate (aGSY 1,500) for
casual labor that was bwL belou returns to agricultural work in many regions
of the country.  The project inludes finrancing for carrying out labor-based
maintenance of shoulders and drainage evseem o-n about 2,500 1cnm of priority
network roads w7 th adt o_ 40 or aboves  Laborers e.mpioyed by the Provinces for
these works, which are Co be carri-ea cut four times a year on any given
section, will be paid on a task basie and t,he tAS'asks will be defined so as to
correspond to a monthly waage rate of OSY Z+000Q  To mnanage these operations
efficiently, the publio works staff of the provirinces will be trained (para.
3.13) under the projeot to plan         nirga-nize, budget and supervise such tasks.
The experience of organizing and manari.ng  abor-based maintenance of the
priority network should serve as a pilot ex-oerience to Province maintenance
personnel, who wfould be eroected to eytend .hase operations gradually to the
totality of the classified network.  Althou;la t-,,he Goverrmient has agreed to the
principle of using labor on a t-ask basis and to the corresponding wage
increase, it has not yet implemented i. t.A detailed description of the task
methods to be used in carrying out anYd paying for these works and the issuing
of official instructions to the relev-ar,nt  rov-Incial and local authorities to
apply them will be a condition of credit effectiveness-.
5.   Training and Assistanuc  for Road Naintenance
313     The OPP. organizational  etructu.re w .ll also incl'ude a Division in
charge of training ccor-dination and assi-stance to TSRR and tble regions for road
maintenance.  Its responsibil ties wtll includet  (a) strengthening of man-
power planning in ITAIG';I   k (b  evalnaiarion of tChe usefulnzess of training programs
offered by existing training centersl (c) preparation and implementation of
practice-oriented training programs for CIPIT arnd. provincial road maintenance
personnel; (d) assistance to CNR and -the regions for nrogramming, budgeting
and managing labor-based road mainternance; Ze) suopervision of training
performed by OPR, andi other personne.el; anLd (f) evaluation of training results.



3.14     The main target groups for training are iVIGTAT personnel assigned to
OPR, and provincial road mainternance personn.zel.  I-t will be particularly
important to monitor the trainirtg by the Consultant Contractor of DT personnel
selected from existing brigades in all technical and administrative tasks that
are essential to the supervision and operation of the DT5 and to train direct-
ly supervisory staff attached to other divisions of OPR. The number of per-
sonnel to be trained is about 500. A special target group are some 20 would-
be young professionals who are assigned to MIGAT at any one time for a one-
year practical works period before forsal graduation, and who at present are
not always given productive assignments0  Fi.nally, there are the 200 or so
engineers, assistant engineers and -field supervisors in the Provinces' main-
tenance directorates who need training in planning and implementing routine
maintenance on a task basils, which is new to six of the seven Provinces.
3.15     In addition to the services of an expatriate as head of the Division,
the project will finance travel costS arnd accommodation allowances for local
instructors and trainees, training ecquipment, aids and materials.
6.   Transport Plan.g
3.16     The project includes the preparation of a mediwm-term transport plan
to fill some of the present gaps ir  ector knowledge, give realistic focus to
transport investments, 1"acilita4te aid. coordination, propose a system for
financing foreign exchange costs of road maintenance and an organizational set
up for transport data collection arnd analysis and transport planning which
would receive additional technical assistance in the future.  The study will
be carried out by the Division of Transport Planning of OPR over a two-year
period. The Terms of Reference for the study are in Annex 3-2, Attachment 2;
they were agreed at negotiations. The Govelnment also agreed at negotiations
to discuss with IDA and subsequently im.plement the reco mendations of the
study.  In particular, the Government agreed to include in its investment plan
only the priority investments identified in t.he st-dy, to carry out only works
included in the investment plan, to institute a satisfactory mechanism to
finance foreign exchange costs In road maintenance and to put in place an
organization for transport planning based on the recommendations of the study.
7.   Reconstruction and Periodic Maintenance of Paved Roads
3.17     A total o-C 615 ls or 54% o  -the Paved road network will be rehabili-
tated or receive periodic maintenance under the project,  Since practically no
resurfacing has been carried out on paved roads since their construction in
the mid-sixties and early seventies, l,he backlog is important and not all of
it can be included in the proposed project0
(a)  Rehabilitation of COnalkry-2yIamou Road
3-18     The heavily trafficked ConakryAt!1amou Road (255 km) is the backbone of
the Guinean road network; all road transport to and from Conakry uses at least
a portion of the road. Paverment width, with the exception of some river cros-
sings, is 7 m.  The presernt geosnetri-c alignment of the road which crosses some
difficult mountainous areas is 3proor. The road is in very bad condition and
needs increasing amounts of heavy patching to partially control its rapid



deterioration. Numerous sections sho-w  rac3king :n thle bituminous concrete top
and deflection measurements have  o n  ri;ed that their remaining useful life is
short.  Preliminary engineering,  Sens;iit  study and bidding documents
financed under the Second Highway Project have been completed, and contractors
for carrying out the works heve been prequal'fi_edc  The feasibility study
examined some five to seven si 'ernat 're le s of rehabilitation, ranging from
strengthening and spot repaiv.o of the exist-ng road to important road realign-
ments over long sections, and compared their te3hn4cal and economic attrac-
tiveness (para. 4C07).  Alt.hough alternatives that included substantial
realignments of the road -w,ould have been eco-nomically justified, financial
constraints dictated the choice of thie least cost alternative.  The adopted
solution defers all geometric im-provements which can be safely postponed, and
includes only selective strengtheni'_ng over 245' x-ai (9,2% of the cost) and spot
geometric improvements on 10 kmn  W%>   Norms wo-luld include base course
strengthening as recuired (152' ncm of grave2), D3 us a double bituminous
surface treatment over a 7 m r          oad7rav plus i m shoulders on each side.  In
major villages9 pavements wo-oud be -,idenecnd bv 2.9 m to allow off-road stopping
for vehicles.  Reconstruction is epected to take three years.
(b)  Resurfacing of -aved Roaas
3.19      Of the additional roads included i7.. the project, 71 km need base
reinforcement or an overLay and 287 k1  require resurfacirg only.  Resurfacing
works will consist cf a single hitu3:ino-!s -Urfeace treatment for roads with
traffic over 200 average daily traffic (adt) and sand slurry below that level
of traffic.  Their effect will be t  stop deteri1 oration of the base and post-
pone the need for reconstructcrion  -r over-lay for so-me 5-  yea s.
C.  Cost Estimates and Financing
3.20      The totan cost of the project including taxes and contingencies is
estimated at US$73.7 mill-On in iMarch 198  prices as detailed in Annex 3-4 and
summarized on the following page.  Taxes will be levied only on local labor
and represent GSY 12.3 million (US$C05 m-llion) or less than one percent.  The
foreign exchange cost is US$5106 million or 70% of the total project cost; the
local cost is GSY 4906.8 millio  ecuivalent to UTS$21.6 million at official
exchange rates.  Cost. of works are based on conisultant and m-ission estimates,
updated to March 1984.  Phlysical contingencies of -10% are allowed as appropri-
ate and price contingencies have been included as foll-ows (including for local
costs since they cover mainly salaries and, as show-n by implicit price defla-
tors for the official market, their past rate of increase has been close to
the Manufactured Unit Va-lue index):
Price Contingencies Used in P.r^Oect Tost Estimate
1984       1985       1986-1988          1989
.5%        8%           9%               7.5%
3.21      The cost estimates for consultanrr  services and technical assistance
are based on similar services in Guinea and neighboring WTest African coun-
tries.  The average man-month rate (irclluding s--laries9 overheads, fees and
reimbursable expenses) has been assumed at US$12,00" plus C5'Y 20,000.   The
project includes 518 m-m of technical assistance.



- 18 -
Summary Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
(US$ millions, March 1984 Prices)
Fore4gn    Local   Net
COST ESTIMATiEB                                 Echange   Cost    Cost   Taxes   Total
Package A: The Unpaved Priority Network
A-1. Iabor-based Maintenance Works                      --      2.730   2.730  0.137   2.867
A-2. Bquipment-based Naintenance arn
Rehabilitation Works                          7.446    7.980  15.425  0.397  15.823
A-3. Equipment Renewal,
Building Construction and Rehabilitation        7.281     0.150   7.431      --    7.431
A-4. Technical Assistance, Audit and Training         8.174    0.668   8.842    -        8.842
Sub-total Package A                            22.961    11.528  34.429  0.534  34.963
of this: Base Cost                          l19,359    9.584-  28.943  0.445  29.388
Contingencies: Physical             0.896     0.277   1.175  0.010    1.186
PEice                2.643     1.667   4.311   0.079   4.389
Package B: The Paved Pniority Network
B-1. Rehabilitation Conakry-Manou                    20-542    f.217  27e759    -    27.759
B-2. Resurfacing of Paved Roads                       8.130    2e856  10.986    -    10.986
Sub-total Package B                            28.671   10.074  38.745    -    38-745
of this: Base Cost                           21.924    7.703  29.627    -    29.627
Contingencies: Thysical             2.192    0.770   2.963    -         2.963
Price                4,555     1 .600   6.156    -      6.156
TOTAL PROJECT                                   51.572   21.602  73.174  0.534  73.709
(Rounded)                                      (51.6)   (21.6)  (73.2)  (0-5)   (73-7)
of this:
Capital Cost                                 49.7T0    16.877  66.587  0.298  66.885
Reaurrent Cost                                1.862    4.725   6.587  0.236   6.823
Note: Totals may not add due to roiundirg.



- 19 -
3.22     Government will finance all local costs of the project in the amount
of US$21 6 million equivalent. USAID has agreed that GSY 275 million (US$12
million equivalent) of the Government's PL 480 counterpart funds can be
applied towards the financirg of these local costs.  The Conakry-Mamou road
works are to be jointly financed by AfDF and IDA to take advantage of project
preparation carried out under the Association's Second Highway Project, while
the financing plan for the foreign exchange costs of Package A is based on
parallel financing to accomodate differences in procurement and other BADEA
rules and procedures. The proposed IDA Credit of US$28 million would finance
US$13.9 million or 61% of the foreign exchange costs of package A, US$6.0
million or 30% of the foreign cost of the Conakry-Mamou reconstruction works,
and US$8.1 million or 100% of the foreign cost of the paved road resurfacing
program. The African Development Fund (AfDF) would finance the remaining
US$14.6 million or 70% of foreign exchange costs for Conakry-Mamou works.
BADEA's contribution of US$9 millior would finance the remaining 39% of
foreign exchange costs of Package A covering most of the necessary equipment
and part of OPR spare parts equipments. Cross-effectiveness with the BADEA
agreement is a condition of credit effectiveness. AfDF cofinancing will not
be available until late 1qR4, the effectiveness of the AfDF Credit is thus a
condition of disbursement for the IDA credit category for the Conakry-Iamou
road. Details on project financing are summarized below.
'ihanci3ng Plan
(US$ millions, including contingencies and taxes)
IDA      AfDF    BADEA   G0VThNfENT      TOTAL
(Foreig   Foreign  (Foreign  (Local costs
Costs)   Costs)    Costs)   and Taxes)
A-1 labor-based Maintenance Wors  -        --                2.9         2.9
A-2 Equipnent-based Maintenance
and Rehabilitation Worls  4.4        -       30         8.4         15.8
A-3 Equilment renewal, BLildings    1.3    -      6.0        0.2         7.4
A-4 Technical Assistance, Audit,
Trailng                   8.2        -                  0.7        8.8
B-1 Rehabilitation of Conakzy-Mau 6.0   14.6                 7.2        27.8
B-2 Resurfacing of Paved Roads  8.1        -        -        2.9         11.0
TAL         28.0     14.6      9.0        22.1        73.7
Note: Fgures may not add due to romuding.
D.   Implementation Schedule and Reporting Requirements
3.23     The project would be implemented over a four year period starting in
Ju'v 1984. An outline schedule for project implementation is in Armex 3-5; it
was discussed and agreed at negotiations.  Since Second Highway Project funds
have been exhausted a PPF advance of US$1 million has been approved to prefinance
the preparation phase of the consultant-contractor's support to the DT, limited
technical assistance to OPR, and some spare parts to maintain the equipment fleet.



- 20 
3.24      At negotiations,  Government also agreed on progress reporting requirements
as set out in Annex 3-2. These include target indices for periodically measuring
implementation of project tasks and the submission, in a form satisfactory to the
Association, of a completion report not Later than six months after the closing date
of the Credit.
E. Procurement
3.25      Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
Procanent Arrangements
(us$ rllion)
ibtal
!CB    1GB       Other  j.      cost
A-1 Ilabor-based Yaintenance Works                           2.9    2.9
A-2 EMuilent-based :aintenance       3.0     3.0      4.5    8,3   15.3
and Rehabilitation Works                       (4.5)          (4,5)
A-3 Eiuilment Renewal, Buildings     7.0     0.4                     7.,
( O)   (0.4)                   (1.4)
A-4 Technical Assistance, Audit, Trhaing              8.7    0.1    8.8
(8.2)
B-1 Rehabilitation of Corak-yIlmmou  27.8                           27.8
Road                          (5,9)                           (5.9)
B-2 Resarfacing of Paved Roads      1 1 .0                          11.0
(8.1)                           (8.1)
TC_flPL   48 c8          11   z
Note:   aigures in parentheses are the respect ve amourts financed 'y IDA.
Figures may not add due to   nding.
A-1  Cost ($2.9 m) consists of salaries
A-2  bon-proprietary spare parts ($3.0 m) are financed by BADFA and wi1l be procured through ICB
in accordance with their regulations, proprietary spare parts ($1.6 m) will be procured
through direct procurenent or Limited international bidding, lubricants, wo.kshop and
constructiorn supplies ($1.1 m) will be procured throulgh limited international bidding, fuel
($1.8 m) will be supplied by ONA{/D1T RTEX and $8.3 m are salaries.
A-3 $6.0 m of equipment is financed 'by BADEA arZ will 'be procured through ICB in accordance
with their regulations, $1.0 m of equipaent wnll be procured through ICB and $0.4m of civil
works will be procured through LOB open to foreign firms.
A-4 Consultants for technical assistance and audit ($8.6 m) will be selected in accordance IDA
guidelines, training equi,pnent ($0.1) will be procured through limited international
bidding and $0.1 m are trainirg fees.
B-1  Is cofinanced wth AfDF in accordance with both AfDF and IDA. regulations.



3.26      Procuremrient for the  arodic and routine maintenance works by force
account (cost table i-teme Al1 --   3) i  be handled by OPR, who may use the
consultant contractor to DT as its           rr      agen   or spare parts.  For
items financed by IDA, OPPR -will folil, Ba:.   . .     W-oup  delines-  All contracts
will clear'ly distinguish fore-      ari4 l  ea '_  3.J elem.c,e ats.  Whene-'er possible,
OPR purchases and equiprment renewa l    L' 1-fogued iiltO con=tracts valued at
$50,000 or more.  These will b,> subdile_  to poicxr 1IA' review which will cover
more than 90% of such purchases.  Other contracts will be raview'ed at audit.
3.27      Procurernemnt ofL equi-pment an-d spar e -n,a:Ats --- neanc-ved by :IADEA (items A-2
and A-3; US89.0 m-illion) will fol'oi BSiLEA procu.remen't rules.
F. Disbursements
3.28      Exper-i ence wKith th-  earlier hl1 _      a      e    projects has shown
that under the prevailling budgetarTy anr.             e,-; c gange constraints in
Guinea, the Government is hard put t-o -.ef  ane e ulke externally financed
portion of project expenses for force ecac3<.zt o,erations,  fhlich are too small
for IDA's Proceduzre I7II nayvetS       " t 1-- sam  'e -    h Le proposal to finance
force account operationE errough use of f             p     e-based pricing system
rather than actual incur-red cost    in_puts :ecstas-s the setting Up of an
initial l evel of vi-o.rkiling capdual, tc           D T "i ..Ld unlt e; to carry out
maintenance operations i.r an aff-io en-.              Th ereforle, revolving fund will
be established u-nder the pc0j       t. e                t Lcwine terms and -conditilons: the
Government will open a FroJectu tc runt deroalinaeted in Sylis, and a Special
Account denominated in WTS dclla:s  in a ,          ban, ac-2eptalble to the Associa-
tion; make an initial deposit oil  2S:5  lilor beforo credit effectiveness;
channel all expenditures of the 1I' th           the S-Ivai.al and Project accounts
and have the accounts -eriodi n:l\, ald          o rde  r cut  external auditors
acceptable to the kssociation,  U7V:.                               h e  eies, t'he Association
will make an initial deposit of VUS.l-53 ",'1O e       a       into th1e Special
Account, and will replen-ish e:lgi-lb d    a -*igs  rSom  -;e aecourt upon receipt of
certified Statement.s of Expenditures    2'-oia ---e DT through the OPE,
accompanied by a certified stateme.^.t tha-,; ';-te Govei-tLment has replenished the
Syli drawings from t-he Pr-e,ea` 'O.0o.ount         `,.7ee ;-c rven-ding cuarter.
3.29      Disbursements will be fu77.y 61oe'-3n'e exScept for- DT operating costs
and building conszruction and worksh,c ,-               Ko:r  where SOQEs against
measured unite of work will ba -'.e                t.'1   m -o.ths follow-ing the
arrival of the ad..ance team of the  c               contractor, on the basis of a
proposal byr the DT Chief Ert i-nSer a:-'d ' tea revie- b.   DIPR, the Government
and the Association i.j 7Il agree by an echanig.  oif .iLetters on six sets (US$ and
Sylis) of u'nit p- ries (a  ur'-r   .         c-llru contsruction and workshop
rehabilitation, per km price of gradi          er pe m z price of rehabilitation, per
m3 price of spot grave7ling, per -r  rr-r ce of sravea' lling and T per unit price of
metal culvert).  These prices cover alIr Dl opoerat;ing costs ircluding local
staff, fuel. lubricantsT IDA financed spare parts and materials, buat exclude
costs of technical assistance and of equipment renewal   The OPR will submit
monthly SOEs which will show the nature, location and volume of work performed
and the certification of the S-Kkior Vighway Eneinser of the engineering
consultant.



- 22 -
3.30     At the end of each construction season, and based on a detailed
external audit of DT cost accounting records, the Association would review the
actual costs incurred in executing the agreed maintenance program against the
amounts calculated using the initially agreed unit billing rates.  Any excess
of the calculated amounts disbursed over the actual expenditures incurred
(including production bonuses, if any distributed) would be adjusted against
future eligible project expenditures. The billing rates for the following
season would be readjusted in light of the previous season's experience.
3-31     IDA disbursement categories from the Credit will be made as follows:
Allocation and Disbursement Categories for IDA Credit
% of
Expenditures
Category                       Amount (US$ million)      to be Financed
(1)  Maintenance and                   3.393             100% of foreign
rehabilitation works                                expenditures
by OPR on the unpaved
priority network
(2)  Civil works and materials         0.172             100% of foreign
for OPR buildings                                   expenditures
(3)  Road and training equipment       0.894             100% of foreign
expenditures
(4)  (a)  Reconstruction of the        4.560             30% of foreign
Conakry-damou road                             expenditures
(b)  Resurfacing of paved         6.158             100% of foreign
roads                                          expenditures
(5)  Consultants                       5.966             100% of foreign
expenditures
(6)  Initial deposit                   0.530             Amount due
in Special Account to
prefirance items under
Categories (1) and (2)
above
(7)  Refunding of Project              1.000             Amount due
Preparation Advance
(8)  Unallocated                       5.327
TOTAL           28.000



- 23 -
3.32     The projected quarterly disbursements of IDA Credit follow the IDA
profile for highway projects in the West Africa Region, except for the early
payment of the advances. Disbursements are summarized below:
Projected Quarterly Disbursement of IDA Credit
(US$ million)
Cumulative    Cumulative
Date            Disbursement        Date        Disbursement
September 1984           0.9        September 1987    19.0
December 1984            1.6        December 1987      20.4
March 1985               2.2        March 1988         21.8
June 1985                3.8        June 1988          23.1
September 1985           5.3        September 1988    24.4
December 1985            7.0        December 1988      25.2
March 1986               8.7        March 1989         26.0
June 1986               10.5        June 1989          26.6
September 1986          12.3        September 1989    27.2
December 1986           14.0        December 1989      27.6
March 1987              15.7        March 1990         28.0
June 1987               17.4
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General
4.01     For the economic analysis of all project components, the only
benefits taken into account were vehicle operating cost (voc) savings in the
"with" as compared to the "without project" situation (same labor-based
routine maintenance, equipment based routine maintenance reduced to about 60%
of the "with" case and no periodic maintenance) except for the reconstruction
of Conakry-Mamou, where maintenance cost savings were also taken into
account. Vehicle operating cost parameters (Annex 4-1) were estimated by
consultants, who also provided data on the current maintenance status of
project roads. The Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model (HDM) was
used to assess and compare vehicle operating costs in the reference "without"
project situation and "with" the project. All costs and benefits in the
economic evaluation are in 1980 (last year for which firm data exists) prices
net of taxes and duties; they have not been updated to December 1983 levels,
since the costs of road construction and maintenance and of vehicle operation
have increased at essentially parallel rates, and cost updates would thus have
no significant effect on the results of the rate of return calculations.
Local costs have been converted to foreign exchange using a shadow exchange
rate of GSY 40 = US$1, rather than the official rate of GSY 23=US$1. The
local cost component includes mostly incremental wages which are an important
cost element in routine and, to a somewhat lesser degree, in periodic
maintenance, as well as some local costs for materials and supplies.



- 24
B.   Economic Rates of Return.
4.02    Economic rates of return have been estimated separately for the three
main project eomponents:
Sum-ary Economic Rates of Return a/
Percent of                          Annual
Component          Project Cost      ERR (%)       Traffic Growth (%)
Gravel Road Rehabilitation
and Maintenance                    48o3          >,100                 3-5
Reconstruction of
Conakry-Mamou Road                 38.4              75                4.0
Paved Road Resurfacing               1..               41                3e5
Total                       100.0           >100
a/   For details on alternatives tested , see Annexes 4-2/4-7.
Package A consisting of a program of laterite road regravelling, earth road
rehabilitation and routine maintenance of the  unpaved priority network to be
undertaken mainly by DT, with some inputs by the OGRs, accounts for 48% of
total project costs and has a rate of return of over 100%. The package's
benefit/cost ratio at a 12% discount rate is 5.3:1 for an annual traffic
growth rate of 3.5%, and 6.2:1 for an annual traffic growth rate of 7%.  The
overall rate of return fo- Package B consisting of reconstruction and
resurfacing of paved roads by contractor is estimated at 65%. Reconstruction
of the Conakry-Mamou Road accounts for 39% of total project costs and would
likely yield an ERR of 75% assuming traffic on this most travelled link grows
at 4% annually. Resurfacing of other paved roads by contractors accounts for
13% of project costs and would yield a likely ERR of 41%, ass-uming traffic
grows at 3.5% annually.  The overall return. of the project exceeds 100%.
C.  The Gravel and Earth Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program
4.03    Consultants under the Second Highway Project evaluated the program  in
a 1981 study.  They compared the results, over a ten-year analysis period, of
the implementation of a defi.ned s:ix-year program of rehabilitation, periodic
maintenance and routine maintenance to cover a networU extended to 4,750 km,
with a reference situation of only minimal routine maintenance on the priority
network starting in project year 1.  The proposed project undertakes the first
half of the consultant's total program since it concentrates on the more
highly traffieked roads first, its eeononic retuirn is higher than that of the
overall program. The respectivle mainlltenance activities to be carried out in
the "with" and "without project" situat-ion are desoribed in Annex 4-2.
Traffic assumptions are the same for the with and without project situation,
i.e., no generated traffia was assumed to result frorm better road maintenance,
which is conservative.  Nine Dercent of the gravel and earth road sections to



be improved have traffic v-olumes above  300 vnp6_ on 29%  tr.affic ranges between
50 and 100 vpd; but the remainder of the earth Tc,ads included in the project
have degraded to the point where asverage dair traffi c s declined below 50
vehicles and ceases completely at the heig,ht of m'he rany season.  However,
for most of the regions, these roads provide the onlrrY link with the rest of
the country, and their rehabilitation is  fenJi   or the m-arketing of
agricultural production in their area of influence.  iThe economic analysis
conservatively assumes t'hat traffic w,:ould grov, at 5.5% annually:  although
vehicle ownership 'hnas beer ircrepas, ing at an arrual rate of about 15% recently,
traffic growth has been consrtrained b)T non-availaboil ity of fuel, consumption
of which has increased by onrly 4% annuEally /- ara. 2,1i6).
4.04    The model tested a range of ma-itenarce policies, and the "optimal"
policy for each type of road and traffi c was retained (tAnnew 4-2).  Three
measures were used  to compare -the project and reference maint'enance policy,
both for all unpaved road lirks of the p             retrwo   and separately for
groups of roads carrying different levels cf t1raffic 'mo-  than 250 vpd; 100
250 vpd; 50-100 vdp; 25-50 v-rpd; less thanr 25 vcpd     nes  present valules (NPV),
benefit/cost ratios (B/C) and economic rates of return ihERR) 
4.05    The results of the anavsis a-re sLummarI.zed in Annex 4-3.  The
benefit/cost ratio f'or the Y0ost 'Likely c-.se  -   growtcrate of T35%) ranges
from a high 5.5:1 with a discount rate of
25%, ifhile the overall economic rate of '        rof thre program exceeds 500%.
Even with large changes in underl-'Ing assumptaiors Weg  a 100% increase in
costs or a 50% decrease i:c benefits/5 the pcrogram s banefi't/cost ratio would
remain above 2:1, and t,he ERR over i00,<.
4.06    The separate analysis of  roads carryirg different volumes of traffic
shows that assuming a discount rate of  iGQ. 8 p8er kiilormeter NPV of US$7,000
would result from implementation of the project maintenanc3e strategy even for
links carrying less than 25 vpd.  Th-is smount i-ncreases to UJS$249000 for roads
with traffic volumes of 25-50 vpd, to fTS96' 000 for roads with traffic volumes
of 51-100 vpd, anad to UiT$262,000 for -roadis wit-;h traffic vol-,umes over 100 vpd.
D.  Reconstruction of Conakry-Ma.amou Road (255 kin)
4.07    The Conakry-Maamou roaa was paved so.-ae 20 years ago.  The road which in
1980 carried an average Of 39000 -ydpd near Coial_ry ard some i-00 vpd near samou
is heavily degraded.  Under the prJ- t    propsed to o\sJay
reconstruct or resuirface the road as a2Prap>.' utea.  "he 1981 feasibility study
initially proposed that the present alig-nm. t be re'ained over 109 kin; that
miror rectifications ('5001 9000 m. deviatiCon fao7i i'senet aligrment) be carried
out on 58 km. and that iio-re importanxt rea'res should be cons-idered for
the remainin  88  mi whi cr woule be re5ad to 67 kmt  The economic rate of
return forL these improveements, w,,hich'  v d'ae brought up t-he road' s design
speed to 100 km/h-r was esti mated at 39%, -JKl   that of; a "ininin cost solu
tion" restricted to overlavs on the ex itJrO road-.,ay was considerably
higher.  The solution actually rerained under the project is close to the
least cost solutionr  Int follows the c't fw  ali arpen!i- ovfer 21 km- and
foresees minor corrections over 10 km:  Reconstruc3rtnorn rs are expected to
take three years to comrplete  with tnhe                    U j7 Kndia (120 km) section to be
finished after 18 months. ai                               onths_  Total cost of
reconstruction/resuF,rfacing Fat 7CDeember  8'3i prices and official exchange rate
for local costs is estinated a-t l,S82' 8.2         in7lcldinag hhysical contin-



- 26 -
gencies and net of taxes.  The economic cost used in the benefit estimation is
US$17.1 million in 1980 prices (Annex 4-4). Annual maintenance costs (routine
and periodic) in the "with" and '"ithou-t7  project case are detailed in Annex
4-5 which also shows the traffic assumptions used in the analysis.  Vehicle
operating cost savings in the "with" compared to the "without" project
situation have been estimated on the basis of the operating costs derived from
the HDM, which differ somewhat from those used by the Consultant for heavily
degraded road conditions.  With normal traffic growth of 4% annually which is
conservative for the Conakry-Mamou link, and taking no generated traffic into
account, the project has an estimated ERR of 75%.  If sn e of the major agri-
cultural projects in the north and north-east of the country are implemented
as planned, traffic may well grow at 8% annually from year 1987, and the ERR
would be 80%. Even at a low 2% annual rate of traffic growth, the project
would remain Guinea's top priority transport investment with an ERR of 72%.
E.  Periodic and Routine Maintenance o-f the Remaining Paved Road Network
4.08    The economic evaluation of the paved road resurfacing component was
carried out using the HDM model.  It applied a similar approach to that des-
cribed for unpaved roads in paras. 4.03-4.04 above, except that the analysis
is carried over a 15-year period rather than ten years.  Alternative mainte-
nance policy assumptions retained for the ana:Lysis are detailed in Annex 4-6.
The analysis again establishes an overall rate of return for the paved road
resurfacing and maintenance program, and subsequently determines the relative
economic interest of works on roads carrying different volumes of traffic
(less than 100 vpd; 101-250 vpd; 251-1,000 vpd and more than 1,000 vpd).  The
overall rate of return for a paved road resurfacing and routine maintenance
program, covering in due course the totality of the paved road network, would
be 41%, on the most likely assumption that traffic will grow at 3.5% annually.
The ERR of this component is fairly sensitive to a change in traffic growth
assumptions: it would rise to 53%, if traffic grew at double the assumed rate,
or 7% annually.
4.09    The results for roads carrying differe!nt volu.mes of traffic show a
negative present value for roads with average daily traffic (adt) of less than
100 vpd, indicating that these roads should ideally not have been paved yet.
Traffic of 100-250 vpd is needed to achieve a NPV of US$6,000/km for improving
paved roads; this value increases to US$64,000C/km for traffic of 251-1,000
vpd, and reach-s US$180,000/km for traffic above 1,000 vpd.  During the three-
year period covered by the project it is foreseen to resurface 81 km of roads
with traffic of 250-1,000 vpd, and 239 km of roads with traffic between
100-250 vpd. No roads with less than 100 vpd are included in the three year
project trogram. Annex 4 7 presents the results of the evaluation of this
component.



- 27 -
F. Project Beneficiaries
4.10    By improving and/or maintaining road conditions to satisfactory all-
weather standards on the priority network the project will help to ensure
flows of essential imports to the regions and of agricultural surplus produc-
tion to the markets of Conakry, handled regularly and at reasonable economic
costs. The project thus will benefit both the rural and the urban populations
by facilitating basic interregional exchanges of goods, and facilitate com-
munications via improved passenger transport. Non-quantified benefits to
passengers through improved road safety, more normal riding conditions and
shorter travel times will be substantial. Most directly, the project will
benefit road users including owners of vehicles and paying passengers.
G.  Project Risks                                                X
4.11    The project has been designed to minimize the risk of a repetition of
Second Highway Project difficulties (para. 1.12). In that perspective, estab-
lishment of a separate DT in the OPR with stronger technical assistance from a
consultant-contractor with in-line responsibility is essential. Nevertheless,
the OPR may encounter difficulties in running operations autonomously and more
along the lines of a construction enterprise, and it may still be pressured
into carrying out non-project works. However, with the full support pledged
by the Government these risks are considered minimal.
4.12    Another risk is that, in the interim period between exhaustion of
Second Highway Project funds and start up of the Project, Second Highway
Project equipment essential for the proper functioning of the proposed project
may be misused. This risk is minimized by the PPF financing of project start
up. At negotiations the Government has agreed to limit the use of this
equipment in the interim period to a program approved by the Association.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01    During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following:
(i) Government has confirmed limiting the Provinces' responsibilities to
labor-based operations for the entire network and only minor equipment
based opeiations; and has appointed OPR to be responsible for equip-
ment based operations on the priority network (para. 2.11);
(ii) Government has agreed to the organization structure and the staffing
proposed for OPR (para. 3.03);
(iii) Government and the Association have discussed and agreed on terms of
reference for the engineering consultant (para. 3.05) and the
consultant-contractor (para. 3.09) to OPR;
(iv) Government has agreed to appoint independent auditors, under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Association, to audit OPR accounts on an
annual basis (para. 3.11);



- 28 -
(v) Governme-1 and the Association have discussed and agreed on terms of
reference for the provision of technical assistance for Transport
Planning (para. 3.16) ;
(vi) Government has agreed to discuss the recommendations of the Transport
Plan Study with the Association and subsequently implement them. In
particular: Government has agreed to include in its investment plan
only priority items identified in the study; to carry out only works
included in the investment plan; to institute a satisfactory mechanism
to finance foreign exchange costs in road maintenance, and to put into
place an organization for transport planning based on the
recommendations of the study (para. 3.16);
(vii) Government has agreed to the outline schedule for project
implementation (para. 3.20);
(viii) Government has agreed to progress reporting requirements as specified
by the Association (para. 3.21); and
(ix) Government and the Association have discussed and agreed on a program
for the use of all project equipment in the interim period between
exhaustion of the Second Highway Project funds and start-up of the
Third Highway Project (para. 4.12).
5.02    Also during negotiations, the delegation provided evidence that the
Government had taken adequate steps for the replacement of road maintenance
equipment and financing of fuel and spare parts (Total of US$1.5 million in
foreign currency) in the transition period between the Second and effective-
ness of the proposed Third Highway Project (para. 2.05).
5.03    The following actions will be conditions for credit effectiveness:
(i) detailed description of task methods to be used in carrying out and
paying for labor based maintenance works under the project and
official instructions to the relevant provincial and local authorities
to apply these methods (para. 3.12);
(ii) cross-effectiveness with the BADEA credit agreement (para. 3.24); and
(iii) opening of a Project Account denominated in Sylis and of a Special
Account denominated in US$ in a local bank acceptable to the
association, and deposit of GSY 25 million in the Project Account
(para. 3.28).
5.04    Effectiveness of the AfDF credit will be a condition of disbursement
for the IDA credit category for the Conakry-Mamou road (para. 3.24).
5.05    The proposed project is technically feasible, economically sound and
suitable for a Credit of SDR 26.5 million (US$28 million) on standard IDA
terms.
WAPTI
March 26, 1984



- 29 -
ANNEX 2-1
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Reglonal DIstrIbutlon of Population and Road Infrastructure, 1982
Area    Administr.  Regions          Population                                   Road Network 1982                    Distributlon of Roads 1982
Regions and Districts            Km 2      AROND T       PRL       1977 a/ 1982 a/   Inh/krv 2              Primary           Other    Total    _Km/lO0  km 2               Km/OOO Inh
000          N           N               DO0             N           Paved  Gravel/Earth   Earth         Km       Primary   Total    Primary   Total
1.      CONAKRY                   12.3        31          301       880    1,015            83         165         112          954     1,231       2.25      10.01      0.27        1.21
1.  Conakry                 0.3         9           142       581      670         2,233         12        n.a.            58        70       4.00      23.33      0.02       0.10
2.  Coyah/Dubreka           5.5         10           58       122       141           26         72          64           299       435       2.47       7.91      0.96       3.09
3.  Forecarlah              4.3          8           67       132       152           35         69            -          368       437       1.60      10.16      0.45       2.88
4.  Fria                    2.2          4           34        45        52           23          12          48          229       289       2.73      13.14      1.15       5.56
II.       KINDIA                  29.0        47          372       599       690            24        383         257        1,247    1,887        2.21       6.51      0.93       2.73
5.  Kindia                  8.9         10          118       186       214           24        155          46           242       443       2.26       4.98      0.94       2.07
6.  TelImele                8.2        14           100       170       196           24          -          113          483       596       1.38       7.27      0.58       3.04
7.  Mamou                   6.2         13           87       133       153           25        181           98          257       536       4.50       8.65      1.82       3.50
8.  Dalaba                  5.7         10           67       110       127           22         47            -          265       312       0.82       5.47      0.37       2.46
Ill.      BOKE                    32.0        31          247       433       500            16         63         708        1,172    1,943        2.41       6.07      1.54        3.89
9.  Boke                   10.0         10           81       149       172           17         63           93          340       496       1.56       4.96      0.91       2.88
10.  Boffa                   5.0          7           74       121       140           28          -          122          414       536       2.44      10.72      0.87       3.83
11.  Gaoual                 11.5          7           52        98       113           10          -          339          150       489       2.95       4.25      3.00       4.33
12.  Koundara                5.5          7           40        65        75           14           -         154          268       422       2.80       7.67      2.05       5.63
Iv.       LABE                    26.6        55          394       755       870            33         71         412        1,946    2,429        1.82       9.13      0.56        2.79
13.  Labe                    4.0        11            77       170       196           49         42          116          347       5)5       3.95      12.63      0.81       2.58
14.  Letlouma                2.1         8            49       105       121           58          -           86          192       278       4.10      13.24      0.71       2.30
15.  PIta                    4.0         12           90       175       202           50         29            -          424       453       0.73      11.33      0.14       2.24
16.  Koubla                  1.5         6            36        70        80           53          -          46           233       279       3.07      18.60      0.58       3.49
17.  Tougue                  6.2          8           54        90       104           17           -         110          250       360       1.77       5.81      1.06       3.46
18.  Mall                    8.8         10           88       145       167           19           -          54          500       554       0.61       6.30      0.32       3.32
V.         FARANAH                42.3        48          353       652       751            i8        394         390         1,162    1,946        1.85       4.60      1.04       2.59
19.  Faranah                12.4         11           76       135       156           13        200           47          370       617       1.99       4.98      1.58       3.96
20.  Kissldougou             8.8         10           79       160       184           21         152           -          203       355       1.73       4.03      0.83       1.93
21.  Gueckedou                4.1        10           88       173       199           49         42           38          185       265       1.95       6.46      0.40       1.33
22.  Dabola                  6.0          9           38        75        86           14           -         180           42       222       3.00       3.70      2.09       2.58
23.  Dlnguiraye              11.0         8           72       109       126           11           -         125          362       487       1.14       4.43      0.99       3.87
VI.        KANKAN                 67.4        53          404        567      654            10         69         800        2,067    2,936         1.29       4.36      1.33       4.49
24.  Kankan                  11.6        13          114       175       202           17         69          192          324       585       2.25       5.04      1.29       2.90
25.  Kouroussa               16.4        11           64       102       118            7           -         145          467       612       0.88       3.73      1.23       5.19
26.  Stguiri                23.4         10          105       140       161            7           -         204          625       829       0.87       3.54      1.27       5.15
27.  Mandiana                15.5        11           67        90       104            7           -          79          300       379       0.51       2.45      0.76       3.64
28.  Kerouane                0.5          8           54        60        69          138           -         180          351       531      36.00    106.20       2.61       7.70
911.       N'ZEREKORE             36.4        47          338       641       740            20          -         730          902    1,632         2.01       4.48      0.99       2.21
29.  Nzerekore                3.8         7           87       187       216           57           -         186           25       211       4.89       5.55      0.86       0.98
30.  Yomou                    2.2         7           40        72        83           38           -          31          150       181       0.74       4.31      0.37       2.18
31.  Lola                     4.2         8           51       140       162           39           -          55          126       181       0.31       1.03      0.34       1.12
32.  Beyla                   17.5        13           70       100       115             7          -         238          411       649      10.82      29.50      2.07       5.64
33.  Msacenta                 8.7        12           90       142       164           19           -         220          190       410       2.53       4.71      1.34       2.50
ALL GUINEA                 246.0        312        2,409    4,527    5,220             21      1,145       3,409         9,450   14,004        1.85       5.69      0.87       2.68
a/   Cansus, ResIdent populatlon.
b/   Estimated by applying uniform 2.9% growth rate.  For differentlal reglonal growth, February 83 census results awaited.
Source:   Country  Economic  Reports;  Transport  Sector Memoranda,  MIGAT
March 1984



REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJIECT
SrAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
The Priority Network:  Present Status and Proposed Project Works
A.  Paved Roads
PROPOSED ACTION           _    _
Reference      No.      Road                          Traffic          State as of 1981          Total      Road      Date      Recon-        Base Relnf.        Double Bit.        Single Bit.
vpd       Good  ANverage  Poor  Very    Length    Width    Paved    struction    20 cm   15 cm    Surf. Treatment Surf. Treatment
Poor       km         m                    km           km       km            km                km_
01         Rnl       Conakry-Dubreka spur           3,000      -       -        20   -           20       7        early         20
02         RNI       Oubreka spur-Coyah             1,950      -       -        16   -           16       7        1960s         16                                                                            w
03         RNI       Coyah-Kindia                     910      22      45       20   -           87       7                      86                                                                             1
04         RN3       Oubreka spur road                725      -       -         11   -          11       6        1969          -          3.0       8.0
05         RNI       Klndia-Mamou                     410      33      80       20   -          133       7        1960s        133
06         RN5       Pita-Labe                        300      19       15       5   -           39                n.a.                     1.2      2.0           -               35.8
07        RN4        Coyah-Forecariah                 270      24       16       9   -           49       6        1971-3         -         2.9       1.3          -               44.8
08         RN1+5    Mamou-Dalaba                      250      25       15      15   -           55       6        n.a.          -           1.9    18.2           3.9             31.0
09         RN5       Dalaba-Plta                      200      16       17      21   -           54       6        n.a.          -          5.6       7.2         26.9             14.3
10        RN2       Kissidougou-Gueckedou             130     93       -        -    -           93                1970-75
11        RN2       Mamou-Faranah                     120      70     120       -    -          190       6.5      1965                     0.5    19.6            -             100.1
12        ---       Labe-Popodara                     110     -        -        10   -           10                1972
13        RN2       Faranah-Kissidougou               100     84       55       -    -          139       6.5      1964-5                                          -               30.3
14        RN3       Kamsar-Boke.+ 9 km                100     54       -         9   -           63                1975
15        ---       Kissidougou-Kankan (part)          75    110       20       -    -          130                1973-82                                                                         >
16        ---       Fria spur (part)                   75      12      -        -    -           12                n.a.                                                                            z
17        RN4       Forecariah-Farmoreah              60      17       16       -    -           33                1968-71
18        ---       Kankan-Siguiri (part)              50      11      -              - -i                ___      __   _                            -
TOTAL PAVED ROADS                       590      399      156            1,145                             255        15.1    56.3          30.8            256.3
Source:   MIGAT;  Consultants  LBT Preparation  Report and Mission  Estimates
March 1984



- 31 -
AlNNB 2-3
RCVOLUlOARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUbE
THIRD HIGHWAY PRDJECT
SLAUT APPRAISAL REPORT
The Priority Network: Present Status and Proposed Project Works
B. Laterite Roads and Earth Roads
Aruwal
Reference     Road                      Traffic       State as of 1951        Total            First       Second           Date          Gravel  Gravel       Gravel
lb.                                    vpd    Good  Average Poor Yery  Lngth  To be  Priority    Priority   Last    Next               Loss    Thickness  Width
Poor    km    Paved  Regravel.  Regravel.  Regrav. Regrav.    n                cm        m
laterite Roads
01         Babrel-Fria Road            270      -       -       58  -         58                58         -          78       84       5.8         25        7
02         Fria Road-RBffa              125     -       -       43  -         43      --        43         -          79       84       4.9         20        6
03         Beya-N'zerekore              83      -       135     -   -        135      -         -         135         78       85       2.1         15        6
04         Fria Road (part)             75      48      -       -   -         48      -                    -           ?       -        4.1         -         -
C5        SBffa-Yolabouny (part)        75      -       -       21  -         21      -         21         -          8)       84       4.2         15        6
07        Kerouane-Bsyla                65      -       -      113   -       113      -         -          -          79       -        2.0         -         -
C8         Gueokedou-Seradou            60      -       6'      70  -        138    135         -          -          78       -        3.4         -         -
09         N'zereiorea-LoLa-iberia      60      -       -       69  -         69      -         -          -           ?       -        2.1         15        6
10        Farnoreah-Sierra Leore NBrder 50      -       10      -   -         10      -         -          10         81       85       3.7         15        6
11        Seredou-N'zerelkre            50      -       -      1C5  -        105    1C5         -          -          79       -        2.6         -         -
12        PopodaT-SerLle                50      70      77      -   -        147      -         -          -          83       -        1.9         -         -
13        Kanlki-Kerouane               45      -       -      145   -       145      -         -          -          78       -        1.5         -         -
16        Nabola-Faronah                30      50      63      - -          113      -         -          -          82       -        1.3         -         -
17        Labs-Tougue                   30      -       -       43  43        86      -         -          -          83       -        1.4         -         -
18        Iabe-Mali (part)              30      17      -       -    -        17      -         -          -           ?       -        1.4         -         -
20        Kinjia-Telimele               30      65      73      -    -       138      -         -          -          82       -        2.0         -         -
21        Koubiapr (part)               25      33      -       -   -         33      -         -          -           ?       -        1.2         -         -
22         Kan     liri                 25      60      66      -    -       125      -         -          -          83       -        0.9         -         -
24         BDka-GAl                     20      -       -      178  -        178      -         -         178          ?       -        1.2          7        4
25         Telisle-Gaoual               20      30      -       -   102      132      -         -          -          83       -        1.4         -         -
26         Gaoual-Seriba                23      -       -       17  -         17      -         -          -          83       -        1.4         -         -
28        YAmou-Robola                  23      -      145      -   -        145      -         -          -          80       -        1.2         -         -
29        KourouSa-Kanksn               23      -       66      35 -          96      -         -          -          79       -        0.8         -         -
31         Dola-DinguLirays             15      25      -       25  56       106      -         -          -          83       -        0.6         -         -
32         Dobola-Kouroussa             15      -       -      146  -        146      -         -          -          79       -        0.5         -         -
33        Saguiri-Mali border           15      40      45                    85                                      83
Sub Total                       438    748   1,063 231    2,450    243          122        323
Sub Total First and Seoond Priority RegravelUing                                            445
Erth Roads
C5         Boff&-Kolabour (part)        75      -        -      -_  9         90      -         90         -          -        84       4.2         15        6
06         Kiasidougou-Kankn (part)    75       -       -       -   60        60      60        -          -          -        -        1.9         -
14        B     -Siyco                  40      -       -       -   56        56      -         -          56         -        85       1.8         10        4
15        Iola-Ivory ocast border       35      -       -       35  -         35      -         -          35         -        85       1.7         10        4
18        labe4hali (prt)               30      -       -       52  52       104      -         -         104                  85       1.4         10        4
19        Seribe-Xnnde       ia         30      -       -       58  79       137      -         -         137         -        85       1.4         10        4
21        Koubia-sp                     25      -       -       33  -         33      -         -          33         -        86       1.2         10        4
23        N'zerekare-Yocnu              25      -       -       61  -         61      -         -          61         -        86       1.4         10        4
27         Popodara-Inlouns,-itersection 23     -       -       31  52        83      -         -          83         -        86       1.0          7        4
34        Kouidara-G.B. Border          -       -       -       -   41        41      -         -          41         -        87       1.4         10        4
Sub Total                                       270 435       700      60        9)        550
Sub Total First and Seoond Priority Rebabilitation                                         640
GRAND TOT!AL                                                3,150    303        212        873
GRAND MMTA  First and Second Priority Regsaveing/Reabilitation                           1 ,OB5
Soure:  First Ei.wW Project Copletion Report;  COsultants LBT  Preparation Report, Mission Estimates
March 1984



- 32 -
AMW: 2-4
RODUYIONARY PEOPLE'S R_PJ3UC OF 153.FA
RPkFF APPRAtSAL RE2
Interventioss  ander First and Send l'Ritey Projects
-EM' ntepance Sates 1991--
KM                    ---------'nXrverlons a           ____
adt       KM                            'Very
_______  ___________  _/_;,_ 51 St) _ ______rxic _Metne  Be?. _ ed_  F'i ret di_ghW  Ssecoat -qignhwV
A. 6003 63639
01  Conakry-Turn-off Dsbreice Road           3,030        20       -         -      2)      -         M '79,83 A_ '11-2
02  Tn-roff Dubreka Poyah                     1,950       16       -         -      16      -         M 79,83 HM  1-2
03  CoyahKindia                                 91       837       22        45     -)      -         M  79, 80             Md ' l-2
(A  Dubrvea Road                               725        11       -         -      1t      -         M ' 8.'79
05  Ki nius-anaou                              410       135       33       83      3)      -         M '79,'8             M '8t1-2
06  Pita-labe                                  3C0        39       19        15      5      -                              M 8t-P
07  Coyah-Forexariah                            270       49       24        16                       M -   '7tt
(C    Mmou-Selaba                               250       55       25        15     15      -         M 79,8 D              M1 '.5-2
09  D0laba-Prta                                 2C0       54       16        17     21      -                              M '81-2
10  Kissidougou-Oaeocksdou                     130        93       93        -      -       -        Recently b9i It
11  MaemeFraenah                               1320      192       70       13)     -       -        M 79, 83              M '81-2
12  1abe-Popodam                               110        10       -        -       10      -
13  Faraeeh-Kissidougo                        1tCO       139       84       55      -       -        M '79
14  Kl9a-Boke + 9 kn                           130        63       54       -        9      -        Rece-tly be) it
15  Kissi_dougoa-Krnkan (part)                  75       13)      110 t     2       -       -        Recently btilt
16  Fria Road ( prt)                            75        12       12       -       -       -
17  FbrecarihFam-Fssine                         60        33      1t7       1i      -       -
18  Kanl:s-Sitgari (peirt)                      50        11       11       -       -       -
1t,45      592      399    t56                M = 47I c
(Conakry Street
Constr. 110 Ic)
B. GRAVRL & EARTH 8OADS
01  Dubre.ka-Tarn off Fria Road                270        58       -         -      58      -         R '61                M- '85
,12  1'-off Fria Road-Boffa                    125        43       -        -       43      -         R79                  R-t1
;3  3eyli-N'Zerekore                            83       135       -        135     -       -         6 '78                 R   '83
04 Fria Road (part)                             75        48       48        -      -       -
05  fBffa-Kolabouuyl                            75       111       -         -      21      90        Rl01,M10-'79-83       R   '81
06  Kissidougou-Kanlen (pert)                   75        60       -         -      -       60
C0  Kerouane-Beyla                              65       113       -         -     113      -         R 79
0(   nemkbdou-Seredou                           60       138       -        68      70      -                               I- '82
09  N'Zerekn,-re LcltbertSa                     60        69       -         -      69      -         M '79
10  Fanoareah-Sierrm teone                      50        10       -         10     -       -                              e '82
tl  Seredou-N'Zerelere                          50       105       -        -      1t5      -         60, 45-'78           R- '82-'83
12  opodara-Seribri                             52       147       70       '77     -       -                              R681- 82
13  KRa-Kerouane                                45       145       -         -     145      -        R 678                 R'81-'82
t4   eYlr-Si Yjo                                40        56       -        -               56
15  l,3a-IvoryS ost                             40        35       -        -       35      -
16 tDibola-Franah                               30       113       50       63      -       -                              6- '81-'82
17  labe-Tougue                                 30        86       -        -       43      43                             R79, 82-3
18  tabs-Mali                                   32       121       17       -       52      52
19  Seriba-Kmtndar-Senegal                      30       137       -        -       58      79
23  Kindia-Telirmle                             30       137       64       73      -       -                              R '8-'82
21  Br&      road to 'oubia                     25        66       33        -      33
22  Ken3-Snuiri                                 25       126       60       66      -       -                              R'81-82
73  J'Zergecore-Yomou                           25        61       -         -      61      _
24  Boke-fnceual                                20       178       -         -     178
25  Tlilnele-Gaonal                             20       132       30        -      -      102                             R '82-'83
26  Geoual-Serlba                               20        17       -         -      17      -                              R '83
27  Pop2dara-lelotra                            20        53       -         -      31      22                             R10 - '83
28 ttceu-lbola                                   30      145       -        '45     -       -         R '79-'80            R- '82
29  Kotrouesa-ka6                               20        96       -        66      30      -        R 6)-'79              R83-8t
30  Kakan-Merilan                               20        84       -         -      84      -                              R683
31  DabolaDingAraye                              15      106       25        -      81      -                              R- '82-'83
32  Debola towards Koxroasa                      15      146       -         -     146      -         R 55, 79             R89- 81
33  SWg  ri-Maet berder                          15       85       40        45     -       -                              R682- 83
34  Siguiri-Kouroma                              10       85       -         -      -       85
35  Tbugue-Selmr                                 5       114       -         -      -      114
37  Kousarkoro-VTesanta                          5       13)            -           -      13)                             M   '81
3,461      436      748  1 473      803       R = 927 h             R=  973
M = 390 ke
IR A & B                                      4,606    1,027    ,_147  1,629       8)3
M - Naint2neoe (Routine)
.,jc,a    ~r-.t 7_ W      9J  t_ . -, -e                       'r". ProJtect Vpwe      Rrne tr Ree    Are, ,nntAd1 RtMirtes



- 33 -
ANNEX 2-5
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Share of Transport Sector in Total Investment Expenditure
by Plan Period, 1960-85
(million Sylis)
I               II               III             IV
Three-Year Plan   Seven-Year Plan   Five Year Plan   Five-Year Plan
6/60-9/63        5/64-9/71        10/73-12/78      1981-1985
Amount    ,      Amount     %     Amount    %      Amount    %
Public Work & Transport      1,262    34      2,900    33       1,516   15      3,420   13
Industry & EBerMr              632    17      4,200    48       3,903   40      10,260   32
Rural Developnent              480    13        590      7      2,646   27      9,880   31
Education & Infozmtion                                            612    6      2,28      7
1,351    36      1,070    12
Other                                                           1,187   12      6,C80   17
Total                     3,725   100       8,760   100      9,864  100      31,920  1CO
a/   These are estimates only; note that the ratio actual expenditures/estimates
was only 27% for previous plans.
SOURCE: RPRG - Country Economic Memorandum, July 1981, Tables 5 & 6 and
Fourth Plan Documents
March 1984



- 34 -
ANNEX 2-6
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Total Highway Expenditures and Regional Road Maintenance Allocations,
1978-81
(million Sylis)
1978    1979    1980    1981
ALL HIGHWAY EXPENDITURES                      113.3   171.0   301.9   339.1
of these:
A.  Road Rehabilitation & Mainte-
nance under First & Second
Highway Projects (incl. Govt. share)       67.0   118.2   250.9   264.7
B.  Bridge Construction - financed
through the Plan                            3.5     3.5      4.3     4.7
C.  Routine Maintenance -
financed through Regular Budget            42.8    49.4    46.7    69.7
Regional Allocation of C
CGR Conakry                              7.9     8.1      5.4    12.4
Kindia                                   2.7     4.2      5.2     7.4
Boke                                     3.0     4.4      3.8     5.8
Labe                                     5.7     6.3      6.2     9.0
Faranah                                  6.3     5.4      5.7     7.9
Kankan                                   6.2     7.5      6.2     8.8
N'Zerekore                               4.9     5.5      5.0     8.6
Salaries for MPW Personnel                  6.1     8.0      9.2      9.8
a/ Funds for the Conakry region include financing for stocks of spare
parts that are dispatched as required to the regions. As a result,
the Conakry totals are somewhat overstated, the remainder slightly
understated
Source: MIGAT
March 1984.



- 35 -
ANNEX 2-7
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Organization Chart for the Ministry of Infrastructure and Major Works (MIGAT)
Secretary of
State
Management Council of                         ,Cablnet
the  Road Project Office      
National                                                   Soils and
General       Maintenance          Statistics           Administration       Material
Inspection     Coordination      Vehicle Control             Finance         Laboratory
General Directorate of                                General Directorate of
Infrastructure                                          Major Works
_               I       -.       i             I             __!                     . 
Roads and       Bridges                i                                                  National
Airports         and      EquTpment         Port           Railways       Equipment      Institute
Construction    Ferries                   Construction    Construction                    of Geography
Source: MIGAT
March 1984



- 36 -
ANNEX 2-8
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Estimated Vehicle Park, 1974 - 82
VehTcle                                                                          Vehtcle
Vehicle Types       Census                            New Registrations                              Census
1974     1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982             1982
1.  Passenger Cars
New                           1,509   1,015       655      617     656      804                --
Used                            226      239      228   1,172   2,004   3,219         --       --
Total             4,747   1,735   1,254        883   1,789   2,660   4,023   1,522   1,966         9,433
2.  Pick-ups/Vans
New                             202       94      156       81      83      461       --       --
Used                             15       11       39      459     623   1,085        --       --
Total               855      217      105      195     540      706   1,546       181     186      1,655
3.  Buses
New                              47       49       18       26      68       56       --       --
Used                              2        7       10       26     118       98       --       --
Total               168       49       56       28      52      186      154      114      88        500
4.  Trucks, 4T +
New                             778      347      683      222     340      502       --       --
Used                             10        9       26       49     115      304       --       --
Total             2,310      788      356      709     271      455      806      164     262      1,957
5. All Vehicles
New                           2,536   1,505   1,512        946   1,147   1,823        --       --
Used                            253      266      303   1,706   2,860   4,706         --       --
Total             8,080   2,789   1,7         815   2652   4,007  6.529   1.981                   13545
Combined Total                                                                              16,047
NOTE: No statistics are kept on the age of used vehtcles Imported; on average these are estimated
to be five years old when first registered In Guinea.
Source:  MIGAT
March 1984



- 37 -
AM=X 2-9
RYOUTIOONARY PEDPLE'S FEPUBLIC OF GUINEA
MD HIGHWAY PRWBTC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Total Fael Imorts and Conbmuption by Province, 1972-80
(million liters)
All Imports          1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979   1990
Gasoline          69.5    76.8   80.3   69.4   67.6   70.4   75.8   83.5   81.4
Gas-oil           35-0   41.3   45.7   45.3   45.3   53.9   45.5   49.0   42.2
Diesel-oil         7.4     7.3    9.1      6.3    4.8      5.9    9.1    10.3    n.a.
111.9   125.4   135.1   121.0   117.7   130.2   130.4   142.8
Lubricants            2.0    2.5      1.9    2.3      3.0    3.5    3.1       2.6
Regional Consmaption
Gasoline
City Conalky         30.5   45.5   49.7   40.9   36.6    36.7   39.5   48.5   50.3
Rmdr.Provinces     4.4    4.3      4.4     4.0    4.9      4.8    4.2
Province Boke      1.6     1.6    2.0      1.9    2.5      3.3     3.3
Province Kiniia    9.2    8.7    8.5    8.1        7.7     7.8    9.0
Povince Labe       3.5     3.3     3.3     3.5     3.7     4.2    4.5       ) 35.0  ) 31.3
Province Farnah    4.5     5.9     4.8     4.2    4.6      4.8    5.9
Province KankIn    3.8     3.8     4.2    4.0    4.1       4.8    5.2
Province N'Zerelmre  3.5   3.7     3.4     3.8    3.5    4.7    4.2
Gee-Oil
City Conakxy         20.8   26.4    30.4    20.0    18.4   23.7    18.5    23.4   20.6
hair. Provinces    1.4     1.3     1.0     1.5    2.3      2.2     1.6
Province Boke      1.2    1.1      1-4    2.0      3.2    3.7      2.8
Prvince Kindis     3-3     3.0    2.5      3.9    4.1      5.0    4.7
Prvince T-be       0.9     1.2     1.7     1.9    2.1      2.4     2.8      ) 25.5  ) 21.6
Pmvince arenah     3.2    4.1      4.0     5.2    5.4    5.8    5.8
Province Kankan    1.7    2.3    2.3       4.5     5.8    6.8      5.9
N'Zerelore         1-5     1 9     2.5     2.9     4.0    4.3      3.3
Diesel
City Conakry          4.7     4.2     5.7    4.2    4.5    4.7    9.1         n.a.    n.a.
Thir. Provinces    0.3     0.3     0.3     0.2                     0.1
Province Boke      6.5     0.7    0.8      0.4
Province Kindia    0.3     0.4     0.2     0.2    0.2      0.2    0.1
Province Tabe                      0.1
Pmvince Farnah     0.4    0.5    0.5       0.3    0.4    0.5
Provice Kankan     0.9     1.1     1.2    0.9    0.3               0.7
N'Zerekore         0-3    0.2    0.3    0.1        0.1             0.5
lubricants
City Conakry          1.1     1.4     1.2     1.3    1.4      1.5    1.6
heir. Provinoes    0.1     0.1     0.1     0.1    0.1      0.2    0.1
Province Boke      0.1     0.1     0.1     0.1     0.2    0.2      0.2
Province Kinlia    0.2    0.2      0.2     0.1    0.3    0.4       0.2
Province labe      0.2    0.4      0.4     0.4    0.5      0.3     0.2
Province FaranPh   0.1     0.2    0.1      0.2    0.3      0.3    0.2
Province Kankan    0.1     0.2    0.1      0.2    0.3      0.4    0.4
Prvince N'Zerekore  0.1    0.2    0.1      0.1     0.2     0.4    0.2
NOTE: Regional totals mEr not add up to national total due to rounding.
SURCE: ONAH
March 194



- 38 -
ANNEX 2-10
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Estimated Revenue from Road User Taxes
(million Sylis)
Registration &    Tax on Fuel A/        Taxes & Duties
Year    Road Licenses       and Lubricants    on Vehicle Imports    TOTAL
1973/4            5                 120                    9             134
1975              5                 453                n.a.             (458) b/
1976              4                 454                 112             570
1977              6                 460                  70             536
1978            11                  516                 101             628
1979             13                 701                 180             894
1980             14                 506                 270             790
1981             17                 545                n.a.             (652) b/
a/ Estimates based on petroleum product imports used in road transport,
and unit custom and excise duties.
b/ Figures in parentheses are incomplete.
Source:  Consultants' and Mission Estimates; MIGAT
March 1984



- 39 -                               A1N 2-1 1
REVOLUTIONARY PEDPLE'S REPUBlIC OF GUIBEA
THIE BMW  PREOJ 
STAP APPRAIS  REPORT
Economic and Financial Cost of Gasoline and Diesel Fuel
(June 1981, GSY/liter)
ITE21                           TYPE OF COST      GASOLIDE      DIDEl
Element        Sylis   %   Sylis  %
Crude import FOB/liter              n.a.
Ihsurance/Freight                    n.a.
Crude CIF Conakry                    Foreign exchange     6.96        6.60
Bnk costs                            Local cost          0.25         0.40
Port fee                             Local cost           0.04        0.04
Special tax                          Tax                  1.CO        1.00
IMPOEX margin                        Local cost           1.72        0.78
Losses at sea                        Foreign exchange     0.10        0.08
Import duties                        Tax                  5.10        2.49
Costs of putting into storage        Local cost          0.13         0.11
(storage tank managexent)
Losses in storage                    Foreign exchange    0.15         0.11
Transport in town                    F.E. & L. C.        0.04*        0.04*
Average transport cost ONAH          F.E. & L. C.         2.00"       2.00*
ONAH margin                          Local cost           1.50        0.80
HYDRO VENTE margin                   Local cost           1 .00       0.70
New tax on fuels                     Tax                  5.00        5.X00
(as of May 1, 1981)
Sub-total                        Foreign echange      8.23  33   7.81    39
aub-total                        Local costs          5.66  23   3.85   19
Sub-total                        Taxes               11.10  44   8.49   42
Total                                                24.99  lCO  20.115  1CO)
Pump price rounded to:     25.00       20.00
*    Assumed 5C% foreign exchange, 5C% local cost.
a/   Exchange rate  US$1 = Sylis 20.
SOURCE: LMPORTEX
March 1984



- 40 -
ANNEX 3-1
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OUTLINE OF THE PROPOSED ORGANIZATION OF THE ROAD PROJECT OFFICE
1. OBJECTIVES
1.1      The Government of Guinea has approached the World Bank and other
financing agencies to assist in financing under the proposed'Third Highway
Project (the Project): the regravelling, rehabilitation and routine
maintenance on the priority gravel road network of the country, the
reconstruction of the Conakry-Mamou road; and the resurfacing of 360 km of
other paved roads. The reconstruction and resurfacing works on paved roads
will be carried out by contractors, while works on the non-paved priority
network will be carried out with the resources of the existing Ministere de
l'Infrastructure et des Grands Amenagements du Territoire (MIGAT) force
account brigades, which will be detached and transferred to a Road Project
Office (Office du Projet Routier - OPR) and supplemented with equipment to be
procured under the Project.  Recurrent maintenance under the Project also
includes labor-based maintenance operations (clearing of shoulders, drainage
ditches, etc.) on some 2,500 km of the priority road network, which will be
carried out by the province.
1.2      To administer the Project, a Management Council and Road Project
Office have been established by presidential ciecree; their composition and
responsibilities are set cut in Chapter 2 below.
2. ORGANIZATION OF PROJECT ACTIVITIES
A. The Management Council (Conseil de Gestion du Projet Routier, CGPR)
2.1      The Road Project Office will be supervised by - and report to - a
Management Council constituted as follows:
Secretary of State of MIGAT                             President
Representatives of:
The Prime Minister-Minister of Planning               Vice President
The Minister of Economic and Financial Affairs        Member
The Central Studies Office (BCEP)                     Member
Director General of Infrastructure, MIGAT               Member
Director General of the Road Project Office             Rapporteur
Senior Highway Engineer of Engineering
Consultant's Team                                     Advisor
Engineer-Chief of Consulting-Contractor's
Team                                                  Advisor



ANNEX 3-1
Page 2 of 4
2.2      The CGPR will meet at least once per year to review progress of works
and approve annual budgets and work programs of OPR. With respect to the day-
to-day management of OPR, CGPR's role will be a consultative one. CGPR's
recommendations and suggestions will be transmitted to OPR in writing and
generally in the form of reports on meetings during which such recommendations
were made and discussed.
B. The Road Project Office (Office du Projet Routier, OPR)
2.3      The OPR will be an autonomously managed entity.  MIGAT will exercise
its functions of guidance and control through the CGPR. OPR will be admini-
stered by a General Directorate and assisted by two consulting teams, one for
execution of force account works and another to support the various Divisions
as necessary to make them function efficiently. The outline terms of
reference of these two teams are in Annexes 3-2 and 3-3.
2.4      The management of OPR will -be in the hands of a Director General
(DG).   He will be assisted by a Deputy Director General (Directeur General
Adjoint-DGA) in the person of the Senior Highway Engineer of the Engineering
Consultant and by the Chief Highway Engineer-Chief of the Division of Works
(Chef de la Division Travaux, CDT), by the chief of the Division of
Supervision of Works and by the chief of the Division of Administration and
Finances. These 5 persons constitute the Directorate Council (CD) who will
assist the DG in the management of:
(a) administration of all project activities, including:
- the preparation of annual work programs for submission to the CGPR
and IDA for approval;
- the preparation and control of annual project budgets for
submission to the CGPR and IDA for approval;
- the keeping of financial and cost accounts of all project
activities, and the establishment of payment requests and for resurfacing
works;
-  procurement of contracting services for Conakry-Mamou works and
for resurfacing works;
- procurement of project equipment and construction materials and in
particular the approval of the acquisition of equipment, supplies,
construction materials, fuels and spare parts.
(b) the supervision and execution of project works, including the supervision
and certification of the quantity and quality of works--by the province, oy
the Division Travaux (DT), and by contractors--carried out under the project.
(c) OPR personnel matters and in particular their hiring and firing, and the
introduction of remuneration incentives;
(d)  development and supervision of training assistance to OPR, other MIGAT
and provincial road maintenance staff;



- 42 -               ANNEX 3-1
Page 3 of 4
(e) coordination of transport plan studies, traffic counts and other road
data collection.
2.5      To carry out its functions successfully, OPR will be organized into
five divisions (which will report to the OPR Directorate), as follows:
(a) a Division of Works (Division Travaux, DT) which will carry out all
equipment based force account works on the priority network. It will be
organized and operate along the lines of a civil engineering contractor. The
DT will be headed by the Chief Highway Engineer (Chef-Division Travaux, CDT)
supplied by the Consultant-Contractor, assisted by a Guinean Highway Engineer,
Deputy Chief. The organization of this important division and its technical
personnel are described in the outline Terms of Reference for the Consultant-
Contractor (Annex 3-3).
(b) a Division of Supervision of Works (Division de Controle des Travaux,
DCT) will be responsible for the supervision and certification of works
carried out by contractors on the paved road network and by the DT on the
unpaved priority network. Supervision will be the responsiblity of an
expatriate supervising Highway Engineer assisted by an experienced Guinean
Highway Engineer, three expatriate and two Guinean Surveyors and four Guinean
Technicians for laboratory and topographical work.
(c) a Division of Administration and Finances (Division Administration et
Finances, DAF) will be responsible for the admLinistration of project personnel
(establishment of personnel files and payroll), for all project accounting and
for the preparation of payment requests for the different cofinanciers. It
will assist DG in the preparation and control of annual budgets; and it will
monitor cost accounting procedures followed by the DT. DAF will be directed
by an experienced Guinean manager assisted by an expatriate Financial
Analyst/Chief Accountant.
(d) a Division for Assistance to Road Maintenance and Training (Division de
l'Assistance a l'Entretien Routier et Formation DAERF) will be responsible for
assisting the National Road Maintenance Coordinator of MIGAT as well as the
Regional Road Maintenance Directorates in programming and organizing labor-
based road maintenance operations; and to assist in organizing, executing, and
monitoring technical and management training of OPR personnel. These tasks
will be carried out by an expatriate Highway Engineer/Trainer together with an
experienced Guinean Highway Engineer and a Tra:ining (Mechanical) Specialist.
(e) a Division of Transport Planning (Division de la Planification des
Transports, DPT) will prepare a Transport Plan that will establish investment
priorities, propose a funding mechanism for the foreign exchange costs of road
maintenance, identify gaps in the data base required for effective transport
planning and propose an organizational set-up for continued sector planning. The
DPT will be staffed by an expatriate Transport Economist assisted by a Guinean
counterpart. Detailed terms of reference are in Annex 3-2, Attachment 2.
2.6      A Chart showing the proposed organization of OPR is in Attachment 1.



ANNEX 3-1
- 43 -              Page 4 of 4
3. INFRASTRUCTURE
3.1      OPR's offices, workshops and stores will be located at the so-called
PK-10 on the Conakry-Mamou Road.
3.2      Mobile office and equipment repair and storage facilities will be
provided for the DT work-groups that will carry out the project works on the
non-paved priority network.
4. CONSULTANT SERVICES
4.1      As indicated in para. 2.3 above, technical assistance to OPR will be
grouped in two separate teams, under separate contracts with two different
firms:
- an Engineering Consultant will provide a team of people to support
the planning, supervision, and training tasks to be carried out under
the project;
- a Consultant-Contractor will provide services to DT on all project
tasks concerning the execution of works. His team will be a
homogeneous group that has worked for the contractor over a period of
time and is thoroughly familiar with the organization and work
methods of the consultant-Contractor.
4.2      The two teams will be composed as follows:
Engineering Consultant                      Consultant-Contractor
m-m                                             m-m
1 Senior Highway Engineer (DGA)  32    1 Chief Highway Engineer (CDT)             31
1 Financial Analyst               32    1 Mechanical Engineer                     31
1 Highway Engineer                26    3 Field Group Managers                    71
3 Surveyors                       83    3 Field Group Mechanics                    83
1 Highway Engineer/Trainer        20    1 Senior Estimator/Cost Accountant        29
1 Transport Economist             20    1 Procurement and Expediting Manager    31
213                                             276



REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Organization of Road Project Office
Road Project
Management Council (CGPR)
Statutory Members
GENERAL DIRECTORATE
Director General (DG )
Deputy Director General *
___ __ __ _                                           _ __ __ __ __ __ _.__ __ __ _Division_ __ __ ___ __of __ __ S u pervision_ __ __ _           __ __ ____ __ __ __
Division                  Division of Assistancetof Supervisiono 
of                   Maintenance and Training (DAERFI                   Division of Works (DTI)                         of Works (DCT) I                  Adrmin. and Finance Dlvi siaon  _
Transport Planning (OPT)                                                                                                                                                 xeine            aae
:eZ~I~jj--Man-ger                ~            nierTanr              Chief Highway Engineer-Chef of Division (CDT)-! 1 Highway EngineerFi.AaytCefcouan
W~~~e~~ I - -  ager    I   I                                                                                                                    Deput~~~Chl  Fn.  naystChief Accountant
1 Transport/Economist               I Highway Engineer                ighway Engineer-Deputy Chief of Division (CADTIl I Highway Engineer                               Deputy  hief Accountant
I Engineer/Economist              I Training Officer                                               _2 Surveyors
'I Surveyor
4 Asst. Surveyors
4 Technicians (Topo-
igraphy/Laboratory)
Expatriates
r t
Source:   Appraisal Mission
March 1984



ANNEX 3-2
-45 -                    Page 1 of 6
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OUTLINE TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE ENGINEERING CONSULTANT
1. Objectives and Scope of Work
1.1      The Engineering Consultant will provide the following services to
OPR:
(a) set up a management framework for OPR except DT. The
Engineering Consultant will devise a management structure for OPR,
compatible with and complementary to the one set up by the consultant
contractor for DT, including job descriptions of all key position and
suitable delegation and communication lines. Suitable procedures for
planning, running and controlling OPR operations will be introduced,
backed by all necessary manuals, guidelines and forms;
(b) support administering, programming, coordinating and supervising
all project activities;
(c) assistance to the National Maintenance Coordinator of MIGAT in
the budgeting and programming--and to the provincials in the
execution--of labor-based maintenance operations;
(d) support in the establishment, implementation and coordination of
training programs for the Office du Projet Routier (OPR) and other
road maintenance personnel; and
(e) assistance in drawing up a medium-term transport plan. The
Consultant's team will consist of eight experts who will in general
occupy in-line positions in OPR as shown in Annex 3-1 Attachment 1.
2. Administering, Programming, Coordinating and Supervising of
Project Activities.
2.1      The Senior Highway Engineer (32 m-m) will be OPR's Deputy Director
General (DGA) and a member of the Management Council (CD). He will assist the
Director General coordinate OPR tasks and in particular:
- prepare the management framework for OPR, job descriptions,
delegation and communication lines, procedures for planning, running
and controlling OPR operations including the necessary manuals,
guidelines and forms:
- prepare or review annual work programs;
- define or review procurement procedures to ensure efficient
procurement, in accordance with the financiers guidelines;



ANNEX 3-2
-46 -                             Page 2 of 6
- prepare or review bidding documents and evaluate the bids;
- administer all project activities, including budgetary controls,
accounting and processing of disbursesment requests to the
cofinanciers
- administer supervision of all project works including those
carried out by DT and manage quality and quantity controls and
certification of monthly payments;
- assist in setting up a program of regular traffic counts and of
regular inspection of roads and bridges, in updating road inventories
and other data relevant to the sector;
- prepare progress reports, including an analysis of project
strength and weaknesses and proposals for eliminating the latter; and
- prepare a follow-up road rehabilitation and maintenance program.
2.2      The Financial Analyst/Chief Accountant (32 m-m) will assist OPR's
management in:
- establishing OPR's budget format and procedures;
- setting up budgetary controls;
- establishing the financial and cost accounting systems for all
project activities (excepting the DT) and keeping them up-to-date;
and
- monitoring the cost-accounting activity in the DT;
- preparing all disbursement requests to the cofinancing agencies
and to the Government.
2.3      The Supervising Highway Engineer (26 mi-m) will manage the supervision
of works by contractors and by DT. He will be responsible for:
- instructing and issuing orders to contractors as required;
- controlling the quantities and quality of works executed;
- certifying monthly payments based on volume of works completed
satisfactorily; and
- certifying the quantities of work executed by the DT, for the
effect of setting up the Consultant-Contractor and bonus payments for
Guinean personnel.
2.4      The three Surveyors (83 m-m) will carry out quality and quantity
controls.



ANNEX 3-2
- 47 ~                     Page 3 of 6
3.  Training, and Assistance to Labor-Based Road Maintenance Operations
3.1      The Highway Engineer/Trainer (20 m-m) will assist OPR, MIGAT, the
National Road Council and the provincial Maintenance Directorates in the
following tasks:
-  strengthening of manpower planning in OPR and MIGAT;
- evaluation of training programs offered by existing training
centers with a view to using them for the training of project and
provincial maintenance personnel;
- preparation and implementation of practice-oriented training
programs for the project and provincial maintenance personnel;
- assistance to the National Road Council and the provinces in the
budgeting, programming and management of labor-based maintenance;
- assisting in training DT personnel;
- supervision of outside training centers; and
- evaluation of training results.
4. Transport Plan Study
4.1      The Transport Economist (20 m-m) will assist in preparing a medium
term transport plan and a follow-up road maintenance and rehabilitation
program. In particular he will:
- identify priority investments for the sector with a view to
facilitate the mobilization of external financing for such
investments;
- propose ways of ensuring regular financing for both the foreign
exchange and local costs of routine road maintenance operations; and
- propose an organizational scheme for collecting and analyzing
essential transport sector data for future transport planning.
5. Timing of Consultant-Services
5.1      At least two members of the team (the Senior Highway Engineer and the
Financial Analyst) should arrive in Guinea 2 months prior to the rest of the
team to assist in the start-up of OPR operations.
6. Prices and Payment
6.1      In its proposal, the Engineering Consultant will specify the
following sets of price elements in local and/or foreign currency:



ANNEX 3-2
- 48 -                          Page 4 of 6
(a) the man-month rate for members of the project team, inclusive of
salary; leave, holiday, and sick pay; insurance, superannuation and
other social charges; overseas allowance including personal non-
business transportation within the country; and the firm's overhead
(inclusive of Head Office support to the resident project team,
including Head Office expenses, travel, Partners or Directors fees,
etc);
(b) reimbursable items relative to individuals, such as
international travel for the staff member and family or appointment,
termination and leave(s), including excess baggage and other
allowances; local housing; local transport; subsistence and other
similar expenses while in Guinea. The proposal will specify the
quantity of each reimbursable item, and the basis for calculation;
(c) the cost of proprietary hardware or software considered
essential for the performance of the Consultant's work, and the cost
of printing manuals, guidelines and forms for use by OPR;
(d) the officially recognized national or international index by
which the Consultant proposes that the man-month rate be adjusted for
inflation.
6.2      Payments will be made monthly, based on documents prepared by the
Consultant and certified by the Director General of OPR. These documents will
show separately the payments per man-month and payments for reimbursable
items.
7. Reporting Requirements
7.1      The Engineering Consultants will prepare and submit the following
reports:
(a) An Inception Report, three months after the starting date of
consultant services by the core team, presenting a general Plan of
Action for all project components. In particular, the report will
specify:
(i) OPR's management framework including a detailed organization
chart with job descriptions of key personnel, delegation and
communication lines; OPR's budget format and procedures; other
procedures for planning, running and controlling OPR's operations
and a list of manuals, guidelines a.ad forms;
(ii) the work program for the different divisions of OPR;
(iii) the timing of technical assistance inputs as a function of
the work program;



ANNEX 3-2
- 49 -                           PaRe 5 of 6
(iv) the availability of qualified Guinean staff to carry out the
work program;
(v) the availability of resources (equipment and means for its
operations, offices, workshops) to carry out the work program; and
(vi) comments on the inception report prepared by the Consultant-
Contractor.
(b) Progress Reporting. Starting in the fourth month of project
execution, the Engineering Consultant will assist OPR to prepare and
submit progress reports as follows:
(i) Monthly Reports, not later than 15 days after the end of the
month specifying:
- equipment and personnel mobilized by the contractors and the
Division Works;
- quantity and quality of works carried out by DT during the month
on specific road sections, analyzed as to the various units of
work performed;
- instructions (ordres de service) given each contractor during
the month;
- instructions given the DT each month;
- status of payments and disbursements by contract and category;
and
- quantity and quality of labor based works carried out by
provincials during the month on specific road sections, for
relevant unit items.
(ii)Quarterly Reports, not later than 21 days after the end of the
quarter specifying the status of all project components including:
- procurement being prepared and carried out;
- results of cost accounting for the quarter;
- revised work program for the following six month period
- consultants' comment and recommendations for DT; physical and
financial performance, analyzing the units of each DT Field
Group individually and the DT as a whole. Based on this
analysis the amount of performance bonuses to be paid to the
Consultant-Contractor and DT personnel will be calculated.
(c) A Preparation Report for a Proposed Follow-up Project, to be
submitted 32 months after the starting date; and



ANNEX 3-2
- 50 -                           Page 6 of 6
(d) A Project Completion Report to be submitted 38 months after the
starting date. Concerning the Conakr,y-Mamou works, a completion
report will be submitted 1 month after the end of the works.



- 51 -
Annex 3-2
Attachment 1
Criteria for the Selection of the Engineering Consultant
The following criteria will be used for selecting the engineering
consultant who will provide technical assistance to OPR. They are based on
the premise that short-listed firm would be experienced in road construction
in Africa.
Criterion                                                 Points
(a) The company's proposal, in terms of the
services offered, quality of the management
package proposed, observance of the terms of
reference                                              20
(b) Quality and experience of the personnel, each
member will be allocated 5 points with the
exception of 15 points to the Senior
Highway Engineer                                       50
(c) Price. Full marks will be given to the
lowest acceptable proposal and 1 point
will be deducted for each S 50,000 (or
fraction there of) of excess                           30
100



Annex 3-2
Attachment 2
- 52 -                       Page l of 5
Outline Terms of Reference for the Provision of Consultant
Services for Transport Planning
Introduction
1.       Transport sector planning in Guinea, while nominally the responsi-
bility of the Ministry of Transport, has up -to now gone largely by default due
mainly to lack of specialized personnel, reliable data and sufficient funding
to acquire either of them. This has resulted in the absence of agreed sector
objectives and priorities, poor sector management, and occasional misalloca-
tion of scarce investment funds. The Government now intends to establish a
Division of Transport Planning (Division de Planification des Transport, DPT)
in the Road Project Office (office du Project; Routier - OPR). The Association
has agreed to finance under the Third Highway Project a total of 20 m-m of
consulting assistance to DPT to be provided over a two year period by an
experienced transport economist. The Government will provide suitable office
facilities and assign the requisite counterpart personnel to assist the
consultant in carrying out the study successfully.
Objectives
2.       The two main objectives of the Transport Plan component of the
proposed project are:
(a) to establish a unit with clearly identified institutional
responsibility for overall transport planning; and
(b) to define transport sector investment criteria and identify
priority investments for the medium term (5-8 years).
3.       The assignment will be divided into *two phases.  Phase I is expected
to cover establishment of the Division of transport planning, delimitation of
its responsibilities and those of subsector planning agents; stocktaking of
presently available information on the sector., and definition of the future
scope of work of the planning unit. Phase II would initiate the Unit's work
program, produce a program of priority investments for the transport sector in
the medium term, propose a mechanism for providing regularly the foreign
exchange required for road maintenance equipment operation and renewal,
establish procedures for data collection, analysis and reporting, provide
recommendations on policy measures that would improve transport sector
efficiency.
Phase I: Establishment of a Division of Transport Planning
and Definition of its Scope of Work
4.       In a first phase (4-6 m-m), the transport economist would:
(a) collect existing data on all subsectors (highways/road
transport/railroads/ports/airports) including inventories on
existing infrastructure; associated budgets/expenditures for the
past 5-10 years; data on past and present traffic etc.:



- 53 -
Annex 3-2
Attachment 2
Page 2 of 5
(b) analyse the coverage and consistency of existing data and
provide information summaries on each subsector;
(c) identify data gaps in the information needed for sound
investment decision making; and
(d) propose an organization (personnel/budget/survey instruments)
for regularly collecting and updating such data.
5.       The consultant's findings and proposals will be discussed with
concerned Government authorities (Ministry of Infrastructure and Major Works,
Ministry of Transport, Ministry of Planning, etc.) and the Association. The
final proposal should be ready not later than four months after the
consultant's arrival.
Phase II: Transport Plan Preparation
6.       DPT's main tasks during the second phase of the study (14-16 m-m of
expert consultant) are likely to cover:
(a) the preparation of a medium term transport plan, based on a
realistic assessment of transport demand in the different
regions, and proposing the most economic way of meeting it
through a series of policy measures and economically justified
investments;
(b) the assignment of investment priorities in the light of existing
financial constraints, including planning and budgetting of
recurrent costs;
(c) development of alternative proposals for ensuring that the
foreign exchange requirements for road maintenance equipment
renewal and operation are met regularly and automatically (road
fund, earmarking);
(d) review of sector regulations and institutions (parastatals and
private sector), evaluation of their adequacy and recommenda-
tions for their improvement if indicated; and
(e) an assessment of the constraints of the macro-economic
environment on efficient operation of the transport sector.
7.       DPT's scope of work during this phase will cover the road, rail and
domestic air transport subsectors. The fields of international air and
maritime transport, enclave mining sector transport and river transport,
although in principle within DPT's purview, should be excluded from its
concerns at this initial stage.
Road Transport
8.       Since road transport is by far the most important mode in Guinea's
transport sector, the main effort of Phase II studies will concentrate on



Annex 3-2
Attachment 2
- 54 -                         Page 3 of 5
improving its efficiency and reducing its costs. To increase efficiency,
changes in existing regulatory and institutional arrangements will be
required; cost reduction will mainly be a function of infrastructure
improvements and vehicle fleet development and management. In particular,
DPT's mandate will include, but not necessarily be restricted to:
(a)  ensuring, in collaboration with MIGAT and the Provinces, the annual
updating of a detailed road inventory of:
(i)  the priority network (4,200 km); and
(ii) the addition to it of such secondary roads as are proposed to be
included in the maintenance program of the Provinces which is to be
gradually extended.
This inventory, in conjunction with the traffic reports under b) below, will
mainly serve as a basis for scheduling periodic and routine maintenance
operations and upgrading of sections to higher standards as part of the annual
road works program to be approved by the National Road Council; but they will
also provide a shortlist of roads that may justify upgrading to paved
standards;
(b) instituting - in collaboration with MIGAT and the Public Works
Directors of the Provinces - a regular schedule of traffic counts (high
season/low season coverage) on all links of the priority network and extending
it to additional road sections as required; processing the results, and
publishing them semi-annually in conjunction with reports on road maintenance
activities by OPR and the Provinces;
(c) determining - in collaboration with MIGAT - the level and structure
(salaries/equipment/operating expenditures) of periodic and routine road
maintenance expenditures over the past five year period and the sources of
financing for them; assessing their adequacy for ensuring satisfactory road
transport service levels over various segments of the road network; estimating
financing needs (foreign exchange, local currency) for road construction and
maintenance over the next 5-10 year horizon;
(d) instituting - in collaboration with DGCER (Direction G6n'erale de la
Circulation et de 1'Exploitation Routiere) in MIGAT - a system of vehicle
ownership statistics that (i) does not only deal with new registrations as at
present, but eliminates vehicles from the fleet, for which permits are not
renewed; and (ii) produces reliable figures on annual revenues from road user
licenses and fees, establishing revenues actually collected (rather than
theoretically receivable) from these charges over the past five years, and
projecting future 5-8 year revenues;
(e) studying the level and structure of road user charges and their
development over the past ten years, and analyzing their impact on road
transport efficiency;
(f) developing - from transporter surveys supplemented by relevant
price/fiscal/insurance etc. information - a set of financial and economic
vehicle operating costs to be employed consistently in all road project



- 55 -
Annex 3-2
Attachment 2
Page 4 of 5
feasibility studies that may be carried out henceforth in the country. These
coot figures are to be updated in a systematic fashion, and at least once per
year;
(g) establishing the adequacy of existing/expected transport capacity
to meet the forecast demand and proposing policy measures likely to result in
more efficient use of existing capacity (backhauls; carrier restrictions;
tariff structure; spare parts availability and pricing; fuel availability and
pricing, etc.);
(h) determining - at the national, regional and urban center levels -
the most likely transport demand patterns for the next 5-10 year horizon,
taking into consideration:
(i) population growth (total/urban/rural) and spatial distribution;
(ii) agricultural production volume (total/self consumed/marketed);
(iii) firmly planned (financing available) agricultural and rural
development projects; and
(iv) indicators of level of living (GDP/cap., other).
(i) examining the economic viability of the most urgent road transport
investments determined on the basis of a)-b) above and proposing a 5-10 year
investment program for consideration by GOG; and
(j) proposing any changes in road transport regulation and taxation
suggested by e)-g) above for consideration by GOG, including a system for
financing foreign exchange costs of road maintenance.
Railways
9.       Based on the two recently completed studies of ONCFG (SOFRERAIL,
financed by CCCE 1979, TRACTIONEL, financed by AfDB, 1983), the consultant
will examine the economic viability of the solutions proposed for using
existing rail facilities to meet foreseeable rail passenger and freight trans-
port demand in the Conakry-Suburban and the Conakry-Kankan corridors over the
next 5-10 year horizon. The emphasis should be on extending the useful life
of those assets that do not require exorbitant rehabilitative maintenance, and
on more efficient operation and management of those parts of the network that
provide a needed service more economically than competing modes (urban
commuters?). All investment proposals should include an examination of tariff
adjustments necessary for their economic viability.
Airports and Air Transport
10.      Based an an inventory - to be drawn up in collaboration with MIGAT -
of existing regional airport facilities, and of present and foreseeable
traffic flows over the next 5-10 year horizon, the Consultant will: (i)
determine the level, type and cost of airport rehabilitation required to
accommodate medium term traffic under safe operating conditions; and (ii)
compare the cost of air services (including the cost of airport upgrading),



Annex 3-2
- 56 -                         Attachment 2
Page 5 of 5
and the level of service they would provide with those of alternative road
transport services and investments required to link the respective locations
to the priority network.
11.      The DPT should - in connection with AIR GUINEE - carry out a detailed
financial analysis of the company, including evaluation of its assets,
establish the level of tariffs (or subsidies) needed to turn AIR-GUINEE into a
commercially viable operation, and propose a time-table for introducing the
required revenue-raising measures.
Final Report
12.      One month before the completion of the assignment expected covering
20 m-m in all, the consultant should present  to the GOG a report summarizing
his recommendations including;
(a)  a list of sequential priority investments for all sectors based
on economic criteria and indicating required total investments
for each year over a five year period;
(b)  proposals for automatic financing of foreign exchange require-
ments for road maintenance equipment renewal and operation;
(c) policy measures (pricing/regulations) that would contribute to
greater transport sector efficiency, including a statement on
regulations that are not confined to the transport sector, but
may crucially affect its operations;
(d) organizational measures that would facilitate transport
operations; and
(e) training needs of transport sector managers and transport
operators, and suggested means of providing for them.



ANNEX 3-3
Page 1 of' 7
- 57 -
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OUTLINE TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE CONSULTANT-CONTRACTOR
1. Objectives
1.1      The Government of Guinea has approached the Association to assist in
financing inter alia, regravelling, improvement, and routine maintenance work
on the priority gravel road network of the country, under the proposed Third
Highway Project. It is anticipated that this work will be carried out with
the resources of the existing Ministere de l'Infrastructure et des Grands
Amenagements du Territoire (MIGAT) force account brigades, which will be
detached and transferred to the Office du Projet Routier (OPR), and will be
supplemented with equipment to be procured under the Project. The work to be
performed directly by the Division Travaux of OPR (DT) will comprise
regravelling of approximately 520 km of gravel roads; upgrading of about 570
km of earth roads to all-weather gravel standards, and routine maintenance
(including regular grading and spot regravelling) of a network of about
2,500 km.
1.2      The OPR organization chart is given in Annex 3-1, Attachment 1.  The
Consultant-Contractor will work within DT, reporting to the Director General
(DG) and the Directorate Council (CD) of the OPR. Work of the DT will be
supervised by the Engineering Consultant.  The DT Chief Engineer and his staff
subject to approval by CD will manage the DT resources in an efficient manner,
particularly in respect of hiring and firing personnel and determining their
compensation, and procurement and expediting of materials, and spare parts.
The Chief Engineer will participate as member in the Management Council of OPR
(see Proposed Organization of OPR, Annex 3-1).
1.3      The DT will be set up initially in accordance with the attached
tentative organization chart (Attachment 1). The Head Office establishment
and the Central Workshop will be located at the site of the existing workshop
at PK 10 on the Conakry-Mamou highway. The three Field Groups will operate in
the western, east-central and south-eastern areas of the country,
respectively; their offices, workshops and stores will move from time to time,
and will be located near the center of gravity of each group's operations.
1.4      It is the wish of the Government of Guinea that he DT should be
managed following commercial practices, as a first step towards the longer-
term objective of transforming it into a competitive societe mixte.
2.  Scope of the Work
2.1      MIGAT wishes to engage a firm (hereinafter "the Consultant-
Contractor"), experienced in company and contract management for highway
construction, to assist in setting up the overall organization of the DT, and
provide specialized services for enterprise and site management; office,



ANNEX 3-3
- 58 -                         Page 2 of 7
workshop, and site operations; and training of DT personnel to perform all
necessary technical and management functions to achieve the above
objectives. The scope of the Consultant-Contractor's services will therefore
include:
(I) Setting up a management framework for the DT. The Consultant-
Contractor will devise a management structure suitable for DT operations,
including job descriptions for all key positions and suitable delegation
and communication lines, within offices, workshops, and sites, and between
these centers. Suitable procedures for planning, running and controlling
the operations of the DT will be introduced, backed by all necessary
manuals, guidelines and forms.
(II) Setting up the DT initial resources. The Consultant-Contractor will,
on the basis of his evaluation of the existing resources:
(a) Assign DT staff to suitable positions in the organization;
recruit new staff, and train existing and new staff in all functions
required to operate the DT.
(b) Direct the repair of existing construction equipment, and
program and expedite the purchase of any new units required. A list
of equipment, existing and proposed for purchase, is in Attachment 2.
(c) Direct the building, adaptation, furnishing and equipping of
living, office, storage, and workshop accommodations as required by
headquarters and field operations.
(d)  Direct the carrying out and costing of inventories; open
accounting books; take up insurances as required; and take charge of
all inventories and accounts.
(III) Management and operational work. The Consultant-Contractor will:
(a) provide technical assistance for the performance of all management
and technical functions required for starting up and regular operations of
the DT. These functions will include general, administrative, and
technical management; management of construction and maintenance site
work; procurement, repair, and maintenance of equipment; procurement,
storage, and field logistics for materials, spares and other supplies;
personnel administration; estimating; cost reporting and control in field
operations, workshops and offices; progress reporting, preparation of
progress statements; accounting; financing statements, balances. In
particular, the Consultant-Contractor will seek to introduce a
labor/equipment mix and technology appropriate to work conditions in
Guinea;
(b) procure spare parts, lubricants and other foreign supplies, to the
DT; and
(c) supervise and regularly review DT performance and, if unsatisfactory,
recommend and implement necessary changes.



ANNEX 3-3
Page 3 of 7
-59 -
2.2      The DT will initially carry out the work listed under para. 1.1,
within the times shown in the attached program (Attachment 3). A tentative
list of the roads to be regravelled, upgraded and maintained, showing where
applicable lengths in kilometers, widths, anticipated gravel thicknesses and
number of grader passes is also attached (Attachment 4). Within the first
month of the start of management and operational work (para. 2.1 (III)), the
DT will prepare an estimate of the cost of the works, and a detailed program
for their execution, to comply with the general program shown in
Attachment 2. The management procedures and resource planning will assume a
continuing load of a similar nature in the years following completion of the
Project.
2.3      The Consultant-Contractor's personnel assigned to work with the DT
(the Project Team) will take up key in-line positions initially, and shall
train Guinean understudies for their own positions, as well as other Guinean
personnel required to carry out the management and technical functions to
operate the DT as a modern contracting organization. No later than three
months before completing their period of attachment to the DT, Project Team
members will transfer their responsibilities to their Guinean understudies,
and will continue to provide them with on-the-job training until the end of
their period of attachment.
2.4      The project Team will concern itself particularly with the efficiency
of DT operations, and the quality, timeliness and cost of its production. The
training of DT personnel will be coordinated with the work of the training
expert who will assist OPR as part of the Engineering Consultants' team.
2.5      The quality, timeliness and cost of the DT production will be audited
by the Engineering Consultants, appointed by MIGAT under separate terms of
reference.
3. Resources
3.1      MIGAT will make available such personnel, materials, equipment, spare
parts, working space, quarries and construction sites, and financial resources
as may be required for the performance of the Consultant-Contractor's duties,
both with respect to the services to be provided by the Consultant-Contractor,
and to enable the DT to function without hindrance, to achieve the objectives
set out in Section 1, within program times and with the required quality.
These resources will be made available at the times and will be of the quality
agreed upon between DG and the Consultant-Contractor. The Consultant-
Contractor's proposal shall include a list of the existing and new resources
to be made available to the DT. In entering into the Consultancy Contract,
the Consultant-Contractor will be deemed to have inspected and evaluated the
terrain in which the Project Works will be carried out, and the existing MIGAT
resources which will be assigned to the DT.
3.2      The Consultant-Contractor will make available senior and middle
management personnel, as required to meet the construction and maintenance
goals (para. 1.1) within the programmed times (Attachment 3).  As a minimum,
the project team will consist of one Chief Engineer, manager of the DT and
Team Leader; one financial analyst/accountant; three field group managers;
three field group mechanics; one equipment manager; one estimator/cost



ANNEX 3-3
Page 4 of 7
- 60 -
accountant; and one purchaser/expeditor. The Consultant-Contractor may,
subject to the approval of the Directorate Council, increase the number of
personnel assigned to the Project, provided that the total number of man-
months payable under the Agreement will not exceed 276, except as provided for
by clause 5.4 hereunder.
3.3      At least five members of the Project Team (Chief Engineer, equipment
manager, two qualified mechanics and purchaser/expeditor) should arrive in
Guinea 3 months prior to the rest of the team, to initiate the preparation as
outlined under paragraphs 2.1 (I) and (II). These five members of the Project
Team, plus the estimator/cost accountant should remain in Guinea for 1 month
after completion of Project construction and maintenance work, to prepare
reports and accounts for the project work, and provide continuing technical
assistance to the DT. The duration of the Consultant-Contract will thus be of
no less than three years.
3.4      The curricula vitae of the persons proposed for each position will be
given by the prospective Consultant-ContractorS in their proposals. They
shall have experience in civil engineering construction in Africa. The
minimum experience required for the positions of chief engineer, equipment
manager, and estimator/cost accountant will be of ten years in the contracting
industry, with at least three in a position bearing similar responsibility
within the Consultant-Contractor firm; for all other members of the Project
Team, the minimum required experience in the contracting industry will be of
five years. Should it become necessary to replace one or more of the Project
Team members, the new candidate(s) will have qualifications and experience
equal to or better than those of the person(s) replaced.
3.5      The Consultant-Contractor will provide the DT with all necessary
manuals, guidelines, and forms necessary for the performance of the DT as a
modern, efficient contracting organization. The prospective Consultant-
Contractors' proposals shall include a list of these documents, and of such
proprietary hard- or soft-ware as may be necessary for the same purpose, and
whose purchase may be included within the Consultancy Contract, or arranged
for separately by MIGAT.
4. Reporting
4.1      The Consultant-Contractor will furnish the following reports, in
respect of the services rendered by the Consultant-Contractor and the state of
preparedness and performance of all elements of the DT.
4.2      On completion of the task described in para. 2.1 (I), a report
describing the organizational and management structure proposed for the DT
setting out a program for its introduction; and summarizing job descriptions
and key procedures proposed for planning, directing and controlling the DT
operations.
4.3      On completion of the Task described in para. 2.1 (II), a report
describing the DT resources (including an opening financial statement), at the
start of the Consultant-Contract; the actions taken during the initial period



ANNEX 3-3
-61 -                           Page 5 of 7
of three months; and detailed action plans for further strengtening DT
resources, including particularly a program for their implementation.
4.4      With regard to the execution of the tasks described in para.
2.1 (III)
(a) Monthly cost information, in a form suitable for incorporation
in OPR financial statements;
(b) Monthly progress reports, setting out physical progress and cost
of the work carried out by the DT;
(c) Quarterly progress reports, describing the physical and
financial performance of the DT, analyzing the units of each Field
Group individually and the DT as a whole.  Performance will be
analyzed against the agreed program (as incorporated in the
Consultancy Contract). Deviations of +/-10% from program will be
analyzed, to determine the causes of better or worse performance; in
the latter case, the corrective measures being applied will be
described. The work ahead, in respect of likely changes and their
effect on work progress and financial results will be reviewed;
(d) Final Report, describing the development of the DT and analyzing
its performance throughout the Management Contract period. The DT
performance will be analyzed both in terms of physical production,
relative to the construction of the works, meeting quality standards
and within the program times, and of costs per kilometer achieved and
per unit of work, after one year and two years of construction work,
relative to the initial estimate (para. 2.2). The report will also
present detailed recommendations for further improving the efficiency
of the DT; the feasibility of transforming it into an autonomous
constuction enterprise, and the steps necessary to achieve this.
5. Price and Payment
5.1      In its proposal, the prospective Consultant-Contractor will specify
the following price elements:
(i) The man-month rate for members of the Project Team, grouped in
no more than three categories, each with a single rate for all staff
in the category, inclusive of salary; leave, holiday, and sick pay;
insurances, superannuation and other social charges; overseas
allowance including personal non-business transportation within the
country; and the company's overhead (inclusive of Head Office support
to the resident Project Team, including Head Office expenses, travel,
Partners or Directors fees, etc);
(ii) The average man-month rate to be applied to each of the three
phases of the work (5.3a (i), (ii) and (iii)), and the basis for its
calculation, showing the participation of the man-month rate for each
category in the average rate make-up;



ANNEX 3-3
Page 6 of 7
- 62 -
(iii) Reimbursable items relative to individuals, such as
international travel for the staff menmber and family on appointment,
termination and leave(s), including excess baggage and other
allowances; housing; local transport; subsistence and other similar
expenses while in Guinea. The proposal will specify the quantity of
each reimbursable item, and the basis for calculation;
(iv) the cost of proprietary hardware or software considered
essential for the performance of the Management Contractor's work,
and the cost of printing manuals, guidelines and forms for use by the
DT; and
(v) the officially recognized national or international index by
which the Consultant-Contractor proposes that the average man-month
rate (5.1 (ii)) be adjusted for inflation.
5.2      In his proposal, the Prospective Consultant-Contractor will also
specify:
(i) Personnel time per km of regravelLing or of upgrading earth
roads, expresssed as (average staff) man-months per km; and
(ii)  Do., for routine maintenance, expressed as (average staff) man-
month per km/grader pass, and man-months per 1000m3 of spot
regravelling.
5.3      Payment will be effected as follows:
(a)  Staff monthly rates will be payable:
(i) For the initial preparatory period, comprising the setting up of
the DT organization and management structure; recruitment and initial
training of DT staff; repairing equipment; setting up offices, camps
and workshops. Up to the time construction work on regravelling or
upgrading earth roads starts on site, the Consultant-Contractor will
be paid the average man-month rate (5.1 (ii)) for the time actually
spent by staff in Guinea working in the Project, on the basis of
monthly statements of accounts. The nuaber of man-months payable
under this stage will not exceed 58. Routine maintenance work
carried out during this period will not attract other charges;
(ii) for the period of construction and maintenance operations,
payment will be based on completed work, by multiplying the personnel
times (5.2 (i) and (ii)) by the quantit:Les of each type of work
completed, by the average man-month rate (5.1 (ii)). Monthly
statements of account will be presented. The number of man-months
payable under this stage of the work wiLl not exceed 210; and
(iii) for the period following the completion of construction and
maintenance operations, payment will be on the same basis as 5.3 (a)
(i), except that the number of man-months payable under this stage
will not exceed 8.
(b) Reimbursable items as described in paras. 5.1 (ii) and (iii) will be



ANNEX 3-3
Page 7 of 7
-63 -
payable on monthly statements of account;
(c) Retention. Ten percent of each payment made under a (ii) above will
be retained and payable annually to the Consultant-Contractor on
satisfactory completion of the works of the annual program, (within a
+/-10% margin). If audited production exceeds 110% of the above
lengths of regravelling and upgrading of earth roads, the retention
will be increased following a sliding scale, up to a maximum premium
of 50% over the original sum, for increases of 30% and over above
those lengths. If audited production drops below 90% of those
lengths, the retention will reduce following a sliding scale, down to
a minimum of 3% for productions of 70% and less. For the purposes of
this computation, regravelling and earth road upgrading lengths will
be considered equivalent; and
(d) The increased cost of staff man-month rates will be computed for each
month by referring the index for the month in which the work was
carried out to the index at the date of presentation of the proposal.
5.4      The two-year 'construction period' may be extended if delays occur
which are beyond the control of the Consultant-Contractor, as certified by the
Project Consultant. The Consultant-Contractor will be paid the average man-
month rate for the number of personnel working in Guinea during the period of
delay, and the maximum number of man-months specified under 5.3 (a) (ii) will
be extended accordingly. For purposes of computing the retention, the
extended construction period will not apply.
5.5      The Engineering Consultants will be in charge of auditing staff
numbers and the quantities involved in reimbursable items, the financial
performance of the DT referred to the initial estimate, and the quality and
quantity of acceptable work completed including physical site work and
reports, for the purpose of certifying the monthly and final statements of
work performed to be presented by the Consultant-Contractor, and adjusting the
performance fee.
6. Bonus Payable to Guinean Personnel Employed by the DT
6.1      The Consultant-Contractor will calculate, and present for DG's
approval, the bonus which will be paid to Guinean personnel employed by
the DT. The bonus will be based on the total wages or salaries paid during
the period of attachment of such personnel to the DT, in the course of
execution of the Project Works. A bonus of 50% of total wages or salaries
will be payable on satisfactory completion of the programmed work, +/-10%.
This bonus will be adjusted in the same manner as the Consultant-Contractor's
retention, and following the procedure described for this purpose in paras.
5.3 (c) and 5.4.



REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRA I SAL REPORT
Organization of the Division of Works of OPR
3Road Project1Management Co1ncil  (CpPR)n
|OPR - Director General  (G 
3 s I Brigade Chiehief-DiE.rofwoork
3C 1 Sief Engineer*C
Deputy ChieI  Af Div.
Highways                                                                                                                                          c
Esiisr tive  iviion/Cs   cu- e   eto                 ucalgEpdto    eto                 
Field Groaups                              Obnthral Stores/Zi3ntral                                               etrkshop (Cl)         Accountantn 1fhe   spdtr
3 x 1IField Group Manager'                        i iMechanfcal Engineer-Workshop Manager*                Iept Adm1nistrative Manager
3 x 1 Field Group Mechanic*                       I Deputy Manager                                                        l Deputy Administratlp E t s c aD yo
3 x I Brigade Chief - Earthworks_._.
3 x I Section Chief - Grading
3 x 1. Section Chief - Spot Regraveln
3x 5Thechanitfs                                                                                     Acconts Secteoa n
__________________                                  Office and General
I Cif Accountant                                        Srie    aae
Estimation/Cost Ar-counting Section    Purcihasing/Expediltion Section  |r|
1Senior Estimator/Cost Accountant.          1  hefEpeiorE
I Deputy Estimator/Cost Accountant           _1 Deputy ExpedlFor              IDJ 
*The positions marked with asterisk should be filled by expatri.ate project management team
Source: Appraisal Mission
March 1984



- 65 -
ANNEX 3-3
Attachment 2
MIGAT/DT - List of Equipment
Existing and Proposed for Procurement
Proposed
Reference              Type of Equipment              Existing        Procurement
01          Dozer                                        7              _
02          Dozer                                        3              _
03          Loader 1500 I                               11              _
04          Grader                                      21              -
05          Hydraulic Shoval                          6- 4
06          Compactor 22T, 7 Wheels                      7              -
07          Fourwheel Drive Vehicle                 42-15               7
08          Truck:  Tipper 8.5T                     113-87              _
09                   Flatbed 8.5T                        8
10                  Waterbowser, 8,000 I            11- 8              -
11                   Fuel Tanker                     9- 6               1
12                   Supply 8.5T                     7- 6              2
14                  Workshop                         4- 3              -
15          Road Tractor                                 2             3
16          Low Loader                                   2             3
17          Repair Truck                                 2             -
18          Mobile Crane                                 1             -
19          Fork Lift                                    2             -
20          Carry Crane                               4- 1              -
21          Fuel Tanker 10,000 I                     14-13              -
23          Multiple Tank Truck 8,000 I                  -              1
24          Trailer for Fuel Tanks 2,000 I               -             -
25          Compressor                               16-13              _
27          Drill                                       12              -
28          Soldering Equipment                          3              -
29          Generator 50 kw                              4              -
30          Motor-Home                                   1              -
31          Mobile Home                                  -              6
32          Van                                                         3
33          Loader, on tracks (CAT 933)                  -              3
34          Vibrating Roller-light                    9- 8              _
35          Vibrating Roller-heavy                       5              -
36          Minibus                                      -              2
37          SSB radio - base                                           4
38          SSB radio - mobile                                          10
a/  Where two numbers are shown, the first indicates total number of units
purchased under 1st and 2nd Highway Projects; the second indicates the
units available as of February 1983.
Source: Consultants' Report
March 1984



- 66 -
ANNEX 3-3
Attachment 3
DT Work and Project Team Program
(A)  Personnel Program                                   Date (beginning of month)
Arrival of core team                               M
Arrival of the last team member                    M+8
Departure of field personnel                       M+33
Departure of rest of the team                      M+34
(B) Work Program
Setting up of management framework for DT          M+3
Initial resource planning                          M+3
Resources: beginning of acquisition,
improvement, renewal                            M+4
Resources: End of acquisition, improvement,
renewal                                         M+10
Estimate and detailed work program                 M+3
Start of limited site works                        M+4
Start of all site works                            M+10
End of site works                                  M+32
Source: Appraisal Mission
March 1984



- 67 -
ANNEX 3-3
Attachient 4
Tentative List of DT Work
Km    Width    Thickness
(m)        (cm)
1.  Regravelling
Dubreka-Fria                                    58       7          25
Fria-Boffa                                      43       6          20
Beyla-N'Zerekore                               135       6          15
Boffa-Kolabouny (part)                          21       6           15
Farmoreah-Sierra Leone                          10       6          15
Boka-Gaoual                                    178       4           7
2. Upgrading Earth Roads
Boffa-Kolabouny (part)                          90       6          15
Beyla-Sinco                                     56       4          10
Lola-Ivory Coast                                35       4          10
Labe-Mali (part                                104       4          10
Koubia Spur                                     33       4           10
Seriba-Kundara-Senegal                         137       4          10
N'Zerekore-Yomou                                61       4           10
Popodara-Lelouma - Intersection                 83       4           7
Koundara - Guinea Bissau Border                 41       4          10
3.  Routine Maintenance                              Km         No. of grader passes
(Indicative number of grader passes per
annum. Spot regravelling will depend
on actual site requirements)
Dubreka-Carrefour de Rte. Fria                  58                   4
Carref. Fria-Boffa                              43                   3
Boffa-Kolaboui                                 11                   2
Boke-Gaoual                                    178                   1
Koundara-Seriba                                 24                    1
Kindia-Gaoual                                  270                    1
Gaoual-Seriba                                   17                    1
Seriba-Labe                                    147                   2
Labe-Mali                                      121                    1
Labe-Koubia                                     66                   1
Labe-Tougue                                     86                    1
Mamou-Dabola-Kouroussa-Kendan                  358                    1
Dabola-Dinguiraye                               81                    1
Kankan-Siguiri                                 126                    2
Siguiri-Frontier                                85                    1
Kankan-Kerouane                                145                    1
Kerouane-Beyla                                 113                    2
Beyla-Sinko                                     56                    1
Beyla-N'Zerekore                               135                   2
N'Zerekore-Yomou                                61                    1
N'Zerekore-Lola-Frontier                        69                   1
Lola-Frontier                                   35                    1



ANNEX 3-3
Attachment 5
- 68 -                       Page 1 of 2
ACTION PLAN
(a) Operations of the Division of Works (DT)
1.       On arrival of the advance Consultant Contractor team in Guinea, the
DT Chief Engineer will establish unit prices for six operations (a lump sum
for prefabricated building construction and workshop rehabilitation/km of
grading/m3 of spot regravelling/km of land clearing for rehabilitation/m3 of
graveling/unit of metal culvert). These unit prices should cover all DT
operating costs including local staff, fuel, lubricants, spare parts and
materials, but excluding costs covered by the contract (expatriates salaries
and expenses, overhead), and cost of equipment renewal. The DT Chief Engineer
will list equipment to be renewed and complementary equipment needed, if
any. He will also quote a work program with specific targets (physical
targets and in term of quantities) every six imonths. The DT work programs
will be reviewed by the DG and then submitted to the Management Council
(CGPR).
2.       To make DT operational the DG will establish two revolving funds
(local bank accounts in dollars and sylis respectively) to be alimented by IDA
and Government in the amounts of $530,000 and GSY 25 million corresponding to
about four months of DT operating expenses.
3.       The DT Chief Engineer will recommend the appointment staff for the DT
from among MIGAT and CGR road maintenance personnel or others in the Guinean
or West African market, will set up DT salary scales, hire staff and start up
DT operations according to the work program.
4.       The DT Chief Engineer will manage the erection of the prefabricated
buildings for the OPR Head Office and the rehabilitation of the workshop. He
will contract with ONAH-Importex the supply of fuel purchased in bulk (to be
paid in dollars, unit price documented by the Importex contract with its
foreign supplier; and stored in Conakry Port tanks). He will use the services
of the Consultant-Contractor Head Office for the procurement of the supply of
lubricants, spare parts, materials and workshop supplies except for urgently
needed and other supplies that may be available from local suppliers on better
terms.
(b) Procurement of Equipment
5.       The list of equipment needed will be finalized by the Advance Team,
and approved by the DG and IDA. The Consultant-Contractor will prepare bid
documents and OPR will call for bids on ICB procedures following Bank Group
Guidelines; receive the bids and analyse them. After approval of the bid
evaluation report by DG and the Association, contracts will be signed between
the Government of Guinea and the suppliers.  OPR will certify payments to
suppliers, check equipment and supervise its transport to Conakry. Reception
of the equipment in Conakry will be under DT responsibility.
(c) Procurement of Spare Parts - Lubricants - Supplies
6.       The Advance Team will prepare an estimate of the annual need of



- 69 -
ANNEX 3-3
Attachment 5
Page 2 of 2
equipment spare parts,lubricants and supplies by broad categories (makes and
types for proprietary spare parts; non-proprietary spare parts; lubricants;
workshop and construction supplies). All non proprietary parts or purchases
which can be grouped will be procured through ICB. Other spare parts
purchases will be procured through the equipment manufacturer for proprietary
parts or through the head office of the Consultant-Contractor who will act as
procurement agent or through Limited International Bidding.



- 70 -
ANNEX 3-3
Attachment 6
Criteria for the Selection of Consultant-Contractors for the DT
1.       The following criteria will be used for selecting the Consultant-
Contractor who will provide technical assistance to the Division of Works,
(DT) of OPR. They are based on the premise that short-listed firms would be
experienced in road construction in Africa.
Criteria                                                              Points
(a) The company's proposal, in terms of the service offered:
quality of the management package proposed, observance of
the terms of reference.                                              20
(b) The company's proposal, in terms of its assesment of the DT
resources required to achieve the objectives set out in the
Terms of Reference (para. 3.1 of TOR). Deduct points for
requirements in excess of existing DT resources and proposed
equipment purchases.                                                 20
(c) Personnel. Compliance with the criteria set out under para.
3.4 of the Terms of Reference. Of the total "points" assigned
to personnel, 6 "points" will be allocated to the Chief
Engineer of the DTOPR (Team Leader) and the balance spread
equally among the other members.                                     30
(d) Price. The price elements listed under para. 5.1 of the
Terms of Reference, extended by the maximum number of
m-m specified in the TOR, and by the number of staff
(in respect of fares, and other reimbursable items); other
costs as quoted by the Company, and fee, assuming compliance
with the objectives set out in the TOR (i.e., base fee is
paid).                                                               30
100
2.       For item (d) full marks will be given to the lowest acceptable
proposal; and 1 point will be deducted for each $100,000 (or fraction thereof)
of excess.



-     -                                 ANNEX 3-4
-                                      Page 1 of 3
REVOUJI0NARY PEOPLE'S REHJBMC OF GUINEA
THIR  HIGHWAY PROJET
SLOA  APPRAISAL   ORT
Detailed Project Cost Estimates
(March 1984 Prices)
Foreign                       Net                        Total
Item         Description               Exchange    Iocal Cost        Cost        I*xes          Cost
(9?m       (G&l)  ($m) L/   ($M)    (G&)       ($m1)V a/T 7M
PACKAGE A: The Unpaved Priority Network
A.1    Iabor-based Maintenance Works      -        62.8  2.730      2.730      3.2     0.137    2.867
Base*                           -        48.0   2.087     2.0C7      2.4    0.104    2.191
R ysical Contingencies          -         4.8   0.209     0.209      0.2    0.010    0.219
Price Contingencies             -        10.0  0.435      0.435      0.5    0.022   0.456
A.2       Equipment-Based Maintenance
and Rehabilitation Works       7.446    183.5   7.99D    15.425      9.1    0-397   15.823
2.1   Grading: Staff                    -        10.9  0.474      0.474      0.6    0.024    0.498
2.2             Spare Parts            0.320       -       --    0.320        -         -     0.320
2.3             Fuel*                  0.168       -       -      0.168       -         -     0.168
2.4   Spot RegraveLling:  Staff         -        22.5   0.977     0.977      1.1     0.049    1.026
2.5                       Spare Parts 0.575        -       -      0.575       -         -     0.575
2.6                       Fhel*        0.249       -       -      0.249       -         -    0.249
2.7  GraveiJng:  Staff                  -        78.8   3.426     3.426      3.9    0.171    3.597
2.8                Spare Parts         2.430       -       -      2.430       -         -     2.430
2.9                Fael*               1.053       -       -      1.053       -         -     1.053
2.10 P.K.10:  Staff                     -        25.3   1.100     1.1C0      1.3    0.055    1.155
2.11           Spare Parts             0.524       -       -      0.524       -         -     0.524
2.12           Fuel*                   0.223       -       -      0.223       -         -     0.223
2.13           Tools (Workshop Supp.)* 0.277       -       -      0.277       -         -     0.277
2.14           Steel Culvert#d         0.151       -       --    0.151        -         -    0.151
2.15           Miscellaneous Supp.*   0.025       0.6  0.025      0.050       -         -    0.050
2.16  OPR: Staff                        -        19.2  0.834    0.834        1.0    0.042   0.876
2.17        Spare Parts                0.038       -       -      0.03B       -         -     0.0C8
2.18        Fuel*                      0.103       -       -      0.103       -         -     0.103
Base Cost                      6.185   157.2   6.836    13.021       7.8    0.341   13.362
Physical Contingencies         0.225      0.1   0.0)3     0.227       -         -    0.227
Price Contingencies            1.036     26.2  1.141      2.177      1.3    0.057    2.234
a/   At official exchange rate of US$1 =GSy 23.
*    Items on which physical contingencies of 1c% have been allowed.



- 72 -                                       ANNEX 3-4
Page 2 of 3
REVOUJTIONARY PEDPLE'S REUEBMC OF GUINEA
THETD HEG1NAY PROJE1CT
STAFF APPRAISAL REFORT
Detailed Project Cost Estimates
(March 1984 Prices)
Foreign                      Net                        Total
Item        Description               Exchange     Local Cost       Cost         Taxes         Cost
($)  (GSr)   ($)     () ($)l    $(a)   -F
A.3     Equilnent Renewal & Building
Constraction, Rehabilitation    7.281      3.5  0.150    7.431         -         -    7.431
3.1   Biuipnent Renewal               6.441       -       -      6.441       -               6.441
3.2   Rliding Construction, Workshop 0.272      3.1   0.134    0.406        -         -    0.406
Rehabilitationf 
Base Cost                     6.713      3.1   0.134     6.847       -               6.847
Physical Contingencies        0.027      0.3  0.013      0.041       -               0.041
Price Contingencies           0.541      0.1   0.003    0.544        -         --    0.544
A.4     Technical Assistance, Audit
Training                        8.174     15.4   0.668    8.842        -         -    8.842
4.1  Technical Assistance to OPR*     2.840      4.7  0.204      3.044       -         -     3.044
4.2  Audit*                           0.113      0.2  0.008    0.121         -         -    0.121
4.3  Technical Assistance to DI*      3.403      5.6  0.245      3.653       -         -    3.653
4.4  Training: Equiment*              0.101       -       -      0.101       -         -    0.101
4.5             Training Fees*           -        1.6  0.070     0.070       -         -    0.070
Base Cost                     6.461     12.1  0.527      6.988       -         -    6.98B
Fhysical Contingencies        0.646      1.2  0.053    0.699         -         -    0.699
Price Contingencies            1.067     2.0  0.089      1.156       -         -     1.156
TOTAL PAGCKAG A                22.901    265.1  11528    34.429     12.3    0.534  34.963
Base Cost                    19.359   2Z).4  9.584   28.943         5.5    0*445   29.385
Physical Contingencies        0.839      6.4  0.277      1.175      0.2    0.010    1.186
Price Contingencies           2.643    38.3   1.667    4.311        1.8    0.079   4.389
a/   At official exchange rate of US$1 = GSy 23.
*     Items on which physical contingencies of 1C( have been allowed.



- 73 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 3 of 3
REVOLUTIONARY PFJPLE'S REPJBLIC OF GUINEA
THIRD IGHWIAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Detailed Project Cost R3timates
(March 1984 Prices)
Foreign                     Net                       Total
Item        Description              Exchange    Local Cost       Cost        Taxes        Cost
($n)      (GSn)  ($n1) .2   ($M)   (Gan)    ($n)  1 (W)
PACKAGE B: The Paved Priority Network
B.1    Rehabilitation of Conakxy-M4amou 20.542   166.0  7.217   27.759                -   27.759
1.1  Rehabilitation: Conakry-Kindia *  8.864   71.6  3.114   11.978       -         -   11.978
1.2                 Kindia-Mamou*    6.902   55.8  2.425    9.327         -         __   9.327
Base Cost                    15.766  1Z7.4  5.539   21.305         -        -   21.305
Phy'sical Contingencies       1.577    12.7  0.554    2.131        -        --   2.131
Price Contingencies           3.199   25.9  1.124    4.323        -         -    4.323
B.2    Resurfacing of Paved Roads       8.130   65.7  2.856   10.986        -         -   10.986
Reesurfacing:
2.1    Manu-Labe*                     3.092   25.0  1.086    4.178        -         -    4.178
2.2    Dubrelm/Forecariah Rds.*       1 .240    9,7  0.423    1.627       -         -    1.627
2.3   MInou-Faranah-Kissidougou Rds. *1 .862   15.0  0.654    2.516       -         -    2.516
Base Cost                     6.158   49.8  2.164    8.322        -         -    8.322
Physical Contingencies        0.616    5.0  0.216    0.832         -        --   0.832
Price Contingencies           1.356   10.9  0.476    1.832        -         -    1.832
Total PACKAGE B                28.671   231,7  10.074   38.745      -              38.745
Base Cost                    21.924   177.2  7.703   29.627        -        -   29.627
Thysical Contingencies        2.192   17.7  0.770    2.963        -         -    2.963
Price Contingencies           4.555   36.8  1.60W    6.156        -         -    6.156
GRAND TOAL                     51.572  496.8 21.602   73.174    12.3    0.534  73.7C0
Base Cost                    41.283  397.6  17.287   58.569    10.2    0.445  59.014
Physical Contingencies        3.090   24.1  1.048    4.138       0.2    0.010   4.148
Price Contingencies           7.199   75.2  3.268    10.466       1.8    0.079  10.545
a!   At official exchange rate of US$1 = GSy 23.
Note: Totals may not add due to rouding.
Source: LBT Preparation Report and Mission Estimates
March 1984



74 -                             ANNEX 3-5
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUJBLIC OF GUINEA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Proposed Schedule of Projec1; Implementation
1. Establishment of the Road Project Office
Terms of reference for technical assistance                   October   1983
Shortlist:  Consultant-Contractor, Engineering Consultant   October   1983
Invitation of proposals                                    10 November  1983
Submission of proposals                                    10 April      1984
Bid evaluation report                                       10 May       1984
Bid award/contract signature                               10 June       1984
Arrival of core personnel                                   -1 July      1984
Establishment of offices, bank accounts, etc.                1 August    1984
Arrival of last expert                                       1 March     1985
End of unpaved road works                                   1 April      1987
Departure Consultant-Contractor core team                  31 May        1987
2.  Road Construction Equipment Renewal
Bid documents ready                                        15 July       1984
Call for bids                                                1 August    1984
Receipt of bids-bid opening                                30 September 1984
Bid evaluation report                                       15 October   1984
Notification of awards                                      15 November  1984
Contract signature                                         30 November  1984
Start equipment delivery                                       January   1985
3.  Reconstruction of Conakry-Mamou Road by Contractor(s)
Bid documents ready                                          1 May       1984
Call for bids                                                1 July      1984
Bid submission and opening                                 15 September 1984
Bid evaluation report                                        1 November  1984
Award of Contract                                            1 January   1985
Contract signature                                          1 February  1985
Start-up of works                                            1 March     1985
Completion of works                                        31 August    1987
4. Periodic Maintenance of Paved Roads by Conitractor(s)
Bid documents ready                                          1 November  1984
Call for bids                                              15 December  1984
Receipt of bids - bid opening                              28 February  1985
Bid evaluation report                                       15 April     1985
Award of contract                                            1 June      1985
Contract signature                                          1 July       1985
Start-up of works                                            1 September 1985
Completion of works                                        30 April      1987
March 1984



- 75-
ANNEX 4-1
Page I of 2
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Estimated Vehicle Operating Cost (VOC)
A. VOC 1975, 1978, 1980 (GSY/vehicle/km, net of taxes)
PAVED ROADS                      GRAVEL ROADS           EARTH
VEHICLE TYPE                         Good    Fair    Poor    V. Poor    Good    Fair    Poor    V. Poor
1975 -/
Light Vehicle*                     1.5      1.6      1.7                  1.7     2.2      2.7        4.0
Heavy Vehicle (8-10 t)             3.9      4.4      4.9                 4.9      6.3      7.7       11.1
1978 bI
Car                                1.6      1.7      1.9                  1.9     2.4      2.7        3.1
Van                                2.7      3.1     3.6                  3.5      4.3      5.0        6.0
Truck (10 t)                       9.5    10.3    11.2                   11.2    13.2    14.6        16.5
1980 C-
Car                                3.82    4.62    5.47         8.00      5.14    6.78    9.40       12.28
Van/Taxi/Jeep                      5.31    6.18    7.14        9.92      6.68    8.48   11.38        14.62
Small bus (up to 25 seats)         6.60    8.48   10.44        16.14     9.42   13.16   18.92        24.94
Light Truck (5 ton tare)          11.24   12.42   13.76        17.40    13.18   15.54   19.28        23.58
Heavy Truck (8 ton tare)          15.76   17.38   19.18       24.18    18.38   21.62   26.76         32.80
*      Includes passenger cars, station wagons and vans.
SOURCES:
ai    First Highway Project, SAR, May 1975 prices.
bf    Second Highway Project SAR, 1978 prices.
c/    Consultant's and mission estimates using Bank's Highway Design Model, 1980 prices.
March 1984



- 76 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 2 of 2
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
B.  VOC 198a! (in US$/vehicle/km)
Road Condition
Good         Fair         Bad        Very Bad
PAVED ROADS
Passenger Car                     0.191         0.231        0.274         0.400
Pick-up                           0.266         0.309        0.357         0.496
Bus (22 pi.)                      0.330         0.424        0.522         0.807
Light Truck ( 4t)                 0.562         0.621        0.688         0.870
Heavy Truck                       0.788        0.869         0.960         1.209
-----------------------------------------------------------------__---------
Rise (m/km)                          5           10           20            30
Fall (m/km)                          5           10           20            30
Curvature (degrees/km)              50          100          150           200
Roughness (mm/km)               2,500         3,500        4,500         7,500
Altitude (m)                        50          250          500         1,500
UNPAVED ROADS
Passenger Car                      0.257        0.339        0.470         0.614
Pick-up                           0.334         0.424        0.569         0.731
Bus (22 pl.)                      0.471         0.658        0.946         1.247
Light Truck ( 4t)                 0.659         0.777        0.964         1.179
Heavy Truck                       0.919         1.081        1.338         1.640
--------------------------------------------_.-------------------__----------
Rise (m/km)                          5           10           20            30
Fall (m/km)                          5           10           20            30
Curvature (degrees/km)              50          100          150           200
Roughness (mm/km)               4,000        6,000         9,000        12,000
AItitude                            50          250          500         1,000
Moisture (%)                         0            5           10            15
Rut Depth (mm)                       5           20           35            50
Surface looseness (mm)               5           10           15            20
a/     At mid-1980 prices in economic terms, i.e., net of taxes and with local
cost components evaluated at GSy 40 = US$1; as estimated by the HDM.
Source:  Consultants-'report, based on HDM estimates
March 1984



- 77 -
ANNEX 4-2
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
THIRD  HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Road Maintenance Strategies for the Unpaved Priority Network:
Without and With  Project Case
Without Project                                          Standards for Links With Different Traffic Volumes (vpd)
less than                                     more than
25       25-50    51-100    101-250           250
I.  Labor-based Mainten. (Brush clearing etc.)                             s a m e    s t a n d a r d
2. Grading (frequency In days)
dry season only                                         160        160        160        160           160
3.  Materials Replacement (m3/km/yr.)                            2.5        5         15        30             45
With Project
1.  Labor-based Mainten. (Brush cleaning, etc.)                             s a m e    s t a n d a r d
2. Grading (frequency in days)
dry season                                              120         90         60         45            30
raIny season                                            120         90         60         45            30
3.  Materials Replacement (m 3/km/yr.)                           5         10         30        60             90
4.  RegravelfIng
wrdth (m)                                                 4          4          5          6             7
thickness (cm)                                            5         10         15         20            25
frequency (yrs.)                                          8          8          8          5             4
5.  Earth Road Rehabilitation
Upgrade to gravel road over
width (m)                                               4          4          5        n.a          n.a
thickness (cm)                                          5         10         15        n.a          n.a
Source: Consultants' Report
March 1984



- 78 -
ANNEX 4-3
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REFORT
ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF A PROGRAM OF PERIODIC REGRAVELLING AND REHABILITATION
OF LATERITE AND EARTH ROADS AND THEIR ROUTINE MAINTENANCE
(US$ million)
Discounted Sums for 1983-1992 Period                Net Present Value
Incremental Cost        Vehicle Ope-               Total       Of these:
Discount    of Road Rehabili-         rating Cost    Ratio      Net         Foreign
Rate      tation and Maintenance    Savings        B / C    Benefits   Exchange Savings
(C)                  (B)                  (B - C)
Test I
0%                 36,05            231,47        6,42     195,42         131,27
10%                 27,02            147,54        5,46     120,52          80,12
12%                25,73             136,53        5,31     110,81          73,50
15%                 24,02            122,39        5,10      98,37          65,04
20%                 21,65            103,74        4,79      82,09          53,98
25%                 19,75             89,61        4,54      69,86          45,68
Overall economic rate of return (ERR) > 100%
Test 2
0%                 41,26            311,05        7,54     269,87         182,46
10%                 30,18            193,02        6,39    .162,84         109,17
12%                 28,63            177,71        6,21     149,08          99,77
15%                 26,58             158,2        5,95     131,54          87,80
20%                 23,78            132,47        5,57     108,70          72,22
25%                 21,55            113,20        5,25      91,66          60,61
Overall economic rate of return (ERR)> 100%
---------------------------------------------------------------------__------__-----------------------
ASSUMPTIONS:
Test I                    Test 2
3,5%                      7%               Annual growth rate of traffic
LI Truck (0,2)            LI Truck (0,2)   Equivalent axle load coefficients and (8.2t=1)
HI Truck (1,6)            HI Truck (1,6)   for typical ilght and heavy trucks operating in Guinea
--------------------------------------------------------------.----__--------__------------------------
Comparative Results for Links with Different 1980 Traffic Volumes
(US$ million)
Total Economic Cost, 1983-1992      Net Present Values (NPV)         NPV/Km
(Malntenance & Vehicle Oper.)             Discount Rate              ( 10%)
1980     Length of       With         Without
Traffic       Links        Project      Project           0%      10%      12%      15%      (S000)
(vpd)        (km)
more than 100         101        62,8        103,7           40,89    26,46    24,51    21,99       262
51 - 100              936       173,8        267,3           93,53    57,47    52,80    46,82        61
25 - 50             1,084       112,2        155,1           43,17    35,67    23,45    20,63        24
Less than 25        1,485        76,7         94,5           17,82    10,92    10,95     8.94         7
Total               3,606       425,5        620,6          195,41   120,52   110,81    98,38        33
Source:   Consultants' Report  (Louis Berger/TractiorLel,  B2)
March 1984



- 79 -                                      M 44
EIWOLU CKARY )DPLE'S Pd3RER C OF GUI4
THR  IEGHWAY PRO=
STAFF APPRAISAI REPORT
CONPAR-M     ROAD:
Es3timated Cost of Recomtruction, Link Characteristics and Traffic, 1980
-- Estimated Cost a/ of--
PK       Section     Linic   LIength   Status b/  vp       Reconstrction       Rectification
No.        No.     km                198)   per km  per subsection per subsection
-0.3 -  7.8    1           21      8.1       VB   3,O0O    2.32          18.79
7.8 - 20.3    2           Z2    12.5         B   2,064   2.32           29X00         12.5
20.3 - 25.8    2           31      5.5        B   1,786   2.32           12.76
25.8 - 35.3    3           42      9.5       VB   1,786   2.32 (x16.2) 37.58
35ok   - e6  3     43    11.3        /VB     792   1.05 (x 4.6)  4.82
46 *   ~  9  4             (22.3)-SAT     792   0.88          19.62
68.9 - N A      5          g      34: (13-9)c/ B     757   0.93          12.93
82.8- 99.0    6            71      7.2      SAT      757   0.88           6.34
9.0       VB      757   1.99          17.91
99.0- 118.0    7           81      7.0       VB      757   1.99          13.93
12.0        B     757   0-95          11.16
118.0 -125.0    8           90     7.0         B      563   0.93            -
Subtotal Conakry-Kindia                                                  184.84
125.0- 132.3    9           92     7.3        VB     452   1.99           14.53
132.3 - 158.5   10         101    14.2       SAT     452   0.88          12.50
10.5        B     452   0.93           9.77
1.5       YB     452   1.99           2.99
158.5- 177.3   11          110      2.0        B     452   1.99           3.98
16.8      SAT     452   0.88          14.78
177.3 - 203.0   12         121     9.7         B     384   0.93           9.02
16.0       VB     384   1.99          31.84
203.0 - 254.2   13         131    37.2       SAT      384   0.85          32.74         48.0
14.0        B     384   0-93          13.02
Suibtotal Kindia-Mbmou                                                   145.17
GRAND TOTAL                       254.5                                  330.01         60.50
OF 1HIS:                           97.7      SAT                         85.98
87.1        B                         101.64
69.7       VB                         142.39
a/ Cost in GSY million includes 66% of foreign excange, 24% of local currency and 1C% of taxes.
7 VB = very bad, B = bad, SAT = satisfactory.
;T Links 51 and 60 overlap sections 4 an-d 5.
Source: Consultants Report (MzM International, Bi)
March 1984



- 80 -
ANNEX 4-5
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CONAKRY-MAMOU ROAD: Estimated Costs of Road Construction and Road Maintenance
(with and without the Project), and Estimated Savings in the Cost of
Vehicle Operation and Maintenance with the Project
(GSy 000 in 1980 prices)
------------- E C O N O M I C   C O  S T S   O F -------------         ------- S  A  V  I N  G  S         I  N ------
---------------- MAINTENANCE ---------------   RECONSTRUCTION          Maintenance   Veh. Oper.
Without    Project-a/       With     Project                              Costs         Costs      Total       Net
Year   GSy 000/km                GSy 000/km                                         B 1           B 2      Benefits  Benefits
I       35x255       8,925        35x200       7,000        131,420               1,925             0      1,925  -129,495
2       60x255      15,300        35x170       5,950        131,420               9,350       110,367   119,717   -11,703
3       60x255      15,300        35x 85       2,975        131,420              12,325       185,856   198,181    66,761
4       85x255      21,675        17x255       4,335               0             17,340       221,754   239,094   239,094
5       85x255      21,675        17x255       4,335               0             17,340       230,624   247,964   247,964
6      560x255    142,800         23x255       5,865               0            136,935       239,849   376,784   376,784
7       35x255       8,925        23x255       5,865               0              3,060       249,443   252,503   252,503
8       60x255      15,300        35x255       8,925               0              6,375       259,421   265,796   265,796
9       60x255      15,300        35x255       8,925               0              6,375       269,798   276,173   276,173
10       B5x255      21,675       560x255    142,800                0           -121,125       280,590   159,465   159,465
11       85x255      21,675        17x255       4,335               0             17,340       291,813   309,153   309,153
12      560x255    142,800         17x255       4,335               0            138,465       303,486   441,951   441,951
13       35x255       8,925        23x255       5,865               0              3,060       315,625   318,685   318,685
14       60x255      15,300        23x255       5,865               0              9,435       328,250   337,685   337,685
15       60x255      15,300        35x255       8,925               0              6,375       341,380   347,755   347,755
16       85x255      21,675        35x255       8,925               0             12,750       355,035   367,785   367,785
Traffic Growth Assumption:  4% p.a.
ERR = 75%
a/ Significant amounts of patching; resurfacing every sixth year.
b/ Reduced amount of patching; resurfacing every seventh year.
Source: Consultants' Reports (SETEC International, B1) and Mission Estimates
March 1984



- 81 -
ANNEX 4-6
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Road Maintenance Strategies for the Paved Priority Network:
Without and With Project Case .
Without Project                                        Standards for Links with Different Traffic Volume (vpd)
less than                                 more than
100        101-250      251-1,000        11000
1.  Labor-based Maintenance (brush clearing, etc.)                            s a m e    s t a n d a r d
With Project
1.  Labor-based Maintenance (brush clearing, etc.)                            s a m e    s t a n d a r d
2. Patching (repair 100% of damaged surfaces
estImated to average)    (m2/km/yr.)                      40           60              80           100
3. Resurfacing (replace wearing course)
(every      years)                                        12           10               8            7
4.  RehabilitatTon                                               n.a           standard base reinforcement:  15 cm of
selected gravels; double bituminous
surface treatment.
Source: Consultants' Report (Louis Berger/Tractionel, B2)
March 1984



- 82 -
ANNEX 4-7
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
THIIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRIASAL REPORT
ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF A PROGRAM OF PAVED ROAD RESURFACING AND ROUTINE MAINTENANCE
(USS million)
Discounted Sums for 1983-1998 Period                     Net Present Value
Incremental Cost           Vehicle Ope-                Total
Discount   of Road Rehabili-           rating Cost      Ratio       Net           Foreign
Rate     tatlon and Maintenance    Savings            B / C    Benefits    Exchange Savings
(C)                    (B)                     (B - C)
Test 1
0%                 25.34               94.35          3.72      69.01           48.24
10%                 18.99               45.12          2.38      26.13           17.90
12%                 18.17               39.90          2.20      21.73           14.79
15%                 17.11               33.61          1.96      16.50           11.11
20%                 15.66               26.04          1.66      10.38            6.80
25%                 14.52               20.84          1.44       6.33            3.96
41% = Overall economic rate of return (ERR)
Test 2
0%                 25.99              163.05          6.27    137.06            97.17
10%                 19.33               70.78          3.66      51.45           36.10
12%                 18.48               61.47          3.33      42.99           30.07
15%                 17.39               50.45          2.90      33.06           23.01
20%                 15.91               37.56          2.36      21.65           14.90
25%                 14.74               29.03          1.97      14.29            9.68
53% = Overall economic rate of return (ERR)
ASSUMPTIONS
Test I                    Test 2
3,5%                      7%                      Annual growth rate of traffic
L'Truck (o,2)             LI Truck (0,2)          Equivalent axle load coefficients (8.2t = 1) for
H   Truck (1,6)           H' Truck (1,6)          typical 11iht and heavy trucks operating in Guinea
-------------------------------------------------------------..----__--------__-----------------------
Comparative Results for Links with Different 1980 Traffic Volumes
(US$ million)
Total Economic Cost, 1983-1992          Net Present Values (NPV)          NPV/Km
(Malntenance & Vehicle Oper.)                  Discount Rate            (  10%)
1980          Length           With          Without
Traffic          Links           Project        Project           0%      10%     12%      15%     (SP000)
(vpd)            (km)
more than 1,000        36            409.7           422.1         12.46   6.48    5.75    4.82          180
251 - 1,000           374            663.6           722.1         58.46  24.01   20.55   16.46           64
101 - 250             549            288.9           308.5         19.62   3.51    1.99    0.25           6
Less than 100         246             79.5            78.3          1.22  -1.22   -1.18   -1.12           -5
Total Test I      1,205          1,441.5         1,531.0         89.32  32.78   27.11   20.41          27
more than 1,000        36            638.5           648.5          9.95   5.71    5.15    4.43          159
251 - 1,000           374          1,054.2         1,141.1         86.96  35.49   30.36   23.32           95
101 - 250             549            424.6           464.2         39.59  10.99    8.30    5.20           20
Less than 100         246            115.6           116.2          0.56  -0.74   -0.82   -0.88           -3
Total Test 2      1,205          2,232.9         2,370.0        137.06  51.45   42.99   33.07          43
Source: Consultants' Report (Louis Berger/Tractionel, B2)
March 1984



I BR D 17479
SEN E+E.,~AL                      l2<                                                  a                                                    8.SFPTEMBER 1983
i  W ;  +                        C ; E)_G   --mA                                                                                                       J
GUINE S A U                                Knd.
n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a anS
i   20: Co'ria,krye       R    <\    X/2                 ~~~~~~~RoadstoberehgravcelleStorrehab 'l,                                                    ) tf          k 
g : e.:i    ;   ,z       :   7oe                         qa                  Field group 1I_                             irt-      <   X8t k                                           (.r
F 1 LblSbglitr tvr@>ShOd#I'  ,  AAi, Ui .  H>fi) l}7  XJField group 2                                               ,                  eron              .     i          U
:;PtMrir^etri\; : :i A;'2VJt ' [::zr-  re                            Priority network paved roads          /   ,Klsoge>/f                                                70 4 >
z z raygi@2lKmkii<Qtr rd9lOFQtUS! Ar rE j Lg12;? A%$ /JgPriority network unpaved rocids *ff   ))>\~ )t -2,  
0 4C;411g;Qf f; tiT00 0r r; [.;. -, / ~Railways \|}<;>   -ggSmo(
Rivers
n E   E " '    ,   MAURITANIA  7                       +   I~~~~~~~~~nteFnational ciirportOt    Cf                                           
;:: l:2: .,/   \.  rfw                               @   ~~~~~~~~~~National capital                      r     J     .,0           ,J                :    C 
; '2: 0, SNEGAL                       MALI                          C)     G rR bounqdarirer (de la Revolution)  2 t      *     ,       x 4et>                       1      \
rHfG~~~~~Atir_S  -- -Administrative region boundaries j}Xt 
;; :m:A    -'                                   VOLt A _             
0 S 8 ~~GUINEA                                                                    is GUINEA   i f , 
0 0i2(4IERRA\n  C)               \HIGHWAYSm Il_
C ;EONE e t JIVORY COAST  j    l >  4W%
; 1 t- YCLIBERIA 5 \ ~~~~~~~KILOM~ETERS 0                            40       80    1 20         160 too  g  
32>r.a>>trjt othm    S 2 2 >   t.>   <              ~    ~~MILES 0  2C     40      60      80       100                                                                         T     \rAba/
:0 t 0  zz u S : :: z V :z  if:<t                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~               ~~ ~~~~L I B ER A   
I':   L   '  2   F    f   :  m  A  F   j  :2  ;  J  1  2  'o                /                      }     (             1



