Document of
The World Bank                         QLkA
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                Q
Report No. P-3718-GUI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 26.5 MILLION
TO THE
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOR THE
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
March 29, 1984
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =   Syli (GSY)
US$1.0           =   GSY 23.0
US$1.06013        =   SDR 1
FISCAL YEAR
July 1  -  June 30
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC)
Metric                                 British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)                            3.28 feet (ft)
1 square meter (m2)                    10.76 square feet (sq ft)
1 cubic meter (m3)                     35.3 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 kilometer (km)                       0.62 mile (mi)
I metric ton (t)                       2,205 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
adt             average daily traffic
Af )F           African Development Fund
BADEA           Arab Bank for F.cotic Developnent in Africa
CGPR            Mmagement Council of the Road Project
CNR             Natinal Road Council
DT              Division of Works, OPR
MIGAT           Ministry of Infrastructure and Major Works
m               million
m-n       -    mm-month
MDT             inistzy of Transport
OPR             Road Project Office
PAC             Port Authority of Conakry
voc             vehicle operating costs



- i -                FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Revolutionary People's Republic of Guinea
Amount:               SDR 26.5 million (US$ 28.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                Standard
Co-Lenders:           African Development Fund (US$14.6 million equivalent);
BADEA (US$ 9.0 million)
Project Description: The project would continue to assist the Government in
the rehabilitation and maintenance of a priority network
of roads essential for adequate functioning of the
country's productive sectors, and extend the ongoing
institution building effort for improving Guinea's civil
construction capacity. The project provides financing
(i) for the regravelling or rehabilitation of 1,085 km
of unpaved roads by force account; (ii) the reconstr-
uction of the country's main artery between Conakry and
Mamou (255 km), and resurfacing of some 360 km of other
paved roads by contractors; and (iii) the technical
assistance required to execute and supervise the above
works, to intensify training and to define medium term
development priorities for Guinea's transport sector as a
whole.
Benefits and Risks:  The project would ensure that essential flows of imports
from Conakry to the regions, and of agricultural surplus
production from the regions to markets of the capital,
can be maintained and handled at reasonable economic
costs. It thus benefits both the rural and urban popula-
tions, most directly road users including vehicle owners
and paying passengers. Project design minimizes the risk
of exposure to pressures for the utilization of project
resources for carrying out non-project works, as
experienced under the Second Highway Project. With the
new project organization and the full support pledged by
the Government these risks are considered minimal.
Thb document ha  rst"cted distribution and My be used by recpints only in the perfomance of
heoir official duties. Its cntents May not otherwise be discled without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
ESTIMATED PROJECT COST                   ------------US$ million-------------
Foreign Local    Net   Taxes   Total
of Taxes
A-i  Labor-based maintenance works          -      2.1     2.1    0.1        2.2
A-2  Equipment-based maintenance and
rehabilitation works              5.9    6.8    12.7    0.3        13.1
A-3  Equipment renewal, buildings          6.6    0.1      6.7      -        6.7
A-4  Technical assistance, audit,
training                          6.0    0.5      6.5      -        6.5
A-5  Refunding of PPF advance              1.0      -      1.0      -        1.0
a-i  Rehabilitation Conakry-Mamou Road 15.8    5.5    21.3          -      21.3
B-2  Resurfacing of paved roads            6.2    2.2      8.3      -        8.3
Base Cost                    41.3   17.3    58.6    0.4        59.0
Physical Contingencies        3.1    1.0      4.1      -        4.1
Price Contingencies           7.2    3.3    10.5    0.1        10.5
TOTAL        51.6   21.6    73.2    0.5       73.7
FINANCING PLAN                            ----------------       US$ million-------__________
IDA       AfDF       BADEA      Government    Total
(Foreign   (Foreign   (Foreign  (Local Costs
Costs)      Costs)      Costs)    and Taxes)
A-1 Labor-based maintenance works             -           -           -           2.9         2.9
A-2 Equipment-based maintenance
and rehabilitation works                     4.4          -          3.0          8.4        15.8
A-3 Equipment renewal, buildings             1.3          -          6.0          0.2         7.4
A-4 Technical assistance, audit, training 8.2             -           -           0.7         8.8
B-1 Rehabilitation of Conakry-Mamou Road  6.0           14.6          -           7.2        27.8
B-2 Resurfacing of paved roads               8.1          -           -           2.9        11.0
TOTAL            28.0        14.6         9.0         22.1        73.7
ESTIMATED IDA DISBURSEMENTS  ---------------US$ million-----------------
FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90
Annual                         3.8      6.7     6.9      5.7      3.5      1.4
Cumulative                     3.8    10.5    17.4    23.1    26.6    28.0
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
Highway Maintenance Program exceeding 100%; benefit/cost ratio at 12% discount rate: 5.3.
Paved Road Rehabilitation and Resurfacing 65%; benefit/cost ratio at 12% discount rate: 4.9 for
B-1 and 2.2 for B-2.
Staff Appraisal Report: Report No.4507-GUI, dated March 26, 1984
Map: IBRD No. 17479
Note: Figures may not add because of rounding



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA FOR
A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Devel-
opment Credit to the Revolutionary People's Republic of Guinea for SDR 26.5
million (US$28.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a
Third Highway project. Additional financing for the project would be provided
by the African Development Fund (AfDF) and the Arab Bank for Economic
Development in Africa (BADEA) in amounts equivalent to US$14.6 million and
US$9.0 million respectively.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       An Economic Memorandum was discussed with the Government in November
1983 and has been distributed to the Executive Directors (Report No. 4690-GUI,
dated February 15, 1984). This section summmarizes its contents, focusing on
changes in Guinea's economic situation and policies in recent years.
3.       Despite its mineral and agricultural potential, Guinea saw declining
economic performance from Independence in 1958 until about 1973-74. Economic
activity, with a stimulus from mining, grew rapidly between 1973-76, but again
at a slower pace since then. At present, most of Guinea's 5.5 million inhabi-
tants live at the margin of poverty. With a per capita income of about US$300
in 1982, Guinea is among the least developed countries as classified by the
United Nations. Life expectancy is only 44 years, infant mortality is about
17 percent, 90 percent of the population has no access to safe water, and 80
percent of the adult population is illiterate.
4.       Since 1976, and particularly since 1979, Guinea has been re-examining
its development policies, institutions, and relations with the outside world.
It has recently announced significant policy reforms. Important first steps
have been taken towards improved economic management and decentralization of
the economy: excessive money supply was gradually reduced; more explicit
performance criteria and greater autonomy of public enterprises are being
introduced; sectoral public holding companies have been dismantled, and a
reform of the banking sector has been initiated.  There is greater acceptance
of technical assistance for planning, investment programming, and project
preparation, and increased recognition of the need for economic pricing of
resources (e.g., interest rates have been doubled and electricity tariffs
increased). Private trade has been legalized, state retail trade has been
discontinued, and many price controls have been permitted to lapse, thus
liberalizing and encouraging the agricultural sector. Private investment,
small and medium-scale enterprises, foreign direct investment, and the i"eturn



- 2 -
of expatriate Guinean capital are being encouraged, and some private enter-
prises have been allowed to import and export most goods and to borrow and
hold foreign exchange. Enrollments in higher education have been reduced and
more students are being directed to vocational training; manpower planning is
being introduced, and the guarantee of state employment to school graduates is
being reappraised, with a view to curtailing the increase in public
employment. These measures reflect a significant and broadly based attempt to
address Guinea's deep-seated problems and poor economic performance, and
represent fundamental changes from past policies.
Recent Performance
5.       Despite these positivre steps taken in recent years, Guinea's economic
development remains hampered by structural problems. The economy is
stagnating and the balance of payments faces chronic deficits. Foreign
exchange supply cannot satisfy domestic consumption, service external debt,
and finance capital and recurrent costs of existing and new projects. Limited
absorptive capacity hampers investment and the inflow of foreign capital. The
overvaluation of domestic currency perpetuates distorted prices and wages and
creates an unattractive environment for producers and investors (both domestic
and foreign), affecting output and export performance. The main productive
sector - agriculture - produces well below potential because of inadequate
producer incentives, inputs, iextension services, infrastructure and marketing
facilities. Guinea's current pace of economic development permits neither an
incIease in the standard of living of the population, nor the generation of
domestic savings for self-sustained growth and development.
6.       Increased domestic oatput especially for exports, a stricter control
of aggregate demand, as well as quantitative import restrictions, allowed
Guinea to record a balance of merchandise trade surplus of about US$66 million
per year on the average between 1979-81. This resulted in a reduction in the
current account deficit to 3.4 percent of GDP from 6-7 percent of GDP in
prevrious years. However, the capital account remains in difficulty because of
Guinea's inability to attract higher capital inflows while facing important
amortization obligations. Overall balance of payments deficits have thus
represented 5.5 percent of GDP between 1979-81 (about US$90 million per year),
and they have been financed in equal proportion through an accumulation of
debt; arrears and by a decrease in gross foreign exchange reserves. In mid-
1982 foreign reserves covered only about two weeks of merchandise imports.
7.       Government's current revenues (about 33 percent of GDP, largely
dependent on mining exports), increased at a rate of 9.6 percent per annum in
1977-81, while at the same time current expenditures advanced at an annual
rate of 12.9 percent, mainly on account of expanding government bills for
wages and salaries and of growing interest obligations. At the same time, the
state enterprise sector has absorbed heavy subsidies not only on current
account but also in the form of capital transfers and indirectly through the
intermediation of the state banking system. In total, the parastatal sector
received about GS 20 billion (US$1 billion equivalent) of financial support,
or 13 percent of GDP annually over the 1977-81 period. The overall deficit of
the Government reached US$3.6 billion eauivalent (10 percent of GDP) in
1981. In an attempt to curb the growth of current expenditure on wages and
salaries, the Government has enforced a decline in university enrollments from



- 3 -
20,700 students in 1978/79 to 12,100 students in 1981/82, and has terminated
the automatic recruitment of new graduates into the public sector.
8.       Other than the enclave mining projects, most productive investment in
Guinea is of a public and parapublic nature. During the last development plan
(October 1973 to December 1978), public and parapublic investment reached
US$478 million (55 percent of planned expenditure) averaging 10 percent of
GDP. Total investment was modest at 15 percent of GDP on the average. Two-
thirds of centrally-planned investment was financed by foreign assistance.
The ongoing plan (1981-85) projects much higher investments of US$1.6 billion
(in 1980 prices), favoring agriculture (31 percent) and industry (14%). Many
of the proposed projects are, however, in preliminary stages of preparation,
and their financing is not yet sure. It appears unlikely that the proposed
investment targets can be reached. During the 1979-81 period, public and
parapublic investment represented about US$164 million per year in current
terms, remaining at about the same level as the previous plan exercise in
terms of GNP.
9.       Recognizing the need to maintain and use existing capital assets
better, Government has increased the proportion of its recurrent budget for
maintenance and repair. It is also undertaking a serious examination of the
viability of state enterprises and has closed some. The least successful ones
(including the entire network of retail trade enterprises outside Conakry)
have been closed down, while others have embarked on rehabilitation programs,
mostly with external assistance. Recent policies in the parapublic sector aim
at making parastatals financially self-sufficient, more responsive to market
mechanisms, and more receptive to technical assistance.
Prospects
10.      Based on its agricultural, mineral and hydroelectric potential,
Guinea's long-term development possibilities are substantial. However, with
80 percent of the population in the rural sector, and with modest national
savings (about 9.5 percent of GDP in 1980) combined with an acute shortage of
foreign exchange, the exploitation of this potential hinges on the country's
ability to provide incentives to agricultural producers and to attract foreign
capital for investment in mining, ore-processing, and, eventually, petroleum
development.
11.      During the 1980's Guinea will continue to face a serious foreign
exchange constraint, despite the projected entry into operation of a diamond
mine in 1984. Existing mining operations have few prospects for expansion in
the coming years, and the downward trend in agricultural exports will be hard
to reverse. At the same time price distortions linked to the overvalued
exchange rate discourage the substitution of the large food imports by
domestic production, while the debt service burden remains heavy.
12.      At present Guinea is excessively dependent on bauxite mining for its
foreign exchange. Diversification of its mineral production is thus a key
element in the country's longer-term development strategy. Iron ore mining is
one promising possibility now under active investigation. Oil exploration
would be another.



-4-
13.      The Bank is assisting the Government to formulate and implement a
rehabilitation program aimed at further encouraging private sector develop-
ment, notably in agriculture, increasing the efficiency of the public sector,
and improving resource management. Particularly crucial will be the
Government's success in correcting price and exchange rate distortions,
improving the structure of agricultural incentives and ensuring rational
programming of public investments.  The forthcoming Economic Memorandum
analyzes the policy options aviailable to the Government. A major Agricultural
Sector Review organized by the Bank with the support of several other agencies
(CIDA, USAID, CCCE, IFAD, UNESCO) in November/December 1982, represents a
significant step in assisting the Government to reform agricultural sector
policies.  A recent Transport Sector Review is expected to provide a basis for
prioritizing investments in the sector and coordinating donor agency efforts
to finance them. However, if the Government were to embark on major reforms,
Guinea would face a difficult transition period during the 1980's when
increased foreign assistance, on concessional terms, would be needed to ease
the balance of payments difficulties and contribute to a gradual realization
of the country's considerable development potential.
Foreign Assistance and External Debt
14.      Since 1975-76, Guinea has been diversifying its sources of foreign
assistance through renewed ties with the Western industrialized countries,
expanided relations with Arab nations and with multilateral sources. Guinea
qualifLed for drawings under t:he IMF first credit tranche and trust fund
facilities, and successfully negotiated a Stand-By Agreement in 1982.
However, this agreement has now lapsed due to the Government's inability to
meet some of the agreed financial performance criteria, and to reach an
understanding with the Fund on the issue of adjusting the overvalued exchange
rate,
15.      The accumulation of foreign debt to finance investments in infra-
structure and public enterprises, as well as consumer goods, has resulted in a
burden of foreign obligations which is, and will remain for years, a major
prob em.  Guinea's outstanding public and private external guaranteed debt
exceeded US$1 5 billion as of December 31, 1982, of which US$1.2 billion (76
percent of GNP) was disbursed. Service obligations on this debt are projected
at US$132 million per annum over 1983-87. Foreign exchange shortages have
hindered the payment of debt service, and outstanding arrears totalled US$176
million at the end of 1982.  The ratio of public and publicly guaranteed debt
serv.ce obligations to gross export earnings in 1981 was about 28 percent.
Actual service payments on this debt amounted to about 17 percent of export
rece pts. Private non-guaranteed debt is estimated at US$300 million in 1982
(20 percent of GNP), and its debt service represented about 10 percent of the
1981 export earnings.
16.      Although Guinea's debt servicing has shown some improvement,
accum-ulated arrears are likely to increase in absolute terms unless there is
new debt rescheduling or major change in the present allocation of foreign
exchange. The Government has addressed the problem through bilateral debt
rescheduling, and measures to improve debt management via the External Debt
Department in the Central Bank, to which the Bank has provided technical
advice as part of its economic work. Government has also undertaken both a
stricter control of investments financed by external credits and a more



-5 -
judicious official import program. The pressure on imports was somewhat
relieved in recent years by official toleration of some private exports at the
free rate outside official foreign exchange channels. However successful
these operations may be, Guinea will have to rely on substantial amounts of
foreign assistance on concessional terms during the next few years. This will
be needed not only for investment purposes, but also to provide foreign
exchange for intermediate and consumer good imports which are vital to
stimulate economic activity and relieve supply constraints, particularly in
the rural sector.  Furthermore, net public savings after debt service will be
inadequate until at least the late 1980s, and local cost and recurrent
expenditure financing by external sources will be needed.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUINEA
17.      The first Bank Group operation in Guinea comprised two loans in FY68
and FY71 for the very successful bauxite mining project at Bok'e. This project
was followed by IDA credits in the mid-1970's for pineapple production and the
rehabilitation of roads. Encouraged by the first results of these projects,
the Bank Group began to diversify and expand its lending program, based upon
broad priorities agreed with Government: (i) rehabilitation and maintenance
of basic infrastructure; (ii) improvement of human resources; (iii) mining
development; and (iv) development of the rural sector. IDA operations in each
of these areas have been approved, with particular emphasis on sectoral
planning, institution building and training. Thus, the Power Engineering
project and subsequent First Power project (FYs79,81) are rehabilitating the
Conakry power system. A Water Supply project (FY79) provides similar assis-
tance. The proposed project continues the important highway rehabilitation
effort successfully pursued to date following the satisfactory completion of
the Second Highway project (FY80) earlier this year (para. 33). Enterprise
Rehabilitation programs under the Industrial Rehabilitation Promotion Project
(FY81) have begun. The FY79 First Education Project was very satisfactorily
implemented, and provided a sound basis for the Second Education Project,
which was recently approved. Physical implementation of the Conakry Port
Project (FY83) is also on schedule. Implementation of the first IFC
operation, to the AREDOR diamond mining company, and of the Petroleum
Exploration Promotion Project (FY84), is proceeding satisfactorily.
18.      It is in the rural sector that the Government has experienced the
greatest difficulty in harnessing its development potential. Poor logistical
support for the rural sector, badly chosen inputs of modern technology and
lack of financial incentives and of applied agricultural research, have been
among the most important of these. To deal with these fundamental problems,
the Association has supported intervention in two sub-sectors with substantial
growth potential. The Rice Development Project (FY80) stresses national
institution-building and introduces pilot low-cost improved rice production
methods in an area with high potential. A study of agricultural prices and
rural incentives has been completed and the Government has accepted the need
for improved incentives. The Livestock Development Proiect (FY81), which aimed
at strengthening the national livestock planning institutions, improving
animal health and productivity and training livestock sector staff, had
substantial implementation problems due to the continuation of enforced
government cattle purchasing below cost prices. Following intensive
discussions, the Credit was cancelled on September 12, 1983. As part of the



- 6 -
dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government, the Agricultural Sector
Review (para. 13) provides a focus for new directions for agricultural
development and policy formu:lation, including a follow-up Rice Project which
will be appraised later in 1984.
19.      Bank Group operations in Guinea now include twelve IDA Credits
totalling US$64.9 million and SDR 70.3 million, and two Bank loans totalling
US$73-5 million.  Guinea's disbursement rate (disbursements in relation-to the
undisbursed balance) compares very favorably with that of other countries,
averaging 40 percent during the past five years, compared with 24 percent for
the Western Africa Region and 22 percent for the Bank/IDA as a whole.
Guinea's rate also compares :favorably with those of other countries at similar
levels of per capita income and development.
20.      Current Strategy.  'The proposed Bank Group len'ding program, supported
by an expanded program of economic and sector work, is based on a strategy of
promoting growth through support to the directly productive sectors, and by
encouraging key policy reforns at the macroeconomic, project and sectoral
levels to improve existing economic mechanisms and promote market forces.
Spe!cific targets are: (a) g:iving priority to projects that increase
prcidtuction and exports; (b) :improving absorptive capacity in those social and
infrastructure sectors, such as transport, which support the productive
sectors, through rehabilitation, technical and managerial training; (c)
introducing technical assistance directed towards policy reforms, improved
economic management and resource allocation; and (d) improving capital flows
thiough the promotion of private investment and increasing the level of
cofinancing.
21.      IDA has appraised a technical assistance project for economic
marLagement and a Second Power Engineering Credit. Following discussion of the
Country Economic Memorandum, the Bank is working with Government to prepare a
major economic reform progran, as the possible basis for a structural
adjustment operation within -the next year. The Bank is also planning to
discuss the price and incentive structure for agriculture, and is seeking to
increase the sectoral knowledge necessary to develop, and conditional upon
policy changes, expand agricultural operations. It is equally important for
the Bank to deepen its understanding of the industrial sector through
additional sector work and policy discussions, possibly leading to a second
industrial rehabilitation operation. The Bank is providing technical advice
to Government for the proposed Mifergui-Nimba iron ore project, as well as for
a maEster plan of the country's water resources, which will help prepare a                  4
strategy for hydroelectric development.
22.      The Bank Group's share of Guinea's external debt (public and private
guaranteed) at the end of 1980 stood at about 8 percent (including
undisbursed).  Its portion of external debt disbursed is expected to be 11
percent by 1985 compared with 8 percent in 1981; its share of debt service on
public debt and private debt guaranteed, 6.6 percent in 1980, is expected to
decline to 3.7 percent by 1985.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
23.     Guinea's transport infrastructure at present comprises 14,000 km of
classified roads (1,145 km paved); a public rail line from Conakry to Kankan



- 7 -
(660 km); three enclave rail-lines (386 km) serving bauxite and alumina mining
operations; two deep water ports at Conakry and Kamsar, an international
airport in Conakry and secondary airports at Kankan, Faranah and seven other
regional centers. The existing network of transport facilities appears
sufficient in extent to serve the country's population and economy
adequately. But except for a portion of the main road network which has been
rehabilitated with Association financing, their level of service has in fact
been declining dangerously over recent years. This decline reflects generally
poor sector management and a long neglect of maintenance, which has affected
all subsectors and is only slowly beginning to be reversed.
24.     By far the heaviest transport demand is generated by Guinea's enclave
mining sector. Its important bulk transport is handled reasonably efficiently
by the three enclave railroads and specialized port facilities in Kamsar (8
million tons per year) and Conakry (3 million tons per year). But by 1981,
conditions in Conakry's general cargo port, the country's main maritime
gateway, had deteriorated to the point of compromising the flow of essential
imports into the country (some 300,000 tons per year). The port is now being
rehabilitated through an Association project, financed jointly with the
African Development Bank and the Federal Republic of Germany.
25.     The national airline, Air Guinee, carries about 100,000 passengers a
year. It plays a potentially important role in domestic passenger transport
to out-lying regions which are inaccessible by road over long periods. But
air transport has been hampered in fulfilling its emergency access function by
the poor state of regional airports (4 out of 9 closed to commercial traffic);
furthermore, recently acquired aircraft are used inefficiently and are ill
adapted to domestic airport facilities. Government has started discussions
with Canada for assistance to domestic aviation.
26.     The state of the public rail line which was constructed before 1914
and the unreliability of its services have resulted in the almost complete
decline of the railways. Carrying not much more than 10,000 tons and less
than 300,000 passengers in 1981, they offer little, if any, competition to
road transport which handles the bulk of the internal commodity traffic
outside the mining sector and practically all domestic passenger transport
(paras. 33-34). The potential for rehabilitating the railroad has been
examined in two major studies with French (1979) and African Development Bank
(1983) financing. Their results will be evaluated under the transport
planning component of this project.
Planning, Management and Coordination
27.      Nominal responsibility for transport planning and coordination lies
with the Ministry of Transport (MOT). In the absence of competent personnel,
funds and data, however, any realistic assessment of sector needs has been
impossible. Sector management is divided between various bodies responsible
for the different subsectors: the Ministry of Infrastructure and Major Works
(MIGAT) for all new construction and especially for the road subsector; the
Office du Chemin de Fer de Guin'ee (OFERGUI) for the public railway; AIR GUINEE
for air transport; two public transport companies (ENTRAT and COTRA) for road



-8-
freight transport; the Port Autonome de Conakry (PAC) for port operations and,
since 1982, the seven Provinces for routine road maintenance and intra-
regional transport of officially traded goods. Management of these bodies has
been weak, not least because lines of responsibility have been confused on
important aspects of their operations. Coordination between entities is
minimal or nonexistent. It is thus not surprising that investment planning
has amounted to little more than the listing of assorted projects for the
various subsectors. Since no arbitration takes place, investment proposals in
the two latest Development Plans (1973-78, 1981-85) have been poorly focused,
overly ambitious, and largely unrealized.
28.     Over the past years, however, a number of feasibility studies have                   b
been carried out, covering rehabilitation and upgrading of existing
infrastructure in the road, rail, port and air transport subsectors. Although
these studies were undertaken in an ad-hoc fashion, their results nevertheless
begin to provide a better basis for planning. Some have already resulted in
rehabilitation projects (Conakry Port and Airport). The remainder should be
evaluated carefully and expanded as necessary within a framework of overall
sector development needs.  The Government has requested IDA assistance for
this, and a transport planning component will be included under the proposed
project. This is particularly timely since extensive investments are now
being implemented and proposed (rehabilitation of additional parts of the road
system and/or of the public rail line). Careful evaluation of the relative
economic advantage of developing road/rail/air transport alternatives for long
distance domestic passenger and freight movements is required to ensure that
scarce! investment resources are channeled into priority projects.
Revenues and Investment
29.      Like most other parastatal enterprises in Guinea, railway, port,
airline and public sector road transport operations have all been deficit
operations for many years. The status of their accounting does not permit
realistic estimates of whether they could cover even short run marginal
costs. The recently approved Conakry Port Project (para. 32) tries to remedy
this situation for the port subsector and, after discussions with the
Association, Canada is discussing possible reforms at Air Guinee in the
context of a civil aviation project. However, since the problem is systemic
and affects all public enterprises, it will need to be addressed through the
structural adjustment process, and the Association's proposed Technical
Assistance Project would include a parapublic sector analysis. Road users
contribute substantially to Government revenues through annual vehicle
registration and inspection fees, transport licenses, import duties on
vehicles and taxes on fuel. During 1979-81, annual revenues from these
sources should on average have amounted to some US$33 million equivalent
annually (actual statistics not available). But since a large part of the
fuel is bought by Government for its own vehicles, and since the full amount
of import duties and taxes is not paid on all imported vehicles, actual
revenues probably fell considerably short of this amount. Nevertheless, the
differential between road expenditures (para. 31) and estimated road user tax
revenues is large enough to conclude that a larger share of these funds should
in future be channelled into highway maintenance. The proposed Transport Plan
Study will evaluate actual revenues and suggest regular funding procedures for
periodic and routine maintenance of the classified road network.
Govermnent's contributions should increase gradually to the point



-9 -
where funds will be sufficient to cover the full cost of maintaining a
priority network estimated at about US$15 million annually, some 60% of it in
foreign exchange.
30.      Under Guinea's first two Development Plans (1960/63 and 1964/71),
investments in the transport sector, many of them in connection with the
enclave mining projects, represented one third of the country's total
investment expenditures. Under the Third Plan (1973/78), they declined to
about 15% of public investments (themselves a low 10% of GDP), and are shown
as falling even further under the ongoing Fourth Plan (1981/85). Four-fifths
of the investments included in the Fourth Plan documents would be for roads
and road transport; however, and this is a fairly typical indication of the
weakness in present transport planning capabilities, the plan figures do not
include the major rehabilitation projects in ports and airports that have
since been initiated.
31.     Highway expenditure patterns have represented the bulk of transport
investments over the recent years. They reflect the desirable shift in
priorities from new construction to rehabilitation and maintenance of the
existing network. During the 1970-75 period, some US$18 million equivalent
per year were spent, on average, on new construction and US$3.5 million
equivalent on maintenance; by contrast, new road investments over the 1978-81
period were negligible, while US$11 million equivalent were allocated annually
for rehabilitation and maintenance.
Role of the Bank Group
32.      The Bank Group has encouraged and supported the Government's emerging
strategy of maintaining, rehabilitating and upgrading the essential transport
infrastructure needed to facilitate development of the productive sectors.
The proposed project would be the Bank Group's Third Highway Project in
Guinea. The Bank Group has previously assisted the transport sector through
an Engineering Loan (SI-GUI) and two loans (577-Gui and 766-GUI) for the Boke
Bauxite Project which included construction of a new port at Kamsar, and
related rail transport and new town infrastructure. These enclave projects
were completed satisfactorily. The First Highway (Credit 596-GUI,1976) and
the recently completed Second Highway (Credit 953-GUI,1979) projects were
instrumental in developing a maintenance oriented basic sector strategy. They
financed extensive high-priority road rehabilitation and maintenance programs,
as well as training, and the development of road sector planning and project
preparation capabilities. The proposed Third Highway Project would continue
these efforts, with a focus on strengthening the Ministry's capacity for
effective project supervision, and on developing a nucleus for a local road
rehabilitation and construction industry able to compete as a contractor in
local and regional markets. Similarly, the recently approved Conakry Port
Project (Credit 1382-GUI,1983) rehabilitates cargo port infrastructure, renews
port handling equipment, vehicles and floating craft needed for efficient
operation of existing assets, and introduces a new structure of management
into port operations in Conakry aimed at making them financially self-
supporting and managerially autonomous.



- 10 -
Roads and Road Transport
33.     Road transport handles the bulk (98%) of internal passenger and (non-
ore) commodity traffic. Guinea's total classified road network reportedly has
increased only moderately over the past fifteen years from 12,600 km in 1967
to 14,000 km in 1982; but the paved network grew significantly, from less than
200 km in 1967 to over 1,000 km in 1976, and 1,145 km in 1982. In the mid-
seventies, it was realized thEat many of the unpaved roads - having received
almost no maintenance - were fast reverting to their natural state: most were               4
passable with difficulty during the dry season and completely impracticable
during the long months of the rainy season, when interregional traffic of
essential goods was severely curtailed. With Association assistance, a
priority network of some 4,500 km of road was identified. A first tranche of
a rehabilitation and maintenance scheme for these roads was financed under the
First Highway Project. Following its successful completion (some 900 km of
paved road maintained, some 920 km of unpaved roads rehabilitated), the Second
Highway Project has continued to support priority road maintenance and has
rehabilitated 975 km of unpaved roads. An attempt, under the latter project,
to integrate project activities more closely with the Ministry of Work's
existing structure proved prenmature. It resulted in significant diversion of
equipment and personnel to non-project works (city streets, airport
rehabilitation etc.). This wELs largely overcome by a return to the earlier
model of clearly separating project and other Ministry activities, when a new
Ministry of Infrastructure (Ministere de l'Infrastructure et des Grands
Amenagement du Territoire, MIGAT) replaced the Ministry of Public Works in
early 1982. The MIGAT Project Directorate has by now been transformed into
the Road Project Office (OPR) responsible for the Project (para. 39).
RespDnsibilities for routine maintenance operations were transferred from the
new Ministry to the seven Provinces.  It is not yet clear how well the
Provinces will be able to cope with this new responsibility. Their capacity
will be evaluated and they will receive some technical assistance in
organizing their maintenance tasks under the proposed project.
34.     At about the time when systematic maintenance of the priority network
was initiated with Association assistance in 1977, Guinea also changed an
earlier restrictive regulation governing vehicle imports by allowing Guineans
to bring vehicles with them from abroad. Since then, the country's vehicle
flee-t has grown by about 15% annually. But since there has been no parallel
liberalization for imports of spare parts and fuel, the country's road
transpOrt industry still operates very inefficiently. The public sector
companies (COTRAs) which have had the monopoly for long-distance transport of
all officially traded goods, receive regular allocations of fuel and some
spare -parts and have been able to renew their fleet of about 300-400 trucks
aboun every five years.  By contrast, the six thousand or so private
transporters with one or two vehicles on average, who handle practically all
urban and interurban passenger transport, as well as short-distance hauls of
local produce to local markets, face a situation of chronically short supply
of fuie-Ls and spares. These are practically unavailable outside the capital,
except on the parallel market at 6-8 times official prices. Vehicles thus are
immobilizedL for long periods, and are often in a precarious state of repair
when operating. Officially mandated tariffs that would be remunerative if fuel
and spares were available at official prices are clearly not sufficient to
cover actual costs. However, the demand for transport is such that operators
usually can command the fares that allow them to buy provisions in the



- 11 -
parallel market. Ways to eliminate, or at least alleviate, some of the
handicaps under which the road transport industry presently operates, will be
examined as part of the Transport Plan Study included in the proposed project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Background and Objectives
35-     The project is the third phase of a road rehabilitation and
maintenance program which the Government began with IDA's support in early
1977. It was prepared by Bank staff using inputs provided by Government and
Consultants under the ongoing Second Highway Project, with appraisal taking
place in January 1983. Since Second Highway Project funds will be exhausted
before Credit signing, a PPF advance of US$1 million has been approved to
prefinance the preparation phase of the consultant-contractor's support to the
Division of Works (Division Travaux - DT), limited technical assistance to the
Road Project Office (Office du Projet Routier - OPR), and some spare parts to
maintain the equipment fleet. Negotiations were held in Washington in March
1984 with a Guinean delegation led by Mr. M. Cellou Diallo, Secretary of State
of MIGAT. Staff Appraisal Report No. 4507-GUI dated March 26, 1984 is being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
36.     The project addresses four interrelated objectives:  (a) to provide
continued assistance to Government for the rehabilitation of the priority road
network and fulfill its essential role for the country's economy; (b) to
continue and extend the ongoing institution building effort aimed at improving
Guinea's highway maintenance and rehabilitation capacity; (c) to intensify the
provision of structured training to local staff in support of road management,
maintenance and rehabilitation efforts; and (d) to assist the Government in
defining medium-term development priorities for the transport sector.
Project Description
37.     To achieve these objectives, the project includes the following
related elements which, for cofinancing purposes, are divided into two
separate packages. Package A groups two components which feature important
institution-building aspects: a medium term-transport plan to be drawn up with
the assistance of the engineering consultant, and a third three-year program
of road rehabilitation and maintenance. The latter comprises four main
elements: (a) equipment-based rehabilitation and routine maintenance (in the
proportion of 75%-25%) on the unpaved priority network, to be carried out by
OPR; (b) renewal of highway and workshop equipment, and rehabilitation and
construction of buildings for OPR; (c) labor-based routine maintenance of
drainage system and shoulders throughout the priority network, to be carried
out by the Provinces road maintenance force account staff; and (d) technical
assistance: a consultant-contractor to support the DT, and engineering
consultants for supervision of works under packages A and B and training of
MIGAT and provincial road maintenance staff.
380      Package B consists of discrete and well-defined reconstruction and
resurfacing works on the paved network. These are of the highest priority if
pavement failure and more costly reconstruction in the near future are to be
avoided. Works are to be carried out by contractors, and start-up of works
does not necessarily have to coincide with that of Package A. The proposed



- 12 -
Package B works include: (a) reconstruction of the Conakry-Mamou Road (255
kn); and (b) resurfacing of some 360 km of other paved roads.
Institutional Development and Project Implementation
39.      Project Administration, Coordination and Supervision.  The
organization of the proposed project has been designed to avoid some of the
serious problems experienced for a time under the Second Highway Project and
tc) create the nucleus of a local road construction industry which at present
iEi inexistant (there are no petty contractors). Its main features are the
continued separation of project supported road rehabilitation and maintenance
from other MIGAT activities and, within the project organization, a clear
organizational distinction between supervisory and control functions on the
one hand, and responsibility for the execution of works on the other.
Following intensive discussions between the Guinean authorities and IDA, it
has been agreed to transform the existing Road Project Directorate in MIGAT
into an autonomous Road Project Office (Office du Projet Routier, OPR). OPR
is responsible for carrying out all project tasks and operates independently
from the Ministry's administration, with discretion particularly to hire and
fire personnel and determine their compensation; to procure materials and
spare parts; and to manage Project resources in the most efficient manner.
Similar to an enterprise with its Board of Directors, OPR will be supervised
by a Road Project Management Council (Conseil de Gestion du Projet Routier,
CGGPR) presided by the Secretary of State of the MIGAT, but also including
representatives of other Ministries. CGPR's functions are supervisory and
advrisory.
40.      Within OPR there will be clear separation between the division
responsible for the execution of works (DT, para. 41) and those responsible
for other project tasks, which essentially cover the following five areas of
reEsponsibility:
(a) administration of all project activities, including budgetary
control, accounting, and preparation of disbursement requests to the different
co-financiers;
(b) supervision of works carried out by contractors on the paved
network, including quality and quantity controls for reconstruction of the
Conakry-Mamou Road and for resurfacing works on other links;
(c) supervision of works carried out by DT;
(d) development and supervision of training assistance to OPR and
Provinces' maintenance staff and other project personnel; and
(e) coordination of transport plan studies, traffic counts and other
road data collection.
A technical assistance team of eight experts (213 m-m) will be required to
assfst OPR for varying periods of time in these tasks.  These organizational
arrangements and staffing were confirmed at negotiations (Section 3.02 of
draft Development Credit Agreement) and a presidential decree creating OPR and
CGPR has been published. They will be implemented prior to project
effectiveness with the assistance of two consultant teams and financing under
the PPF advance.



- 13 -
41.      Equipment-Based Maintenance and Rehabilitation on the Unpaved
Priority Network. The principal thrust of institution building in the project
will be the introduction of a better management structure for the force
account brigades of MIGAT, expected to improve construction know-how and
brigade productivity to minimize equipment diversions and to create the
nucleus of a road construction industry. Works execution will be the
responsibility of the DT, organized along the line of a construction
enterprise. DT will reassemble the present twelve MIGAT force account
brigades into three field groups, each in charge of regravelling, earth road
upgrading, spot regravelling and mechanized routine maintenance within a
specified territory, roughly corresponding to the regions west of Labe, east
*          of Labe, and south of Kankan.  DT will receive intensive assistance over a
period of three years from an experienced international contracting company.
The advantages of employing a contractor are an integrated management package
(particularly in the area of cost controls), and a reasonably homogeneous team
with practical experience in the procedures and disciplines to be
introduced. The consultant-contractor personnel (10 people for a total of 276
m-m) will have in-line responsibility in the DT, but will train Guineans in
management, as well as providing practical, on-the-job training in
administration and construction technology at senior and intermediate levels;
they will hand over responsibilities to counterpart personnel by the end of
the project.
42.      A large part of the equipment fleet, procured under the First Highway
Project, is now at the end of its useful life and will be renewed under the
proposed project. Although the DT will require somewhat less equipment than
was available under the Second Highway Project, procurement of some additional
pieces will be necessary to complement existing operational equipment. Under
the new OPR organization, equipment maintenance, which improved markedly
toward the end of the Second Highway Project, should be further upgraded.
43.      The work of the DT will be supervised by OPR, who will certify
progress and quality of work for the purposes of authorizing disbursements.
The OPR will also carry out a quarterly assessment of DT productivity, which
will serve as the basis for determining productivity bonuses payable to local
project personnel and releasing the retention to the consultant-contractor.
44.      Labor-Based Routine Maintenance on the Priority Work.  The project
will assist the National Road Council in programming and budgeting for labor-
based maintenance operations, and the Provinces in solving present constraints
to effective maintenance implementation. In the past, routine maintenance
suffered from the low priority accorded, from insufficient budgets, and from
an unattractive mandated monthly wage rate (GSY 1,500) for casual labor that
was well below returns to agricultural work in many regions of the country.
The project includes financing for carrying out labor based maintenance, at an
implicit wage rate of GSY 4,000/month paid on a task basis, on about 2,500 km
of priority network roads with average daily traffic (adt) of 40 vehicles or
more. To manage these operations efficiently, the public works staff of the
Provinces will be trained under the project to plan, organize, budget and
supervise such tasks. This experience of organizing and managing labor-based
maintenance of the priority network should serve as a pilot exercise for
provincial maintenance personnel, who would be expected to extend these
operations gradually to the remainder of the classified network. At negotiat-
ions, Government agreed that a detailed description of the task methods to be
used in carrying out and paying for these works (Section 3.06 of draft
Development Credit Agreement) under the project, and official instructions to
the relevant provincial and local authorities to apply these methods, would



- 14 -
be a condition of credit eff'ectiveness (Section 6.01 (c) of the draft
De-velopment Credit Agreement).
45.     Training and Assistance for Road Maintenance.  The OPR organizational
st'ructure wil'l include a new Division in charge of training coordination, and
assistance to the National Road Council and the provinces for road
mai-ntenance. The project will support this Division with 20 m-rn of technical
asistance and financing for local allowances of instructors and trainees, as
we.'Ll as for training equipment. The main target groups for training are MIGAT
pe:-sonnel assigned to OPR and provincial road maintenance personnel, some 700
eng,ineers, operators and mechanics in all.
46.,    Transport Planning.  The project includes the preparation of a medium-
ter.m transport plan to fill some of the present gaps in sector knowledge, give
realistic focus to transport investments, facilitate aid coordination, propose
a system for financing foreign exchange costs of road maintenance, and suggest
an organizational set-up for transport data collection and analysis and
trainsport planning, which would receive additional technical assistance in the
fut;ure. Terms of reference ~for the study, which will be carried out by the
Division of Transport Planninag of OPR over a two-year period, have been agreed
at negotiations. Study recomnmendations will be discussed with IDA and
subsequently implemented as appropriate. In particular, Government has agreed
to include in its investment plan only the priority investments identified in
the study, to carry out only works included in the investment plan, to
institute a satisfactory mechianism to finance foreign exchange costs in road
maintenance and to put in place an organization for transport planning based
on the recommendations of the study (Section 3.07(b) of draft Development
Credit Agreement).
Road Works
47.    During the project per-iod, DT will carry out 445 km of periodic
regravelling of laterite roadis, most of them rehabilitated under the First
Highway Project; 640 km of rehabilitation of earth roads; and equipment-based
routinie maintenance of some 3,000 km, the remainder of the unpaved priority
netwgork. Works will be carried out at standards which will take into account
tra:ffic and annual gravel loss, estimated to average 20 mm on the unpaved
priority network; they will include clearing of vegetation, cleaning of side
drains, and rehabilitation and/or construction of drainage structures where
needied.
48.    Conitractors will rehabilitate, and/or provide periodic maintenance on,
a total of 615 km or 54% of the paved road network. Since practically no
resurfacing has been carried out on paved roads since their construction in
the late sixties and early seventies, the backlog is important and not all of
it can be included in the proposed project. Of highest priority is the
reconstruction of the Conakry.-Mamou road, Guinea's central transport artery
and most highly trafficked road (3,000 vpd near Conakry, 500 vpd near
Mamou). This will involve selective strengthening/resurfacing over 245 km and
spot; geometric improvements ona some 10 km. Works will include base course
strE~ngthening as required (15-20 cm of gravel), plus a double bituminous
surf'ace treatment over a 7 m iroadway plus 1 m shoulders on each side. In
majcr villages and townships, pavements would be widened by 2.5 m to allow
off-road stopping for vehicles. Reconstruction is expected to take 2.5 years



- 15 -
to complete. Of the additional priority paved roads proposed for resurfacing
under the project, 71 km need base reinforcement or an overlay and 287 km
require surface treatments or resealing only.
Implementation Schedule
49.    The project would be implemented over a four year period starting in
*       July 1984.
Project Cost and Financing
50.    The total cost of the project including taxes and contingencies is
estimated at US$73.7 million. Taxes will be levied only on local labor and
represent GSY 12.3 million (US$0.5 million) or less than one percent. The
foreign exchange cost is US$51.6 million or 71% of the net project cost; the
local cost is GSY 490 million (US$21.6 million equivalent). Cost of works are
based on consultant and mission estimates, updated to March 1984. Physical
contingencies of 10% are allowed on tools and supplies, building rehabilit-
ation, technical assistance, and on paved road works by contractors. Price
contingencies have been included at 3.5% for 1984, 8% for 1985 , 9% for
1986-88 and 7.5% for 1989. The same rate has been used for both foreign and
local costs since the latter cover mainly salaries and their rate of increase
has been closer to that of foreign costs than to price increases of other
local goods. The average man-month rate for consultant services and technical
assistance (including salaries, overhead fees and reimbursable expenses) has
been assumed at US$12,000 plus GSY 20,000, based on the cost of similar
services in Guinea and neighboring West African countries. The project
includes 518 m-m of technical assistance.
51.    The cofinancing arrangements accommodate the different donors' procure-
ment rules. The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 26.5 million (US$28 million
equivalent) would finance US$13.9 million of the foreign exchange costs of the
transport plan and the highway maintenance program (Package A, para. 37),
US$6.0 million of those of the Conakry-Mamou reconstruction works, and the
foreign cost, US$ 8.1 million, of the paved road resurfacing program. The
African Development Fund (AfDF) would finance the remaining US$14.6 million
foreign exchange costs for the Conakry-Mamou road. The Conakry-Mamou road
works are being jointly financed by AfDF and IDA to take advantage of project
preparation carried out under the Association's Second Highway Project. Since
the AfDF cofinancing will not be available until late 1984, the effectiveness
of the AfDF Credit is a condition of disbursement for the IDA credit category
for the Conakry-Mamou road (para.4, Schedule I of draft Development Credit
Agreement) The financing plan for the foreign exchange costs of the road
maintenance program is based on parallel financing for equipment renewal and
spare parts to accommodate differences in procurement and other BADEA rules
and procedures. BADEA's contribution of US$9 million would cover the
remaining foreign exchange costs of most of OPR's road maintenance equipment
and part of OPR spare parts requirements. Cross-effectiveness with the BADEA
agreement is a condition of credit effectiveness. The Government will finance
all local costs of the project, US$21.6 million equivalent. USAID has agreed
that GSY 275 million (US$12 million equivalent) of the Government's PL 480
counterpart funds can be applied towards the financing of these local costs.



- lb -
Procurement and Disbursement
52.    Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
Procurement Table
(US$ millions)
Total
Project Elanent                     ICB    LCB    Other   NA    Cost
A1 Iabor-based Maintenance Works                               2.9      2.9
A-2 Equi_pent-based Maintenance
and Rehabilitation Works           3.0             4.5    8.3    15.8
(4.5)           (4-5)
A-3 Equipnent Renewal, Building         7.0    0.4                       7-4
(1 .0)   (0.4)                  (1 4)
A-4 Technical Assistance, Audit, Training               8.7    0.1       8.8
(8.2)           (8.2)
B-1 Rehabilitation of Cnakry-Mimmu Road   27.8                          27.8
(5.9)                           (5-9)
B-2 Resurfacing of Paved Roads         11.0                             11.0
(8.1)                           (8.1)
TOyL        48.8    0.4    13.2    11.3   73-7
(15.0)   (0.4)   (12.7)         (28.0)
liotes:
- Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
- Figures may not add due to rounding.
- A-1  Cost ($2.9 m) consists of salaries
- A-2  Non-proprietary spare parts ($3.0 m) are financed by BADEA and will
be procured through ICB in accordance with their regulations,
proprietary spare parts ($1.6 m) will be procured through direct
procurement or limited international bidding, lubricants, workshop
and construction sujpplies ($1.1 m) will be procured through limited
international bidding, fuel ($1.8 m) will be supplied by
ONAH/IMPORTEX and $8.3 m are salaries.
- A-3  $6.0 m of equipment is financed by BADEA and will be procured through
ICB in accordance with their regulations, $1.0 m of equipment will be
procured through ICB and $0.4m of civil works will be procured
through LCB open to foreign firms.
- A-4  Consultants for technical assistance and audit ($8.6 m) will be
selected in accordance IDA guidelines, training equipment ($0.1 m)
will be procured through limited international bidding and $0.1 m are
training fees.
- B-1  Is cofinanced with AfDF in accordance with both AfDF and IDA
regulations.
All procurement will be handled by OPR, who may use the consultant
contractor to DT as its procurement agent for spare parts procurement. All
contracts will clearly show the subdivision of costs into foreign and local
currency elements.  Procurement will be grouped whenever possible into
contracts valued at $50,000 or more which will be subject to prior IDA review
which will cover more than 90% of such purchases. Other contracts will be
reviewed at the audit.



- 17 -
53.      Force account operations under the proposed project will be financed
through use of a performance based pricing system rather than for actual
incurred cost of inputs. To provide initial working capital, a revolving fund
will be established. Government will open a Project account denominated in
Sylis (Sectior 3.03 of draft Development Credit Agreement) and a Special
Account denominated in US dollars in a local Bank acceptable to the
Association (Section 2.02 of draft Development Credit Agreement). An initial
deposit of GSY 25 million to the Project Syli account is a condition for
credit effectiveness (Section 6.01 of draft Development Credit Agreement).
All expenditures of the DT would be channelled through the Special and Project
Accounts, which will be periodically audited by independent external auditors
acceptable to the Association (Section 4.01 of draft Development Credit
Agreement). Upon credit effectiveness, the Association will make an initial
deposit of US$ 530,000 into the Special Account, and will replenish eligible
drawings from the account on receipt of certified Statements of Expenditure
from the DT through the OPR. Government will replenish quarterly all Syli
drawings from the Project Account during the preceding quarter (Section 3.03
of draft Development Credit Agreement). OPR will submit monthly statements
which will show the nature, location and volume of works performed by DT,
costed in terms of six sets of agreed unit prices, and certified by the
Engineering Consultant. Disbursements will cover 100% of the foreign cost of
IDA financed maintenance and rehabilitation of the priority network, and of
building and workshop construction. Disbursements for IDA equipment renewal
and consultants' services will also cover 100% of foreign costs and will be
made against full documentation submitted to IDA. Disbursements for Conakry-
Mamou rehabilitation would cover 30%, and those for paved road resurfacing
100% of foreign costs. After refinancing the Project Preparation Facility
advance (US$1,000,000), US$5.340 million of the proposed IDA Credit would be
unallocated. Disbursements follow the IDA profile for highway projects in the
West Africa Region.
Audit
54.      An opening audit of assets transferred to OPR will be carried out.
Thereafter OPR accounts will be audited annually by independent auditors to be
appointed by the Government under terms and on conditions acceptable to the
Association (Section 4.01(c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The
auditors will in particular audit supporting documents, cross-referenced to
applications of disbursement against Statements of Expenditure, for DT
operating costs (original and latest cost estimates, contract, bill, salary
statements, work certification and other relevant documents). The annual
audit would serve as a basis for the Association's review of actual cost
incurred in executing the agreed maintenance program as compared with
initially used billing rates, and would be used to readjust the latter in the
light of current season experience.
Benefits and Risks
55.      The program of rehabilitation, periodic and routine maintenance of the
unpaved priority network (Package A) was evaluated using the Bank's Highway
Design and Maintenance Standard model; it has an overall rate of return
exceeding 100%, and a benefit/cost ratio of 5.3 at a 12% discount rate.
Separate analyses for classes of roads carrying different volumes of traffic
show that - assumming a 10% discount rate - even for links carrying less than 25
vpd, (28% of project roads) a per km net present value of about US$7,000
equivalent would result from implementation of the proposed



- 18 -
maintenance strategy. This amount increases to about US$24,000 equivalent for
roads with traffic volumes of 25-50 vpd, (33% of project roads) and to US$61,000
equivalent for roads with traffic volumes of 51-100 vpd (30% of project
roads). Even with large changes in underlying assumptions (e.g., a 100%
increase in cost or a 50% decrease in benefits), the program's benefit/cost
rat.io would remain above 2:1, and the ERR over 100% - a reflection of the very
highl costs of operating vehicles on a road network as deteriorated as that of
Gui:nea.
56.      The most likely economic rate of return for Package B which includes
reconstruction of the Conakry-Mamou road and resurfacing of an additional 360 km
of paved road, is estimated at 65%. The reconstruction of the Conakry-Mamou
road which carries the heaviest traffic of all roads in Guinea and is most
seriously degraded, has an estimated ERR of 75% assuming normal annual traffic
growth of 4% only; resurfacing the remaining paved roads would yield a most
likely ERR of 41% assuming normal traffic growth at 3.5% annually.
57.      By improving and/or maintaining road conditions to satisfactory all-
weather standards on the priority network, the project will help to ensure flows
of essential imports to the regions and of agricultural surplus production to
the markets of Conakry, handled regularly and at reasonable economic costs. The
project thus will benefit both the rural and urban populations by facilitating
basic interregional exchanges of goods, and facilitate communications via
improved passenger transport. Non-quantified benefits to passengers through
improved road safety, better riding conditions and shorter travel time will be
substantial. Most directly, the project will benefit road users including
owners of vehicles and paying passengers.
58.      The project has been designed for more effective support in the
development of local construction capabilities. In that perspective,
establishment of DT in the OPR with stronger technical assistance from a
consultant-contractor with in-line responsibility is essential. Nevertheless,
the OPR may encounter difficulties in running operations autonomously and more
along the lines of a construction enterprise, and it may still be pressured into
carrying out non-project works. However, with the full support pledged by the
Government these risks are considered minimal. The continuity of operations
betwfeen the Second and Third Highway projects provided through PPF financing
wilL obviate any temporary assignment of road maintenance equipment to other
taskcs.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Revolutionary
People's Republic of Guinea and the Association, and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the articles of Agreement
of -the Association, are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
60.      Special features of the draft Development Credit Agreement are referred
to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III of this report.
Conditions of effectiveness of the proposed credit are: the implementation by
Govenament of all official measures to implement the task identification and
recommendation system for labor-based maintenance (para. 44), the payment by
Government of 25 million Sylis into a Project Revolving Fund towards OPR's
working capital (para. 53), the opening of a Special Account (para. 53) and
cross-effectiveness with the BADEA agreement. (para. 53). Disbursement for the
Conakry-Mamou road would be conditional on the effectiveness of the proposed
AfDIT Credit.



- 19 -
61.      I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply with
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.      I recommend that the Executive Directors of the Association approve the
proposed Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
March 29, 1984



- 20 -
ANNEX I
T A B L E  3A                                        PAGE 1
GUINEA                  - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
GUINEA                                 REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                      (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT              LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCCHE
1960-b      1970-ESTIMATE-           AFRICA S. OF SAHARA     AFRICA S. OF SAHARA
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. EM)
TOTAL                                245.9       245.9       245.9
AGtICULTURAL                          44.0        45.7        45.7
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    100.0       140.0       300.0               254.6                     1147.9
ENERGY CONSUMPIION PER CAPITA
(KE:LOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       17.0        91.0        83.0                79.8                      724.2
POPUiLATION AND VlTAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,NtD-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    3067.0       4069.0      5571.0/c
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)          9.9        13.9        19.7                19.5                       28.5
POI'ULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                               9.4
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                29.8
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                              2155
POPULATION DENSITY
E'ER SQ. KM.                        12.5        16.6        22.1                29.5                       56.5
P'ER SQ. EM. AGRI. LAND             69.7        89.0       118.7                94.1                      131.8
POEPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (2)
0-14 YRS                           42.0        42.5        43.9                45.0                       45.9
15-64 YRS                           55.1        54.7        53.1                52.1                       51.2
65 AND ABOVE                        2.8          2.8         2.9                 2.9                        2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                2.2         2.8         2.9/c               2.8                        2.8
URBAN                                8.1         6.2          6.0                6.2                        5.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)          46.9        46.9        47.5                47.9                       47.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)          30.3        24.2        22.4                19.2                       15.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.0         3.0         3.1                 3.2                        3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)             ..
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)            ..          ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71=100)                        97.0        101.0        86.0                87.8                       95.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (I Or REQUIREMENTS)       92.0         86.0        77.0*               88.0                       97.1
PROTEINS (GRA,S PER DAY)           46.0         42.0        38.0                51.2                       56.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         8.0          7.0         7.0/d              18.1                       17.2
CHllD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE          49.6         43.3        36.4                25.7                       23.6
BEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)           ..          ..        42.8                47.4                       51.9
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)       207.8        186.5       162.8               126.5                      117.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
T7TAL                                 ..          ..        10.O/e,f            24.7                       25.4
URBAN                                 ..          ..        44.01e f            56.8                       70.5
RlURAL                                * *         '          2.57               18.3                       12.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(% OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        13.0           . .              28.1
URBAN                                 ..        70,0          ..                65.7
RURAL                                 *-         2.0          . .               21.9
POPIJLATION PER PHYSICIAN         26900.0      32520.0     16630.0/d           27420.6                    12181.6
POP, PER NURSING PERSON             3260.0      2030.0      2490.0/d            3456.2                     2292.0
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             1120.0       610.0       630.0/g            1183.2                     1075.4
URBAN                             210.0        220.0       390 0/              380.6                      402.3
Rl'RAL                            2200.0       880.0       730.0g             3177.5                     3926.7
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..        16.0
HOUS INiG
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..          ..
URBAN                                 ..          ..
RIJRAL                                ..          ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..          ..
URBAN                                 ..          ..
RUtRAL                                ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (2 OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 * *         ' '        5.0/f
UR'BAN                               ..           ..
RU RAL                                            ..              ..
_ _ _- - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --_- - - - - - --_- --_- - - - - - - - - --- _   _ __-_-_-_- -_-_-_-_-_ _-_  _   _-_- _-_-_-_- -_-_-_-_-_ _-_-_-_- _ _-_-_-_-_- - _ _ _- _- _ -



- 21 -
ANNEX I
T     A B L e  3A                                      PAGE 2
GUINEA                   - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
GUINEA                                  REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                       (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
/b_         lb  RECENT                LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960-b    1970-  ESTIMATE-         AFRICA S. OP SAARA        AFRICA S. OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                     30.0         33.0        33.0                 63.9                       97.2
MALE                     44.0         45.0         44.0                73.6                       103.1
FEMALE                   16.0         21.0         22.0                51.6                        88.5
SECONDARY: TOTAL                      2.0         13.0         16.0                12.5                       17.2
MALE                      3.0         21.0         23.0                16.7                        23.5
FEMALE                    0.4          5.0          9.0                 8.1                        14.2
VOCATIOkAL (I OF SECONDARY)            21.7          3.2          2.7                 7.3                         5.2
4                           PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              66.0         44.0        36.0                 46.4                       42.9
SECONDARY                            26.0         23.0        24.0/f               25.1                       23.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (1)                 7.0          9.0/h       20.0                36.5                        37.1
CORSUNPIroN
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP             1.8          2.4          ..                  3.3                        18.8
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP           12.7         22.4         22.3                45.3                       97.8
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP               ..           ..           1.1                 2.2                        18.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPLULATION               0.2          1.2          3.8                 4.7                        18.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA         ..           ..          ..                   1.0                        0.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)            1522.0       1940.0      2456.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     40.4         40.3        40.7                 34.5                       36.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                88.0         85.0         82.0                76.9                       56.8
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                    6.0          8.0        11.0                  9.8                       17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                49.6         47.7        44.1                 40.9                        37.0
MALE                                 59.4         57.4         54.0                53.0                       47.1
FEMALE                               39.9         38.1         34.8                28.9                       27.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.9          1.0          1.1                 1.2                        1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..           .            .
HIGHEST.20T OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..           ..                165.9                      534.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..           ..                 87.4                      255.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
IJRBAN                                ..           ..         70.0/f              100.8                      491.5
RURAL                                 ..           ..          ..                  64.6                      188.1
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (%)
C                              URBAN                                 ..           ..           ..                 39.5
RURAL                                 ..           ..           ..                 69.0
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970t between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  Recent Government estimates from Administration census indicate a resident population (excluding nonrGuineans) of
4.53 mill. in 1977 and population growth rate of 2.7I p.a.; Id 1977; /e WHO report May, 1980 quotes total access of
11-12%.  However, this does not match reported service in urban and rural areas; /f 1978; /L  1976; /h 1965.
*   Present Bank estimates indicate higher ratio of supply close to requirement, the Bank estimstes point to a better
standard and there is no evidence of a sharp deterioration in nutritional standards.
May 1983



-22-                                                                              ANNEX I
DPt?INITEOfS OF SOCIAL INDICATORSt
Notes:  Aitboogh the date ore dess  fre .a.ur.s generally judgel these  autbritantre and reibe   0sol   lob   ae   he.hysyoth   nentoai
ounparbir bcause  f thelark o  stanardize   defiition   and fnteps  used  y digErrantcounties lovolleding bt  dat.  Thedate fe, norsheics, usfulbt
drace tbo order  of eageitude, lndicoce trends, and car-cterie  cetain major differene    ere  contIe., I   h   ..                                h   ----   ..hl  .   .  .-
TOo reernc gops ore (1) lbs man  -uouny grou  of the sohJert rucetfyed()acutygopoc   oehthgeraeaeirs                                                        ctecutygopo   b
aubJeot coaenrp (eccoPt for 'High looer" oil "cyrete" groupsdner   "Idde                         ..om    Noth  frc Sood Middetar hinghoer-n becaus   ostrongte r eoiou... turol
afflitlec).  In tbare  rro  group datat   . be         .. a -`ao   are- ppistion eeigbtdt. -   Norbetho uafa  orac  leMddIctE.l   and ab ... Seywrnaort Itofsecutisna
grop has dot. for tboe iodtoator.SInc          Mb  ocr-rage of conre-        mu   h   edioadpnso    he' riablty  of dAteM andy Wis not oifoY oaosthn suetrj he
nurledI  raIatingonrae  of Cnn todioutur to  touches- T tsraerge  r  onlyth                urful to d cP npariog the valbie  of one. oditr at aI t_ineaf._         bCutr   n
AREA (thousand oq.Os-)Peaain erPyiin                                                                                                    oplncdiddbyasrofpntig
r-  I- Total suofoor urea conprislog land area snd ttlaad waters; fOAl,                             ppiia    uife    reau olehe   tuiese    e
I197ind98  dunn..Prlte    e   aen    Pseo 1-1Ociootiotdiided b    -by fub   of praceicig
ASritultoroI - E`lotsae of agricl-tural urasedteprriyorprocnpsl                                               andfemle  rodet   Pcraa, asistantid nures  pracbra fnnrt and
forCrps,9P-turn, turkec and kinrhso gardeon or no lie feilco; 1960,                                nurin  auni  t..aetss,Ii-   or..o
1971 cod 180 data.                                                                                 P-rlaiog  perifupna   a  -tei,uh.ad  ua  -Oplain(ttl
GNP PiR CAPITA (USE) - IM  P.prrpt   eius    tCrensre    eca                                               vial   npbi  and ptet   eurl  n  s lairdbrytl  n
acuaadb  see   covnei tsehnd enWorld Bach Atlas (19)9-ft heels);                                        nbehlittioeooen             fepel   r   aoblishmden-ta-l1   dp.ilj. peMaustef  seffd
1962, 1870, ord 1901 data,                                                                             byhat lnat.toar ptpsrion H.ptstahliahants proidIngt p-noipelly cutodia
tEoRot WMSUMfPTICN ?ER COPITA - auuYrprtoonupatofcssrolseie    etr -a  pruItti  atafe   byapyiin(bnb      s1l
196), 1t)0,pand  198   at.ura  baiti    icud t                                                                                       0    rlopl/gnea  bopnlu,ad   rra
PRP0LA2IPO 011 SITE STATISICS                                                                ipentalieduhospptala  ae included osy o_der total
Tn ,tb=Iuoltin   Mid-ter(huad)-bofJl1;16,1 ,an18;diatsue  rycaRd - Tonalt numdbero   dmato   toph                                                                        orhithor
~~Ztta.                                                                                         free hospitals diin'idedf bye thel,  comberrofpibeds.
196oog". doaris  190117070dloidea                                                                   Avrae ine of Nosho caton                he heffl)- '-Pto-ta.rbcanrul
dreaint   er10      orn    ouairporncsunbadr 1980                                             and thelir sa    el.          ora  o   ugn  a    rnytrdeinlddi
PULTIota ANusiD       b   g   udscadternrtlc    n   etlt                                              the. bopsahald  u  atuia"' a  p           -iirpoeFrra..tt
eanemu.ingdeIs   i  fertlY.. ph aordIng  toA        rn.  lvladpotfml                              Morselto tlhctviotor  Iyrcn   of.d denlynos)- total,  ra,an   ua 
pT.lavlg   efann    loh9outr0I to                            1seg    170cu ,o thes    19ca             Covrnoeld         -lla       Ttbel 1cvicin   is  livngqrtrs anpecetage..
runh' Imnio    of   ortlit  adfR-tiity  treoda for            trcjrnio   partae.                    of -cehl,Purban  ndi~ddb rua  drl log  respcIvey
snrrroereaicerc196sr1n70    Thi isa urteve  cuply bafter   ofdctili prnsAjNtdG                             rlsetbn
each   onertiot  f noer relo't   irrP  seartlyo1 .   Teeainr                                   nolen   falagta   h  yriaryleo   aa pr etarefraeco
Your utcotoaar  peroluoov It rechd I oTe  er abet stadtinarIior  some popln Ar be.lrc   or above the    orfl _to   urhot og. _Id
pocttte  lu  oi  hernorh d.   bSecondary-areol -i-total, aal  ard froae -uCbmputed asl- aheve; uscu ba
Pnctatt ...oto'.coPtro                                                                                 eocettorNqotv1~nn      f at lt  oryaa  rtyOnZeea)tatric
toap  re;160i90  and 1960 dot ee.ppturlyo12o10ro fof  g;corepodrcecIo    r
PeLi.~~rozo!colovfultlorit onoe  aeobv               foragicltra  laudl                           -etera1d p-lc..
n'yJ   90,17  ad16  dana                                      Irutca   neleo rof                                                     fucodr)    ooIoa   rtloic
PunritionAge   erurtre (ercet) - Cildren  -d14 yer)f        tr,g-g   1-                         eld-t-        nca,idoei    rr '"    otb2!LUrI praranthRIn    pravldn d
b8yas,adrtIe 6,er   r  over) f-                  acpe   pnaa  ef- ai-pa                              ottiyo  n. dvutsevce ofserondopb-etoiotl-
-                    Popala~~~~~...ttoc  boohi v   pretr-ttl-Muldth h1 .qll h o       ree.     froa   I-                       ror  cod        , se odan  -eo  d-Iriel  yvoir   fisretinterr
year       I  pe poloio  ..fo   t90-l    Th1-f  and - 1901.                                         responding  lnvoln.
jrd  trt foe(orthood)-da         .llr    ieb    e  t        -uood of nid-l                                                                      ......             .  ll
Ced  heat  toftehpe  ohnud  t-  Y-oa  deaths per thcoovdtf dnid-`eor                              Pasnoo  Cr  le  rh ,unur tcopeleIro       usne   oecme                       co
pe tcltttnn    90   90  andleeo 19)dt.rtnottlssco   ihpora   rInsthlrt,Itne 
Grot treredoction  nto-d  brugdjumberdof.dadgffntanomlengt.1.hearJ..,ututortirhicfor
Pumily Plarolng - Acce bours, -hned.temns       aolobe    farpoetect  effect; duto bfn  r recen  prar  say                                               i. coo ho . rom eetl   in sn
feap  laco -ysr.(.. or  ofeand  omn1-Pactrgno  svve                                           genre at  ublclperrtaunand   opulation       petrdode           ab-ren ed  T.....udeny
eteno   hl-erv    8   1-4   er)cocrbrhcnro    eIe   rlronlnr   In  ear  ohn  r eltroilon  ofOfnea ur                                                                       efet
polO ap:l,     190SU19OO TI198                                                                       cpruia- gect of "dI -gvju-nort  eaoo'  dfvdna  eldia
lPd, o  Pond k  uocclre1'Id  per lapit   (10-1-l0).- Indv  o  per.lt_ caita                            PrhPirulct--II dervo    praal 7c  recco  dIe0  a a -- oaeaa      r... lc  ccosdred
uv.IF prdcto o19fodco    diin    ProdcoId                   erlrou  ned  ad                          o b  "dlly" if. lippanedeatfCrdeuer
feed uod in cv raleodar r!-ear ba ha Cnodrit lea1 cover priar  ,goode (e.g.                 hfeadrulltta epr  oiapr  ercne    nooiobeo
e      19urcoialo  o   ngr  ohc  ar  edibl  sod cotagIn oufet   eg                            tressl   cr             h    er  iniddin-adu hnot  cc -ri e-  rinrdapsd-
cotso9d70aor ,clue) dageot   roaoitofsobaeFyi                                              oritlyeroln.dryi-it
hosedti-  G-v ratRII e    perago  ) p -doe  pric  AomIgn S- 1961-hO   1570  c-1 1981Ii                                           !
data.                                                               18118 EleCt           i."'d'   T
day.  Araieb   forspls   apiedmsicpouto,iprols                                                    pepu0a60en1of0all   agu.Nrftyiu    i   uiro   ret drt- are                le ret
nayerta, ae  rhougee i  atari. 7No  -upIda1970l81e eviadCod,aedalcmpra le;190  17 aI d198 '~data.                                               I   ft-br  i h
qua tltoate   in foodt 'Pnu-atin arbnd- eArsoA it. diIt'll,9pjscc?-Pgrlbr8ao   s  ect ea   otllbrfvr
Boivrty andbe,       tuadrgarlr            i-er bn lh.1 tope htr.-bode fvhs                          fisi   aPpecetae o  cta  labor foce   1960  19)0 an-181do
sge eAte dln eribno    fpplaInhdalnng1   ecn   u  esnlda_    oeeo                                                              ao Icaere           --l   (" to snn,  aer rnien  e .atufrtleg
an beomohold; beet; 1970-AS, 17an19         990d-   data,..  and                                                   . olcocoy  wterusand Pgas    ..  on pe coae of   cta labo.-r. fare;t68,
to sec  cyi opRetoa-c.-. Igras ca  da)-   eht         oerto  per caita                           il19)81th and 1981 data., Mt-e   n
her opyoffe   e  dIy  Non supeply of .fund .i defaced as aboveI. Poeicpeto  Sa(perCet)-ta,sleanre t-P tiptieo
pac    ra9  o  o   dib  1g3aa l - hog ondiso  prote6r.   19o70160  1970, and 1981t dat.   These ate' bAted on P' li                                               f patrieti-fornv   .di.
atandrcir  re lner tan vosef75gI    m th of. toa  potei  ad 2_       goe                      refle_iugage-cn  ioornfth  ppiany- e, and lungtier tre di.
Th ird torld  dvol iOrvay;    d -501 -h)  190tef90    faa                                           fcoeirca te       a  Roir -. ta or ye         r pouato    unde  15 p -ud 60 Jadoverta
Per, r_pO    etl   :vnrfo    amlon   ue       rtir aoly  Iof fodth   otl labrfre
Child loaco I-h) moth   .. ton  (pe  "heomad)    a   P-t-deatb  per thousa d in               Perrete f1        rnn pbeplec     hthi   ahan   od  -Rcie  b   ihe
co,oorif   Ideuc deived  from,15 lie  ab  h;191   1970 h sod191 data,           t                     i  -au -ihd..-'t  -              I%gt t
-ni   Iipenao  so_     m    yee          vrassbro   er   fll -eaiie                                  Te ogowugeslace   oe  er                  -praier neadr  of  oesriTy level, an
a    'dm;16,  90ad18  doto.shudbineptd Felolcaedeaertu,
preofaepe  husn   lv    Irh;198   97   nd18  dt.daoot   oeeyicoelve aehttuenleerbb    hlhoeuta
FOOD    o   ooCtn   creto   cploo)-ttl.uhr   u   ua -UTITuNt-rinliom lly adeut  dit pu   aerlvnfrdeqoessIan
SnOre.  o   epe(ua,ubn   n   oa)et  reeuehlercn-                            c  afei-ardbl.of i'lye-F It ,PI                                                  S.      h      -
000cr  cpplp  includs orooed surace 7waers0o   unrae   hu -tiatdRltiePvry  oeekel(5nccno d-fid ura    pendrural-
oIcI.auomo  rate  r tool anconfo             proeced   -urhos  apedna  and                           coral  `eduilvo i poverty  ...oom    level it- one-thr faeaepecpt
saclior  usUal  e porrntugro   f theirresperine poplatieca    Co anpersees  inroneof thecountry lIhat  erel tAderive-from  te rura
fr     --dbnc  ma  be -nidoredll as being wioid ewsrbl   ree  fto                            ttste    uuate           0ccattele,oro  I-o   leve  (prent  -urba
beso   _rrrOaeaeaanclerca   c idplts totcueifo                                                   e-rvl-Prrt  rfcuatruhaadra)huo"ahae-olot
sestrd o    -hehushl  do no   oeosed aP,l pe_ig              rlenale  por  of,'-i
the  ay  ly fechn   te-r. fuilswter trfipnds.o-    blF..   l-.de                                                                     ..J.Iy- -pr..,i.ui
mel-r   Sobe oq-- - f peeple   d (er Peli ueo  i and rural  serve   Pycoer
d.lopAnol bus percentage  of li dhirr  poonive -pepoluticus.  tEncednth-a diepasatl                                                                                    I
ma Ie deterllctrae   tP-u,nt  c   tho                                                                P.ann,  ftocrcudsotllnaDvso
'uo   e 'eon   an  inete-woir  by noedhrs   yaem    r  h  oe   fptlooicuoyi   n    rjetoslrtn
p itk nodotlr insod ltca               od                                                                                                               ay..J.1983~~-



- 2 -
ANNEX  I
Page 4
GIEA: PEIDEf'S REPORT ANNM  1
REwOUYoI0NARX PEIP1LE'S RE!JBLIC OF GUINEA
U0ONIC IlICAi)RS
GROSS NATICNAL ROCT IN 19e2 1/                  Anmwal Rate of Grrth (%, constant prices)
US$  n %              1973-77  1977-81  1973-81  1981       1951-85
Projected
GNP at Market Prices    1550  lOO            4,59    -0.22    2.16      0.98    2.00
Gross Doestic Invest-   225   14           -6.55      7.09    0.04    10.0      5.00
ment
Gros National           150    5            21.25   -39.77   -4.92    -6.21        -
Savings 2
Current Acount          -82   -5            21.25   -39.77   -4.92    -7.31      -
Erports of Goods, NBS    477   29           30.41     2.35   15-53      2.66    1.00
Imports of Goods, NS   -455  -27          -20.(0      3.46   11.44      2.53     -
OIfP1, LIAR FURCE AND HROtLLTIVITY
Value Added             Iabor Force        VA per worker
US$KIn    %           thausands       %     us$      %
Agriculture       710   42.38           202         82.00     351   51-85
Industry and      383   22,86            271        10.99    1343  198.38
Minin
Services          582   34-75             173        7.02    3445  5C8.86
Tetal/Average    1675  100O.0)           2466      100.00     677  100.00
GOVEHYM YUiANCE
Central Governcnt
B1llion Sylis                       % of GDP
1979   19EO   1931   1962          1979    19Bo   198    1982
Curent Receipts            9.97   11.09  12.32  15.85         33.02   34.54  34.95  42.32
Current Expenditure        6.63    7.74   7.21    9.42        21.96   24.11   20.45  25.23
Current Surplus            3.34    3.35   5.11    6.43        11.C6    0.43  14.50  17.16
Capital Expenditure 4/     8.30    3.77   5.96   5.00         27.49   11.74  16.91   13.35
External Assistance        1.15    0.97   1.80   0.83          3.82    3.01   5.12   2.21
(Net) 5
Central Governrnt
Billion Sylis                       % of GDP
1979   199)   1951   1982          1979    19B)   1981   1982
Curnt Receipts             9.73   10.44  11.52  15.35         32.22   32.52  32.63  40.98
Current Expenditure        6.44    7.19   7.04   9.09         21.33   22.39  19.97  24.27
Current SUIrplus           3.29    3.25   4.48   6.26         10.90   10.12  12.71   16.71
Capital Expenditure 4/     8.20    3.70   5.73   4.34         27.16   11.52  16.25   11.58
External Assistance        1.15    0.97   1.80   0.83          3.82.   3.01    5.12  2.21
(Net) 5/
1DNX, CREIT AND PUCBZ
B1 1ion S)lis
Dec.1979 Dec.1990  Dec.1981 Dec.1982
Money and quasi-money                      8.90      12.97    17.17    16.33
Baik Credit to Public Sector               8.61      18.50    22.74    19-55
Bank Credit to Private Sector              0.76       1.21     1.02     0.59
Percentages
1979     199)     1981      1992
Wney and quasi-mney as                      29.47    40.39    48.71     41.75
% of GDP
General Price Index (1991=100)              85.50    91.90   100.00   104.43
6/
Annual % Clanges in:
Bank Credit to Public Sector             -25.60   114.90    22.90   -15.03
Bank Credit to Private Sector              7.50    60.30   -16.00   -62.16



ANNEX I
-24-                                     Page 5
/EOWVIOUCt FnPLE'S RFEJHIC OF USIFA
EA1 PAY AMIS          CAPAL AWS
BAAC2  OF PA=M2'$S 7/
1979     1980      19B1      1932
(us$ mi;on)
Exorts of Goods,NM                        364       497      490       442
Imports of Goods, b5.                    -362      -394     -435      -372
Resource Gap (deficit-)                     2       103       55        70
Interest Pay-ents                          46       -51      -53       -54
Worer's Rerittances                        -7       -8        -9        -9
Other Factor Payrents (net)               -38       -74      -85       -83
Net Transfera                               9        17       16        23
Blance on Current Accmnt                  .81      -13       -76       -53
Direct Foreign Investient                  28        34       36        34
Net MT Borrowing
Disbnat ents, Public Borrowing          126       120       139       as
Amortization, Public Porrowing         -109      -1C8     -109        82
Subtotal, Paulic Borroing                17        12       30         6
Private Sector (net)                    -.29      -31      -28        -9
Total Borrowing                         -12       -19        2        -3
Capital Grants 8/                          ..
Other Capital (iet)                         3         5       10        11
Other Items n.i.e.                         34       -45      -42       -34
Increase in Re serves 9/                  -W       -38       -70       -47
Gross Reserves (end year)                  66       99        91        95
Net Reserves (erd year) 9/               -2Q8      -239     -296      -333
Fual and Related Yaterials
Imports                                  ..       -99       110      na
of hich:  Petroleum                    ..       99       110       La
Exports                                   0         0        0         0
RAM  OF MCHMIGE 10/
1975   1976   1977   1978   1979  199         19S1    1982
Sylis/US $            20.33   21.39   21.14   19.72   19.11  18.97   20.93  22.36
N.ER    ISE 5EPRM3i (Average 1979-M)          EXENAL DES, December 31, 19 2
US $ mn  %                                                US$ Kin
Baucite                   307-7 68.4          Public and Private Debt Guaranteed
Alumina                   128.3 28.5           Including Undisbursed                 1540.0
Diamnds                     1.7   .4            Oustending end Disbursed
Agricultural Commodities   12.3  2.7
Total                     450.1  100.0        DEBr SaICE RATIOS  IR 19B2
IBRD/I:DA Ldil)fllG (September 30, 1993)    Scheduled Service Payments
1S bUn              Public and Private Debt Guaranteed     31.6
IND     IDA            Private Debt Non Guaranteed            11.0
Outstanding & Disbursed   47.1  75.5           Total Debt Oustandiing and Disbursed   42.6
lJndisbursed              0.0  63.0
Oustanding including      47.1  138.5        Actual Service Payments
Undisbursed                                  Public and Private Debt Guaranteed      17.5
Private Debt Non Cuaranteed            10.3
Total Debt Outstading and Disbursed   27.8
I/ Preli.naiy estinates
2/ Defized as CDI plus Current Account Blence
3/ Local adminlstr-ation not included
4/ Including capital transfers to, and investnent on behalf of, state enterprises
5/ Disburssentz les_ scheduled awrtization plus increase in arrears
6/ GDP implicit def,tcr
7/ Totals may not 6:1 .ue to rxmding
8/ Irncluded in n.tt trar-fers
9/ Discrepwincies due to different exchage rates
10/ Period gaantric avprage
Yah 27, 1954



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUINEA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1983)*
Credit                                                                    Amount (less Cancellations)
Number        Year       Borrower             Purpose                Bank      IDA 1/  Undisbursed 2/
------ --(-Ts$ million)--
Two loans and two Credits have been fully disbursed                   73.5    21.0
849-GUI        1979      Guinea               First Education                   8.0           0.25
870-GUI        1979      Guinea               First Water Supply               12.5           5.00
and Sanitation
952-GUI        1980      Guinea               Rice Development                 10.4           5.32
953-GUI        1980      Guinea               Second Highway                   13.0           1.88
1063-GUI      1981       Guinea               Livestock                         2.1           0.26
Development
1085-GUI      1981       Guinea               Power Project                    28.5           10.09
1234-GUI      1982       Guinea               Industrial Rehabi-               19.0           16.67
litation and
Promotion
1341-GUI 3/   1983       Guinea               Second Education                 11.0           10.78
1382-GUI 3/   1983       Guinea               Conakry Port                     13.0           12.79
Total                                                   73.5   138.5           63.04
of which has been repaid                             26.4      0.0
Total now held by Bank and IDA                          47.1   138.5
Total undisbursed                                         0.0   63.04        63.04
1/ Amount IDA6 Credits computed at the rate at the approval dates.
2/ Amount IDA6 Credits computed at the September 30, 1983 rate of $1.05684 = SDR.
3/ Not yet effective
*     The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B.  Statement of IFO Investments (as of September 30, 1983)
Fiscal Year.  Obigor                        Type of Business    Loan    Equity    Total
Societe Mixte,
Aredor Guinee, S.A.         Diamond Mining        13.9               (
1983                                                                                 (15.3
l  Aredor Holdings                                             1.4
Total Gross Commitments                            13.9    1.4         15.3
Less Cancellations,
Terminations, Repayments
and Sales                                          7     _          _
Total Commitments now held
by IFC                                           13.9    1.4        15.3
Undisbursed Balance                                13.0    0.0        13.0



- 27 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
I.  Project Identified                              November 1981
II.  Project Appraisal                               January 1983
III.  Project Preparation Facility Advance            December 1983
IV.  Negotiations Completed                          March 1984
V.  Planned Date of Credit Effectiveness            July 1984
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Action
PPF advance of US$1 ,0009000 to prefinance limited technical assistance
to the Road Project Office, the preparation phase of the consultant-contractor's
support to the Division of Works, and some spare parts for urgent maintenance of
the equipment fleet.
Section III: Special Conditions
A. Conditions of Effectiveness
(a)  The Borrower will take all official measures to implement the task
identification and remuneration system for labor-based routine
maintenance (para. 44);
(b)  the Borrower will open a Project Account and makes an initial
deposit of GSY 25 million in the Project Syli account (para. 53);
(c)  the Borrower will open a Special Account denominated in US dollars
in a local bank acceptable to the Association (para. 53);
(d)  the BADEA Loan Agreement shall have become effective (para. 51).
B. Other Conditions
(a)  Government has agreed to discuss the recommendations of the Transport
Plan Study with the Association and subsequently implement them. In
particular: Govrernment has agreed to include in its investment plan
only priority items identified in the study;  to carry oqt only works
included in the investment plan; to institute a satisfactory mechanism
to finance foreign exchange costs in road maintenance, and to put into
place an organisation for transport planning based on the
recommendations of the study (para. 46).
(b)  the consultants who are to provide technical assistance to
OPR, provide support to DT and undertake audits will be
selected by the Borrower in accordance with Bank Group
Guidelines on the Use of Consultants (paras. 52,54);
(c)  the Borrower will replenish Syli drawings from the Project
Account at least quarterly (para. 53); and
(d)  disbursement for the Conakry-Mamou road will be conditional
on the effectiveness of the proposed AfDF Credit (para. 60)



I~                                                    



I BRD ~7479
-,                                                                                            8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0F~~~~~~~iSPT0MBR[ 1283
i          -       S  E  N   E   G-A  L           -
s  <   ~    ~     ~    ~         H                   :                                )                        \                                    y;8do*oBam~ onko
12'  -2
Bm he   SAvac oS Ar  Uod 56o be rerneldo  erbl                \ 1 t                                                                               /     90X-X                                              S
4lussorrmevvgTld5ta2e  Co4akry+l-    g           < \                                         0 tcted undetthepoj~ectb 7                      -tv        <4-~4.sg Sf =(~  ;
blOh~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aau bo md>neo                                                                                                                              * 
ThO~~~ 280 _0,  0 Interaffn airor 5* _-- LI\  SnoO,ooffi
ntEGM1, on 28000 of 0,                                                   - Conakrraiv reinbudre                           , -"                                                        T 
005000ff 400 040000000000000 ~ ~ ~ ~       ~         ~        ~         T-.6 
,,loO0o          ERRA000   01090                                                                                      r4VJ                                                           .   
j    V,rI IVORY COAST   J                 K IFTR utl10  0       11            00   1'0         1\ Y m<     
L B T R IA  .                                                            0 0tf O                                                      . 
4>~~~~~~~~~, ; 9 i             %'                           ~- \ E>h   0-  4n                      o      P   1- -,                                                  \.
_Y.17       r          I   ER IA        -if.
qL'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



