Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
./ 1A/  )d'Al
Report No. 6838-ME
MEXICO
MANPOWER TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
August 28, 1987
Country Department II
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    Mexican Peso IMex$)
Mex$1.00         = US$0.000824,/
US$1.00          = Mex$1,214.00'/
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
UNITS AND MEASURES
The International System of Units of Measurements (SI) is used
throughout the report.
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
CCECA         State Training Council
CECAP or      Vocational School
CECATI
CEO           Crafts Training Center
CET           Council for Employment and Training (Consejo
Consultivo de Empleo, Capacitaci6n y Adiestramiento)
CONACAP       National Training Board
CONALEP       National Council for Professional Technical
Education
COPLADE       State Development Planning Commission
CUD           Annual Agreement on Development
DEPE          Directorate of Employment Studies and Policies
DGCP          Directorate General of Training and Productivity
DGE           Directorate General of Employment
DGPPC         Directorate General of Programming, Budgeting and
Accounting
DOA           Directorate of Occupational Analysis
GATE          Technical Support Group for Enterprises
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
IMSS          Social Security Institute
INEA          National Institute for Adult Education
LCB           Local Competitive Bidding
NAFIN         The Government's Financial Agent
SEE           State Employment Service
SEP           Ministry of Education
SHCP          Ministry of Finance
SIP           Productivity Information Service
SME           Small or Medium-Scale Enterprise
SNE           Directorate of Employment Services
SPP           Ministry of Planning and Budget
STPS          Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare
1/ At the time of appraisal (May 1987).



FOR OFFICMAL USE ONLY
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
MANPOWER TRAINING PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ....................                            1
II.   THE SECTOR:  HUMAN RESOURCES ISSUES AND STRATEGY ..........    4
Development Context ................................                    4
The Manpower Training and Allocation System    .                        4
Sector Issues    .                  ...    5
Government Policies for Improvement of Training             ....        7
Bank Assistance .Arategy and Experience of Past Lending ...   8
III.  THE PROJECT ....................                                         9
Origin of the Project  .............                                    9
Project Objectives  ....   9
Rationale for Bank Involvement                    ....   10
Project Components and Description .........                           10
Alte_natives to Proposed Pro0ect Interventions             ....    14
Project Costs and Financing .........                                  14
Project Implementation ....                                            16
Status of Project Preparation                    ....    17
Accounting and Auditing Procedures ... ..                    .         19
Benefits         ...19
Risks ... .. .....                                                 .   20
IV.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....................   21
This report reflects the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Mexico May 18-23, 1987.
The mission comprised Mossrs./Mme*. 8. Dahlborg, (Technical Educator, Mission Leader, LCPED);
R. Dryodal- (Deputy Chlof, LCPED); A. Artaza (Operations Assistant, WAPUR); and E. Schreiber
(Planner, Consultant). Several other persons, Including the Mexican project preparation team In
SIPS, contributed oubstantially to the report. Those persons are listed In Annex 10.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoration.



List of Annexes
1.     Comparative Education Indicators
2.     Labor Market Setting and Training Needs
3.     Technical and Vocational Training in Mexico
4.     Component Design and Implementation
4a. Project Matrix
4b. Employment Services and Labor Retraining Component
4c. Demonstration Inservice Training and Productivity Component
4d. STPS Institutional Strength.ening Component
4e. Training Institutions Upgrading Component
5.     Project Costs
5a. Estimated Project Cost by Project Component
5b. Estimated Project Cost by Component and Category of
Expenditure
5c. Unit Costs
5d. Contingency A.alowances
5e. Project Financing by Component and by Source
6.     Project Management and Implementation
6a. Project Management and Implementation
6b. Implementation Schedule
6c. Activities Financed under the Project Preparation Facility
7.     Procurement Arrangewents
8.     Disbursements
8a. Allocations of Loan Proceeds
8b. Disbursement Projection
9.     Key Indicators for Project Monitoring and Evaluation
10.     List of Persons Involved in Project Preparation
11.     Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File



- 1 -
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
MANPOWER TRAINING PROJECT
I. LOAN AND PROJECT SUNMARY
Borrowers                Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (NAFIN)
Guarantor:               United Mexican States
Beneficiarys            Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare (STPS)
Loan Amount:             US$80.0 million equivalent
Terms:                  Repayable over 15 years, including three years of
grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
Prolect Description:    The project would complement Bank assistance for
economic restructuring and policy reform, and would
aim to reduce human resource constraints to growch,
improve labor productivity, and lessen the social
impact of adjustment. It would:
(a) strengthen state employment services and the
STPS retraining program for displaced and
unemployed skilled and semiskilled workers,
and implement a retraining program for 160,000
displaced and unemployed workers over the next
four to five years, during which the labor
market effects of restructuring are expected
to be at their peak;
(b) establish a system to assist small and medl.um-
scale enterprises in strategically selected
sectors and geographical areas in upgrading
the skills of employed workers through a
demonstration progrim for promotion and
support of inservice training and related
advisory services for 5,000 targetted
enterprises and productivity information
services for 20,000 enterprises;
(c) strengthen the STPS to guide effective
development of training by improving staff
capacity for labor market monitoring,
introducing revised labor market and manpower
information systems and conducting key policy
studies; and
(d) increase and better distribute training
capacity by upgrading selected public and
private training institutions that contract
with the STPS and firms to provide training.



-2-
Project Risks:          No significant risks are associated with the
capacity of preject management entities to
implement the proposed project. However, despite
the priority given to the project by the Government
in the context of the current restructuring effort,
some implementation lags could result from
shortfalls in Government provision of co1nterpart
funds and/or from the change of administration in
1988. There is clso some risk that an insufficient
number of employers would be motivated to
participate in the inservice training provided
under the project and that some graauates of th'
retraining program would fail to find productive
employment. Project design takes account of these
risks and includes measures to minimize each of
them, including decentralized decision-making
mechanisms and close involvement of enterprises
in decisions regarding both inservice training
and retraining programs. Also, the4 Bank would
have the right to reduce its share of project
financing, should adeTuatae counterpart funds not
be forthcoming. Budgetary counterpart
allocations for the project have been made for
1987 in line with appraisal estimates. A mid-
term review would be carried out after the
change of administration. Employment of
retraining graduates would be further assured
through preparatory studies to select priority
sectors and regions for intervention, new
criteria for selection of trainees based on
recent evaluations, and ca:eful arrangements for
monitoring of the retraining program.



-3-
Estimated Cost: el
Cost (USS million)
Local           Foreain            Total
Prolect Component
Employment Services and
Retraining                     74-1                1.8              75.9
Demonstration Inservice
Training and Productivity      40,4                2.3              42.7
STPS Institutional
Strengthening                   2.0                0.6               2.6
Training Institutions
Upgrading                       1.7                8.3              10.0
Base Cost (May 1987)           118.2               13.0             131.2
Physical Continge:.ies       11.8                1.3              13.1
Price Contingencies          11.0                0.7              11.7
TOTAL PROJECT COST           141.0               15.0             156.0
a/  Net of taxes and duties estimated at US$12.3 million.
Financing Plan
Cost (US$ Million)
Local            Foreign            Total
Enterprises                   40.3                0.0              40.3
Governmert                    35.7                0.0              35.7
Bank                          65.0               15.0              80.0
TOTAL                     141.0               15.0            156.0
% of Total                 90%                102               100%
Disbursement Forecast:
(US$ Million)
Bank FY          1988   1989    1990       1991     1992     1993
Annual               10.0    10.0    16.0      16.0     16.0      12.0
Cumulative           1C.0    20.0    36.0      52.0     66.0      80.0
(% of Total)      (12.5)  (25.0)  (45.0)   (65.0)   (85.0)  (100.0)
Rate of Return:  Not applicable.



II. THE SECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCES ISSUES AND STRATEGY
Development Context
2.1      Mexico's development strategy -- as embodied in the National
Development Plan, the 1986 Trade Policy Program, and the Growth-Oriented
Adjustment Program (PAC, 19868 -- emphasizes that sustained growth requires
far-reaching reforms, including restructuring of key industrial sectors and
public enterprises, opening of the economy to international competition,
expanding non-oil exports, and accelerating technological modernization.
Reforms already initiated have led to significant closings of inefficient
plants, the consolidation and upgrading of productive facilities, and a
rapid increase in non-oil exports in a process of adjustment which is
expected to peak during the next few years as the trade regime is further
liberalized. These measures have affected the labor force. Total
employment grew by only 2.5 percent in 1985 (Annex 2). Irformal sector
employment, which represents about one-third of the work force, is
currently growing raster than employment in the formal sector. As part of
a strategy to restore growth, facilitate the redeployment of manpower to
more productive activities, particularly during the major restructuring
expected during the next few years, and lessen the social cost of
adjustment, employment services and retraining programs need to be
strengthened and redirected to serve better the poorest of those displaced
and unemployad. Substantial further gains in productivity will also
require more effective provision of inservice training of large numbers of
employed workers, particularly for middle-level technicians and skilled
workers employed in Mexico's 380,000 small-and medium-scale enterprises
(SMEs). Such enterprises in the industrial sector, with less than 250
workers, employ 51% of the industrial workforce and produce 40S of
industrial value added. SMEs will be particularly affected by the economic
adjustment measures but, at the same time, will need to play an
increasingly important role under the liberalized trade regime.
The Manpower Training and Job Placement System (Annex 3)
2.2      Preservice and Inservice Training.  Mexico has a complex
vocational and techrical training structure. Regular preservice training
is primarily the responsibility of the formal education system over. en by
the Federal Ministry of Education (SEP). This system includes stat- and
municipal institutions, semi-autonomous agencies such as the National
Council for Professional Technical Education (CONALEP), and private
schools. Inservice training, to the limited extent that it exists, is
implemented and financed by employers. It is supported and monitored by
the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare (STPS) as part of its
responsibilities to promote higher labor productivity.
2.3      Employment Services and Retraining.  Registration of job-seekers
and va ancies, career counselling, referral, and placement in jobs or
trainilLg are the responsibilities of the State Employment Services (SEEs)
set up in 1983 under the Federal States. The SEE system comprises offices
(assisted by STPS) in more than 80 locations around the country and
registers over 200,000 persons a year. With the objective of linking labor
supply and demand, and depending on each individual's characteristics and
needs, the SEEs refer job-seekers to a variety of adult training programs,



Including those of the vocational schools in SEP's CECAP/CEO (vocational
and crafts training) system (Annex 3), courses offered by the Adult
Education Institute (INEA), and to STPS-sponsored retraining. These
programs operated with a total enrollment of about 250,000 in 1985. They
are tailored to regional requirements on the basis of labor market
information, including employers' information on investment plans. The
STPS retraining program, guided by the Council for Employment and Tralning
(CET), has operated since 1984 providing intensive courses of study of
between three and six months' duration. The courses emphasize basic skills
in trades such as bookkeeping, carpentry, auto mechanics, electrical
installation and maintenance, and are designed for self-employment as well
as for employment in the formal sector. Courses are conducted in training
facilities (public and private) contracted for the program or, in some
cases, operated jointly with enterprises. The STPS retraining program is
intended as a temporary complement to permanent adult training programs
during the present period of concentrated restructuring. It targets a
small group (about 15 percert of overall adult training enrollments) among
the economically most disadvantaged of those displaced and judged
retrainable for skilled or semiskilled jobs projected to be in increasing
demand. To enable these persons to participate in retraining, the STPS
program provides a cost-of-living stipend during retraining equivalent to
the general minimum salary (approximately US$90 equivalent per month). All
other candidates for retraining, notably younger workers without dependents
who are not eligible for the STPS program, are referred to other adult
training programs.
2.4      Training Finance.  Resources for training are mobilized from
public and private souarces, including individuals and enterprises. The
largest source of finance is the Federal Government's allocation to general
education and universities (in the order of US$5 billion equivalent
annually, or about 4 percent of GDP). By comparison, the flow of funds to
vocational training is small -- about US$150 million equivalent of public
funds in 1986 (or 0.1 percent of GDP) for preservice training and
retraining of skilled or semiskilled workers and middle-level technicians;
and an estimated US$120 million in 1986, mainly from enterprises, for
inservice training.
2.5      Financing arrangements for inservice training in Mexico contrast
with those in place in many countries of the region, where payroll taxes
are used as a stable source of funding for national training systems
operated by centralized organizations. Mexico has instead depended on a
potentially more efficient combination of market forces and tax allowances
for funding of training expenses, and a decentralized system of management
relying on individual encerprises and employers' organizations to organize
training programs. This approach has the advantage of flexibility in
response to employers' changing requirements. In a protected industrial
environment without a strong training tradition, however, it has also
resulted in under-investment in traini-ng.
Sector Issues
2.6      The main issues affecting manpower training and job placement have
been identified through a subsector study carried out in 1985
(para. 3.1) and in the course of subsequent project identification and



- 6 -
preparation missions. They aret (a) limitations of the state services for
employment registration, counselling, referral, and placement, and
inadequate retraining programs for displaced and unemployed workersa
(h) insufficient inservice training, particularly in small and medium-scale
enterprises (SMEs); (c) inadequate monitoring of labor market supply and
demand and limited institutional capacity for related technical and policy
analysis by the Directorate General of Employment in STPS; and
(d) inadequate distribution of capacity (by types of training offered) in
existing training institutions to deliver required retraining and inservice
training programs.
2.7      EmRloyment Services and Retraining.  The capacity of SEEs in some
states Is still limited due largely to a shortage of trained staff and
inadequate information processing equipment at the SEEs. As a consequence
of the ongoing structural adjustment process, a large and growing number of
unemployed seek employment registration and retraining for entry into new,
productive activities. However, budgetary constraints have reduced the
number of places in STPS' retraining program from 56,000 in 1984 to 19,000
in 1986; and the program needs some improvements, including measures to
target better the poorest of the unemployed.
2.8      Evaluations of the STPS retraining program, including a rectent
study of the program's outcomes for a 25 percent sample of trainees in five
states in 1986 (a total of 670 ex-trainees interviewed), showed favorable
results in terms of training efficiency and employment of graduates (Annex
3, paras. 19-21). The average dropout rate was less than 10 percent.
Between 40 and 50 percent of graduates surveyed immediately found jobs tied
directly to their training specialization; another 40 to 50 percent entered
productive employment in other activities where the benefit of training was
less direct but still tangible. Less than 10 percent remained unemployed.
Althcugh a controlled experiment was not feasible, this rate of placement
was more than double that for the unemployed generally during the same
period. The evaluations also helped to identify measures needed to make
the program more effective, including measures to concentrate courses in
specializations and regions where effective demand is robust; improve
monitoring and evaluation; adjust criteria for selection of trainees to
ensure that the program attracts those most in need among the trainable
unemployed, in particular to limit use of the training stipend to those
with dependents; and increase the proportion cf trainees enrolled in
courses operated jointly with enterprises, whete the average rate of
placement is particularly high.
2.9      Inservice Training.  Inservice training is, by law, promoted by
the STPS and guided by sectoral or regional training boards (CONACAPsj and
local training committees, which include representatives of employers and
labor. Training is provided largely in training centers (public and
private). In practice, only large firms carry out inservice training
systematically. Small and medium-scale enterprises, which employ the
majority of workers, do not regularly provide inservice training. With
notable exceptions, including some courses arranged by the national
construction and manufacturing associations, the training provided is not
directed to resolving key productivity constraints. As a result of new
policies for trade liberalization and industrial restructuring, major
enterprises increased allocations for training by about 15 percent per year
during 1986-87. Over the same period, firms' demand for training places in



- 7 -
public and private institutions rose by about 10 percent per year,
particularly in management and technical fieAds.  To begin to support the
regular provision of effective inservice training, particularly in SMEs,
promotienal activities of the STPS need to be strengthened and combined
with technical support to decentralized training committees and firms.
Inservice training also needs to be broadened to Incorporate more irilant
courses.
2.10     STPS Institutional Capacity.  Structural ad4ustment and rapid
technological change are placing new and more stringent demands on STPS as
a promoter of human resources development. In this context, policies and
procedures for guiding, monitoring and evaluating training programs need to
be strengthened. At present, STPS staff in the Directorates General for
Employment and for Training and Productivity (DGE and DGCP), who are mainly
responsible for training support, possess adequate formal qualifications to
effect these improvements. However, their experience is limited in
selected areas including, notably, program and system design and
evaluation, and application of the sophisticated analytical techniques
increasingly required. The current labor market, employment and training
information systems are also inadequate for supporting early adjustments to
changing labor market needs; and related support for local analysis by the
SEEs is limited. Long-term analysis and studies needed to guide the future
development and financing of the training system have also been limited.
Selective staff upgrading is therefore needed within STPS to strengthen
technical and analytical capabilities, and the Ministry's labor market and
manpower information systems need to be reinforced.
2.11     Capacity of Existing Training Institutions.  Existing training
institutions and centers, puolic and private, are contracted by the STPS
and enterprises to deliver retraining and inservice ttaining. The
capacity of these institutions is generaily adequate for both types of
programs and the numbers of trainees anticipated over the next five years.
However, the geographical and occupational distribution of training
capacity does not fully correspond to shifting needs, and some institutions
do not have the administrative capacity or equipment required to undertake
new or revised courses. Consequently, a need exists for the selective
adaptation and reequipment of training facilities, as well as for upgrading
of administrative capacity.
Government Policies for Improvement of Training
2.12     The Government's policies for manpower development and allocation
are embedded in the current National Development Plan and the economic
reform program. In view of the need to raise productivity across the
economy, these policies include decisions to improve employment services
and increase and broaden the distribution of training opportunities in
response to regional or local requirements. Other policy objectives are to
improve and standardize training quality, and make the content of training
programs more flexible to meet new requirements. The Government also seeks
to increase utilization and improve maintenance of existing training
facilities (rather than to create new ones), and to increase private sector
participation in financing as well as in implementation of training.
2.13     The Government recognizes that improved manpower training and
allocation are necessary for economic restrueturing to succeed. It



- 8 -
proposes to address this challenge through a strategy designed to:
(a) improve and expand preservice training, including the CONALEP
system;
(b) upgrade training institutions on a selective basis;
(c) strengthen employment services and labor retraining, in particular
the STPS retraining program, during the present period of
restructuring;
(d) promote and assist the provision of inservice training by
enterprises;
(e)  strengthen labor market and manpower monitoring; and
(f) improve adult education and training programa with an emphasis on
agriculture and rural areas.
Except for development of praservice training (a, ubove), which is being
addressed in part through two loans to CONALEP (para. 2.14), the timely
implementation of this strategy is constrained by a financial gap as well
as by technical and institutional shortcomings.
Bank Assistance Stratexy and Experience of Past Lending
2.14    The Bank supports the Government's economic growth and
restructuring efforts, including programs designed to create a wider
distribution of the benefits of growth. The proposed project would address
the Government's objectives (b, c, d and e in para. 2.13) focussing
specifically on training for employment in urban areas in the industry,
commerce and services sectors, with significant cost-sharing by
enterprises. The Bank has been, and is currently supporting preservic-,
training directly, and inserv'ce training and retraining programs
indirectly, through the CONALEP I and II projects (Loans 2042-ME and
2559-ME totalling US$171 million). These two projects are the first Bank-
assisted operations in the sector in Mexico and experience is favorable.
The CONALEP I project was essentially completed in 3.4 years. The Project
Completion Report (No. 3469b-ME, issued on March 31, 1986) assessed the
project as highly successful. Implementation of the CONALEP II project,
approved on May 28, 1985, is also proceeding satisfactorily.   The proposed
project would complement the CONALEP II p-oject. Separate operations are
anticipated to strengthen adult education and training in rural areas, and
to draw on experience gained through collaboration with CONALEP to expand
Improvements to preservice training more broadly. The ongolng and proposed
operations described above, combined with antizipated studies of
agricultural training and adult education (within a more general
appreciation of the entire education sector), and substantial sectoral
training components included in other operations (in agriculture,
transport5 industry) would reduce human resource constraints in Mexico on a
broad front and would be an essential complement to an array of Bank-
assisted projects aimed at economic restructuring and policy reform.



-9-
III. THE PROJECT
Origin of the Prolect
3.1     In July 1984, the Government requested Bank assistance for planning
a ecuntrywide subsector study of supply and demand for training. This
study was completed in 19851 by STPS and seven other Government agencies.
Based on the study, a project was identified in May 1986. With the
agreement of the Ministry of Finance (SHCP) and the Ministry of Planning
and Budget (SPP), project preparation began in September 1986. A Project
Preparation Facility (PPF) was approved on November 12, 1986 and appraisal
took place May 13-23, 1987. The project was negotiated on August 10-14,
1987. The Mexican delegation was headed by Mr. Luis Nava Hernandez of
NAFIN.
Project Oblectives
3.2     To support the Government's strategy for restructuring and growth,
the project aims to: reduce human resource constraints to growth and
increase productivity of labor through improved employment services and
skills training; and improve the distribution of training and employment
opportunities through more equitable provision of training across regions
and social strata (Annex 4a). Specifically, the project would:
(a) strengthen employment services provided through the SEEs by
upgrading staff and providing essential equipment, including
computers, for the SEEs, and make retraining for displaced and
unemployed workers more effective by implementing an expanded and
improved retraining program, using existing training institutions,
as a temporary effort over the next few years during which the
adverse labor market effects of restructuring are expected to be
at their peak;
(b) assist private enterprises, especially SMEs in strategically
selected sectors and geographical areas, in upgrading the skills
of employed skilled workers and middle-level technicians by
introducing a demonstration, promotion and assistance program for
inservice training;
(c) strengthen STPS labor market and manpower monitoring by upgrading
staff, introducing revised information systems and supporting
policy analysis required to link training more effectively to
labor market needs and guide future developmeut of the training
system; and
(d) increase training capacity in critically needed specialties by
upgrading selected training institutions through staff training
and provision of complementary equipment.
I/ The results were published in the STPS Report "Oferta y Necesidades de
Capacitaci;n 1985-88" and were summarized by the Bank in a Subsector
Memorandum dated March 14, 1986 entitled "Technical Education in
Mexico: A Subsector Study of Training and Skill Development".



- 10 -
Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.3      The proposed project would support the Bank's strategy to promote
economic restructuring and trade liberalizatioii by removing human resources
constraints and raising productivity through better training and allocation
of human resources in response to changing labor market requirements, and
by reducing the social cost of adjustment. The project would complement
the Second Technical Training Project (CONALEP II) and is designed to
support other Bank-assisted operations for industrial recovery and trade
policy adjustments, and_ promotion of small- and medium-scale enterprises.
Proiect Components a-d Dese-iption
3.4      The Employment Services and Labor Retraining Component
(US$90.3 million, 58 percent of project cost; Annex 4b) would seek to raise
the professional and technical quality of employment services, including
local labor market monitoring and referral of job seekers to a broad range
of training and retraining programs, and to expand and strengthen the
existing STPS retraining program. It is designed to:
(a) improve and expand employment services provided through the SEEs
by upgrading 400 staff in skills required for analysis of local
labor markets and for effective implementation of procedures for
registration of job seekers and openings, career counselling and
job and training placement or referral (Annex 4b, Attachment 1),
and by providing financing for data processing equipment and
related technical assistance;
(b) strengthen the planning, content and implementation of the STPS
retraining program and establish systematic arrangements for
monitoring and evaluation of effectiveness. Improved planning
would be linked to early detection of changes in the labor market
and training demand by the STPS and SEEs. A revised system for
annual planning, monitoring and evaluation of the retraining
program for skilled and semiskilled workers has been prepared by
consultants to the DGE financed under the PPF. This system
combines a macro-model of the Mexican economy with regional labor
market information. It would be used to develop estimates of
manpower demand as the basis for course selection and to assess
training efficiency and employment results, and includes a
graduate follow-up system. The CET (para. 2.3) would be the
advisory body for the retraining program (as well as ror the
inservice training programs, para. 3.5); the Government has agreed
to adhere to the CET's recommendations and to make them available
to the Bank on a regular basis; and
(c) provide improved retraining on an expanded basis for approximately
160,000 economically disadvantaged and displaced or unemployed
workers as a transitional measure over four and a half years. The
training would be implemented in accordance with current
procedures for STPS retraining under contracts with existing
training institutions, public and private (Annex 4b, Attachment
2). In accordance with recent evaluation findings, employer-
assisted retraining would be increased to cover about 15 percent



- 11 -
of trainees over the implementation period. The project would
provide financing for trainee stipends to be awarded in aecordance
with revised criteria established jointly with the Bank (Annex 4b,
Attachment 3) and for other training costs (training materials,
Instructors' salaries). All recipients of training stipends,
beginning with the 1987 annual program, would be selected in
accordance with criteria acceptable to the Bank, and selection of
participants for the 1987 program would be completed by September
30, 1987. All training institutions to supply retraining services
from 1988 onward would be selected in accordance with criteria
acceptable to the Bank, and an agreement with each such
Institution would be signed, for each year's retraining program,
before March 31 of the respective year.2
3.5      The Demonstratior. Inservice Training and Productivity Component
(US$51.1 million, 33 percent of project cost; Annex 4c) would introduce, on
a pilot basis, a system for promoting and supporting inservice training and
related services among enterprises, especially SMEs, in priority economic
sectors and regions. The component comprises measures to:
(a)  assist selected employers' associations, under agreements to be
made between STPS and each association, in the establishment and
staffing of 20 small inservice training support service centers
called Technical Support Groups for Enterprises (GATEs). The
GATEs would work with employers to promote and support inservice
training particularly in SMsH, and the 20 pilot GATEs formed under
the Project would specifically target 5,000 selected SMEs (out of
a total of 380,000 in the formal economic sector). A small
central inservice training group would be established in STPS
called the Productivity Information Service (SIP), which would
have a coordinating and promotional role under the general
guidance of the CET. The locations for the GATEs would be
selected on the basis of criteria which emphasize local interest
by employers' associations and training boards and committees,
industrial concentration in key economic sectors, and employment
potential as identified through surveys initiated under the PPF
(Annex 4c, para. 2). The SIP and each GATE would be staffed by
three to six training and productivity specialists engaged as
consultants under time-limited contracts. The project includes
financing for the staffing and administrative costs of the SIP and
the GATEs for the duration of the project, with Government
financing covering 502 of cost for the GATEs and 1002 of cvsts for
the SIP. Loan funds would finance an average of 67% oi the
Government's share on a declining scale providing for 1002
disbursement during the first two years, 802 during the third
year, and 60%, 402, and 202 respectively during the fourth, fifth,
and sixth years of project implementation. Additional consultant
services to assist with orientation of GATEs staff and general
development and evaluation of the system are also included in this
component.  The SIP would be established before March 31, 1988.
One pilot GATE is already in operation with PPF financing; four
more would be established before June 30, 1988 and the remaining
15 by March 31, 1989.
21 Institutions have been selected for the 1987 program. Retraining
courses start in April of each year.



- 12 -
(b) provide direct support for the organization and delivery of
intensive, short-term training for about 75,000 employees in 5,000
specifically targetted SMEs (employing about 200,000 workers in
total). This assistance, to be provided by the decentralized
GATEs, would take the form of analysis (with firms) of training
needs, and preparation of training plans and proposals. The
firms would normally finance the direct training costs
(instruction, materials, utilities). Training in general skill
areas, such as financial management and mechanical maintenance,
would be provided in existing training centers. Firm-specific
training and related advisory services would be conducted inplant.
The training would be provided mainly under contract arrangements
between firms and local training institutions (public and
private) and management and productivity consultants. Initially,
if required to promote employer interest, GATE staff would help to
organize inplant training courses on a demonstration basis.
Financing is included under the project for training equipment and
materials on a selective basis and for consultants to provide
guidance on in-plant training techniques.
(c) initiate promotion services for inservice training in SMEs. These
services would be based on assessment of regional labor markets
and training needs in the designated sectors, utilizing existing
information and sample surveys to be carried out by the SIP and
the GATEs. Promotional services would be developed in
collaboration with local employment and labor associations as well
as with local training committees and sectoral training boards.
These services would typically include dissemination of
information (e.g., bulletins, case studies) on the labor market,
training opportunities and productivity issues related to training
in a particular region or sector. Based on regional information
prepared by the GATEs, SIP would assemble and disseminate
information on inservice training of general interest, including a
monthly bulletin, to 20,000 additional, selected SMEs distributed
throughout the country and employing about 800,000 workers. The
project includes financing, on a declining scale identical to that
for the Government's share of financing for the GATEs, for
preparation, reproduction and dissemination of promotional and
informational materials by the GATEs and SIP and for the
organization of regional and sectoral meetings, seminars and
conferences to promote traini.g among employers and workers.
3.6      The inservice training component aims to promote the expanded
provision of inservice training by firms countrywide by demonstrating the
value of such training to employers in terms of increased worker
productivity. The pilot nature of the component is illustrated by the fact
that it expects to reach 25,000 enterprises with one million workers, and
to train 75,000 of these workers (out of eight million workers in 380,000
SMEs). The 50 percent cost-sharing provided by Government is intended as
an incentive to creating the 20 pilot GATEs with the necessary "critical
mass" of competent and experienced staff to have an impact on inservice
training in their respective areas. The remaining 50 percent of costs
would be financed by the participating employers' associations and
individual enterprises. The cost-sharing arrangements would be set out in



- 13 -
formal agreements for each GATE between STPS and the participating
employers" association (a Chamber of Industry or similar). STPS expects
that as a result of the project, a growing number of employers would be
convinced of the benefits of inservice training and therefore would be
willing to assume full financing of the project-supported GATEs at the end
of the project, as well as to form and finance additional GATEs for other
sectors and regions. The promotional and advisory services of the GATEs
and the SIP would be coordinated w4th the industrial extension services
provided under the Fourth Small- and Medium Scale Industry Project through
formal STPS/NAFIN coordination and existing close contacts at the local
levels.
3.7      The STPS Institutional Strengthening Component (US$3.1 million, 2
percent of project costs; Annex 4d) would strengthen capabilities of STPS
directorates responsible for guiding national employment and training
policies, and related programs.  It  >.;:ludes support to:
(a) upgrade about 100 staff, mainly employed in the DGE ana the
DGCP,in the areas of project and program design and evaluation,
statistical analysis related to labor markets and manpower, and
training topics related to labor productivity and occupational
structures. Financing includes short-teru staff training,
including participation in relevant seminars;
(b) develop, for use at the central and state levels, improved labor
market and manpower information systems to be introduced in stages
from 1987 to 1989. Initial work on the systems has been carried
out by the DGE with consultant assistance financed under the PPF.
They comprise four computerized subsystems for monitoring of: the
labor market; the effectiveness of manpower training programs,
with special reference to the STPS retraining and demonstration
inservice programs; training capacity; and the compatibility of
occupational requirements and training available. The project
includes financing for consultant services for the further
development and introduction of the systems, including background
surveys and studies; for computer equipment and software for the
DGE; and orientation and training for SEE stafi on use of the new
systems to be introduced by the DGE; and
(c) ur.dertake priority studies to assess the long-term options for the
management and financing of training in Mexico and evaluate the
costs and benefits of retraining and inservice training programs.
Financing is also included for studies related to the preparation
of future programs and projects.
3.8      The Training Institutions Upgrading Component (US$11.5 million, 7
percent of project costs; Annex 4e) would aim to increase training capacity
in critically needed specialties by enhancing the utilization of existin&
training institutions and the relevance of training provided.
Specifically, it would help some 500 institutions adapt to changing
training requirements by providing financing for modification or upgrading
of equipment for a total of about 10,000 trainee places in existing
facilities, and staff upgrading in facility management and general
administration of training programs. Beneficiary training institutions



- 14 -
would be selected on the basis of agreed criteria which include
presentation of institutional plans for the strengthening af course
management and equipment maintenance, availability of suitably qualified
instructors and a history of providing priority lnservice training and
retraining courses under contracts with firms and Government (Annex 4e,
page 2). The about 500 institutions to participate in the upgrading
component have been selected and a list of these has been received by the
Bank.  Based on submissions from those institutions, STPS is now
identifying those 150 institutions which will participate in the first
phase of the upgrading, and their equipment requirements. During
negotiations, the Government agreed to complete selection of and commence
equipment procurement for the first phase of 150 training institutions to
participate in the training institutions upgrading program, in accordance
with criteria acceptable to the Bank, by December 31, 1987; complete
selection of about 200 additional institutions by December 31, 1988; and
complete selection of remaining institutions (about 150) by December 31,
1989.
Alternatives to Proposed Project Interventions
3.9     Alternative strategies for achieving the necessary development of
human resources have been studied, and include: (a) expanding SEP's
preservice vocational training system (CECAPs/CEOs; Annex 3) and (b)
developing sectoral centers for inservice training, as has been done by the
construction industry. In comparison with these and the other options
studied, the proposed project has the following major advantagest lower
unit capital and recurrent costs, and less time required to produce the
required manpower. These savings are attributed to the planned use of
existing training institutions, facilities and instructors, with only
marginal investments in new equipment; the emphasis on accelerated training
in short courses for adults with working experience, and on related inplant
training in close liaison with enterprises; and the focus on cost-sharing
between Government and firms. Alternatives to the stipends for retraining
for displaced and unemployed workers with dependents were also considered.
One option would be to count the future benefits of training as a
sufficient incentive for trainees to bear the immediate costs; another
would be to recover costs by means of loans to trainees. However, these
alternatives were ruled out. The first option would be unrealistic: the
target group lacks savings and carries continuing obligations for
dependents, both of which serve as financial barriers to enrollment in
training. The second would have high administrative cnd recovery costs due
to the large number (160,000) of geographically dispersed, small stipends
(on the order of US$90 equivalent per person and month), which would offset
potential advantages. Recent experience under the STPS retraining program
provides evidence on the necessity of providing the full stipend to achieve
employment and productivity objectives: with stipends less than the
minimuAm wage, the dropout rate was as high as 45 percert, compared to a 10
percent dropout rate with stipends amounting to a full general minimum
wage.
Prolect Costs and Financing
3.10    Costs. Tables showing estimated project costs by component and by
category of expenditure appear as Annexes 5a and b. Total project cost,



- 15 -
net of taxes, is estimated at US$156.0 million3 equivalent, with a foreign
exchange component of US$15.0 million (or 10 percent of total cost). The
baseline cost is estimated at US$131.2 million in May 1987 prices. Project
cost estimates are based on recent experience with trainin; and stipend
costs, as well as costs for technical assistance and consultants. For
training equipment, estimates are based on recent SEP experience with
selective upgrading of training workshops in existing institutions.
Annexes 5c and 5d provide details on unit cost estimates and contingency
allovances. A physical contingency of 10 percent has been applied
uniformly for all project components.  Price contingencies for both the
foreign exchange and local components have been calculated as 1.0 percent
annually for 1988-1990, and 3.5 percent annually thereafter, except that
price -contingencies for the local cost component have been adjusted to 4.0
percent annually for 1988-1989 to account for the current undervaluation of
the local currency.
3.11    Financing Plan.  Project costs estimated at US$156.0 million total
(net of taxes and duties) would be financed by the Bank, Government and
enterprises (Annex 5e). The proposed Bank loan of US$80 million would
cover 51% of total costs net of taxes and duties. For the Bank's
participation in the project to be meaningful, and because of the high
proportion (90%) of local costs in total costs, the Bank would finance 100
percent of foreign costs and 46 percent of local costs. The Government
would provide US$35.7 million of project costs, or 23 percent of total
costs.  The remaining US$40.3 million, or 26 percent of total costs, would
be financed by public and private enterprises participating in retraining
and inservice train&ng provided under the project.
3.12    Incremental Recurrent Costs.  Owing to the use of existing
institutions and training capacity, the incremental recurrent costs to the
Government incurred as a result of the project would be limited.
Strengthening of employment services and administration of the expanded
STPS retraining program would be achieved through upgrading of existing
staff. The large-scale operation of the improved system of inservice
training would be financed by enterprises. To the extent that the GATEs
would continue in operation after project completion, they would also be
financed entirely by private enterprises. The institutional development
activities for the STPS would take the form of training for existing staff,
and improved manpower and labor market information systems which would be
installed with the help of temporary technical assistance. Complementary
training equipment to be provided under the project would be installed in
existing training institutions and these institutions would be responsible
for future maintenance and replacement costs. After project completion,
additional recurrent costs to the CDvernment as a result of the project
would be limited to the cost of gradual strengthening of SEE staff and the
costs of centrally operated promotion services (SIP) and information
materials. Those costs are difficult to estimate but should not exceed
US$2 million annually. An estimate of total expenditure on inservice
training and retraining before, during and after the project, is included
in Annex 5e (page 2).
3/ Net of taxes and duties estimated at US$12.3 million.



- 16 -
Prolect Implementation
3.13    Implementatlon Responsibilities and Procedures.  The STPS has
developed a detailed organizational structure and an appropriate staffing
plan for project implementation (Annex 6a). An underlying principle is to
support the development of a permanent capacity for the implementation,
monitoring and evaluation of projects or programs, regardless of financing
sources. Therefore, the present internal structure of the Ministry will be
used for project Implementation (Annex 6a, Attachment 1). The Government
has designated the Directorate General of Employment (DGE) as the STPS
agency responsible for overall implementation of the project (Annex 6a,
Attachment 2). The Director General of Employment has been appointed
project director, reporting through the appropriate Vice-Minister to the
Minister. The project director would be supported by a core team drawn
from the DGE directorates, the DGCP, and STPS administrative units. This
team, already appointed, comprises seven members on a full-time equivalent
basis and includes staff experienced in retraining, inservice training and
labor market analysis. A full-time STPS accountant and a procurement
officer are included on the team and would be supplemented, as needed, by
other staff or specialist consultants. Each participating agency would be
directly responsible for implementing the relevant project subcomponents
(Annex 6a, Attachment 3). The Government has agreed to maintain the
organization structure for project implementation during the implementation
period. Project funds would be expended under the direct control of STPS
for all components except the employment services and retraining component;
for that component, the Government has established procedures, acceptable
to the Bank, for the transfer of project funds from the federal to the
state level and for related financial control.
3.14    Physical implementation procedures coincide with regular STPS
practices and are satisfactory. These procedures and criteria for
approval, where relevant, are described in relation to each component in
Annex 4. The Bank would share supervision responsibilities with the
project management team through annual reviews. These reviews would be
scheduled to monitor implementation progress, including the timely
provision of local financing. In addition, the project management team
would carry out a mid-term review at the end of 1989. This review would
focus on assessment of the retraining and demonstration inservice training
components, and of progress towards improving employment services and labor
market and policy analysis. Implementation achievements and outcomes would
be reviewed with a view to introducing adjustments as needed to improve
effectiveness. The Government has agreed to carry out the mid-term review
on the basis of the agreed monitoring indicators and report to the Bank on
findings and recommendations by January 1, 1990 and, if appropriate,
prepare a plan of action to implement the recommendations of the review,
taking into account the views of the Bank.
3.15    Implementation Schedule.  The project would be implemented over a
period of about five years during 1987-92. (A detailed implementation
schedule is shown in Annex 6b). This schedule is consistent with STPS
implementation capacity based on recent experience with the labor
retraining component.



- 17 -
Status of Pro sct Proparation
3.16    Project preparation, supported through a PPF approved in November
1986, is well advanced (activities financed under the PPF are listed in
Annex 6c). Contracts for providing additional STPS retraining for 1987 are
signed and ready to be implemented during October-December, in line with
the regular schedule for STPS retraining. Designs for the inservice
training component and for the monitoring and evaluation of both the
retraining and inservice training components have also been completed, as
has work on the improved STPS manpower information systems and surveys to
identify key regions and sectors for establishing the GATEs. Based on the
results of these surveys, the first GATE was established, with PPF
financing, in Jalisco in July 1987 and locations for four additional
GATEs, to be established by June 1988, have been tentatively selected. The
PPF-financed studies have been completed and the Bank has received the
required reports on sectors and regions affected by trade liberalization,
the demonstration inservice training and productivity promotion system and
the design of the new STPS labor market and manpower information systms.
Standard contracts for participation of training institutions under the
upgrading component, and draft bidding documents for equipment and related
standard equipment lists were reviewed during negotiations and are
acceptable to the Bank.
3.17    Procurement.  The project would include procurement of
complementary training equipment and furniture for existing training
centers (US$1C.9 million), computer equipment4 (US$0.4 million) and
supplies and reproduction services for providing information to SMEs (about
US$7.0 million). Equipment, supplies and services would be procured under
the following procedures acceptable to the Bank. Contracts for goods in
excess of US$250,000 would be procured through ICB procedures (total
expected value US$7.0 million). Contracts for goods valued between
US$40,000 and US$250,000, in an aggregate amount not to exceed
US$5.0 million, would be procured through LCB procedures which would allow
participation of foreign suppliers. These procedures have been reviewed
and found acceptable by the Bank. Small items or groups of items, or
contracts estimated to cost US$40,000 or less, not to exceed a total of
US$4.0 million, would be procured through local shopping after receiving at
least three quotations. Prior review by the Bank would be limited to
contracts procured under ICB and the tirst three contracts procured under
LCB, including at least one for computer equipment, and would cover 45
percent of the total estimated value of equipment, supplies and associated
services to oe procured. A contract for specialist services for equipment
procurement was reviewed and agreed upon during Negotiations. Consultants
would be hired in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants, as in the case for consultant services procured under the PPF.
Bidding documents have been prepared and are acceptable to the Bank (para.
3.16); procurement of equipment will commence by December 31, 1987 (para.
3.8). (Annex 7 sunmmarizes procurement arrangements by component and by
category of expenditure).
4/ With the concurrence of the Director General for Government Informatics
Policy and Acquisitions, it is planned that all computer equipment
would be procured through LCB with foreign companies eligible to
participate. Given the relatively low contract values, however,
foreign bidders are not expected to be interested.



- 18 -
3.18     Disbursements.  The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed as
follows:
(a) 100% of expenditures for consultant services and staff upgrading
and travel, except for incremental Government expenditures for
staffing and operation of the SIP and the GATEs where
disbursements would be on a declining basis as follows: 1988s
100%; 1989: 1002; 191'): 80%; 1991: 60%; 1992: 40%; 1993: 20%;
(b) 1002 of foreign expenditures for equipment; 852 of local
expenditures;
(c)  60% of stipend costs for retraining; and
(d) 100% of costs of promotion services and information materials
during 1988 and 1989; 80% during 1990; 60% during 1991; 40% during
1992; and 20% during 1993.
Annex 8a shows disbursement percentages and the allocation of loan funds by
categories of expenditure. The Bank would have the right to reduce
disbursement percentages in the event of a shortfall in the Government's
budgetary allocation to the project. Retroactive financing, in an amount
not exceeding US$4.0 million, would be provided for expenditures incurred
between appraisal and loan effectiveness for technical assistance and
training programs included in the project.
3.19     In order to facilitate loan disbursements, a Special Account would
be opened in NAFIN with an initial deposit of US$5.0 million representing
an estimated four months of Bank financed expenditures. The Special
Account would be audited annually in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Disbursements would be fully documented except for expenditures under
contracts or purchase orders valued at less than US$250,000, for which
statements of expenditure would be accepted. The documentation for these
expenditures would not be sent to the Bank but would be retained by NAFIN
and made available for periodic inspection by Bank staff.
3.20     The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed over a period of six
years (1988-93). The Closing Date for the loan would be December 31, 1993.
The projected disbursement period (Annex 8b) is shorter than the historical
average of about eight years for the LAC Region for the following reasons:
The project, especially the large, already ongoing retraining component, is
designed to support economic restructuring measures planned over the short
and medium term. The scale and types of investments involved do not
require protracted procurement periods; no land purchases or civil works
are included. The equipment component is limited in scope (7% of total
project cost) and any procurement delays would not substantially delay
other components. Ehe two previous training loans to Mexico, while not
strictly comparable, nave disbursed much more rapidly than the Regional
average.
3.21     Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation.  The Project Director would
be responsible for preparing periodic progress reports on quantitative and
qualitative aspects of the project. STPS would prepare the reports to be



- 19 -
sent to the Bank for review and comment on a quarterly basis during the
first 18 months of implementation and each semester thereafter. Annex 9
provides a list of key indicators for project monitoring and evaluation.
Knowledge and insights gained from the monitoring and evaluation systems
developed for the labor retraining and the inservice training components
would be fed back into the respective systems for the periodic upgrading of
training program content and training procedures. In addition, independent
studies would be undertaken to evaluate the training programs (para. 3.7),
together with on-site inspections of training institutions and sample
testing of graduates. Because of the change of Government scheduled for
late 1988, and the probability of significant changes in personnel in the
principal project management team, the mid-term review of the project would
be carried out and a report on the review would be submitted to the Bank
before January 1, 1990. A project completion report would be prepared by
the Government within six months of project completion.
Accounting and Auditing Procedures
3.22     Accounting.  Separate recording and reporting of financial
transactions related to the project would be carried out by STPS'
Directorate General of Programming, Budgeting and Accounting (DGPPC). The
DGPPC is adequately staffed with experienced accounting personnel to
accomplish this task, and a fully qualified accountant from the Directorate
General, responsible for all project accounts, has been assigned to the
project management team (para. 3.13). DGPPC would arrange with the federal
Government unit in charge of establishing accounting and administrative
manuals to include specific accounts or sub-accounts and proper
administrative procedures for the accounting of project expenditures in
each participating State and in STPS. A chart of accounts for the project,
linked to the general accounting plan of the DGPPC, has been prepared by
DGPPC's technical staff.
3.23     Audit.  Auditing arrangements for the project would be made in
accordanice with the current agreement between the Mexican Government and
the Bank signed in November 1986, which specifies the procedure and scope
of the audit: the content of the audit report, and the audit of the Special
Account and statements of expenditure (SOE). The Special Account audit
would cover the examination of the transactions recorded in the account and
the availability of funds, the evaluation of the system of authorizations
and the supporting evidence for fund withdrawals, the quality of the files
and financial records utilized in the maintenance of the account, the
correctness of the exchange rates applied, the internal administrative
control exercised over the account and the compliance with procedures for
use of the Special Account provided in the Loan Agreement. Under the above
agreement on auditing, the Secretariat of the Federal Controller is
considered independent and qualified. Certified copies of these audits
would be submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the close of
each fiscal year.



- 20 -
Benefits
3.24     The main, direct benefits expected from the proposed project are:
(a) Reduction of human resource constraints to growth through better
adapting the supply of trained manpower to market demand,
improving labor market monitoring and management, and
strengthening planning and evaluation of training nationwide by
the STPS;
(b) Increased trainint oRportunities and more equitable access to
training and employment across regions and social strata
through provision of expanded retraining for the poorest of the
unemployed (including a relAtively high proportion, 27 percent, of
women), development and expansion of inservice training for
employed workers, and improvement of employment services and
upgrading of existing training institutions; and
(c) Higher productivity and product quality in the formal economic
sector through an increased supply of trained/retrained middle-
level technicians and skilled and semiskilled workers.
3.25     These benefits would complement and facilitate the Government's
efforts to restructure and open the economy by making Mexican enterprises
more efficient and competitive and, at the same time* ease the economic and
social strains caused by restructuring. The project would have no negative
environmental effects; rather, by contributing to higher efficiency and
better operation of industrial processes, it would bring marginal
environmental improvements.
Risks
3.26     Possible risks are as follows:
(a) Inability of the Government to Finance Counterpart Funds. This
risk would be reduced through (i) the high percentage of
Government expenditures to be financed by the Bank and the
contributions of enterprises, both of which provide a strong
incentive for the Government to provide the remaining counterpart
funds; (ii) the high proportion of funds allocated to the STPS
retraining program which is politically very attractive; and (iii)
an agreed legal provision giving the Bank a right to reduce
disbursements, should adequate counterparts not be forthcoming.
(For 1987, the Government has approved budget allocations4in line
with SAR estimates, and has made an extraordinary allocation to
meet its counterpart commitments related to the PPF). In
addition, the counterpart funding problem will be treated in a
more systematic way for all ongoing and new projects in all
sectors in the semi-annual, high level Country Programming and
Project Implementation Review (CPIR) consultations between the
Bank and Mexico. This initiative, which started with the July
1987 semi-annual review meeting, is expected to improve the
timeliness and adequacy of budgetary provisions.



- 21 -
(b)  Change of Government priorities in connection with the change of
administration in 1988.   This risk would be minimized by
(i) project objectives and design, which should make it attractive
for any new government to continue supporting it; (ii) expressed
strong interest on the part of state governments and local
interest groups for the new administration to continue project-
supported activities; and (iii) the possibility provided through
the mid-term review of adapting the project, within the agreed
objectives, in response to new requirements (including
improvements based on evaluated experience).
(c) Failure of graduates of the retraining programs to find productive
employmer.t. This risk would be reduced through (i) selection of
occupational and geographic areas in accordance with studies of
industrial restructuring and development included in the project;
(ii) selection of trainees in accordance with objective criteria
to ensure that the most suitable candidates are trained;
(iii) direct involvement of enterprises in the retraining
programs; (iv) efforts to monitor and manage the program at the
local level, in part through graduate tracer studies; and
(v) monitoring at the macroeconomic level, and periodic Z~jtment
of the program to the needs of the economy.
(d) Failure of the project's efforts to reach and motivate an adequate
number of employers to undertake inservice training, particularly
in small enterprises. This risk would be reduced through
promotion, outreach, and training efforts, and, in particular, by
the close involvement of firms and employers' organizations in the
planning and implementation of inservice training.
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
4.1      During Negotiations, the Mexican Government provided assurances
that it will:
(a) maintain, throughout the project implementation period, the CET as
the advisory body for the retraining and inservice training
programs included in the project, and ensure that the CET's
recommendations regarding the programs would be adhered to and
would be made available to the Bank (para. 3.4(b));
(b) select all recipients of training stipends, beginning with the
1987 annual program, in accordance with criteria acceptable to the
Bank, and complete selection of participants for the 1987 program
by September 30, 1987 (para. 3.4(c));
(c) select all training institutions to deliver retraining services
under the project from 1988 onward in accordance with criteria
acceptable to the Bank, and sign an agreement with such
institutions for each year's retraining program before March 31 of
the respective year (para. 3.4(c)); 5
5/ Institutions have been selected for the 1987 program. Retraining
courses start in April of each year.



- 22 -
(d) establish and staff the SIP by March 31, 1988, the first five
GATEs y June 30, 1988, and the remaining 15 GATEs by March 31,
1989 (para. 3.5(a));
(e) complete identification, in accordance with criteria agreed with
the Bank, among 500 training institutions already selected for
participation in the training institutions program, of 150
institutions to participate in the first phase of the program, and
comence procurement of equipment for those 150 institutions by
Dezember 31, 1987; complete selection of anotu.er 200 institutions
by D7cember 31, 1988, and complete selection of remaining
institutions (about 150) by December 31, 1989 (para. 3.8);
(f) maintain arrangements for project management and implementation
unless the Bank otherwise agrees (para. 3.13);
(g) undertake a mid-term review of the project and report to the Bank
on findings and recommendations by January 1, 1990; and if
appropriate, prepare a plan of action to implement the
recommendations of the review, taking into account the views of
the Bank (para. 3.14);
(h) monitor project implementation and performance periodically
against key indicators acceptable to the Bank, and make the
results of such monitoring available to the Bank (para. 3.21).
4.2      Subject to the above assurances, the proposed Manpower Training
Project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$$80.0 million
equivalent to Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. *- th the guarantee of the United
Mexican States, on standard terms for Mexico.



-23 -
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS                                                                              Annexl
August 29, 1987                                                                                page 
CLNISAI.
038 IIMICT1OI   31338vNI       4403?LATh 70                              0817 GISt   8k361J
"St4  PO.  CAPtu  A c PV C38  li 30AL3 C89*AL AL30A?A33) ID: 5*11             niUOLL. 048603        MOMS61  354)04114   951341*V 10   SOMLL.   M?UEMT   INSLL.
WEA  MLLS. CUSS    0370140 TO3 60V3*13?    PSl  NOC  PI1   (3)    5*130 cvc 01033                            AS U  POSCIUT  A3C1 T0   0A1t0       133         SAM
"(3929) (1919)   SouIcal0u  31331a11115           (5)         (19)6)   (3)         (2)      "1am"   (rcpi*             C)          S1)     2uCHER        (2)
(3)  (2)   0)             ('9~~~~O      (3)           (o)       (7)       (S90        (9)        (10)         (3)          (2          3)      (34)
693033CO33RitsI
AIISThALIa  SO    34~~46  8,:1I      0.3          14.4        -- -        -       -        33        30          2                         97                     3      *0.90
CAM"48              83      3.76      sob,0  7.1           3036        30'. 146'.1 IIs!   $$6      100x      t00         a1         19.9'?       t00           92'       to       23.600'
"MmN61 P.S.         19    61.2  t2,200        4.6          9.9'         - --- --           "6        "O       too         ...       --00'                      %         --       12.10'
8318TIMN.113.5      79     14.0' 10. 491)     2.9           3.3        20   33   2$       99b6      96        93          to        II.)          99           02        3)I      12.40
68w 3AL4j3         to       14bk  4,035b    S.9 Su        31.4        17   )I1  28        996      too       too         24        11.0          too          82         1$S      23.S0'-
5033v3x             79      S.,  32.230       9.0          30.2       13 I   t    t0      996       99'       I0          35'o      19.9         too           79s       3081    36.30"1
W& MYRICA    8)        1.0 9b 206    0.0             22.0        'I I 14   22        40       100       1I I         12       10.0           40           20        21        1.80
81J1110             8l      4.2      21$      I.b         19.0         41   28   21       *3        29'       1$         31         30.3          1 2           is       11        1.00
comeos              4      0.46     '43      1.8'        28.0         49 !9  22          49        76        40          19        ...           43           30        Z8        0.00
ILIlSOIlTI          84      0.4               1.0         II.9         11   to   ...    10          4*        60         40        07.0           40           10        19        0.041
313113*1A           el     32.86              2.93'       33.3         4$   Zs   all      $1        42        lo.,       0)         19.3          934'         14        44        U3.4%
3S3W                02     11.46    42011    s.8.0        20.1b       03    6 0    I      4~6'     III        5S          26        14.4          Is           18        30        --
IASWO               02      1.46    *jSb    3.1           16.9         35   32   20       $36      116'       A I        40         9.0           46           23        21        1.30
U*AMMCII            77      $.S      330      4.0'        24.0         33   28   19       so        94b1      33          53b        9,0          IS           14        33        3.1061
MALAWI              el      6.16,   2306    2.S            11.4        20   34   23       2S6       02         23         0          3.J          12            4        21        0.40
115451as 5          03          1.06 1,106    4.3          14.0        40   30    2       g0b       93         it         3)        13.0         100           20         2        1.00
35*86A              83      S.96b   3706    3.0           31.4        71  1  6   1 3      376       0$        lo         40         10.0            9           $        10        0.40
S03WeoU*S           79      0.6   I,7m        13.          22.4'       144  3410'A                                        Is--- 2   -              --          ...       --       --
SOmAkLtA            01      4.3      350      I.3          10.3        jo6  e446   06    Sob        326       sob         3gb        9.06          gob         126       32         1.00
so"3                go     19.26    ISob    3.0           --           80 39  ...         32        $1"       05         'A           .4          64           10        16       ..
VA.I*3111           83      0.76    9406    3,gs)b        21.4         II   14   1$S    365         93         s0        13         11.0          IS           29        to        3.200
1*83A41             80    is.3 S     320      3.9          17.7        47   10   16       j9b       906       67          43        11.0           196          3        20'       0.30
0048*               so    12. 66    3006    -- .       .   30.1        2637620lot    48             94'       01          30        -              II           S        23        0.60
"in.               a0I    29.86      2306,    7.7         26.4         .. -    to         346       76         23         90        21.0          40           Is        28        2.00
&AND5LA             so      5.1b    S66       4.37         I1.1        46   21   22       446       93        so          40        12.9           19          10        22         1.30
tlWAM          el3    17b7   1006    3.1             19.35        62   12    6       44        so        33          39       20.0              S3I3                23        0.30
33818               19S  i  3.4b    3306b   6.3'v         13.0         4 )   23    3    336l        42         10        4o         34.0          30             13      41         t.001
3331*A              83      0.3      2106    2.3IV        23.1         41   29   IS       9         36        2s         37        24.3            14           3        24        0.03
0*31*00             84    30.0       8306    3.1)         --           312029V    20                69        465         s0        -              --          23        28        2.70
0.4.S.              86      2.06b    26       3*8sy       24.1'?       49   3    24    --           To        43          63')      18                         to 3      07         3.40'
038*                76      4.4      120      2.46u7       21.1b       --       -- --     3i        331        *-        -                         -1-          31Y      23        0.202
00000          76~~~i  3.3      670      9.03'1      32.2'toy      --    --                               -          s361     --              30          -         4)67      4*.9'y
34081. 04U36.A      as      0.36b   2706    2.8             3.8        47   24    .. 206            33         30         to         3.2          40           33         37*)     --
0*508          7~~~~7 0.6   3,420        3.7b1        8.41         -         --    --                    -,         46b1      -                     --               396)      2.80'?
01361               77      0.6      22        M.3"        46 Sb       46   23'   6'   306          4067       90'        27b1      406.7'         40          j6*i.      37        --
03831               76    13.3       400      4.01          ssb         - 33.6--    --               361b      -.         271b      -              --          34617      21        --
MORA4               79      1.3      M903     4.6')        --          33'  28'  l8'   20            30        30         Is        20.oov         Gs          16         29        7.00'
Tommy1 4,3*11       el      9.1b    72o       7.1         42.5         Si   40    9    ISsY1        7t        79         37        29.0           a9           221*      l    10    .08
L13313A             831     1.9      320      4.6         19.0         43   23   24    11           32        it          IS       30.0           70           22        2o         I.94)
MLAU                Si      7.06     Soo      4.22        21.78        182333t    10                20        00          4         I 3.?          86            3        it        0.10'?
OMIAS          3 i     j.6b    320       S.3          10.9        33   43   23    376          32        40         44          2.0           30           9         23       0,37
DM03                64      3.2      300      2.8          21.0        402320D    14                33         30         14        43.0           37           6         26        0.50
3103tA              83    91.06      7406    7.41          36.0        -    --  is    30            93         20         36        19.3           47          23         30        2.00
8*310*5.            84      0.4    3n0        3.06        24.0         446  330  l9b   28           12        so         40        26.0            19'         36'        24        2.29
833A4 LIAM4         I7      1.4      234      4.06         16.06              -   -.    336         37'       --          33       23.06           84          13'        22        0.6061
VW~                 i8      2.4      400      0.394       26s          3' 128'  23    Is            74        40          14by     20.0            32          33b*7    406         3,40b1
N8*rIA          in     2T124              2.1         10.9        4.1'  13'  30'   916          89        32          17       --              8713                    a      21.0
SANIwIAS            79      0,2   2,710       3.7         19.1         303lb11           9lb        99        97         24        -               97          13         39      -
64*1*50             i0      0.2   2.680       G.SW1       22.3         43'  33'  10'   996         3001       993         7        39.9'           998         ley        toy 
303.1914            80      3.4      330      4.301       30.3so       -- ----031                    41                   ley20    -               -           337        -        12.601
m*azn               79   336.3   i.270        3.8          6.2        331    -    34    20          13'?                 233*?      4,36           03'         33'7       34'      33,436'
8811.1              70    30.9   1.090        .3.21y      33.00,          -       -.       .        391 --               3067y 4b  -                           33611a    2061      13.90by
003.863             80    34.7b  3.180        3.3         23.0         33   20   20    *tb          i8        30          12        6.0            --          47         20       10.02'?)
0091*300*    80     ~~~2.26b ,16       84          3.          40   21   33    90            93        77         33         3.3            74                    2          40
C3J6                7s      9.8      --       8.0          13.0        --  -    --   96            3326*1    9R           18b)     -               98          71b'y    is         19.02b1
90331810AuP.    to          1.3   3,030       2.9         33.0         39   II   22    0o0          80        It         so         3.2            94          so         33       10.00
&C"AM1              80      3,46  1,130       0.0)        30.1        43   31   14    03           303        -          36        12.0            86          42         36      29.00
54L 5*5.1*0         77      4.4      040      3.461       23.361 0y     4    0   27    02           82617     32         39                        41          206b1     2761       7.90b1
OAISWA             70,    6.8   3,010        3.7'?       12.06       --   -9x --  9613367                                                        69           33617     3967      1.OY
851*3               76      0.0      030      0.301       13.8by                -                   99bu1    --           3361     -               --          "b61,   -            3.00by
RAM1                00      9.06    33        3.8'         7.9&1      03    9    0    316           so        20         43        3 9.0           62'          4'       27        0.80
UUASm             78      3.0      12       3.361       14.361      02'         I as   60         og6y      "a*        4367       32.8'          Us          23')      19        8.801
JUSAZCA             80      2.1   1.110       6.3         33.7         37   4)   30    90           9         98         40         2.3            93          831       22        8.00
*318a               80    03. S13.080         4.7         37.0'       8     3933s    92             IS        Si         44         9.S           86           36 Ixi1             30.30
UICASOA"            i8      2.66    6030      LOW6        34.06        -       -    - 9so6          8s61      34         376       - -                          ,61      306      --
IFANWA         i       3,36  3.Slab    3.3681        I3.8by      42'  U)'  33    S2b           "by       -          33by      13.0           53*          10by      276b'    20.4061
fAA~           n~7     3.0   3.340       3,431       14.2        42   if   30    64           6l         12         a8         3,3?          76           i2        la        0.70
PM3                 80    30.4   3.00         3.6         14.3        53)Is3      9     80         83         34         3          9.0           0            39        33      t3*407
1S380A  4OL.   77           3.    3.910       4.061        8.8b1      48   32   to    93            to        93         20        30.1?           4            3        2
MA4t                148     2.9   3.100       3.3,         946                          94         lost-      -          246        -                           463        -        78*
92021110A           7      1 4.4   3,440      3.31        1**g6                          82        306                   2                068                             371      33.10?



-24 -                                                                          AnnezlI
Faso 2
5-f                               ~~~~COMPARATIVE EDUJCATION INDICATORS
August 29, 1987
T   -"          -~~kwQ  toTUM
T                         c Al MOUN faiL                Ln      tF1AV  ara             NPAVM R               T I  I      KNUOA    AC0       I04
I        -    204400  30644.8*3?       45444. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(13       SIi     4310            0 w) n.4).14*4us
-&  SrM                                  1.1~~~~~i  u  aslui    1144   13431  P0449           h7a   1130            5*   mo 640U4OS441 oa.uavss.
VAMMU       64   IWO*943 14*6157 W  90.10                   laB4  iU~1U  t    Ito       SSnu  9*414      13)    1341.14I   pa        4w         1 smu  nwm         1 la
gom           a      Is8*    b11  :341*) 4V'40  1 1.    3443.30?    1043C54     *      fit 96 Its;; C14    1*           WaCU;  801048    944               is3    441.11
SMA111114,     49 11*3 (4919    445.011   t35510444           w   (6 lo (4914    (134            413      tAIs         11hqCAS3    4           (4     19*4Is       (60
#*" NA.   43     1.00    ong      3.4         19.0        4   40it    5     :1        ad       *5          1          .0         43           VI,      412      .4.
OV1i111141111111111  to   26 44             .           0.9        3434   1 4  0              II        96         4)       4.0           9)          Ss        St      5.00
*AIM g,*.         of      3.0     @5 0     9.4o        49.0        *0  14   $*       IS       40        go8        I4f       MS,          30          430       Is*      I*
6iL40811          19    40.3b    9904    5.           1.          I      4 to        b,W44 440 4  4 -  j    3     7          7.14         09.         36       to      5,09
40     7.44lb  00       5.1         MS.         A 39 ?0 4         31       97        60         14        51.5         is          30        7*       5.09
It    01, lb    *j14    1.41        to.)t--     it   I I so       I.,     sO          0         5         9.1'--4                   41       40       4.09
*      1.4      go      0.)         51.1                          to7 3 s  453       40t 1.                             )           0        5,30
113    0.06    tso  6.4  --40                              to       ...*                 -....                     -         -
956*6*            03    0*4b    lob4   5.         1. 7,q           3975424           it        34       4)         49        3.9          34          5)        49        309
uow    "o"' ius""Co1                .           2.7        47   49   Is      la        4441     49         )7       -              0.5          a       1*1       1.W
illUi              19    Ss.$   3.110      S."         M    4.    4'  648  3d    is           eV9       43o        21        7.01         S"8         59        10        3.794
0* 41.38    410      4.0.         5.9        154' ISO  3648   44         73       I0          4         .8          68           3         9 
ninE         ~~~~74  9.3   4,440      5.414        s@,4       I 31   5    it    -         St"1      -         29b        4.2?         -           79       b574     47,093
mm            1119   45.    -,4       4.1*?       14.98?      ...-'                      4001 *8    -         20a      -.             -           4         A1 9      .9.08
two           "~4    5~4   .40        4.9e        4.0.7       49 4        6                                   2495  9 1  4i4-                                        ).90"
1*043*7    79      2.1      -~     ~~ py        404?        -     *     .      .        4                   9                                                    to.  4   -   79'
am          03     4,54~~~~~b  ~,g420 .         4714          .    ..w     4            4k,      u38       121       -.g44 
LKGWN         70     25.4    *0         ,4 1  -      -.   .'                    39       so         -         n                                    4s       u-      so.ea4
am*               701    37.0z  6..5       5.41        4t.?"       -   --.-          -06       954?     --A        .4        --.           -0          i7ts              544..
MIA4               i0     0.4   4.470      4.4?        40.)        29   is   14      19        3743     a9         13       -               0443by              434      434.0
t sing             is     4.4   4.434      7.09        49.0        45i  79   *,1    47*       4440      so         34         2.0          70          10        s0       4.09
Ivah               03     47.70 1.7))       3.3        44.5        50   It   74      ?)4      1sO       77         34         .0           SS 3        54        4        S.09
mlwi*            34      9.14    s04    ).09         47.7        00   775  I1       14'      Ss       .2*        34        j.S           Io                     50       t.
turn e..s          s      2.0      45Q4    1.4          9.7        oil'  44   64    Si         44       34         is       *2.0'          4           if        753      5,1
Imp:                                      44'           (..(.   0    3              0       442.'    Ill-        (ti-      (4.4.        44to-       (l.       (0      (0.0).
14.0)          34.37  ob)   443) 3       993       49 SS    9)         73       47.03          to0)        543      40)      59.9)
4ott44ee:Upper:                            3.41         24.7      34   79   7*      $4        911      to         4)         0            01I         47       54       44.0
444d4i*:                       4.0           44,4I     *3  7U   49       Ss3       1 0)     44         3        43            0.3         34        53       1.?
Lower1:                        7.0           44.0      a3 i141           is       00        is        i0         9            40          44        to       4.9
90a134* 34*4414*:                          5.)            3,4    4.3  7.3  4.S   50.0       49.0      ,M.        1.0      7.            72.        l4.9       .1A        3.9
rAhot                          ~~~~~~~4.4     45.0      46a0 it           1)       74        I9s3                44            45          it        11       4.9
tqM.4wd4 v..4*340:                        4.9            3.7      St   l0a    1     *9        .5       7          If       41            51           a)        5        3.i
RWO401                        ~~~~~~4,43      44.0      435649t          $3       J0)        44         S3       4)            41          74        U7       2.
-   4411  3WA&L"I*                                          A *  451  1*109a to 4411 100                     S * 4401911? Of 395A4U09 (UM0  039.?
1    04143  OUIO348L0 an t* CUaITMOUT    act-S  Ah    "T9                                                          U K A #449.16g11104UE tO OLT
*WinO:  C.a4~  *eadS:  44tIJ 0.84 *4488 47 UJ...3 4.84 4.~1*7 (loiS .1h 4,4*...AtutwiCDSeet
SLINSS11%    Wmmo  NWt 44.  154  ,4  JatLa amb"&     9cIet 8:0*4*...oi C*larau8* .nf7
e6*matml1 2648.44giSeteS 04. t0**   14400 CM111I68.   .Of*WIGO10484 4 6 *904   P1OW*80d 4814.i  of *g*188L  4348at8
tcm  b689, * e01*88;i 404A t*a*ila4*1 an9 as850 88838*1  of 48a* Ints 068 .  0108130 4*0481  a0. 4* t  otail6*761as
A*f1.164m ad. 4444oe tlOata. *. *4*4A 14* 818t14y Of 104 41,. b*.itbt4*1.a *sc 844 Ate 878 stilt 48p.f**t to
M*1i  18698116 Mi S604$0*44  m. VO113A  Ss Mies8*  4480  "9004188400t 3?       Sh 41 48 1* .M 46  t 31*99.4338*8  .074i.  to t.
so of oo dots. 14* 6o41wm4g p84(36414408 848.44 be 043t to Meet
(43   '96*a*taem  a   OSsed to14 the     4.  8*1448  *14 46**14@   iirA ioesl 1144.4, loth tarsal ad n.S-a.ftof .
(53   .'?u0ty,' 40.4a138 Wonr 10 4048.348.as the 04103t 18.4. ad  aeses"Aty  46."t450o 3a    78o*1to Ott    1*1408
as*t 304 *88.46.? bo tol 1.    e163of liv* (e.g, 0.81. 1*40488. 83460813*1833.
(3 '4.4478*  18686  (46t. 43 an* oftla  .4*t1."  firso too47i  30.4.88.  to*m8*0?         ct 3*.118   3043 .8*sk
60t8i414*a0 isO 8*6 4*46*80 0416         S" w4aflee 0.1144468e of '3118kb', i ts"4.  1.338684 g"ea* 0testl.
(4)   734144 884016.18 to 40*4*648*.' (8*3. 4 we 3) colors to Ot3 =4t4ad M                ato871*4*8548647*768 bad05 to
otisusI   4? 1940so q.i*'.tlblk  491*4409
(95   '"alu       costae' (eel.. 1. is Oad  4) vote* to 6*804 Peak4 a"  so10 S&P.18098   41 *1304418  M44161.
*8*04140 flt-Stomu  t 4.04   @t eU10wI . 0.444 ad 194*87* eV Ijuel.,  t 141    otte 44   ..)Gasto a8 wide
aqia 8 e    wt .4*0  14* con    01890.34 U.8*tm  coin  U  fWassaft  i  Ito0  wogerin  a6 Ised 030  14.8..
aepm0ftbo   tlamph cOia ad   @iin4*.  00,.44in  ftmwo #va"pt09  3v d*w8                    am86 as 09*8? d
**m      msomOli AG8 *uo.   7*n4qs   @4.01  eV  to 11Glaw  to eb g0              p 0.am an  1464448104  mice4.



- 25 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 3
MEXICO
HANPOlWER TRAINING PROJECT
Labor Market Settint and Training Needs
Labor Market Characteristics
1.       With a population of 80 million which is about 70 percent urban
and increases by over a million and a half a year, Mexico faces the
challenge of creating gainful employment for about 800,000 new workers
annually, in addition to those displaced by restructuring. At least half
of the new jobs will have to be created within the informal sector of the
economy. New employment In the formal sector will be mainly in services
(about 50 percent of total), in commerce, and in relatively labor-
intensive, non-oil industrial branches where Mexico can compete
internationally and can achieve an adequate level of productivity and
product quality.
2.       As the Mexican economy is opened to foreign competition, only more
efficient industries will survive. These will generally involve new and
higher-level technologies and will require more skill-intensive labor. The
need for trained manpower, particularly technicians and skilled workers, is
therefore projected to grow faster (4.12 per annum) than the workforce in
general (3.31). Also, about 701 of the estimated 16 million existing
workers in the formal sector (about three million of whom are officially
classified as middle-level technicians or skilled workers) are estimated to
require additional training in order to achieve new, higher standards of
productivity and product quality. The training system cannot adequately
meet these needs. As a consequence, there exists a shortage of
appropriately trained technicians and skilled workers which, if not
addressed, is likely to become a severe constraint to the industrial
restructuring effort. Key labor force data and a discussion of specific
labor market signals indicating a shortage of technicians and skilled
workers are discussed in more detail below.
Labor Market Data
3.       As shown in the attached table, Mexico's population grew from 51
million in 1970 to an estimated 80 million by mid-1986. Population growth
slowed from about 3.0% per year in 1970 to 2.11 in 1986 but the working age
population will continue to grow for several years by about 3.31, or 1.5
million per year, and the economically active population (total work force)
will increase by over 800,000 per year over the next decade. Total
employment in 1986 was estimated at 24 million, 16.3 million (642) in the
formal economic sector and 8.6 million (362) in the informal sector.
Registered open unemployment in the 1980s has been 8 to 9% of the labor
force (as compared to 3-41 in the 1970s). Currently, the number of
registered unemployed is about 2.4 million. However, the Government
estimated actual unemployment, including substantial underemployment, at
close to 202 --5 million people-- at the end of 1986. For a detailed
discussion of unemployment statistics in relation to the informal economic
sector, see the Working Paper, "Notes on the Mexican Labor Market'
(available in the Project File; Annex 11).



- 26 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3
The Labor Market for Technicians and Skilled Workers
4.       There are several indicators of shortages of trained manpower at
the technician and skilled worker levels:
(a)    the number of technicians in industry is very low in relation to
the number of professionals for a country at Mexico's level of
industrial development. The individual occupational structures of
major industrial sectors show only about 60% of the expected
numbers of skilled workers and over twice the normal number of
unskilled and semiskilled workers;'
(b)    the large numbers of applicants to labor retraining programs are
predominantly at the semiskilled and unskilled levels;
(c)    the demonstrated demand (even during the current period of severe
recession) for graduates from the CONALEP preservice training
program for technicians and skilled workers is strong; various
CONALEP training centers report having to appeal to enterprises to
delay hiring away of students until they have completed their
coursee);
(d)    the demands on CONALEP from enterprises for inservice upgrading
courses for workers at the same levels are also high;
(e)    the percentage of vacancies reported to SEEs which require
preservice training is high (43% in 1985 and 71% in 1986); and
(f)    information received from enterprises in Mexico City, in the
Southern Gulf States, and in Northern Mexico indicates (i) a
generalized shortage of adequately trained office workers,
particularly secretaries; (ii) constraints to production and
productivity increases due to shortages of skilled workers in
basic specializations such as industrial electricity and
mechanical maintenance; and (iii) a dependence on expatriate
technicians and consequent, higher production costs in several
industries with potential for expansion.
5.       In principle, other important indications of relative scarcities
in the labor market could be obtained from information on unemployment,
earnings, etc. With regard to earnings, it can generally be confirmed that
differentials by level of qualification are steep and indicative of high
returns to training of technicians and skilled workers. Available data on
average wages by industry support this conclusion. For instance, average
11 In relation to similar industries in other countries, as reported in
Zymelman, Forecasting Manpower Demand", World Bank, 1980.



- 27 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 3
wages in relatively demanding technological areas, such as electric
utilities and automobile manufacture, are typically three to four times the
wages in industries such as fruit packing and general construction which
employ a large proportion of unskilled labor.
Training Needs
6.       To eliminate the existing shortage of technicians and skilled
workers, three types of training need to be expanded and improved:
preservice training, inservice training, and labor retraining programs.
(See Annex 3).
7.       Preservice Training is needed for at least 150,000 new middle
level technicians and skilled workers annually (at least 40,000 to
compensate for retirements, etc., and 110,000 to fill new positions). Such
training is provided in a systematic manner and on a large scale through
the CONALEP system (assisted under Loans 2042-ME and 2559-ME), which will
graduate about 48,000 persons annually by 1990. Other preservice training
systems also supply technicians and skilled workers but do so in smaller
numbers and with lower average quality. The resulting annual deficit of
preservice training is estimated at over 50,000 workers mainly at the
skilled worker level. The shortage of skilled workers will therefore
continue to accumulate, unless other solutions can be found, such as
substantial programs for retrain4ng of displaced workers.
8.       Labor Retraining.  As discussed in para. 7, the formal economic
sector could absorb at least 50,000 more trained skilled workers annually
than are currently available from preservice training programs. Further
expansion of those programs is severely constrained by financial and
technical capacity limitations. If retraining programs could cater for a
significant share of the deficit, the gains to the economy would be
substantial.  For maximum impact, retraining programs need to be targetted
towards appropriate population groups and strategic occupations in sectors
and regions with development potential. The target population would be the
most trainable and motivated individuals among that segment of the
unemployed which, for mainly private financial reasons, would not otherwise
be able to obtain any substantial 'take-off" training.
9.       Inservice Training.  The greatest challenge for systematic
inservice training is the backlog of training needs among about three
million technicians and skilled workers currently employed in the formal
sector. Based on surveys by the STPS, it is estimated that about 260,000,
or 38 percent of existing technicians and about 1.80 million (75 percent)
of skilled workers have not been adequately trained for their current
posts. By 1990, the training backlog is estimated at a total of 2.2
million technicians and skilled workers. The large majority of these
workers will have received neither adequate preservice training nor
appropriate inservice training. For the backlog to be eliminated over
10 years, expanded inservice training would need to achieve an annual
output of 220,000 trained workers. (This number does not include the
necessary routine inservice training of some 140,000 new technicians and
skilled workers from 1990 onward). Existing inservice training programs
which function mainly in large enterprises have been estimated to provide
substantial training to only about 60,000 workers annually, leaving a
deficit of inservice training of about 160,000 persons per year.



- 28 -
ANWIX 2
Attachwent
Page 1 of 1
MUltoI n ParfosParc nt,              Curr   nihr
1.1 Population, Total (Midyear)   70       7t       70      80      a8       as      2.1      1.6 SSI m2 ilion in 1976
Groth 19740, 2.98111
1.2  Population, Age. 15 and up             89      44      4S A/  40        86     38.       1.5
1.8  Population, Econ. Active
(total work force)                     24.9 3/                 28.2             8.1      0.81
1.4  Urban Share of Work Force      671                                                                    Up from  71 In 1980
1.5  Participation Rate (1.81.1)            82.J                    84.1
2.1 Employmnt, Total
(1985   anti mutes)                    28      24      24      26       2e      8.2      0.7          1964S 20  In primry primry
sector, 75% in aecendary
nd tertiary aectora
sectore)
2.2  Employment, Forml
Econmic Settr 3/                       14.0 8.8    17.1    2.5                           0.86
2.8  Employsant, Informal Sector             8.0                    9.5      10.4   4.7       0.98         Informal employment 8
of total 90W),
eatimated
ln 1988
2.4  Employmrtt Permnent
IMS I/                                 6.4     e.7    6.9
2.6  I"plymnt. Temporary
W4SSk                                  1.2    1.4      1.1
2.6  EmpI oynent. T * 5  Z/        2.6             2.58 jJ/                 8.11    4.1      0.11         Annual nat lncreseo
about 85,000 per year
in tertiary
sector, 50,000 in
secondary esetor
2.7  (2.6) as percentage of (2.1)                   11.01                    11.71
2.8  Numer of 3nterpriae  in
Foral Economic Sector
(thousonds)                            873    59S    424                                              Average eployment per
formal aector ontorprise
42 persen  (2. 2.2)
3.1 Open Unempoyeant Total
Numbers (1986 oesitateo)               2.1                     2.4
3.2 Unemployment, Annual
Average Rote (19
etimates)                              0.81                    8.41                                   a to 41 during 1970.
Mexico City, July866, 6.41
8.8  Registered Vacancies at
Labor Exchange                                 O.18    0.045 g/                                       Peuiring Specific training
48.81 (1985), 71.81 (1906
4.1 Number of IliterDtoaV           6.5                     5.0
4.2 Primary Enrollrmnts (gross)
1211
4.8  Secondary Enrol limento                               6S.0                                            Up from 101 in 160
5.0  CDP                        US$I11 241
mill in                                                                Annual MP grosth rate
19758: 5.l
5.1 CDP Per Capita (1964)           2,05                                                                   Annual growth af 00P/capta
1978-86: 2.01
Source   STPS and Natlonml Bureau of Statioti.c  (INM8); figures rounded.
Esti mted
Ast  ecember S1, except for 19; at June 80
cJ Teohnician and skilled worker.
Of which 0.1 In primary wttor; 1.86 In ecendary. 1.15 in tortiary sector
w  Pires  mix  mlt
As" 15 and up



- 29 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 9
MEXICO
MANPOWER TRAINING PROJECT
Technical and Vocational Training in Mexico
Introduction
1.       A large number of agencies and institutions are involved in
technical and vocational training in Mexico. The distinct types of
training and the different responsibilities are illustrated in page 2, a
chart of Mexico's "Training Universe." The system's main features, as they
apply to the technician and skilled/semiskilled workers training subsector,
are described in the main report. A description of the financing of
education and training is provided in Attachment 1 to this Annex.
Preservice Education
2.       The education system has four levelst primary education (6
years), lower secondary (3 years), higher secondary (3 years) and higher
education (4 years and up). Unless otherwise noted, all courses form part
of the National System of Education, operated or coordinated by the Federal
Ministry of Education (SEP).
3.       Primary Education.  Primary schools enroll close to 100% of the
number of children in the 6-11 age group (net enrollment; gross enrollment
in first grade in 1984 was about 3.4 million or about 120% of the cohort,
due to repeaters). Total enrollment in 1985, 13.5 million, reflects high
rates of repetition and dropout; only 512 of first graders complete sixth
grade in six years.
4.       Postprimary and Lower Secondary Education and Training.  About 85%
of primary school leavers enter some kind of postprimary or lower secondary
education, either in regular three-year courses (general or "technical")
which give access to higher secondary education, or in one-year or shorter
courses in postprimary vocational schools (CECAPs, CECATISs) which train
semiskilled workers. There are also shorter vocational training courses at
this level, and artisan training in a variety of institutions including
crafts training centers (CEOs) and private schools. Total enrollment in
CECAPs, CECATISs and CEOs was about 82,000 in 1985.
5.       Hizher secondary education and training.  About 652 of graduates
of lower secondary schools continue to this level, which has general
academic and teacher training streams. In addition, at this level a number
of separate technical and vocational training systems offer three-year
courses, notably the CECYTs (Centers for Scientific and Technological
Studies), CETs (Centers for Technological Studies) and the CONALEP system.
Graduates of the latter two systems do not qualify for entry into higher
education; depending on specialization, they obtain employment as skilled
workers (about 65%) or technicians (35%). Total enrollment at this level
is currently 280,000, of which about 200,000 are in the CONALEP system.
Some 852 of entrants at this level graduate after three years; the vast
majority (except CET and CONALEP graduates) continue into hither education.



- 30 -
!3
Page 2 of 9
MEXICO
MANPOWE TRAINYIG PROJECT
TecLnical and Vocational Training in Mexico
TRALING UNmRSE
C u Government 
SISTEMA NACIONAL O DUCACION              ot @
(fol- sytem of oduceston           Milntry O
and proervwlco training)           Eduction
Ministry of Labor
(SIPS)                 _I. 
and S"oil We lfare    _ _ _                                S?
other                 ____ Parastatal and
Mitnistrie                             Autoedoowo Ag"erelz
X  Private, non-
government
Private Training                                    Soctoral
Institutions                                    Associ ti on* J
PROORAMA NACIONAL DE
CAPACITACION Y
ADIESTRAMIENTO
(inservico training)
Very large ontorprima            I*                  Large, mdium and
with company programs                                sm            I entarprioc



- 31 -
Page 3 of 9
tfEXICO
UMAPO ER TRAINING PROJECT
Structur, of the Education Training Sysvem (1985)
wn ~ ~       ~      ~      ~      Ze| isawu  _e IusuIY66A
avi    ,m.ea wsiteis ~ ~ ~ ~~or_,  _,e
SC ha lowsi                    -CKWS
-U ~      ~      ~      6
g  O_
euss1~1t1     is    It   16 l  i iv  lb is is11 it is   s s i  3
I m  I  ism*ew law~    I       I .       I    mon"     I ..6
560A6.6    GUIMl0g  GlC?5      4*U?
n~~~~~~~~~6A?6  U0_es fl
_~~~~~~~~*2 ?A3u  *5 a.
ogn ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ u. w*sl              -



- 32 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 9
6.      Nonformal preservice training.  In addition to formal education and
traiiting, several federal authorities provide nonformal training for youths
and adults. The major providers are the Social Security Institute (TMSS),
with a network of over 100 training centers (which are now being closed or
converted for other purposes), the National System for the Integrated
Development of the Family (DIF), the Adult Education Institute (INEA), and
the Ministry of Fisheries, which operates a network of training centers
(UNICAPs). The labor retraining program (discussed below) operated by the
STPS, can also be considered nonformal preservice training.
7.      Hither education.  In addition to universities, this level includes
polytechnics (five-year professional schools). Enrollments at the tertiary
level have g;own rapidly over the last fifteen years. Dropouts from higher
education traditionally constitute a major source of supply of workers
active at the technician level.
fmtlo ant Services and Retraining
8.      Background.  Employment services and retraining in Mexico are
provided within the framework of the Federal Government's Regional
Employment Programs managed in cooperation with the State Employment
Services (SEEs) of each state and the Federal District. Programs are
financed mainly under federal budget, supplemented by contributions from
state budgets. They are des. ,ned to complement other employment-related
support and to ensure that representatives of employers and workers
participate in planning and implementation. Employment services of the
SEEs include registration of job-seekers and vacancies, career counselling,
referral, and placement in jobe or training. The SEEs have operated only
since 1983, but already include offices in more than 80 locations around
the country and register over 200,000 persons annually. The STPS
retraining program, in particular, is designed to: (a) increase the supply
of trained manpower at the skilled and semiskilled workers levels, as a
supplement to the existing, inadequate outputs of the preservice and
inservice training systems;l (b) promote gainful employment of displaced
workers and, thereby, ease the social and economic strains of ongoing
economic restructuring; and (c) promote training and increased labor market
participation among the poorest of the unemployed, through provision of
modest financial assistance (amounting to one minimum salary per month) to
trainees during training. It is operated as a key component of the system
of employment services described above.
9.      The STPS retraining program was initiated in 1984 and during that
year, about 56,000 persons were trained. In 1985 and 1986 the numbers
trained fell to 31,000 and 19,000, respectively, due to budgetary
limitations. By the end of 1986, a total of over 106,000 persons, 27% of
them women, had benefitted from the retraining as shown in the following
table.
l/ The annual deficit in preservice training of skilled workers is
estimated at over 50,000; about two million existing, employed skilled
workers are inadequately trained.



- 33 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5 oi 9
Retraining Program 1984-1986
Federal             Numbor of
No. of     No. of   Total    Entitles  Number of  Training
ParticIpant.  Courses  Sudgot W   Covered k/ Local ltis Institutions g/
1884   68,709   1,890   860M.09      22        158       288
195    81,876   1,182   ,08.60      81        266       278
1986    19,8      483  2,746.90      S1        142       186
C/In million current pesos.
Including the Federal District; there are 81 state8 and one federal
Distriet, for a total of 82 entltloes.
g/ Existing institution., where the retraining Is carried out.
Over the same period, the social demand as well as the economic need for
retraining increased because of far-reaching restructuring efforts which
caused layoffs of close to 100,000 workers in 1986 alone.
10.      Retraining Courses and Institutions.  STPS' retraining program has
provided intensive, practically oriented courses of one to six months'
duration, six hours a day, five days a week during 1984 to 1986. The
courses are offered in existing training institutions which may be public
or private, ors in some cases, in-plant. To date, courses have been
organized in over 460 locations countrywide, with over 500 training
Institutions participating. (A list of over 90 specialties offered and the
number of participarts in each 1984-86 are contained in the working papers
for the proposed project, as listed in Annex 10).
11.      A recently developed tool to help ensure employment of graduates
of the program are "mixed courses" which combine program-financed
preservice institutional retraining with follow-up inservice training in a
collaborating enterprise. These courses are set up mainly with larger
enterprises under a cost-sharing arrangement through which firms also help
to plan courses, define prerequisite knowledge and skills of trainees and
select individual trainees; in return, the enterprises agree to train and
employ a significant share (usually 80%) of course graduates. Over the
duration of the proposed project, such courses would be expected to account
for about 15 percent of total retraining enrollments.
12.      Costs. The unit cost for the STPS retraining program averaged
about US$465 per trainee for an average of three months over the years
1984-86. Given the sucaessive devaluations of the Mexican currency and the
reduction of the effective duration of courses to three months, the actual
unit training cost per trainee has fallen to about US$100 per trainee
month. Virtually all of this expenditure is local cost. On average, 80%
of funds have been allocated for stipends for trainees and 202 for
oporating costs for courses, including administrative overheads. The
average costs per trainee are low largely because courses are offered in
existing training institutions and only marginal costs for materials,
supplies and instructors services are charged to the program.
13.      PlanniAng.  Planning for the retraining program takes place
annually and follows a well-established set of procedures.  At the central



- 34 -
ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 9
level, it is based on available information on the labor market, assessed
for changing sectoral and regional conditions of employment and
characteristics of applicants. At the state level, the identification of
retraining needs and the preparation of preliminary proposals are generally
carried out by the state Committees for Planning and Development (COPLADE),
which include representation of employers' and workers' associations as
well as the SEEs and other relevant government agencies. The SEE, which
has technical responsibility for program development, prepares more
detailed proposals based on local analysis of demand and inventories of
available training capacities which are then balanced against available
budget (both federal and state) for the program. Once an agreement is
reached on an annual program, a contract is signed by the federal
government and the state. Among cther provisions, the contract assures
that the program will be operated within the norms established by the SPP
and the STPS. Although planning is carried out only once a year,
programming is flexible and adjustments can be made by the SEEs during the
year to reflect a shift in priorities for course selection. In addition,
the DGE retains a budgetary reserve on the order of 15% of total
allocations which can be assigned to cater for emerging priorities during
the course of the year.
14.      Management.  The overall management of the retraining program is
the responsibility of the National Employment Service (SNE) of the DGE in
the STPS. At the state level, operational responsibility is held by the
SEE in its Department for Productive Programs, with support provided by the
SNE. The structure and procedures for SEE management of the program are
established in detail in manuals issued by the SPP and STPS.  These
procedures range from dissemination of information on retraining to
evaluation of retraining results and follow-up of trainees. The Federal
Labor Delegate in the state, the representative of the federal government
on labor matters, must approve the release of funds at each stage of
implementation on the basis of adherence to these procedures. In addition,
supervision and control is provided by the regional officers of the DSE.
The management procedures include strict controls on the transfer of funds
from the Treasury to the states, and on the payment of the stipend to
trainees. The stipend is released only after a month's study is confirmed
through attendance records. (Further details on the planning and
management of the STPS retraining program are included in working papers as
listed in Annex 10.  A summary of the planning and implertntation cycle for
STPS retraining appears in Annex 4b, Attachment 2.)
Issues
15.      Four general issues have been identified in employment services
and retraining. These are: (a) limited capacity of the SEEs to deliver the
full range of employment services; (b) weaknesses in balancing the macro-
level analysis of retraining needs with estimates of demand by the states;
(c) inadequate monitoring and evaluation of the impact of the program; and
(d) weaknesses in planning and programming of retraining courses. The
proposed project would address these issues.
16.      The SEE system, with few exceptions, is not yet able to provide
the full range of employment services. The SEEs depend on the respective
state government for resources; they do not in general yet have personnel
adequately trained 'n employment and labor affairs; and they do not possess



- 35 -
ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 9
the equipment necessary to carry out market surveys and inventories (much
work is done by hand with resulting loss in efficiency). The STPS seeks to
strengthen the SEEs in a manner consistent with the overall policy of
decentralization. It provides supervision and inservice staff training to
SEE personnel, manuals and guidelines for SEE operations, and technical
assistance for special surveys and labor market studies. Despite these
immediate limitations, the SEE system has significantly increased coverage
in recent years. In 1986, over 200,000 job-seekers were registered;
employers filed over 140,000 vacancies; about 100,000 candidates were sent
for employment interviews; over 40,000 persons were referred to training
institutions; and some 18,000 unemployed were selected for retraining
stipends. Further improvements on SEE effectiveness will, however, require
expanded staff, staff upgrading and provision of computer equipment.
17.      The process for allocating retraining funds to maximize economic
and social benefits also needs to be strengthened. Although the STPS
develops the retraining program in the context of national priorities and
the labor market, the criteria by which retraining resources axe allocated
lack clarity. The assessment of competing demands among the states is a
function of quality of information available to the STPS and SEEs. At
present, however, the STPS manpower and training information systems, based
largely on SEE inputs, are inadequate and require strengthening. In
addition, monitoring of program implementation needs to be improved. In
1984, the first year of operation of the program, a committee of
representatives of participating public agencies was formed to oversee the
execution of the program. That committee did not continue into 1985 when
administration of the program was formalized. In this connection, the
Council for Employment and Training (CET) established by the Federal Labor
Law (Article 539) could usefully serve. The Minister of Labor chairs this
Council, which includes public sector authorities and employers' and
workers' representatives at the national level. The CET thus has the
potential to provide an independent and broad perspective on the direction
and performance of the retreining program.
18.      In addition to inadequate review at the macro level, a weakness in
the management of the program to date has been an inadequate system for
monitoring and evaluation of results. The principal weakness has been that
information on the economic impact of the program has not been collected
systematically. For instance, the records show an average dropout rate of
about 20% in 1984, 18% in 1985, and between 17% and 20% in 1986. This is
acceptable given the foreseeable instability of the unemployed and the
difficulty of ensuring a perfect fit in all circumstances among
expectations of the trainee, the content of courses, and the demands of
possible employers. However, follow-up analysis, to correct weaknesses as
possible, has not been systematically pursued.
19.      In March 1987, STPS assembled the results of various evaluations
and annual program assessments conducted since 1984 to respond to requests
for evaluative information. The Ministry also carried out a special survey
of a sample of participants in 1986 in five principal locations -- Puebla,
Sonora, San Luis Potosi, Zacatecas and Campeche. These regions were chosen
for diversity in the conditions of the retraining program. The survey
population included 25% of the retraining participants in these areas in



- 36 -
At=IX 3
Page 8 of 9
1987, or about 670 persons. They were traced to their residences and
interviewed on their post-training employment experience as well as their
assessment of the training program. The results demonstrate a positive
impact of the program in terms of employment of graduates in a period of
overall stagnation in employment and reconfirm results of earlier
evaluations conducted by CONALEP in 1984 and 1985. These earlier
assessments showed between 502 and 602 of graduates employed in their areas
of specialization. The March evaluation was able to go further and examine
the sector of employment, conditions and earnings of graduates. On
average, between 40 and 502 of graduates were employed in activities
related to their fields of specialization at the time of the interview;
another 40 to 50S entered employment in other activities where the benefit
of training was less direct but still tangible; less than 102 remain
unemployed or inactive. Although a controlled experiment was not feasible,
this rate of placement is more than double the general success rate for the
unemployed in an equivalent period. The data further revealed differences
by field of study and by region, and indicated that about 702 of those who
found employment were working in the formal sector (the remainder were
employed in the informal sector). With respect to those 102 who were not
employed, only about 51 (or one half) were actively seeking work.
20.      The survey also revealed that in isolated but important instances,
course content or enrollment Lad been inappropriates the technological
level of the course was too high for the total course hours allocated and
the level of trainee abilities; the course offered did not cater for
priority skills requirements of the local labor market; or the numbers
trained exceeded of local needs. Other courses of study showed poor
employment of graduates, less than 202 -- for example, electric motor
repair and air conditiouing repair in Campeche. Still others showed higher
than average rates of employment, over 701 -- for example, gas installation
and general electrical repair in Campeche. Deficiencies in planning, which
need to be redressed, can be attributed largely to inadequate knowledge of
labor market demand, including inadequate involvement of local employers.
21.      Another finding of the survey concerns the age-experience profile
of trainees. About 252 of the sample were in the age range 18 to 20.
These younger workers tended to show less success in job placement and, if
working, a higher rate of employment in the informal sector. With fewer
dependents and less urgency in gaining employment, some younger persons,
including females, have not actively pursued job prospects on completion of
retraining. More stringent selection criteria would undoubtedly improve
employment rates. Younger individuals should be advised by the SEEs about
other training options. The evaluation record also tends to indicate that
training was more effective in shop than in classroom settings. Increased
participation of potential employers in delivery of training would incre*e
incentives for trainees as well as the relevance of training for employers.
The Inservice Training System
22.      Backtround.  Inservice training is one of several means available
to enterprises for raising productivity and product quality. In accordance
with Mexican federal law, inservice training is financed and lmplemented by
employers, and promoted, coordinated and monitored by the STPS under the



- 37 -
ANNEX 3
Page 9 of 9
National Training and Upgrading Program. At the enterprise level, the
Program is guided by local training committees, representing employers and
workers. At the federal or regional level, training boards (CONACAPs) for
each region or main branch of economic activity assist by preparing
occupational profiles, general training programs, training materials, etc.,
for distribution to local training comdttees. Overall training policy is
determined by the Council for Employment and Training (CET), and compliance
with the Labor Las and the directives of the Council is monitored by the
STPS which also promotes and supports the Program through seminars and
other activities for local training committees,
23.      Issues.  Compliance with the Labor Law varies greatly.  Some 64S
of workers are employed in firms which have a local training committee, and
40% in firms which have an organized training program. Those workers are
employed primarily in large firms, as indicated by the number of
enterprises with training committees (24%) and number of firms with an
organized training program (13.6%). The large majority of firms, which are
small and medium size enterprises (SMEs) in the formal economic sector, do
not have a training program. Even in the larger firms with committees and
training programs, no set standards and criteria exist for training
provided and quality varies greatly.
24.      Nevertheless, some good inservice training is provided for SMEs,
e.g., training arranged by the Construction Industry Association and the
National Chamber of Manufacturing Industry (CANACINTRA). Other
associations are also actively interested in training and pay for inservice
evening training courses at, i.a., CONALEP training centers. These
examples point a way towards resolving the inservice training problems of
the majority of firms namely, through active involvement and support of
local employers' associations. To begin to strengthen the decentralized
system for providing inservice training, especially for SMEs, a strategy to
develop promotional activities of the STPS, and to provide technical
support for sectoral training boards and local committees and for
employers' associations and firms, needs to be pursued. Inservice training
also needs to be expanded and broadened to begin to reach the estimated
backlog of 2.2 million skilled workers and middle-level technicians in need
of upgrading, and to incorporate more in-plant courses and advisory
services.



MEXICO
MANPWOER TRAINING PROJECT
COMPONET DESIGN AND IMPLEMENTATION
Proloct. iatrix
Bro  Abet iv.,                           set. mi5Se                           Pr.elt comos
suepprt NasI  l    of                                                                                          Str.nthse 1  SEU iol _ .t  soervics.
*mwbetcXra", _1'8t     esclSi   o etisie of lecal Ior m.rb.r..
at, " O     sstff empNeeI. sd  ugtldie g
oret_eties by:                                                                                              t; el..  adi asr.lzation ef etuuigist.
/  Iepr,evmt et plBal., costoot. Nad
i  mpIlmetatioe of SIPS rtiaieg programe
I   sd seinblieb, permanoot orresgomest. for,
.1104tAW4.g a"d .s.S.atiee.
Improviag predwct i.                Lioibd services tor eWley_.t               ElapS    t S.W icese bed  3/ ps.ma.ot.tl of so e_ pe _ed  reraol*e
efficlency ad Quality.              rogi.tr.tioe. c.seeoSog*11 roforr* $.      Labor RBtraing                  preog    tot wt e an dioplecod more^re aestlo
sad ploc_emt, mad leedoqet.                Compse".                        priority criterie.
etrailolGI   p   trom  for dIopscud
sd meaploped orters.
Iacr...iao  wIsplest  ad             Loch of capaclty for l_seroice           I_erlce Trelolgi sad            Estabis lhmentof tebel,S sapport %ail.
income tbtugb greow   of             tralsla   sod ether labor                 Productivity Coapeseet          select"  for oscterol or regisl ast6is.
More Productve a"                    prodUct vity-stboaceesat proegms,                                         tratsime  beortdo        local committee. o
eupustlve esterpri om.               particularlty eo  swo..                                                   deveop tralnieg progm   ad Matoriels.
Iodwc 1e bum_  roe.erco                                                                                        .ol.o eat NWd iopsa_atioe of presetional
tlt. to 0regrow.                                                                                           pogms mad astwrisSe for leoruico troleleg
NW productlvity estreocmo.te.
Eatoeog dlotributiee of              W.ooee  Is ceatroel)ed servicee            SWS ImUtit"ItM.                 olp5.tetles  _edar cO.t-o.eri;g
tr.tilu   s.d ccple_yat              of SIPS. Includi   i.sdsqoto laber         S"Woogh" sow                    rreeginete aith elorprle.           lof iservico
eCrece  ge")  sd oscial               arbot, mplojs  _ad   _ap.eor             C      _up esat                 treisiog  ad supprt proros fo 5o.
sa  ecossic strit. of                melter jas     ftepe itfr toe
P.p.taoe.                            tmcbhaicl sad policy saoIysie.
lodote sdW pOorly distributed            Trlsitagt leaotitstlo           Stroagt&S m f . IS .t.ff to ou"ofrt
capacity of solocted traimtat            Upruadio  Com_pos.t.  e\ffctvely linerVICI otraialA sa  rotrainlag
latittloes. to deli.vt ieervic.                                          rog\reom.
training sNd .etr.i.log program.
Jopovooatof systeas for $obar Market, sNd
espeomw,  amd tralalas lo rtits..
t* pDoaw.otatb  of o  politiy  tudlies for
\ eopowor traleait.
Provision of c.mpSom.tarp oqui.s.t and
\taff tttisilAg Ia seGctod (caistiag) publ ic
end private Irsielg c"Otero to per-it
lscresod  tilsotbs  of etr;oiasg fstIllt.oc.
0 lb



- 39 -
ANNEX 4b
Page 1 of 2
NE''IICO
MANPOWER TRAINING PROJECT
Emlo9ms.nt Servie,os and Labor Retraining Component
Oblective
1.       The component aims to improve employment services provided through
the SEEs and to strengthen the STPS retraining program in the light of
changing labor market requirements resulting from the current economic
restructuring.
Content
2.       The component comprises three main subparts:  the strengthening of
the SEEs; the improvement of planning, monitoring and evaluation of STPS
retraining; and the delivery of an expanded program of retraining.
3.       The employment services subcomponent is designed to support
improved and expanded operations of the SEEs. Training would be provided
for about 400 existing SEE staff. The training, to be provided largely
through locally arranged courses would be of two main types: short-term
training for about 30 higher level staff in management and advanced
statistical analysis of local labor market requirements and training
capacity; and short-term upgrading for about 370 mid-level staff in the
direct service areas of registration of job seekers, placement in jobs or
training, and related referral and counselling techniques. The staff
upgradinig would be combined with annual assessment and enhancement of
operating procedures and practices of the SEEs, carried out in cooperation
with the SNE of the STPS. In addition, modest requirements for computer
equipment for information storage and retrieval would be met through the
project; and technical assistance for strengthening monitoring and
evaluation of retraining programs (33 man-months, local) would also be
included. Improvements in labor market, manpower and training-related
analysis would be linked to broader improvements in related information
systems to be introduced under the STPS Institutional Development Component
of the project (Annex 4d). A Plan of Action for implementation of the SEE
upgrading subcomponent is included as Attachment 1 to this Annex.
4.       The planning, monitoring and evaluation subcomponent for the STPS
retraining program is designed to redress the main weaknesses identified to
date. The aim is to ensure that retraining resources are allocated to
maximize economic and social returns. This objective would be pursued
through several measures. First, a revised system for allocating
retraining funds by state and by type of course would be developed as the
basis for planning. This system would give priority to directing funds



- 40 -
ANNEX 4b
Page 2 of 2
towards locations and sectors where results of retraining have the highest
probabilities for increasing productive employment. Second, and related, a
system for the regular monitoring and evaluation of retraining results
would be introduced. Results would be fed back into the planning process.
The revised planning and evaluation system has been developed under the
PPF. It combines a macro-model of the Mexican economy with regional labor
market information to be used to develop estimates of manpower demand as
the basis for selecting priority sectors and locations for training, as
well as for selecting individual courses. Particular attention has been
given to design of sampling procedures for graduate follow-up, the analysis
and dissemination of evaluation results, and ths incorporation of related
adjustments in course planning. An additional 33 man-months of consultant
services is included under the project to assist with refinements and
adjustments in the planning and evaluation system, as may be required in
the course of implementation. In addition, the Council for Employment and
Training (CET) has been assigned as the advisory body for the retraining
program under the project. This Council would ensure that monitoring and
evaluation are effectively conducted and that results and recommendations
are reflected in the retraining program in the form of improvements.
5.       The retraining subcomponent would be based on the results of
improved planning and evaluati-n and would cater for 160,000 displaced
workers over the coming four and a half years. The training would be
managed and implemented in accordance with existing procedures of the STPS,
SEEs and other participating agencies. (This process is described in Annex
3, paras. 13-14, and summarized in the form of an annual implementation
szhedule in Attachment 2 to this Annex.)
6.       In accordance with evaluations of recent retraining, the courses
to be provided would be those for which labor market demand is high;
courses which showed low rates of graduate employment would be
discontinued. In addition, involvement of employers, both in the planning
and delivery of the courses, would be increased to improve relevance and
employment results. The CET, at the federal level, includes employers'
representatives as well as labor representatives. At the local level,
em>,oyers would be included in the planning process both through local
advisory councils and through direct involvement in training. Under the
project, the proportion of courses directly assisted by enterprises would
be raised to 15 percent of the STPS retraining program during project
implementation. Further, the criteria for selecting participants have been
strengthened to emphasize the neediest and potentially most employable
among those currently displaced or unemployed. These criteria are listed
in Attachment 3 to this Annex. Candidates selected for retraining in the
STPS program would continue to receive a monthly stipend during the
training period equivalent to the general minimum salary. The need and
justification for the provision of this stipend are also discussed in
Attachment 3.
7.       The project would provide financing to meet the costs of the STPS
retraining program during the four and a half year implementation period,
including financing for the stipends as well as the operating and material
costs of the training. These costs would be shared by Government and
enterprises, with enterprises financing the "mixed", or employer-assisted,
courses.



- 41 -
ANNI 4b
Attac_be_t 1
Page 1 of 1
MEXICO
MANPOWER TMRINING PROJECT
21Elo?ment Services and Labo'o Retrainig Comonent
Stren thening the State EFlo-ment Services
Plan of Action
Responsible        Date to be Completed or
Main Activity                  Agencies            Period of Implementation
1. Assess and improve
operating procedures
and practices of the
SEEs                       SNEISEEs            annually
2. Provide Training for
approximately 401)
federal staff of the
SEES
- short-term management
training and training
in advanced statistical
analysis for about 30
higher level staff _J    SNE                 25Z annually during
Implementation
- short-term training
in employment
registration, place-
ment, referral and
counselling tech-
niques and pro-
cedures for about                            252 annually during
370 mid-level staff      SNE                 implementation
aJ  Training and orientation for SEE staff on use of the improved labor
market and manpower information system are included in the STPS
istitutional strengthening component.



- 42 -
ANNEX 4b
Attachment 2
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
MANPOWER TRAINING PROJECT
Employment Services and Labor Retraining Component
Implementation Cycle for the STPS Retrainine Program
Main Activity                                          Annual Schedule
1.  Overall Programming Budgeting
-   Submission of budget request to SPP            June - September
-   Approval of budget by SPP                      December - January
2.  Annual Evaluation
(of the program by the DGE based or
SEE submissions)                                   November - December
3. Detailed Programming and Planning
- Assessment of training needs by
the relevant federal agencies (CONALEP,
SEP, STPS) and employers' associations        December - January
- Assessment of training capacity
(by the training institutions)                December - January
- Rationalization of training demand
with training capacity                         January - February
4. Program Updating
-   (revision and updating of program
priorities, criteria and procedures)          January - February
5. Budget Finalization
-   Determination of budget allocations
for participating federal agencies and
training institutions                         January - February
-   Transfer of allocations from the SPP
to the participating agencies and
institutions                                  March - May



- 43 -
ANNEX 46b
Attachment 2
Page 2 of 2
Main Activity                                          Annual Schedule
6. Preparation and Finalization of
Implementation Agreements
(between the STPS and the state governments,      February - March
and between the STPS and training institutions
to deliver retraining
7.  Provision of Training                              April - November
-   Recruitment of trainees                        March, June, August
-  Adjustments to training                         March, June, August
-   Preparation of socio-economic information
on trainees selected                          March, June, August
-   Monitoring of trainees during training         March-December
-   Payment of stipends                            March - December
-   Completion of training                         June, Sept., Dec.
-   Post-training follow-up of trainees            July - January



- 44 -
ANE  4b
AttacMent 3
Page 1 of 3
I4zCO
MANPOER TRAlIIING PROJECT
Sconomic Rationale for Selectina Trainees and
Providing Stinends for the STPS Retraininx Programs
1.       The retraining program included in the proposed project is aimed
at unaeployed adults, and particularly those displaced by restructuring.
While registered, open unemployment Is judged to be 2.4 to 3.0 million, the
Goveramnt estimates (based on household surveys) that at the end of 1986
actual unmuployment, including substantial underemployment, was about 5.0
million (close to 202 of the workforce). About-302 of the registered
unemployed state restructuring or closing of the employing enterprise as
the reason for unemployment. The Ministry of Labor estimates that major
restructuring operations alone led to the lose of close to 100,000 job in
1986.
2.       Unemployment in Mexico affects all types and strata of manpower.
In absolute terms, the skilled, semiskilled and unskilled worker levels
account for over 902 of displacemente and total unmployment. At these
levels, several major groups can be discerneds
(a) literate, skilled or semiskilled workers with long working
experience (more than ten years on average);
(b)  literate workers (most of them with completed primary education),
semi-skilled or unskilled, of productive age (in the majority, 20
to 30 years old), with working experience of less than ten years,
and Including women re-entering the workforce;
(c) illiterate workers; and
(d) recent school leavers with little or no working experience.
Through use of objective criteria and, for qualifying candidates, the
incentive of tho stipend provided (one general minimum salary per month), a
subgroup of (b) is selected for retraining. The retraining program does
not support group (a) whose members usually have received substantial
separation pay and find relatively well remunerated, alternative employment
In the formal or informal sectors without additional training; and groups
(c) and (d) are not eligible to participate in the retraining program but
can boenfit from other training programs, including those of INEA, the
CECAPICZO system, CONALEP, and private training lastitutions. (The
revised criteria for selection of candldates for retraining under the
proposed project appear on page 3 of this Attachment.)
3.       Group (b) is by far the largest of the four groups -- literate but
with little specific training and less on-the-job experience -- as a result
of Mexico's past history of expansion of general education, limited
opportunitie for job training, and a generally slow pace of technological



- 45 -
ANNEX 4b
Attachment 3
Page 2 of 3
and industrial development. Apart from group (c), whose members are
predominantly located in rural areas of less developed states, group (b) is
also the most economically disadvantaged of the four groups. A large
portion of its members, particularly those with dependents, simply do not
have the private means to invest in training. In 1984 the retraining
program operated with stipends for selected trainees at the level of one-
half of the minimum wage for the duration of the program. The results were
not encouraging as dropout rates increased from 20% to about 451, and
instructors and trainees expressed criticism of the arrangement. For most
of those who are currently engaged in informal economic activities, the
opportunity and incidental costs (including transportation, materials
costs, etc.) of attending a full-time skills training course would amount
to an insurmountable barrier. The subgroup ideally targeted by the
retraining program consists of the most trainable, experienced, motivated,
and needy of these people, who would not, under current arrangements,
receive other training. Conversely, the availability of this subgroup's
skills could provide enterprises, particularly SMEs, with the means to
build a core of productive and trainable workers with good basic skills.
4.       Group (b) is estimated to make up the majority of the registered
unemployed; that is, approximately 1.5 million people. Using criteria
designed to select those in greatest need of assistance, the retraining
under the proposed project would target assistance for a total of 160,000
workers over four and a half years, or about 10% of the broad target group
and about 3% of the total number of unemployed or substantially
underemployed. This target would be consistent with (i) strict application
of criteria to ensure selection of trainable, motivated individuals who
would not otherwise be able to obtain substantial training; and (ii) the
needs of the economy, including the formal and informal sectors, for
trained manpower in appropriate occupations. Those 90% of group (b) who
would not be selected for the STPS retraining program would be eligible to
receive training through the postprimary courses in the CECAP/CEO system
and in state and private institutions; such training is free but is not
combined with a cost-of-living stipend.
5.       The retraining program is similar in design to adult retraining
programs which are operating in several European countries. In those
programs, i.n spite of the much higher levels of income and greater
availability of financial assistance for needy individuals with dependent
families than those prevailing in Mexico, the need to subsidize costs of
living for many trainees during retraining has been recognized. Experience
further confirms that if such a subsidy is not provided during the course
of training, major segments of the target group are simply unable to
enroll, and that these are the individuals most likely to remain unemployed
or underemployed instead of making their full productive contribution to
the economy. Experience in Western Europe also shows that those countries
which regard retraining programs for workers in transition as a necessary
and essential investment in labor productivity, have also fared best, not
only in keeping unemployment down but in maintaining economic growth.
6.       A recent study of the costs of worker displacement in the USA
('Quarterly Journal of Economics," February 1987) argues that workers who
are involuntarily separated incur a loss in the form of the depreciation of
the firm-specific human capital in which the firms have invested. This



- 46 -
ANNEX 4b
Attachment 3
Page 3 of 3
loss is one component of the social cost of labor-market adjustment. Other
components -- including the value of workers' time off the job, and the
value of lost occupation- and indastry- specific training (i.e., human
capital) -- must be added to obtain an estimate of the total social cost of
labor-market adjustment. The paper goes on to argue that to the extent
that compensating wage differentials did not begin to telegraph workers
information of possible job loss, policies of compensation to workers can
be justified on economic grounds, if they provide no disincentive effect.
The most productive form of compensation would be investment in retraining.
Labor Retraining Component
Criteria for Selection of Trainees for Retraining Programs
Under the Pro1ect
1.       Criteria for selection of trainees for participation in the labor
retraining program and for full financial assistance under the full
scholarship program are:
(a) Each trainee must have registered as an applicant for a job at the
local state employment office.
(b) Each trainee must be between the ages of 20 and 55 years.
(c) Trainees must have economic dependents and priority will be given
to those who have a larger number of such dependents.
(a) Each trainee must have the proper levels of basic education and
experience necessary for successful participation in courses
offered.
(e) Each trainee must re-register for employment upon completion of
training program.



_ 47 -
ANNEX 4c
Page 1 of 3
MEXICO
MANPOWER TRAINING PROJECT
Demonstration Inservice TrtLining and Productivity Component
Oblective
1.       The objective of this component is to develop a system to promote
and support regular inservice training and other productivity enhancement
services among SMEs in priority economic sectors and regions.
Organization
2.       The inservice and productivity component would be managed by one
central and 20 regional technical support groups (Grupos de Apoyo Tecnico a
Empresas, GATEs) to be established by employers' organizations with support
of the DGE. The central GATE would be called the Productivity Information
Service (SIP), and would be established in the DGE. The SIP and each GATE
would comprise three to six training, technological and productivity
specialists. The qualifications and experience of these staff, to be
appointed on a consultancy basis, would be assured through selection
criteria established by the DGE. The locations of the regional GATEs would
be determined by the DGE on the basis of local employer interest and
potential for employment in key economic sectors. Based on these criteria,
and a related survey carried out by DGE consultants under the PPF, the
states of Jalisco, Guanajuato, Nuevo Leon, Puebla and Mexico have been
identified tentatively as sites for the first five GATEs, to be established
by June 30, 1988. Industry in these states is concentrated in textiles and
related manufactures; petrochemicals; machinery; automotive manufactures;
tourism; and iron and steel (where considerable demand for retraining is
foreseen). These sectors have been tentatively identified as priority
areas for training in view of trade liberalization. Survey results would
be finalized and updated annually.
3.       The SIP, reporting to the DGE, would be responsible for overall
system development and for the monitoring and evaluation of results. The
regional GATEs would be responsible for promoting interest among firms in
assessing requirements for productivity improvements, focussing on
inservice training, and for assisting firms to design and arrange for
delivery of training and advisory services. The CET would serve as the
advisory body for the demonstration system. It would ensure that
monitoring and evaluation are effectively conducted and that results and
recommendations are reflected in the system in the form of improvements.
The State Training Councils (CCECAs), which comprise representatives of
government, enterprises and labor, would serve as advisory groups for the
GATEs. The project includes financing for the staffing and administrative
costs of the GATEs and the SIP, and for additional consultant services (50
man-months local, 10 man-months foreign) to support orientation of GATEs
staff aid general development and evaluation of the system.



- 48 -
ANNEX 4c
Page 2 of 3
Content
4.       Both the promotional and direct support services to be provided by
the GATEs would be based on assessment of potential for improving
productivity in the relevant sectors and regions. Initial work of the
GATEs would center on broad assessment of local labor markets and training
needs in the designated sectors. This work would be followed by
preparation of regional plans for promoting SME use of training and
advisory services. Promotional activities would be based on close
cooperation with local employment and labor authorities, employers'
associations and individual firms. These services would typically include
the reproduction or preparation and dissemination of information to firms
on the regional labor market, training possibilities and productivity
matters. This information would be made available in the form of
newsletters, bulletins, catalogs, bibliographies and case studies oriented
towards the region or particular sectors. In addition, workshops and
conferences would be organized by the GATEs for groups of SME managers to
promote interchange and interest in self-assessment of training and
productivity requirements. General information and training materials
would also be prepared or adapted by the regional GATEs, and disseminated
to firms. Through the SIP, these and other promotional materials would be
made available to some 20,000 SMEs employirng about 800,000 workers, in
regions not directly served by the 20 GATEs to be established under the
project. The project includes financing for the preparation and
dissemination by the SIP and the GATEs of promotional and informational
materials of relevance to employers and employees.
5.       Direct support for inservice training in regional SMEs would also
be provided by the GATEs. This service would take the form of assistance
in annlyzing training needs and preparating training proposals and
requests, for approval by the SIP. The regional GATEs would help to
arrange for the provision of training or related services through contracts
with local training institutions, management consultants and individual
consultants. Depending on needs, the training would be conducted in
existing institutions with available capacity (including CONALEP centers,
CEP institutions and private institutions) or in-plant. In general,
similar training needs, across firms (e.g., in standard skills areas such
as mechanics -nd carpentry, or in areas such as general aspects of
financial management or work simplification), would be provided in training
centers. Process and other firm-specific training needs would be
identified through productivity audit and met in-plant. Initially, if
required, GATEs staff could participate directly in selected in-plant
training efforts on a demonstration basis. Normally, contracts for in-
plant training would be signed directly between firms and external
consultants and would provide for training as well as follow-up services.
In all the GATEs would provide direct support for intensive, short-term
training for some 75,000 skilled and semiskilled workers in a targetted
5,000 firms employing a total of 200,000 workers. Financing is included in
the project for training directly supported through the GATEs, for selected
training equipment and materials, and for orientation of consultants on in-
plant training techniques.



- 49 -
ANNEX 4c
Page 3 of 3
Financing
6.       A major objective of the demonstration component for inservice
training and productivity promotion is to create an interest in regular
firm upgrading among SMEs. As an incentive, initial financing for the
program would be provided by the Government. During the implementation
period, 50% of the overall cost of the program, including mainly
administrative and training support costs would be covered by the
Government on a declining scale. Future operations of the GATEs system,
including direct costs of inservice training and related services, would be
financed entirely by the participating firms.
Monitoring and Evaluation
7.       The institutionalization of the demonstration system will depend
mainly on its effectiveness as judged by beneficiary associations and
individual firms. To support an effective impact, the SIP would mount a
continuous system of monitoring and evaluation of program organization and
procedures, as well as outcomes. During implementation, adjustments would
be made as needed to improve effectiveness, in particular to meet
variations in regional circumstances.
Implementation
8.       A plan of action for implementation of the component, emphasizing
key measures and dates for start-up, is attached to this Annex. Guidelines
and manuals for operation of the GATEs have been developed under the PPF by
consultants to the DGE and are currently being tested in Jalisco, where the
first GATE is being established. The detailed guidelines and manuals are
available in the Project File (Annex 11).



- 50 -
ANNEX 4c
Attachment
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
MANPOWER TRAINING PROJECT
DEMONSTRATION INSERVICE TRAINING AND PRODUCTIVITY COMPONENT
Plan for Action for Start-up
Date to be completed
Main ActlVItY            KU  Measures              Unit Responsible   or plenned duration
I. Estabilh the Pro-   - Select and
ductivity Informs-     appoint consultants                DOE               by 93/88
tton Service         - Orient
(SIP)                  Consultants                        DOE               2 weeks
1I. Establish regional   - Select regions and select
CATES                  and appoint consultants to:        DOE               2 months
Pilot GATE (Jalisco)                                98/8?
CATE No. 2                                          10/87
GATE No. a                                          12/87
GATE No. 4                                          03/88
GATE No. 6                                          98/88
CATEs No. C-20                                      by 08/S9
Orient GATE Consultants                             2 weeks
SIS. Initiate Training    - Asseos  supply of, and       Regional GATE           8 months
Asseesment and         demand for, training                                 (From establish-
Promotion Activities   In region                                            mont of CATE)
- Assess trainin              Regional GATE
needs In priority
economic sectors
- Prepare a training          Regional GATE
promotion plan
- Approve training            DOE A CCECA             4 months
promotion plan                                      (From establish-
ment of CATE)
IV. Initiate promotional - Conduct Initial meetings    Regional CATE            4 months
activitles             with regional Industrial                             (From establish-
and commerce association.                           mont of CATE)
- Interview managers In 40    Regional GATE
priority sectors
SMEs n regarding training
organizational and pro-
ductivity oriorities
- Conduct workshops and       Regional CATE           4 months
conferences related                                 (From estab-
to above findings and                               lishment of GATE
to promote Interchange                              (Continuous)
of experiences among
managers
- Proper* and disseminate     Regional GATE
initial promotional
materials (e.g., bullotins,
Ccas studies)
- Establish linkage           Regional GATE                1
with regional training
institutions, industrial
and management consultancy
fIrmo, etc.
- Evaluate experience         Regional GATE/DGE       4 months
(From establish-
mont of CATE)



- 51 -
ANNEX 4c
Attachment
Page 2 of 2
Date to be completed
gain ActivIti              Key Moosoures             Unit Responsibl,  or planned duration
V.   Initiate training    - Elaborste key training       Regional CATE          Beginning 4
or productivity support                            montho from
needs on o fIrm or sector-                         .stbiIshnont
specific basis                                     of a regional
GATE
(continuous)
- Establish Interest of       Regional GATE
prospoctivo participating
firm (initially in the
range of 26-59)
- Dolineato, wlth fIrms,      Regional GATE/Firms
proposals for training
(including a*ropriate
delIvery m chanism.)
- Delineate type and cost     Regional CATE/Firms
of supporting Inputs
required. (e.g.,
Instructors, salaries,
consultants services,
equipment, materials)
- Evaluate and approve        SIP/Reglonal GATE      Bginning 4
training requests                                  months after
establishment
of regional
GATE
(continuous)
- Complete contract           SIP/Regional GATE      Beginning 0
arrangements for            enterprises or         months after
service delivery            regional chamber       start up or
regional GATE
(continuous)
- Effect training and         Regional GATE/
support services            contractor/firm
contracts for
approximately
49-59 firm                                         By the end of
the first year
of operations
of te  regional
GATE
(Continuous)
- Conduct monitoring          Regional CATE          Continuous
of services provided and
report to the DOE
- Increase number of firms    Regional GATE          During years
provided with training                             2-4 and a half
to total of about 70                               of project
annually                                            Implementation
- Evaluate services           Regional GATE/SIP      Annually
provided, together with
procedures used, to
determine needs for changeo.



- 52 -
ANN6X 4d
Page 1 of 4
MEXICO
MANPOWR TRAIING PROJECT
STPS Institutional Strenathenina Comoonent
Plan of Action for Staff Devlooment, and
Introduction of the Revised LaboraiLroket InforMation Systems
Date to be
ResponsIble          Completed or
Main Activity                       Aaenev               rntled
1. Staff Develooment
-  training for STPS staff in             DOE                 1987 forward
project design, implementation
and evaluation skills (37 local,
4 overseas)
- upgrading for STPS technical            DOE                 1987 forward
staff in the areas of
statistical analysis,
computerization, computer
modelling and related (20 local,
12 overseas)
- promote interchange between STPS        DGE                 1987 forward
and other agency staff
(nationally, regionally and
internationally) involved in
labor market analysis and
training through seminars and
references (24 local, 12
overseas)
2. Develo2ment of Imp:oved La"or
Market and Manpower Infornation
- design and introduce
computerized information systems
for monitoring:
-  the labor market                   DGE                  1188 - 12/89
-  the management and                 DGEIDGCP             1/88 - 12/89
graduates of the
retraining and other
training programs
- the supply of, and demand           DGE/DGCP             1/89 -12/89
for, training and
occupationsl structures by
activity and income level



- 53 -
ANNEX 4d
Page 2 of 4
STPS Institutional Strengthening Component
Summary Description and Schedule For Implementation
of a Conference on Labor Retraining and Main Policy Studies
1.       International conference on labor retraining
Cost: US$25,000 equivalent
Date: October 1989 - December 1989
The project includes financing for an international conference in
1989 to assess the Mexican experience with retraining programs in the light
of experience gained elsewhere--Canada, United States, Western Europe, and
South America. Studies published in evaluation of diverse training schemes
in other countries have already been analyzed in the design of the proposed
project. But the training initiatives in various countries in response to
labor market conditions similar to the problems currently faced in Mexico
are ongoing, and further sharing of experience would be useful for program
managers. The conference would be held when evaluation reports on
retraining are available for the first two years of the project. These
evaluation studies would be presented along with commissioned papers on
retraining programs in several other countries. Participants would Include
researchers, program managers, policymakers and representatives of
international agencies. In particular, it is expected that the
International Labor Organization (ILO) would participate in the
organization of the conference.
Tentative Budget:
1)  Preparation of reports:              US$ 6,000
2)  Travel -- 10 invited participants:  US$10,000
3)  Conference expenses:                 US$ 9,000
2. Financing and management of training: long term options
Cost: $100,000 equivalent
Timing: Jandary 1990 -- December 1991
Under the project a study would be carried out on the long term
options for labor force training in Mexico. The central focus of the study
would be labor force upgrading and training, but it would also consider the
performance of the pre-employment training system and the linkages between
preservice and inservice training. The study would be timely in that the
major initial dislocation in the labor market as a result of trade
liberalization and restructuring, and the retraining component in the
proposed project, are expected to be completed by 1992. Mexico will then
be faced with the longer term question of how to achieve higher levels of
productivity, in part through more permanent arrangements for skill
development within the labor force. The study would provide a basis for
preparation of a training strategy and investment program for development
of training services through the 1990s.



- 54 -
ANNEX 4d
Page 3 of 4
The issues to be addressed include:
the labor market considerations that encompass an analysis of
sectoral and geographic trends in demand for labor; employment
policy; constraints on labor mobility; patterns of wage
determination; demographic trends of labor supply, including
projected output of various preservice institutions at the
secondary and post-secondary levels;
the impact of technological change on skill requirements in
selected sectors and industries; an overview of patterns of skill
requirements in other countries with major programs for upgrading
industrial processes and technology;
a critical review of retraining services, both public and private;
sources and uses of funds; management arrangements --
centralization versus decentralization; the role of public
agencies in provision, production and quality control of training;
cooperation with enterprises and the private sector; the role of
the private proprietary training sector;
an examination of the scale and scone of inservice training;
modalities for public-private cooperation; the incentives and
disincentives for individual and private financing of inservice
training; the role of government regulatory agencies in training;
the analysis of key policy issues, including incentives ror
private expenditure within a comprehensive strategy for private
investment, technology upgrading and labor force training; special
subsidies for small and medium enterprises; the division of
responsibilities between the public sector and private training
institutions (including use of fees for trainees and training
contracts with employers); the role of subsidies for disadvantaged
workers such as stipends, vouchers, or loans; alternatives for
training regulatory agencies (e.g., centralized vs. decentralized
sectoral training boards, and options for private sector and
worker's organization participation in training agencies.
Tentative Budget
1)  Travel -                             $ 5,000
2)  Special Studtes -                    $20,000
3)  Consultant Services -                $60,000
4)  Support Services -                   $15,000
3. Cost-Benefit Study of retraining and inservice training programs
Cost: $50,000 equivalent
Timings July 1989 - December 1989
On the basis of a representative sample of participants in the
retraiaing and inservice training programs, and by comparison with a
suitable control group in each case, the project would carry out a
systematic analysis of returns to investment in training. The analysis



- 55 -
ANNEX 4d
Page 4 of 4
would include studies of specific courses operated by participating
training agencies. (Experience indicates several common methodological
pitfalls to avoid including the failure to control for selectivity bias or
to monitor training outcomes over a sufficiently long interval.)
Tentative Budget:
1)  Consultant Services -                          US$25,000
2)  Research Assistant -                           US$10,000
3)  Survey and data analysis -                     US$ 5,000
4)  Support Services -                             US$10,000



- 56 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of I
MEXICO
MANPOWER TRAINING PROJECT
Training Institutions Upgrading Component
Implementation Schedule
Main Activity                          Dates
1. Receive, evaluate and
approve requests for
project support                9-10/87       9-10/88    9-10/89
2. Submit proposed program
to CET* for approval           11/87         11188      11/89
3. Procure equipment for
approved sub-projects
(in three packages)            12/87-1188   12/88-1/89  12189-1190
4. Install equipment              1-6/88        1-6189          1-6190
5. Provide administrative
and equipment-related
training                       2-8/88        2-8/89         2-8190
* Council for Employment and Training



- 57 -
ANNEX 4.
Page 2 of 2
Criteria for Selection of Training Institutions
Under Parts A and D of the Prolect
Criteria (i)-(v) below apply for all institutions to be selected
either to deliver training services under Part A of the Project or
participate in the training institutions upgrading program under Part D of
the Project. Criteria (vi)-(viii) apply only to Part D of the Project.
(i) The Institution should be a legally approved, accredited public
or private training institution, and have experience of
delivering training under contract with firms or Government;
(ii)   The Institution should serve an area of high unemployment or
where employment creation is viable;
(iii)   The Institution's curriculum should contain programs of training
which meet the priority training needs of the area, and the
Institution should have capacity and willingness to modify
training program content to meet local or regional needs of
industry;
(iv)   The Institution should possess qualified instructors with
appropriate industrial experience;
(v)   The Institution should have adequate capacity in terms of space,
equipment and instructors to accommodate the desired class size;
(vi)   The Institution should have at its disposal equipment which can
be brought up to proper standard, or need to substitute obsolete
equipment, or have the capacity to install additional equipment
in its facilities, either of which with an investment in
equipment not exceeding US$40,000;
(vii)   The Institution's management should undertake to prepare an
institutional plan for the strengthening of course management
and preventive maintenance for buildings and equipment, as part
of its participation in upgrading; and
(viii)   The Institution should agree to identify and release for
training employees suitable for participation in training
programs offered as part of the upgrading program.



- 58 -
ANNEX 5a
Page 1 of 1
NEIICO
MNPO     TRAINIM PROJECT
....... ................. , 
Estiated ProJct Cost by Pro*?ct Coeponent
I of
Total
BaN         2
Coeponents                                    Local    Foreign      Total                  Cost     Foreign
~~~~~~~~~~~. . ...  *- ..--.. .                         . .....
(US$ Billions)
A. EPLOYNNT SERtVES AD RETRIIAtlN
1. Strengthening of SEEs
T.A. and Staff Training                              0.21        0.09      0.30                   o0        302
Opr tin  and Naterials Costs                          1.60       0.00      1.60                    12        02
Equipsnt                                             0.00        0.30      0.30                    02      1001
2. Rtraining
Stipends                                            55.50        0.00     55.50                   422       0o
Othr Oprating and Naterials Costs                    16.66       1.44     18.10                   142        82
Nhnitoring and Evaluation                            0.10        0.00      0.10                   o0         02
subtotal                                              74 07       1.83     7  90                   582        21
8. DE    TRATION INSERVICE TRAINING AND PRODUCTIVITY
PISATEs Adeinistratle Costs                             13.68       1.47      15. 15                 122        102
nomtional Activitis / aterial                             7.04       0.78      7.82                    62        102
Traini   Services                                        17.18       0.62      18.50                  14?         32
onitorrng and Evaluation                                  1.15       0.13       1.28                   11        lO0
Subtotal                                             39.76        2.99     42.75
C. STPS INSTITUTIONAL STRENTHENING
--   ..  . ... ........
Staff Upgrading                                           0.86       0.29      1.15                    12       252
Labr Nhket Inforatfton Syotes                             0.60       0.20      0.80                    12       252
Studies and  raration of Futurf Operations                0.58       0.14      0.2                    1I        202
Subtotal                                              2.04        0.63      2.67                    22       242
0. TRAINIIN INSTITUTIONS UPRAING
nnone..                ease.....
Equlpet                                                   1.43       8.08      9.30                    n        852
T.A. and Training                                         0.25       0.25      0.50                    OX       502
....       ----      .....
Subtotal                                               1.68       8.33     10.00                    IX       83
TOTAL BASE LINE COSTS                                      117.54      13.78    131.32                  1002        102
PHYSICAL COTIN     IES                                    11.75       1.38      13.l3
PRICE CONTINGENIES                                        10.97       0.57     11.54
TOTAL  OJECT COSTS                                         140.27      15.73    155.99
38232       ZsU3     38ess
1987       1988      1989       1990      191       l2
cc..      eec.      c         see.        -_
Local Inflation                   32         4         42         12       3.52       3.52
Foreign Inflation                 32        1l          It        12       3.5!       3.52
.--- -- - 
!/ Excluding taxes end d.ie@.
Estimated totl project cota incluading
taxes and dutlee are usuie8.s million



MEXICO
MANPOWER TRAINING PROJECT
Estimated Project Cost by Component and
Catezory of Expenditure
(US$ million)
Promotion
Incremental          and
Training Costs,   Information
Technical                            Including        Materials
Assistance and                        Stipends to          and
Staff Upgrading       Eguipment         Trainees          Services      TOTAL
1. Employment Services
and Retraining                2.5                0.3             81.5                             90.3
2. Demonstration Inservice
Training and
Productivity                 17.9               ---              22.4               10.8          51.1
3. STPS Institutional
Strengthening                 3.0                0.1                                 --            3.1
4. Training Institutions
Upgrading                     0.6               10.9              -                 ---           11.5
Total Cost                   24.0               11.3            109.9               10.8         156.0
U'
0 a



- 60 -
ANNEX Sc
Page 1 of 1
MEXICO
MANPOWER TRAINING PROJECT
Unit Costs
(Base Costs May 1987 in US Dollars)
TRAINING COSTS
Direct Training Costs a/
-  Institutional Training               21.00 per trainee month
-  In-Plant Training                    52.00 per trainee month
Cost of Living Stipends to Trainees b/
-  Institutional Training               70.00 per trainee month
-  In-Plant Training                    70.00 per trainee month
Total Training Costs a/
-  Institutional Training cl            91.00 per trainee month
-  In-Plant Training dI                122.00 per trainee month
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COSTS
Local Consultants/Specialists                 3,000/staff month
Expatriate Consultants                        7,000/staff month
TRAINING EQUIPMENT COSTS
Upgrading Cost per Participating Institution el 19,000
a/   Including marginal operating costs only (instructor, materials,
supplies).
b/  Amounting to one general minimum salary per month.
el  Under the project, institutional training of average 3 to 4 months
duration will be provided for 160,000 retraining participants and
25,000 inservice trainees.
d1   Under the project, inplant training will be provided for 24,000
trainees in "mixed' retraining courses, and for 50,000 to 75,000
lnservice trainees in short courses.
e/   500 Institutions.



- 61 -
ANNEX 5d
Pags 1 of 1
MANPowER TRAINING PROJECT
Continiency Allowances
Dwicale Contingencies
A physical contingency of 10 percent has been applied uniformly
for all project components.
Pg1eo Continaencies
In view of the wide divergence between international and local
inflation rates, all cost and financial projections are presented in U.S.
dollars. For the foreian exehanae cogPonent, the price contingencies
suggested in OPS's latest guidelines (September 12, 1986) have been used,
nmely:
Year               Annual Price Increase
1987                           3.0
1988                           1.0
1989                           1.0
1990                           1.0
1991-95                        3.5
For the local cost component, the same percentages have been used
with a modification to take account of the estimated 62 undervaluation of
the peso. This undervaluation is expected to be adjusted to zero during
1988-89, which would add 32 to contingencies for local currency costs
oxpressed in U.S. dollars for 1988 and 1989 and result in the following
price contingencies for the local cost component:
Tear               Annual Price Increase
1987                           3.0
1988                           4.0
1989                           4.0
1990                           1.0
1991-95                        3.5



- 62 -ANNEX5e
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
MANPOWER TRAINING PROJECT
Summary Project Financing by Cooponent and by Source
(U$ Billions)                             Costs Financing
by                       by
Enterpr.                Sovernment
of which
. .. ........
Total                                            Counterpart
Coaponents                                         Costs                           Total   Dank Loan    Funds
.. . * .............. .. .. .. .. o. .. .. . .........    ................. ..
A. EMPLOYNENT SERVICES AND RETRAINING
............... .... .......... "........
1. Strengthening of SEEs
T.A. and Staff Training                                    0.30                0.00      0.30      0.30       0.00
Operating and Naterials Costs                              1.60                0.00      1.60      0.96       0.64
Equiplent                                                  0.30                0.00      0.30      0.00       0.30
2. Retraining
Stipeonds                                                 55.50                7.50     48.00      29.80     19.20
Other Operating and Material Costs                        18.10                3.70     14.40       9.00      6.40
Monitoring and Evaluation                                  0.10                0.00      0.10      0.10       0.00
subtotal                                                   75.90               11.20     64.70     39.16      26.54
B. DEMONSTRATION INSERVICE TRAINING AND  ODUCTIVITY
SIP/GATEs Administrative Costs                                15.15                7.58       7.57      7.57      0.00
Prootional Activities f Materials                              7.02                2.77      5.05       5.05      0.00
Traininq Service                                              19.50               12.35      6.15       3.22      2.93
Nonitoring and Evaluation                                      1.28                0.00       1.28      1.28      0.00
subtotal                                                   42.75               22.70     20.05      17.12      2.93
C. STPS INSTITUTIONAL STREN6THENING
Staff Upgrading                                                1.15                0.00       1.15      1.15      0.00
Labor Narket Inforuation System                                0.80                0.00      0.80       0.80      0.00
Studies and Preparation of Future Operations                   0.72                0.00      0.72       0.72      0.00
Subtotal                                                    2.67                0.00      2.67      2.b7       0.00
D. TRAINING INSTITUTIONS UPGRAOINS
Equipment                                                      9.50                0.00      9.50      8.91       0.59
T.A. and Training                                              0.50                0.00      0.50      0.50       0.00
Subtotal                                                   10.00                0.00     10.00      9.41      0.59
TOTAL BASE LINE COSTS                                           131.32               33.90     97.43     67.36      30.06
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                                         13.13                3.39      9.74      6.74       3.01
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                                            11.54                2.98      8.56      5.90       2.66
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                             155.99               40.26    115.73     80.00      35.73
gumag                aaauz    gausm      agag       383
a/ Ecludin  taxes and duties.
Estioated total project cutAnc1LdiM
taxes and duties are USO 168.3 million.



- 63 -
ANNEX 5.
Page 2 of 2
MEXICO
MANPOWER TRAINING PROJECT
Cost-Sharing in Training by Enterprises
Current Cost-Shar ng      Cost-SharingDuringProj.  Cost-ShoringAfterlProj.
comeonent           aovt.STPs Enterprises   Oov./STPS   Entereries             . STPS  Enterprises
Retraining                 98%          2X           86%            14X
Inservice Training          eX       100%             8%            97X           2%            98X
Weighted Average          6%        94%            17%            83%           2X            985
Total Annual Cost        US8128 millon             US8126 million              US824 mil ion
Absolute Cost-Share,
USS million       8        120             B0         150             4             200



- 64 -
ANNEX 6a
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
MANPOWER TRAINING PROJECT
Project Management and Implementation
A. Project Management Structure
1.       The organization for project management is based on the existing
structure of the STPS (Attachment 1). Authority for overall coordination
of the project would be vested with the Ministry of Labor through the Vice-
Minister responsible for employment and training. The Council of
Employment and Training (CET), comprising representatives of government,
labor employers, would provide guidance and oversight for project
implementation. Day to day coordination of project implementation would be
the responsibility of the Director General of Employment (DGE), who would
be the Project Director.
2.       The Project Director would be supported by a core implementation
team drawn from the relevant DGE units and the DGCP (Attachment 2). On a
full-time equivalent basis, this central project management team would
comprise seven staff selected on the basis of experience and technical
expertise in the areas of retraining (the Director and Assistant Director
of the National Employment Service, SNE); inservice training (the Director
and Assistant Director of the DAO); labor market analysis and studies and
STPS staff upgrading (the Director of Employment Studies and Policies,
DEPE); and upgrading of training institutions (the Director General and
Director for Organization and Planning, DGCP). The Director General for
Programming, Budgeting and Accounting (DGPPC) would also assign an
accountant, and the Director General of Administration procurement
specialists (on a full-time basis), to the core team. In addition, the
DGCP would provide advisory assistance to the implementation team in
matters related to training. This technical support would be provided
primarily through participation in a joint DGE-DGCP Technical Committee
established to support the project management team at the implementation
level. The central implementation team would also draw on other DOE and
DGCP staff and on consultants as judged necessary in the course of project
execution (e.g., tentative arrangements have been made to retain an expert
to assist with preparation of equipment lists and specifications).
Project Management Responsibilities and Procedures
3.       Implementation.  Project implementation responsibilities are
listed by participating agency at both central and state levels in
Attachment 3. Implementation procedures (including approval criteria and
implementation schedules or cycles, where relevant) are described in
detail in Annex 4. These procedures have been fully appraised by the Bank
and judged to be appropriate. During implementation, however, it can be
expected that some procedures will be revised on the basis of experience
and monitoring and evaluation results, especially in the case of the
retraining component and the inservice training and productivity component,
which is developmental in nature.



- 65 -
ANNEX 6a
Page 2 of 2
4.       Common procedures for procurement of goods and services and for
the overall management and control of fi.ancing under the project coincide
with regular STPS procedures, which meet Bank requirements. Procedures for
effecting and controlling project payments at the local level will center
on establishing lines of credit and authority at the state level, through
the STPS representative, and are currently being detailed by NAFIN and STPS
for review by the Bank during Negotiations. Consultants will be retained
in accordance with regular STPS procedures. (Consultant requests and terms
of reference will be prepared by the responsible central or state entity.
Contracts will be prepared by the DGE and approved through the office of
the Vice-Minister).
5.       Supervision and Monitoring Procedures.  Each participating entity
would be directly responsible for implementatioz- of the relevant
subcomponents and for monitoring implementation progress. The central
project management team would be responsible for overall coordination of
project implementation, including supervision and monitoring. Supervision
would be based on the regular review and submission of reports on
implementation progress and constraints under subproject components
prepared by the relevant project officer in each agency. The Project
Director would also call meetings of the Technical Committee periodically
to assess implementation progress and to identify specific implementation
problems and potential solutions. Once a year the CET would also review
planned implementation schedules for the coming year against budget
allocations proposed in order to identify implementation problems. The
central project management team would submit a related assessment, together
with any proposed scheduling adjustments, every six months for Bank review.
Project monitoring would be based largely on a series of measurable key
indicators agreed with the Bank (shown in Annex 9).
6.       In addition, the Government would undertake a mid-project review
to be completed in 1989. The review would be carefully prepared through
prior annual evaluation related to key indicators (particularly during the
second year of implementation). It would focus especially on assessment of
the retraining and inservice training components (including preliminary
results of an independent evaluation) and of progress towards improving
labor market analysis and applying results of policy studies.
7.       The Bank would share the responsibility for project supervision
with the central project management team. Initially, the Bank would mount
an in-depth review mission during project start-up to assess, jointly with
the Team, the suitability of planned implementation strategies and
procedures for each project component. Thereafter, Bank review missions
would be conducted annually, with a particularly significant input during
the second year of implementation. During the annual reviews, the Bank
would assess implementation progress under the several components on a
sample basis and would direct attention to the resolution of implementation
problems which may arise. During review missions, the Bank would also
assess with Government the adequacy of provisions for local budgets and
financing.



ANNEX 6a
- 66 -                         ~6
Attachment 1
Page 1 of 
MEXic
MANPOWER TRAINING PROJECT
Structure of the Minasttv of Labor and Social Welfare tSTPSI
[MirAster of Labor |
Iand Social Welfare
Council
of Employment and
Training       --------- ------
Fund for the Development                          National Commission on
and Guarantee of Employment|--          _________ IMin4mum Salaries
of Workers
Fund for the Development
of Cooperative Societies --
Programming and                                 Federal Conciliation
Admin trative Comission                   . _ -._.   and Arbitration Board
I                
| Vlee-Minfster                Vice-Minister                                  , 
Administration               Comptroller
D.G. Labor Relations         Coordination Unit for                 D.C. for Programing
and Conclllation        -  Policy Studies and                _    of Human Resourees    - D.G. for Information
Labor Statstics                    sand Social Services
D.. Lebor                                 _                  D.G. Administration         D.G. for Federal
_   Agreements       -  D.G. of Employment                   of Material Resources   -  Lebor Delegations
and General Services 
D.G. for Federal  1          D.G. of Training                   D.C. for Programming,
Inspeetion of         -   and Productivity                        Budgeting and
Employment    J        _                                          Accounting
D.G. for               D.G. for Health and
Registration             Safety for Workers
of Associations
D.G. for Legal            D.G. for Cooperative
Matters                   Development and
Social Org. for Werk
Direct Authority                                                                                           Delegations, Subdelega-
tions, and Federal
DecentralisaeA Authority     -                                                                                Offices of Labor
Administrative Dependence   -    .-. -    .-                                                                  .11
Sectoral Coordination        ---------------                                                                   Sureau for the
Protection of
Employment



- 67 -                                                       ANNEX 6a
Attachment 2
Page 1 of 1
PROJECT MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITIES
Council
OVERALL COORDINATION                    of Employment snd  -----------------          Minister
Training                                   STPS
Vice- Minister
OVERALL COORDINATION                  [
AND IHPLEMENTATION                     Director General of
Financial      Programing, hudget-  _-__
Office        [ ing and Accounting
Director General of                        Projet Director
Proc-ur=mnt      Administration of    ---- -----------  D.O. of Employment
Officer          Resources and
General Services
Project       Director General of
Technical          Training and        ....
Commttee           Productivity
IMPLEMENTATION BY                                                                                         _     I      tioj
COPONENT
Employment fervices and Retraining        State Training                             Directorate of             Partilcipating
-  SEE Strengthening                         Councils         -----------------       Employment        - ----      Firms
-  Retraining Program                                                                Services (SNE)
-  Evaluation and
Menitoring of Re-                                                                                           Local Govern-
training Program                                                                                       ____ [entsEEs
Ch"esof
__ Industr,v &
CONPONENT 2
State Training                           Directorate of                Participa-
Developmant of GATEs                  CouncilsO ---------------                   cupatioial       ------ ----ting Firma
Analysis
-  Development of Promotional                                                                                                 |
Program  and Materials                                                                                        Tchnical
-  Support for Training Programs                                                         I                   --- mttee
I   l           |           I~~~~~~Productivity
GATEs                                Information
I   I           1           18~~~~~~ervice 1
- 3~~                                                                                      ~    ~     ~~~~~~   I  .I I
COMPOM  3                                tDirectorate of                 External
-  Inatitutional Development of         [_STPS Offices       |-     _             Employment Studies _Information
the STPS                               f     f    i j                          and Policies       I           Offices
-  Strengthening of STPS staff
-  Labor Market and Manpower
information system                                                                                        rII
-  Policy Studies and Implementation                                                     |TraIn img 
COMPONENT 4                               Council of                              Directorate General          IPrjectch
| Employment and-o----------              of Training and        -   Inical C dmit.
-  Upgrading of Training                     Training                           [       ctivit        j
Institutions
-  Equipment                                                                                                   pcue ut
-  Management Training and
Upgrading



- 68 -
ANNEX 6A
Attachment 3
aa=                                                      Page 1 of 1
VICE
CET       TrATE     ND4ST                                                      DeTS      De
ACT IVITIES             IERQe    -,    CC_SAo    C  STS            SS _          Cf 9 CI OS l2 eCTS   COM  2CT.   AflI4t.   NAfIN
1.      C     i
1.2  aith the  aCoC -
1.3  :ith NAFt i                                                              S                                 c
t.4  ;i   SP                                                                  e                                 c        c
1.5  *ith otNor
part) el pat.
involved                                                                 a     b      b     b       i6
2.  Pfatin;n  r4gtrg
an&NaveItrsnIIn
1111*                               d          c           c          c
2.2    = mont ser
v awe n d Labor
Retrolpies Co..
*O"Ontoiews
tio8                                                                           b
2.3  Omaanstr,eoo
Inaerv, ce
Trginin9i end
Pfoduatisvi ty
Coaeoeent
oaeration                                                                             b
2.4   n.s;itgti-eal
Oeveleeeent
2.8   rinn
inatitgtion*
vpgrading
eeqonant
Ceerate an                                                                                          b
2.6 fteports f roa
.S *tso,ti
arm" to DOE                                                            c     b      6     b       b
00  to Vito
Minister                                                               a
00  to the
:3. %Jgg
3. j iAuotarpart
funds 
3.2 External (I=) a
Precurtfl
4.1 ist nd   poeci-
f.cataon*                    d         d                                 8     b                    b
4.2  Oefinition if
type of biddng                                                                                             S
4.3  S;d doecunta
4.4  Bid publication
4.5  RNeeiat of e id
and evaluation               d         v                                                                   a
4.6  Aeprovel asd
weard
_ il*e a set
vau1 ve (poat
approvl)        a
_Abfv  a et
value (p.ieor
aproval         3
4.7 Contrpet
esoeutb,n.
reqeatien and
imaallowie"                                                             e                   b8
S.2 ieot 4
8.2  eouovt  *r-
biaraeunt If"r
the asocial
reasmo;Mtyfor project.
// main roeaib3  i yat componet level.                    DGE1=  NSE  DGE2=  DOA;  DGE3=  DEPE
Coordin,tion at global level.
j/  Evaluation at glabel levcl.



- 69 -
ANNEX 6b
Page 1 of 1
HEIlco
NIAPOER TAINIMN PROJECT
Inpleaantatimn  chedule
cowoor
--  aW/2 u 1II/I  191/2  19 lfll  i19M/2 3 190/1 a 199012  199111 t. 11/2i
I *ae _     nn I   *---  I ___      *                3   eent_    |_     I *__  nee_w 
A.'E     W L BEYICES AN  ETRAININS             a        a        a        a        a        a        a        a        a        a
1. Pruwvice Retraining (Institational)      I        a        I        I        I        I        I       I        I        t
1.1 PF fimanced Tiet Progras               UzxaxaxII         I        I        I       a        a        a        a 
1.2 Projct financed Program                    a       axXXaXaXXuua XhXfIXh             X    hx   nXUXXXuua                 I
2. Intraduct. tnue ce Retraining by         I        tXXIXEExxxuXi xMXIXX            tIXaRaxUXXXXaXaXNXX t                   I
Collaborating Enterprise                                                              I        a        I        I        I
,, D OTMTINTRAININO AND POUCTIVITY             I        I        I        I        a        a        a       a 
1. to S. Technical Support groups and       axu xx uaxaKaxENaxaxuuxxxxuxa               xauxxNhxxxxMtu N          xuia
Rolated ktivities                  a        a        a        a        a        a        a        a
b. Training                                            uuuaaaaaaxuaxaxuxxxxxuxaaxuuuuxuuuz
7. Produtivity Inforation trvicn            I        I dIRIUXIXIXIXIU          IXI    UXNNIXIIXXZXXRIKlXXXXXUXUIXIltl
C. SW   INSTITUTIOAL STRENSTNENINS             a        a        a        a        a        a        a        a        a
1. Tehuical ksistance(STPSo  )                       a        a        a        a        a       a        a        a         a
14 Staff Training                          aauaauxxxzxxxxamauauaa                                                   
2.L Panpnw   rlnfwution ystem               I        I        a        a        a        a        a        a        a 
2.1 Byst   Drtlopant                       I        a I               a        a        a        a        a        a        a
21.1 WV  finaced Pilot Study (No 5)    atuxuXXwIu          a        I        t        I        a        a        a        a
2.1.2 Full Syst, oo  lopemt              a I       azIX      uXaXXxxuxl uuXuuu:znuuaa         t        a        a         a
2.2Furniture and Equipment                 I        I        a        a        a        a       a        a        a         a
2.2.L  Pilot study                       IuiIuII           I        a        a        a       I        a        a         a
2.2.2 Full syst.a                        a        auuuuII X3XIxaa           a        a        a        a       I         a
3. Studi  not included in other coapoants guuuxI        zaxX tXuxtulXaXxlxXxuXuuuuuaEawXIuXuaKuuaxax:vuut
0t.UMRADIEtl#TRAIISI8 UlOTITIT               a        a        a        a        a        a        a       a        a         a
_ I IN  IN        m                        a        a                                            I        a        ati
1.1 to 1.3 Equipmt                         a    ul X aXuuuxaXIXuxaxluIuXa              a        a        a        a        I
1.4 elnica ke istace and Training           auhtaxauauuuuuIa3txuixuxa3u txxxxxxai               a        a        I        a
LPWECTAIINISTRWAthh                            a        a        a        a       a        a        a        a        a 
L~~~ FO     010                                                                 g       sT                | 
1. tlrC.try Supervisory Travel               aXufIuua    uImh                     xhXuuuuuauxul
2. Project Auditing                          *uuuuuua          auuuauaa          axuuasuuut       auuuuuuuaa        eaulanmaxu



- 70 -
ANNEX 6c
Page 1 of 1
MEXICO
MANPOWER TRAINING PROJECT
Activities Financed under the Proiect
Preparation Facility
Disburs. Amount (US$)
A.  Preparatory Studies by Consultants                          and Percentage
1. Identifaction of Sectors, Regions and Occupations        270,000 (100%)
Affected by Restructuring
2. Assistance to Inservice Training: Detailed
Operational Guidelines and Terms of Reference
3. STPS Information Systems Improvement
a) Pilot Study
b) Full System Development
4. National Labor Market Indicators Study
B. Other Activities
1. Pilot program of 500 training stipends to test new
criteria and procedures for retraining and
evaluation                                               180,000 ( 40%)
2. Procurement and installation of pilot phase data
processing equipment for STPS information
systems                                                   50,000 (100%)



- 71 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 1
MEXICO
MANPOWER TRAINING PROJECT
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million, Total Costs)
Ice       LCB  /   LC/    S S/        .A./   Total
1.   By ProJect Co ponant
A.   Employment Service and Retraining          -0-       0.8       0.7     28.2     68.0       90.3
(0.8)    (0.6)   (16.8)   (84.0)    (61.7)
S.   Demonstration Inservico Training
and Productivity                         1.7        1.2      8.6      44.5    40-        51.1
(1.5)     (0.8)    (2.4)    (9.8)              (14.6)
C.   STPS Institutional Strengthening           --        0.1       -0-      3.1     -0-         8.1
(S.1)             (8.1)               (8.1)
O.   Training Institutions Upgrading            6.8       4.4       1.2      0.8     -0-        11.6
(5.8)     (3.7)    (1.0)    (0.6)               (16.6)
TotIal     r.0        M.       6.      7L.B     s.        166.0
(6.8)     (4.9)    (8.9)   (80.4)  (34.6)       (80.0)
2.   BY Category ot Expenditure
(1)   Tech. Asoistance and Staff
Upgrading                           -0-        -0-      -0-     24.0   -0-          24.0
(18.2)             (18.2)
(2)   Equipment                           5.8        4.8      1.2      --    -0-          11.8
(5.8)     (4.1)    (1.0)                        (10.4)
(8)   Incremontal Training Costa,
Including Stipends to Trainees      -0        _0-       -0-     48.8    66.0       109.8
(9.8)   (84.0)     (43.8)
(4)   Promotion and Information
Materials and Services              1.7        1.2      4.       8.0   -0-          10.8
(1.6)     (0.8)4   (2.9)    (2.4)               It.-SI
Total     7.0      -a J       6.S     71-.r    3F       1b8.0
(6.8)     (4.9)    (8.9)   (80.4)  (84.0)       (80.0)
a/   With foreign bidders having the opportunity to participate.
ie   Local shopping obtaining quotations from at least three suppliers.
cl   Consultants' and other services contracto procured under procedures acceptable to the Bank.
a    Stipends to trains".
TOTE: Numbers may not add duo to rounding. Numbers In parenthose indicate thG respectivo amount
to be financed by tho Bank.



- 72 -
ANNEX La
Page 1 of 1
MEXICO
MANPOWER TRAINING PROJECT
Disbursements
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Amount of the
Loan Allocated                        X Of
(Exprossed In                    Expondltures
Category             Dollar Equivalent                   to be Financed
(1)  Consultants' serviceo and         17,700,800        100W, except for expenditures under the
STPS' teaff training and                             demonstration Inservice training and
related travel costs                                productivity component which will be
financed as eollowe:
1988, 1989: 1a
1990: 80
1991: 80
1992: 40S
1993: 209
(2)  Equipment                          9,89s,9w0        199k of foreign expenditure., and O6S of
local expenditures
(3)  Stipends to trainee  In STPS'    J4,000,000         OU
retraining program
(4)  Promtion services and              7,200,000        1988, 1989: 100
Information materials                               1998: 80%
1901: 66%
1992: 40%
1993: 209
(5)  ProJect Prparation Facility          600,000
(6)  Unallocated                       10.8909000
Total          99.8909.UM



Olaborsommnt Prolotion
Relate ti o Rochenrl en Count,, Emelice in S6ect.
Years from Dat. of brod Approval      S1   in       Si            SL3           i 51   w   SI -  82    S1       82--
Cumultive Percentage                 6.3  12.5    15   26    88    4S         8    68    78    8S    95        100
Cimlativ-e Amunt (USI million)       5.0  10.0    12.0 20.0  28.0  86.0   44.0 82.0  60.0  68.0  76.0   eo.o
Stuard Maburee_nt Prof i l  for. LAC f.. craention Sector
var- for Date of lmrd Approvl        1         _      2          a              4            6            "               7             8                     . 10.
81   82      81    52      S1    82      S1    82    UI    82        S1    52      Si    82       Si    82      81   82    51    82
buiolpivo r rnteao    n          0    1       8      6       11    16      22    29    87    46       S8    61       68    75      so    86      90   94    97    99
IPSIME      A~ Maintenance
Percentage           0    8        8      14     20    27      85    42    51    59        66    75      82    s6       98    97      100
Country Exacrlec  in S8c*or: Lan 2042-E 1CONALEM-X
Your* from Date of Beard Approval    1             24 
SI   82      Si    82      81    82      S1    52    S1    82
Cuesative Percentago              0    5       24    48       es    76    8s    96    100
00
I00
o 



- 74 -
ANNEX 9
MEXICO                         Page 1 of 2
MANPOWER TRAINING PROJECT
Key Indicators for Project. Monitoring and Evaluation
Component and Indicators        1987      1988     1989     1990      1991     Total
1. Part A of the Project
1.1  Upgrade SEE*Staff (No.)       -         100      100      100       100       400
1.2  No. of Trainees Awarded   10,000   40,000   40,000   40,000   30,000   160,000
Stipends paid by STPS
1.3  No. of Trainees               500    2,000    2,000    2,000    1,500       8,000
Participating in
Follow-up Study
(5% of grads.)
1.4  No. of Training Centers        40       150      150      150       125       615
Used
1.5  No. of Courses Conducted      500    2,000    2,000    2,000    1,500       8,000
1.6  No. of Enterprises             40       200      400      720       800     2,160
Participating in "Mixed"**
Retraining Courses
1.7  Annual Survey of Expendi-                 1        1         1        1         4
tures on "Mixed"
Courses by Participating
Enterprises
1.8  No. of Trainees Awarded       400    2,400    5,000    7,700    8,500    24,000
Stipends for "Mixed"
Retraining Courses
*   State Employment Service
** Retraining under Cost-Sharing Arrangements by Enterprises



- 75 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2
Component and Indicators          1987     1988      1989      1990      1991     Total
2. Part B of the Project
2.1  No. of GATEs* operating         1          14        5       -         -          20
2.2  No. of Training Courses
Conducted in Institutions                 75       150      300       425       950
2.3  No. of Trainees
- In Institutions            500       1,500    3,000    6,000    8,500   19,500
- In-plant                    -        4,000    9,000   18,000   25,000   56)000
2.4  No. of Enterprises             50        750    1,320    1,440    1,440    5,000
Participating in
Training
2,5  Annual Survey of                            1        1         1         1         4
Expenditures on In-
Service Training under
the Project by
Participating Enterprises
2.6  Enterprises Reached           -        5,000    5,000    5,000    5,000   20,000
through Seminars, and
Other Outreach Services
3. Part C of the Project
3.1  No. of STPS Staff            -         20        30        25       25        100
Upgraded
3.2  Improved Manpower                                 1                              1
Information System
Operating
3.3  Studies                                                               1          1
4.  Part D of the Project
4.1  No. of Training              150      200       150
Institutions Selected
for Upgrading
4.2  No. of Institutions          -        150       200       150
Receiving Supplemental
Equipment
* Technical Support Group for Enterprises



- 76 -
ANNE 10
Page 1 of 1
MEXICO
MANPOWER TRAINING PROJECT
List of Persons Involved in Protect Pregaration
A. Government (STPS)
1. Lic. Emilio Lozoya Thalmann, Subsecretary "Bu
2.  Lic. Ignacio Perez Lizaur, Director General of Employment
3. Lic. Armando Eguiarte Calder6n, Director of Occupational Analysis
4.  Lic. Franciso Davalos, Director, National Employment Service
5. Lic. Ricardo Mercado Garibay, Director of Employment Studies
and Policies
6. Lic. Jorge Franco Lopez, Subdirector, Labor Market Analysis
B. Bank
1.  Bo Dahlborg, Technical Educator, Preparation/Appraisal Mission
Leader, LCPED
2. Robert S. Drysdale, Deputy Division Chief, LCPED
3.  Jose Dominguez,-Urosa, Education Planner, LCPED
4. Lloyd Briggs, Technical Educator, LCPED
5. Eleanor Schreiber, Institutional Development Specialist, Consultant
6. Anita Artaza, Operations Assistant, WAPUR
7. W. Wesler Hobbs, Technical Education Planner, Consultant
8. Ulf Bjornseth, In-Plant Training Specialist, Consultant



- 77 -
ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
MANPOWER TRAINING PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Proiect File
A. General
1.   "Oferta y Necesidades de Capacitacion 1985-1988", STPS, 1986.
2.   "Technical Education in Mexicot A Subsectoral Study of Training
and Skill Development", LCP, March 14, 1986.
3.   "Identificacion de Rames Afectadas por la Apertura Comercial y el
Cambio Tocnologico" (Despacho Cases Alatriste, May, 1987).
4.   "Notes on the Mexican Labor Market", LCPED February 1987
B. Emlovment Services and STPS Retraining Prosram
1.  PROBECAT.  "Becarios capacitados en PROBECAT 84.  Incorporadoo al
sector productivo o on auto-empleo." CONALEP, 1984.
2.  PROBECAT.  "Seguimiento de egresados.  Muestreo de egresados en
los estados de Baja California Norte, Jalisco, Yucatan y Area
Metropolitana.' CONALEP, September 1985.
3.    Informe do Operacion de Programas de Becas de Capacitacion para
Trabajadores 1986". STPS, November 1986 ("Mirida Meeting
Report").
4.   "Sintesis de Operacion del Program& de Becas de Capacitacian para
Trabajadores 1986". STPS, September 2, 1986.
5.   PROBECAT.  "Resumen de Especialidades 1984-1986".  STPS, 1986.
6    PROBECAT. Statistics February-July 1985.  STPS, 1985.
7.   "Manuixl Unico de Operaci6n de los Programas de Desarrollo
Regional, Anexo C-1. Programas Regionales de Emtleo - Becas de
Capacitacian para Trabajadores" (SPP, May, 1987).
C. Inservice TraininA (Despacho Cases Alatriste, 1987).
1.   "Programs de Promocion a la Capacitacian en el Trabejo."
2.   Guia para la Formacion de los GATEs.
3.   Ouia para Conocer la Oferta y la Demanda de Capacitaci6on
4.  Guia para el Diagnostico de Necesidades de Capacitacian.
5.   Guia para la Organisacion de Eventos.



- 78 -
ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 2
6.   Guia para la Elaboracion de Casos.
7.   Guia para la Fonmaci6n de Grupos de Intercambio.
8.   Guia para las Comunicaciones Escritas.
9.   Guia para Preparar Solicitudes de Apoyo.
10.   Financiamiento de los GATEs (STPS, 1987).



UNITED   STATES   OF    AMERICA
BAJA tWdw>              XNoae 1                - J    i  +
'CAI /FORNIA                   X       S - '  
BA I            Gijoyma.s  \'' k                     
AA~~~~~~~~4 JA'1., z +s             
CAUFBORNIA                                               Parl R    A
suk  0  \    i&. >           Pur.al<<: ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C. c
Loreto  Moehit                                         So~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~leal
\".o   ,Y      1          .,' '~~~~~~ \ ,\ _   ,\\   tJLo Ii
Loret         - oT  r
(                           t     nC6n rj           ' A N 5
Pz     DurantG
Aic
Momaonilo    'gt S.,,(,
CaensN
SO  Mon am  r  b,    of Ms v"       VW Omo~s 1_                               1 7-               (                I/  /
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I.                                                             LootnS"sr_
~7 "  wwotnopwwfta    ~"W_w f.w*                                                 r    t0
kw -Wm cw a" 10,14" 0 July  of kca bcoftI



NO                   _- __                    _   _                         _           ,        _IBRD   20343
30'
t;                                                     ~~MEXICO
%     National capital
u" Rosaaz: *                                                                       e      State copitols (Maintena.nce district headquarters)
0    Principal cities or towns
Nuwv LareQ6od"
Nuove Laredo,                                                                 _     Divided highways
Seledd main roads
-----     Railroads
\*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~Rivers
Nw Is$         >                                                                         Principal airports
.-n -- -  State boundaries
re  yMotornoros                                       ._  _ -. International boundaries
}  )      CV iudad
Vict6ri
4 . !
S/Cd M ont Altamira
, C-1,0  -          Polo MdRic 1o.
l.a a i                                                                                                         POmf ico
yK    Cd.Wbs   g dv011.
Veracruz~~erd>_rft Ism
inPato  (  g  g/- ~>mwpa1                                                                               YCJ>C-ATA=bdo5d /4
s  )    t                                                                     t 9/ /  +1lft$20-~~~~~~~~~~A H
uerfiiro   Paza Rico~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f  R 
>           X  <  #    ~~~- -rcu                                            Carme   Ca pcJ                    *J Chetu_   a
~~-  '                q'                          r                             'i'- l4           APN
Chilpancingo                  xca               -              *                \                    BELIZE
Acepulc                        I                                          4  T utla5Guteez           I A
\     Pinot*po 
PvettoEzondi                                        _          /t      GUATEMALA
Tapachul                                  HONDURAS
90 , /



