Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12562
PROJECT C0MPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
MANPOWER TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2876-ME)
NOVEMBER 30, 1993
IH I C-FGRAPH I CS
Rs?port iia        12562
1       L.F ,
Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witut Wodd Bank authorization.



GLOSSARY
CECATI                     Vocational School (Centro de Capacitaciln para el Taubajo Industrial)
CIMO                       Inservice Training Program (Programa de Capacitaci6n Industrial de
la Mano de Obra)
CONALEP                    National Council for Vocational Education (Colegio Nacional de
Educaci6n Profesional Tecnica)
DEPE                       Directorate of Employment Studies and Policies (Direcci6n de
Estudios y Poifticas de Empleo)
DGCP                       Directorate General of Training and Productivity (Direccion General
de Capacitaci6n y Productividad)
DGE                        Directorate General of Employment (Direcci6n General de Empleo)
DAO                        Directorate of Occupational Analysis (Direcci6n de Andlisis
Ocupacional)
ENEU                       Quarterly Urban Employment Survey (Encuesta Nacional de Empleo
Urbano)
FEPS                       Final Executive Project Summary
IEPS                      Initial Executive Project Summary
ICB                        International Competitive Bidding
INEA                       National Institute for Adult Education (Instituto Nacional de
Educaci6n para Adultos)
INEGI                      National Institute of Statistics aInstituto Nacional de Estad(sticas,
Geogra,ffa e Informdtica)
LCB                        Local Competitive Bidding
NAFIN                      National Financing Company (Nacional Financiera)
PCR                        Project Completion Report
SAR                        Staff Appraisal Report
SEE                        State Employment Service (Serviclo Estatal de Empleo)
SEP                        Secretariat of Education (Secretarta de Educaci6n Pdblica)
SHCP                       Secretariat of Finance (Secretarta de Hacienda y Credito Pablico)
SME                        Small and Medium-Scale Enterprise
SNE                        Directorate of National Employment Service (Direcci6n del Servicio
Nacional de Empleo)
STPS                       Secretariat of Labor and Social Welfare (Secretarta del Trabajo y
Previsi6n Social)
PROBECAT                   Labor Retraining Program (Programa de Becas de Capacitaci6n para
Trobajadores Desempleados)
UPA                        Central Inservice Training Promotion Unit (Unidad de Promoci6n y
Apoyo)
UPC                        Regional Inservice Training Promotion Unit (Unidad Promotora de la
Capacitaci6n)



FOR OMCUL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.SA
omffce of Odor4oeral
Operatons Evaon
November 30, 1993
MENORANM)UM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Mexico
Manpower Training Project fLn. 2876&ME)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Mexico - Manpower Training
Project (Ln. 2876-ME) prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regicnal
Office. Part II was prepared by the Borrower.
The PCR gives a good account of the project history. The outcome is rated
as satisfactory, most physical targets were exceeded by sizeable margins, and the project
was completed ahead of schedule.
In addition, substantial institutional development took place of which one
aspect merits explicit mention: since the Government chose not to establish a special
implementation unit, the project led to a broad accumulation of experience throughout
the implementing agency, the Directorate General of Employment.
Sustainability of the various project achievements appears likely: the
Government continues to pursue greater cost-efficiency of the training programs, and a
gradual shift of some of the financial burdens to the private sector is under way.
At project completion it was stil too early to assess the extemal effects of
the various training courses. However, some preliminary data pointed to differences in
benefits between male and female trainees. This led to the use of more specific selection
criteria for trainees in the follow-on project (Labor Market and Productivity Enhancement
Project, assisted by Loan 3542-ME).
An audit of this project is planned together with its successor.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their oflcial
duties. its conternt may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizaton.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
MAN-POWER TRAINING PROJECT
(Loan 2876-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE  .........................................................                i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  ...........             .................................    1i1
I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECrIVE..                             I
A Project Identity    ..
B. Project Background.                                                  1
C Project Objectives and Content      ..................    1
D. Project Design and Organization ..............................       3
E. Project Implementation, Cost, and Fmancing  .       .                3
F. Main Results of the Project                .5
'. Project Sustainability      ..10
H. The Bank's Performance and Lessons Learned    .     .11
I. The Borrower's Performance and Lessons Learned .12
J. Project Relationships .13
K. Consultant Services .13
L. Project Documentation and Data .14
I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECIVE.                           15
A. Accuracy of the Information Contained in Part I..                   15
B. Comments on the Analysis in Part I.                                 15
C. The Banks Performance, and Lessons Learned.                         15
D. Lessons Learned during Project Implementation .16
E. Evaluation of the Borrower's Performance .16
F. Relationship between the World Bank and STPS .16
G. Evaluation of Cofinanciers .17
mH.  STATISTICAL INFORMAIION  ................................    18
A. Related Bank Loans .       .......................................    18
B. Project Timetable  ...........     ..............................    20
C. Loan Disbursements ..........       .............................    21
D. Project Costs and Financing  .................................   23
E. Project Results ............     ...............................    25
F. Status of Loan Covenants ...................................    29
G. Use of Bank Resources .32
ANNEX 1   List of Documents Related to this Project Completion Report
which are Available in the Project File .34
ANNEX 2   List of Studies Financed under the Project .35
ANNEX 3   The Impact of Mexico's Retraining Program on Employment and
Wages .36
MAP       IBRD 20343
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICo
MANPOWER TRAINING PROJECT
(Loan 2876-ME)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Manpower Training Project in
Mexico, for which Loan 2876-ME in the amount of US $80.0 million was approved on October 6,
1987. The Loan became effective on October 21, 1987. The original closing date was December
31, 1993, but the Loan is expected to close on June 30, 1993, sLx months ahead of the original
date. The final disbursement under the Loan is expected to take place on June 1S, 1993.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Human Resources Divisions of Country Department
ll and the Technical Department in the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
(Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and the Borrower (Part II). This report is based,
inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan Agreement, the record of the Board discussion
of the project, documentation in the Bank's files pertinent to this operation, and the findings of
the project completion report preparation mission.



- iii -
UNIT  MEXICAN STATES
MANPOWER TRAINING PROJECT
(Lan 2876-ME)
PRO.lECT COMPLMTION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    This Project was the Bank's third operation in the education and training sector in Mexicc
following the CONALEP I (Loan 2042-ME) and II (Loan 2559-ME) projects which were completed
in 1984 and 1991, respectively. It was followed up by the Labor Market and Productivity
Enhancement Project (Loan 3542-ME), approved by the Board in December, 1992. The Manpowver
Training Project was appraised in May, 1987, and approved by the Board in October, 1987. At
appraisal, total costs were estimated at US$156.00 million, US$80.00 million of which was to be
financed by an IBRD Loan. The Project was substantially completed in December, 31, 1992 and thus
required five years and three months for completion. The Loan is scheduled to be fully disbursed in
5.7 years and is scheduled to be closed by the end of June 1993, six months before the anticipated
Closing Date.
Project Objectives and Content
2.    The Project's overall purpose was to reduce human resources constraints to growth, increase
Labor productivity, and broaden training opportunities while at the same time lessening the cost of
economic adjustment on vulnerable groups, such as poor displaced workers as well as employees in
small and medium-sized enterprises. These objectives were addressed through four project
components: (a) an Employment Services and Labor Retraining Component, (b) a Demonstration
Inservice Training and Productivity Component, (c) an Institutional Strengthening Component for the
Secretariat of Labor and Social Welfare (STPS), and (d) a Training Institutions Upgrading
Component.
Implementation Experience
3.    The Project was implemented in a very effective and efficient manner by the General
Directorate of Employment (DGE) of STPS. It was carried out essentially as planned, with only
minor variations mainly as a result of adjustments in pilot-type programs. Virtually all key
implementation indicators were met or surpassed. Project implementation was facilitated by close
Bank supervision and particularly the mid-term review which resolved the few implementation issues
outstanding. Disbursements were consistently ahead of forecast due to the acceleration of the training
programs and the rapid and effective expansion of the InservieL Training Program (CIMO) for small
and medium-scale enterprises (SMEs). The Loan is anticipated to be fully disbursed by June 15,
1993 and is scheduled to be closed on June 30, 1993, i.e. 6 months ahead of the anticipated Closing
Date.



- iv -
Prolic Results
4.     The project has achieved its overall goals of reducing human resources constraints to growth,
Increasing worker productivity, reducing the social cost of adjustment, and broadening training
opportunities for disadvantaged groups. Concretely, the project hac achieved the following (appraisal
targets are given in parentheses): retraining of workers 293,317 (160,000); retraining courses
conducted 19,939 (8,000); inservice training of workers 212,380 (75,500); UPCs established 30 (20);
STPS staff upgraded 1,041 (100); and training programs receiving equipment 1,374 (1,000). In
particular, the projectes institutional strengthening programs have clearly had a very substantial
positive impact - the enhanced capacity of STPS providing a very strong base for the implementation
of the Labor Market and Productivity Enhancement Project. The real long-term development impact
of the project was enhanced significantly by the fact that there was no project implementation unit,
therefore the experience gained through implementation, and the capacity-building provided through
the project, contribi ed directly to the strengthening of STPS. For a project, most of whose
components were tho first programs of their kind in Mexico, and some of which are still evolving, a
full assessment of impact is rather difficult. However, a detailed analysis of the effectiveness of the
taining programs for the unemployed was undertaken and is attached as Annex 3. This demonses
a very positive impact for male trainees with previous work experience, but a rather doubtfWl impact
for female trainees. This experience has led to improved selection criteria for trainees under the
follow-up Labor Market and Productivity Enhancement Project. A fuller evaluation of the impact of
this improved approach to retraining will be undertaken in the follow-up project.
Project SustainabUity
5.    The institutional strengthening activities of the project at the federal and state levels, staff
training, development of information systems, strengthening of employment services and upgrading of
training institutions, improved institutional capacity and operational efficiency of the STPS and State
Ez,ployment Services (SEEs). The sustainability of these services has been reinforced by the follow-
up Labor Market and Productivity Enhancement Project (Loan 3542-ME of Decemnber, 1992). The
sustinability of the labor retraining program will be enhanced by greater cost-effectiveness in
resource use in future through improved targeting. The sustainability of the CIMO program is being
enhanced by the progressive transfer of the costs to the private sector beneficiaries. Evaluations of
the retaining and inservice training programs were undertaken during project implementation and wil
be complemented by in-depth evaluations under the follow-up Labor Market and Productivity
Enhancement Project which will provide a firmer basis for a judgment as to long-term sustainability.
To a large measure, the excellent project results achieved and the good prospects for sustainability can
be attributed to the fact that no special project implementation unit (PIU) was created, rather ongoing
activites and mainline functions of the STPS were strengthened and developed.
Lessons Learned and Recommendations
6.    The are many lessons to be learnt from this successful and innovative project (for its time).
These lessons, with respect to substance and process, are summarized as follows:



(a)     Ubstance:
-     a competent and committed executing agency (such as STPS) can exceed appraisal
targets both with respect to attainment of physical objectives and the disbursement of funds - In this
case retraining and inservice training programs were developed more rapidly than contemplated
reflecting technical competence, a high level of project ownership and the fact that the project had no
project implementation unit, but was fully integrated in the normal structure of the STPS (para.7);
-     the cost of the retraining-cum-stipend program of the PROBECAT type can be
outweighed by the monetary benefits of graduates finding a job more quickly; trainee's mature age
and prior work experience are important determinants of cost-effectiveness of such programs (para.
14); labor retraining programs should include a built-in monitoring and evaluation system to allow for
continuous assessment of internal and external efficiency (this built-in mechanism must be carefully
designed to include a control or comparison group (para. 14) - such an evaluation system has been
incorporated from the outset in the follow-up Labor Market and Productivity Enhancement Project)
and particular attention should be given in the design of large retraining programs to rigorously
enforcing strict selection criteria to make an optimal selection of trainees (e.g. applicants with
previous work experience), taking into account the widely dispersed operative responsibilities typical
of such programs - such an approach is being adopted in the follow-up project (para. 14);
-     SMEs in many countries probably need the type of assistance provided by this
Project's inservice training support program, however, training alone is seldom the only problem;
SME support must be able to diagnose a range of problems; having the support from and participation
of industrial and business associations is critical to the success of this type of program; so is critical
the careful selection and training of program promoters; in this project the solid integration of clients
in the planning, execution and cost-sharing arrangements represents a cost-effective method for
increasing productivity in SMEs in Mexico (para. 20);
-      systematic and continuous upgrading of Borrower staff's knowledge and skills to keep
abreast of new developments and analysis methods is of the utmost importance for an effective
instituton able to tackle rapidly evolving problems such as occur in labor markets (para. 23); likewise
most similar operations should include the improvement of labor market information systems
(para.23); and
-      relatively small, marginal investments in training equipment, can have high
administrative costs, but can have high rates of return by improving the capacity and utilization of
existing training centers (para. 26);
(b)    Dro:
-     when project management is highly competent, the Bank should see its role as one of
support and facilitation rather than that of traditional supervision; continuity in Bank staffing of
supervision missions is very beneficial (para. 29); in addition, a mid-term review of this project
provided an extremely valuable opportunity to learn lessons, evaluate outcomes, adjust project
content, implementation schedules and disseminate project results to other countries through a seminar
which was held (para. 29); this was one of the first projects to have such a mid-term review, a
practice which has now virtually become standard;



-vi -
-     when a common interest exists between the Borrower and the Bank to evaluate the
economic efficiency of a program, this activity should be included as part of the project design (para.
32); the Bank may wish to promote joint preparation and co-publication with country authorities of
reports based on country material for the dissemination of good outcomes for the benefit of other
member countries (para. 32);
-     establishing a highly competent and committed management team, which should
preferably be deeply involved from the beginning of sector work and project definition, is of critical
importance for efficient project implementation, especially for complex and innovative projects, (para.
35); if such teams can be established, even large and complex projects can be implemented within the
existing organizational framework of a Government agency, with consultants complementing the
existing staff (para. 35); and
-     legal documents should not set tight dates for implementation of subcomponents very
early in the implementat,on period unless there is a good chance that they can be met; particularly,
the timing of procurement should not be overemphasized (para. 38).



UNITED MEXICAN ST*ATES
MANPOWER TRAINING PROJECT
(Loan 2876-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I. PROE-T REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.   Project ldntity
- Project Name:   Manpower Training Project
-  Loan No.:       2876-ME
-  RVP Unit:       Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Country Department II
-  Country:        Mexico
-  Sector:         Human Resources
-  Subsector:      Employment and Training
B. Project Background
1.    Policy Context and Linkage among Project. Sector. and Macro Policy Objectives. The
Manpower Training project was conceived as an imnportant complement to the economic restructuring
and trade reform program begun by the Mexican Government in 1985 which was supported by the
Bank, inter alia, through a series of sectoral adjustment loans. The Project's overall purpose was to
help reduce human resources constraints to economic growth, increase labor productivity, and
broaden training opportunities, while at the same time lessening the social impact of adjustment on
vulnerable groups. Such groups included displaced workers and employees in small and medium
sized enterprises which were perceived as being at risk of failure due to low productivity and limited
competitiveness in an open market.
2.    Sctor Development Objectives. Mexico's human resources sector development strategy was
based on the sectoral policy objectives as stated in the Government's National Development Plan
(1983-88), and was undergirded by macroeconomic reforms including the Trade Liberalization Policy,
and the growth-oriented adjustment programs, which accorded high priority to measures that would
help restore and sustain growth, facilitate the redeployment of manpower to more productive activities
resulting from major restructuring and lessen the social cost of adjustment. The Government sought
to strengthen its employment services and retraining programs to better s.ve the poorest of those
displaced and unemployed, and provide more effective inservice training to large numbers of middle-
level technicians and skilled workers working in small and medium scale enterprises (SMEs).
C.    Project Okjectives and Cotent
3.    Qbiecti. In support of the purpose and objectives of sector policy described in paras. 1-2,
she project was designed to:



^ 2 -
(a)   strengthen employment services provided at the state level and implement, as a
transitional measure during the restructuring process, an expanded and improved
retraining program for displaced and unemployed workers, using existing training
institutions;
(b)    assist private enterprises, especially SMEs in priority sectors and geographical areas,
in upgrading the skills of employed workers by introducing a pilot demonstration,
promotion and assistance program for inservice training;
(c)    strengthen the Secretariat of Labor and Social Welfare's (STPS) labor market
monitoring capabilities by upgrading of staff, improvement of its information system,
and carrying out policy studies aimed at guiding the future development of the training
system; and
(d)   increase training capacity in critically needed specitahies by upgrading selected public
and private training institutions through the provision of complementary equipment
linked to a commitment by participating institutions to improve training operations and
facilities maintenance.
4.    Project Components. The above objectives were to be achieved through the coordinated
implementation of four project components:
(a)    The Employment Services and Labor Retraining Component (originally estimated
cost, excluding contingencies, US$75.9 million) was designed to: (i) improve and
expand employment services through the training of 400 staff and by financing data
processing equipment and related :echnical assistance; (ii) strengthen the planning,
content, and implementation of STPS's retruaining program (PROBECAT) as a
transitional measure, and establish systematic arrangements for monitoring and
evaluation of the program's effectiveness; and (iii) provide improved retraining for
about 160,000 economically disadvantaged and displaced or unemployed workers over
four and a half years, including financing of trainee stipends to be awarded in
accordance with criteria agreed with the Bank;
(b)    The Demonstration Inservice Training and Productivity Component (estimated cost,
excluding contingencies, US$42.7 million) was to introduce, on a pilot basis, a system
for promoting and supporting inservice training and related services among
enterprises, especially SMEs, in priority economic sectors and regions. The
component included measures to: (i) establish within or linked to selected associations
of employers, 20 small Regional Inservice Training Promotion Units (UPCs) (initially
called Technical Support Groups for Enterprises (GATEs)). The 20 UPCs were to
target specifically 5,000 selected SMEs (out of a total of about 400,0^fJ in the
Mexican formal economic sector)y. A small central support group called Central In-
service Training Promotion Unit (UPA) was to be established in STPS to coordinate
the program. All units services were to be provided by consultants contracted for a
fixed term. Loan funds would finance the program on a declining scale to encourage
1' Study on training supply and demand, SIPS, 1985 (see para. 5).



- 3 .
efforts to riiake the program self-financing through gradually increasing charges for
advisory and training services; (ii) provide direct support for the organization and
delivery of intensive. short-term training for about 75,500 employees in the 5,000
targeted SMEs; and (iii) initiate promotion services for inservice training in SMEs
through dissemination of information on the labor market, productivity issues, and
tra:ning opportunities to 20,000 additional, SMEs employing about 800,000 workers;
(c)    The STPS Institutional Strengtiening Component (estimated cost, excluding
contingencies, US$2.6 million) was to strengthen STPS's capabilities by: (i)
upgrading about 100 staff of the Secretariat in areas of program design and
evaluation, labor market analysis, and productivity issues; (ii) developing improved
labor market information systems at the federal and state levels, including
computerization and related training; and (iii) undertaking priority studies; and
(d)   The Training Institutions Upgrading Component (estimated cost, excluding
contingencies, US$13.2 million) was designed to enhance the capacity and utilization
of existing training institutions by providing financing to some 500 training providers
(later changed to 1,000 training programs, for reasons explained in Part IHI) for
modernization or upgrading of equipment in existing facilities. Participating
institutions were to be selected on the basis of agreed criteria including a record of
having provided efficient services in the past, and commitments to upgrading of
curricula, implementing maintenance programs and securing competent staff.
D.    Proiect Design and Organization
S.    Projec Oriin and Formulation. In July 1984, the Government requested Bank assistance for
planning a country-wide subsector study of supply and demand for training. This study was
completed in 1985 by STPS and seven other Govermnent agencies. The results were published in the
STPS Report OQfeta y Necesidades de Capacitacion 1985-88" and were summarized in a Bank
Subsector Memorandum dated March 14, 1986 entitled "Technical Education in Mexico: A Subsector
Study of Training and Skill Development". Based on the study, a project was identified in May 1986
and project preparation began in September 1986. A Project Preparation Facility (PPF) was approved
on November 12, 1986 and appraisal took place in May 1987.
6.    Prje  Design and C)rgization. Thanks to being based on a solid subsector study prepared
jointly by several Government institutons and the Bank and thorough preparation, the project had a
clear conceptual foundation, and was of an appropriate and realistic scale and scope under the
prevailing circumstances and in relation to Its objectives. Its objectives, design and implemenntation
plan were understood and agreed by all relevant parties. The project was consistent with the
Government's human resources sector development plans and programs which guaranteed its
timeliness and ensured strong political support. These factors, plus the fact that the project was
implemented by a highly competent, enthusiastic and hard-working management group, help to
explain the implementation success and timely completion of this complex and highly innovative
operation.



E.    Prolect Implenentation. Cost and Financing
7.    1plementtion. The project was implemented very effectively and efficiently by the
Directorate General of Employment (DGE) of STPS. To a large measure. the excellent project
results achieved and the good prospects for sustainability can be attributed to the fact that no special
project implementation unit (PIU) was created, rather ongoing activites and mainline functions of the
STPS were strengthened and developed. It was carried out essentially as planned. With the
exception of the number of enterprises and trainees participating in 'mixed" retraining programsv
and of the reduced number of trainees included in the follow-up studies, all key implementation
indicators were met or surpassed (Part III, Table 6), disbursements were consistently ahead of
forecast (Part 111, Table 3) due to the acceleration in the implementation of the retraining programn and
rapid growth of the CIMO program. The Loan was fully disbursed and closed six months ahead of
the anticipated closing date. There were unforeseen difficulties in the implementation of mixed
retraining courses in which SMEs were expected to pay for the cost of training and the trainees were
to receive stipends during the training period. The criteria for organizing this type of program called
for a minimum number of trainees and the Government found that SMEs do not usually have the
required infrastructure to provide training, nor do they have the resources to do it. Therefore, only
after large scale enterprises were included did the program start functioning. There were delays in
finalizing the labor market information system partly due to problems with information sources but
mainly because of an expansion of the system's scope to respond to emerging needs. There were
smaller than expected investments in general information dissemination about the inservice training
program because of gradual reorientation of this pilot effort. These changes have not materially
reduced the impact of the project. The project risks anticipated at appraisal did not materialize.
Government support for the project remained strong throughout. The retraining programs proved to
be effective, with 70% of male trainees and 40% of female trainees finding jobs within a year of
completing training (the poorer performance of female trainees will be fully investigated under the
Labor Market and Productivity Enhancement Project). Moreover, after an initially slow start,
employer support for the inservice training program has been strong and provides a firm foundation
for continued training of this type.
8.    Procurement. The project procured a substantial quantity of equipment (computer and
training equipment) at a total cost of US$16.0 million. After some initial difficulties related to
equipment distribution, procurement of goods and services was effectively and efficiently managed, in
accordance with Bank Guidelines, by DGL issisted by the Directorate General of Material Resources
and General Services of STPS and by a private firm during the first two years of project
implementation. There was no procurement of civil works. Procurement of technical assistance and
consultants services proceeded smoothly and in accordance with Bank Guidane.
9.    Costs and Financing (Part III, Tables 4 and 5). Final total project cost amounted to US$
145.5 million, compared to US$156.0 million as estimated at appraisal. The final financing
percentages, compared with anticipated percentages in parentheses, were: the Bank 55% (51%),
Government 34% (23%), and Enterprises 11% (26%). The lower than expected percentage for
iZ 'Mixed' retaining programs combine preservice institutional retraining fianced by the project with follow-up
inservice taining in a collaborating enterprise. The enterprise helps to plan the course, select individual trainees,
finance part of the costs under a cost-sharing formula and agree to employ 80% of the graduates following
course completion.



enterprises and the correspondingly higher percentage for the Government were due to the lower than
expected proportion of "mixed' (enterprise-based) courses in the retraining program and the
somewhat slower than anticipated increase in self-financing of the inservice training program,
although enterprises contributions to each training course were higher than expected (see para. 16).
Unit costs for the retraining program have been lower than anticipated because the minimum wage
given to trainees as stipends did not keep up with local inflation; this, together with the increased
number of inservice training units (UPCs) and their much better than expected penetration of the
market, explains the substantially larger than expected numbers of workers trained in project
programs.
F.    Main Results of the Project
10.   Overall Implementation Results and Impact Assessment. In terms of rapid and complete
implementation and achievement of objectives the project has been very successful. Each of the four
components met or surpassed most of their quantitative goals (Part Ill Table 6).
11.   For a project, most of whose components are the first programs of their kind in Mexico and
some of which are still evolving, an initial assessment suggests that the project has been effective in
achieving its overall goals of reducing human resources constraints to growth, reducing the social cost
of adjustment, and broadening training opportunities for disadvantaged groups. It has clearly
contributed to continuity and consistency in the implementation of the Government's policies and
programs. A more detailed assessment of the project's impact, based on impact evaluation studies as
well as its sustainability (Section G) will be carried during the implementation of the follow-up Labor
Market & Productivity Enhancement Project (Loan 3542-ME approved December 1992). At this
stage, the following can be said in this respect for the four project components:
12.   The Employment Services and Labor Retraining Component. The project's impact on the
State Employment Services (SEE) has been positive: staff are better trained and motivated, the SEE
offices have some modern equipment and software to work with; and staff turnover has been reduced
from close to 70% in 1989 to about 15% in 1991. During the project implementation period, SEEs
have covered on average 254,074 job seekers and 247,463 vacancies per year. Given an annual labor
force growth rate of 1.3% for the 1988-91 period and employment turnover of 17%, job seekers
covered each year represent approximately 5.5% of the total number of jobs offered.
13.   As of December 31, 1992, over 293,217 unemployed workers were retrained in over 19,939
courses. The percentage of trainees finding jobs within three months was about 60% for men and
33% for women. Some reasons for this discrepancy are given in Annex 3 and will be investigated
more fully under the follow-up Loan 3542-ME. Whether trainees fared better than they would have
without the program was difficult to assess, since this evaluation did not include a control group. The
first evaluation study, which compared course completers to deserters (in the absence of a true control
group) and relied on wage estimates, found that trainees not meeting the program's selection criteria
resulted in very low rates of return, while targeted trainees obtained benefits far greater than the
costs. These findings are consistent with the results of a recent program impact evaluation (which
used previously unavailable data) carried out as part of the preparation work for the Labor Market
and Productivity Enhancement Project. This new information includes panel data on a sample of
individuals from the 1990-91 quarterly urban employment survey (ENEU), which form the basis for a



control group, and a new survey of PROBECAT trainees, providing an 18 month follow-up. The
most important findings of this new evaluation are as followsg:
(a)    On average, graduates of the retraining program find employment quicker than do
members of the control group - participation in PROBECAT reduces the average
duration of unemployment by 2.5 months for males and by 1.9 months for females,
with substantial variations (3.7 months for male and female graduates over 25 years of
age, and no reduction at all for trainees without previous work experience).
(b)    Male graduates of PROBECAT are more likely to be employed three and six months
after training than the controls, but not after 12 months. This finding is consistent
with (a) and suggests that participation in the program shortens the time to find a job
and thus increases the amount of time trainees spend in employment in the first year
after training.
(c)    Female trainees with work experience are more likely to be employed three, six, and
twelve months after program completion compared to the control group. However,
women without prior work experience are less likely to be employed at comparable
intervals after completing training. This finding suggests that many women without
work experience, who otherwise would have remained outside the labor force, are
being drawn into the program.
(d)    Male trainees are more likely to find employment in large firms than comparable
controls. Large firms are known to pay higher salaries and provide more stable
employment, more training and more promotion opportunities. For females, no
similar effect was found.
(e)    Participation in PROBECAT increases the monthly earnings of male trainees, and this
effect varies systematically by level of schooling. The largest effects are found for
males with 6 to 12 years of schooling whose monthly earnings following training
show increases of between 28% to 37%. A portion of this earnings effect is due to
increased weekly hours worked. Training does not appear to raise the monthly
earnings of women although there is some evidence of positive effects on hours
worked that does not translate into higher monthly earnings.
(f)    On average, the monetary benefits of training outweigh the costs of the PROBECAT
program for certain groups of trainees. Consistent with (a), the benefits associated
with finding a job faster compensate for the costs of training for males with work
experience, for those over age 25, and for females who had worked in the six months
prior to training. When training time is added to time-to-first job and earnings effects
are incorporated into the calculations, benefits outweigh costs within three months for
these same groups. For all other groups, except those with no work experience,
benefits exceed costs within a year.
;' Fuller details are given in Annex 3 (The Impact of Mexico's Retraining Program on Employment and Wages).



-7 -
14.   The main lessons of substance from this component are that: (a) the costs of a retraining-
cum-stipend program of the PROBECAT type can be significantly outweighed by the monetary
benefits of graduates finding a job more quickly; (b) for PROBECAT graduates, prior work
experience was a strong determinant for success in the labor market (this matches the experience of
retraining programs in other countries); (c) particular attention should be given in the design of large
retraining programs to creating mechanisms which encourage consistently optimal selection of
trainees, taking into account the widely dispersed operative responsibilities typical of such programs;
and (d) retraining programs should have a built-in evaluation mechanism which allows for continuous
assessment of program impact; to be effective, this mechanism should be carefully designed to include
a control or comparison group.
15.   The Demonstration Inservice Training and Productivity Component, as implied by its name,
was basically a pilot program albeit a substantial one. As shown in Part IIl, Table 6, the Inservice
Training Program (CIMO) expanded to 30 Regional Units (UPCs) compared with the target of 2) in
the SAR. CIMO has worked directly with over 32,304 individual separate enterprises and trained
more than 124,182 individual workers through 10,644 training courses. This compares highly
favorably with appraisal targets of 5,000 enterprises, 75,500 workers and 8,000 courses respectively.
During its four years of existence, the average number of individual workers participating on each
training course was 12 and an average of 3 individual enterprises. CIMO has enjoyed rapidly
growing support from its target group, mainly SMEs, as evidenced by their increased financial
contributions towards training costs and very positive evaluations of services rendered. Indeed,
CIMO has developed into the leading program for technical support to SMEs in the country. In
terms of substance, the program has evolved from a training-oriented focus to one of more integral
support seeking to respond to the diverse needs of the target enterprises, including technical assistance
in product development, marketing, business management and accounting. The character of
broker/facilitator was however maintained; the UPCs role is not that of actually carrying out either
training or production process improvements but to assist in mobilizing and organizing iupport from
suitable providers including consultants, sister industries, suppliers, clients, or other related actors in
the production chain.
16.   Enterprise financing of the program. Initially, enterprises fmanced about 30% of the direct
costs of training and the Government financed the rest. In 1991, the average contribution of
enterprises ranged between 60-70% of the total costs of training and the Government financed the
remainder. The financing of the program has thus been shared from the beginning between STPS and
enterprises which paid a growing proportion of total costs over time. An analysis done by the Bank
(Annex 3) showed the following results for 1991:
(a)   if only direct outlays for all program activities are counted, the total program cost in
1991 was US$8.1 million, financed 58% by STPS, 38% by enterprises, and 4% by
training providers (through rebates on facility rentals, discounts, etc.);
(b)   if the time spent by workers in organized training activities is valued at the average
wage of participants in the PROBECAT retraining program (one minimum wage,
which is a very low valuation), the total cost rises to US$10.1 million financed 46%
by STPS, 50% by enterprises, and 4% by training providers; and
(c)   if the calculation is made to include also the time of SME managers, supervisors, etc.
spent with CIMO promoters and in self-assessment and evaluation activities directly



-8-
tied to the program, and the cost of this managerial time is valued at a salary equal to
that of the promoter (which again is a low estimate), the total program cost increases
to US$12.7 million, financed 37% by STPS, 60% by enterprises, and 3% by training
providers.
17.   The above may underestimate the average enterprise contribution to overall costs because
1991 was a year during which the program still had very substantial and exceptional costs for an
intensive training program for all UPC promoters. It can be safely assumed that the effective overall
percentage of enterprise financing of the CIMO program will soon be in the range of 70-80%.
18.   Evaluation of the CIMO Program. A study of Mexico's system for SME support and
CIMO's role in this system was carried out as part of the preparation of the Labor Market and
Productivity Enhancement Projecti'. The study concluded that: (a) CIMO's greatest strength is the
close relation it has established with SMEs, at the enterprise level; and (b) the CIMO Program can
contribute substantially to fill some of the gaps in the SME support system, and do so at a very
modest cost. According to the report, some of these gaps and the way the program's interventions
fill them are as follows:
(a)    CIMO's local executive committees provide a way to work closely and directly with
enterprises' organizations and the private sector at the local level;
(b)    CIMO's promotion methods bring it closer to business leaders than those of other
agencies, this includes cost-sharing from the beneficiary enterprise thereby enhancing
sustainability (under the Labor Market and Productivity Enhancement Project this
process will be strengthened with the eventual transfer of all such costs to the private
sector);
(c)    CIMO undertakes diagnostic and business development consulting activities;
(d)    CIMO maintains rosters of training and consultant resources available to SMEs, which
could form the basis of an information system for SMEs; and
(e)    CIMO demonstrated ability to reach a large number of enterprises in a short time,
using a very light administrative structure.
19.   Cost-Benefit Study. A cost-benefit evaluation of 30 cases of individual enterprises
participating in CIMO program carried out in 1992, concluded that, the enterprises have had
productivity increases, and some other benefits associated with labor conditions and organization,
growing access to improved production processes, and in some cases, a better access to markets.
This exercise also highlighted the need to design a systematic methodology for data collection and
evaluation under the new project.
20.   Lessons of substance: The following lessons can be drawn from the CIMO program:
4' Maza, Antonio, Evaluation of Support Mechanisms to Small and Medium Sized Enterprises ia Mexico, April,
1992.



-9 -
(a)    many SMEs in most regions of Mexico, and probably in most countries, are in critical
need for assistance of the type provided by CIMO; this includes help both to arrange
training and to identify agents who can help with other problems affecting
productivity;
(b)    having the support from and participation of industrial and business associations for
program activities is critical to the success of this type of program; SME participation
in training or technical assistance program design, their contribution of qualifled staff
as trainers, or technical assistance providers, and their selection of agents ensures
private sector involvement in all aspects of the program;
(c)   training alone is seldom the only problem that needs to be addressed; SME support
must be able to make at least a first-level diagnosis of a range of problems such as
product quality, marketing, accounting and general business management;
(d)    program promoters are key to the success of SME support programs, thus, careful
selection, compensation and training of promoters is required; and
(e)    CIMO appears to be effective in increasing productivity and competitiveness at modest
cost, under current conditions in Mexico.
21.   The Institutional Strengthening Component has: (a) expanded STPS's program of labor
market surveys (6 surveys were completed and 1 is being carried out) and studies (out of a total of 17
studies, 4 were published, 11 have been completed, 1 is being carried out, and I was canceled). All
survey results and study findings and recommendations were discussed between the Bank and the
Government; (b) trained STPS staff (902 from DGE and 139 from other areas of STPS); (c) provided
computers and software to the State Employment Service Offices of the 31 State capitals, of 14
Political Delegations of the Distrito Federal and the Employment Offices of Departamento del Distrito
Federal (general directorates of STPS, State Employment Service offices in State capitals and in the
Mexico City metropolitan area, and all STPS' state delegations); and (d) supported the development
of a computerized market information system that comprises 17 different modules, of which six are in
operation, 10 are being tested, and one is being programmed. This system will become fully
operationalized in the follow-up project.
22.   This component has had a substantial impact, at modest overall cost (US$ 6.3 million) in:
improved access to information; improved analytical and policy development capabilities; and
productivity increases in the DGE due to training and automation. The development of a
computerized market information system allowed for the use and analysis of data obtained by STPS
and from other institutions, such as INEGI and SEP, to obtain accurate and updated information on
the labor market. This information, in turn, has been used for decision-making and policy
development. The labor market surveys and studies conducted with project financing also served to
determine labor market issues in specific industries and regions. These are being used to direct
policy-making in STPS. Studies are being published for wide distribution. Through the training of
staff and introduction of computers, the institution has been able to improve its productivity and, in
combination with the availability of updated information, was able to develop its analytical and policy
development capabilities. The project greatly contributed to strengthening of the DGE, however, the
institution's analytical capabilities need further strengthening.



- 10-
23.   Lessons of substance: The following lessons can be learned: (a) a labor market information
system should be part of most similar operations; (b) when the Bank is called upon to review and
comment on major surveys to be carried out by Borrowers, it is cost-effective for it to involve
specialists (internal or external) in the subject matter covered by each survey to review the survey
questionnaires and ensure that the greatest possible benefit is drawn from such surveys; and (c)
systematic and continuous upgrading of Borrower staff's knowledge and skills to keep abreast of new
developments and analysis methods in their fields is of the utmost importance for the Borrower's
institutional strengthening and the sustainability of the programs supported by the project.
24.   The Training Institutions Upgrading Component has been successful in increasing training
capacity in specialties in high demand and in new specialties, and in improving the quality of training
and administrative efficiency in 445 participating training institutions. At appraisal the target was to
strengthen 500 institutions, this was later modified to 1,000 specialties; by project closing 1,374
specialties had been strengthened. The program has been received very positively by the staff of
participating institutions, and has provided strong motivation for improvement of training both by
selecting equipment based on local demand, and through continuing supervision of equipment use. A
total of 1,374 different training programs benefitted a total of 134,000 trainees enrolled in pre-service
training courses in 1991/92, plus an additional 42,647 trainees who paticipated in inservice training
courses and 24,217 retraining program participants. Evaluations of staff performance and feedback
from training institutions demonstrate the effectiveness of this training equipment in increasing the
quality of the courses offered. It has actively catalyzed the development of private training capacity
by devoting its entire fourth stage of equipment procurement to CIMO-supported training centers
operated by private enterprise groups, and to strengthening the linkages between the training provided
by both private and public centers with the needs of the directly productive sectors.
25.   While no strict evaluations were planned or made of the upgrading program's cost
effectiveness, the main objective of improving capacity and utilization of existing training institutions
was met. Enrollment statistics show that project-supported training institutions and programs had a
18.7% increase in enrollment in the 1988/91 period compared to a 8.4% overall increase in
enrollment in all comparable public sector institutions. The program had operating costs amounting
to about 15% of investment costs necessitated by elaborate procedures for identification, selection,
procurement, and distribution of small amounts of equipment to several hundred locations, and for
program supervision activities.
26.   Lea=  Learned  The main substantive lesson of this component is that provision of marginal
quantities of high priority training equipment to existing training institutions is cumbersome and
requires elaborate procedures and continuous supervision, but is feasible and can provide strong
motivation among teachers and administrators to improve the capacity and utilization of existing
training institutions.
G.    Project Sustainablilt
27.   Through its institutional strengthening components at the federal and state levels (staff
training, labor market information systems, a series of 16 substantial labor market studies,
strengthening of employment services, upgrading of training institutions) the project has undoubtedly
had long-term beneficial effects through self-sustaining improvements in institutional capacity and
operational efficiency. At the present stage, it is difficult to determine exactly how sustainable the
project's two major programs, labor retraining and inservice training support, will eventually turm .t-



- 11- 
to be. The main risks that may affect long-term sustainability would seem to be a possible decline in
Government commitment to these programs and corresponding reduced budgetary allocations,
although these risks may be mitigated if these programs continue to show positive impact as
demonstrated by the results of PROBECArs recent evaluation, and increasing participation of
enterprises In cost-sharing in the CIMO program. The follow-up Labor Market and Productivity
Enhancement Project includes modified and more diversified versions of both programs, and its
outcomes will provide a firmer basis for a judgment on long-term sustainability including the impact
of cost-sharing between Government and the private sector. Under the new project, sustainability of
the retraining program will be enhanced through increasing its cost-effectiveness as a result of
improved targeting. The sustainability of the CIMO program will be enhanced through increased
private sector financial contributions. In the short to medium term both programs are seen by the
Goverment as being of high priority, and strong political support is expected to continue for the
duration of the proposed new operation.
H.    The Bank's Performance and Lessons Learned
28.   General. On the whole, the Bank performed well from the project's initiation during the
subsector study, through implementation. There were occasional delays in contract approvals
particularly during the initial phase of implementation; these were largely eliminated through a
streamlining, in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines, of approval procedures for consultant
contracts. In the area of equipment procurement, some delays became inevitable in the context of an
alignment of ICB documents initiated by the Bank; this did not substantially delay implementation and
had the advantage of mutually approved, standardized bidding documents now being available for use
in new projects. The Bank's main strengths were the continuity of staff during supervision and the
intensive supervision efforts, particularly during the first two years of project implementation. The
Bank's main weaknesses were: (a) not involving specialists at the outset for a careful review of
survey questionnaires and designs for the computerized information system, and (b) attempting to
evaluate the impact of the PROBECAT program without an adequate control group.
29.   The Bank's Role in Proiect Imlementation. During project implementation, thanks to
consistently efficient leadership in STPS, Bank staff were able to play a supporting and facilitating
role. Frequent supervision visits and constant telephone communication helped resolve
implementation difficulties at very early stages. The project's mid-term review provided an excellent
opportunity to look in-depth at the project's progress and discuss adjustments to improve project
management and implementation. An open and flexible attitude on both sides helped resolve a
multitude of issues which inevitably arise in the practical realization of such a complex and innovative
operation as this has been.
30.   The Retraining Evaluation Study. Difficult issues arose only in connection with one project-
related activity which was not strictly part of the project as appraised, namely, the economic
evaluation of the labor retraining program which was carried out as a regional study by the LAC
Technical Department (TID). This study emerged as a LAC TD managed activity after the 1987
Reorganization, after the project was negotiated. The fact that the study was designed at the Bank's
initiative by a consultant who, though eminently qualified, had no prior involvement with the project,
may have created certain apprehensions in Mexico concerning the Bank's motives and the relevance
of the design of the study. In practice, the study drew on data that were collected under the project's
monitoring system. Additional data were obtained with the cooperation of STPS. The evaluation



- 12 -
effort was constrained by the absence of precise wage information and of a control group that would
allow the effect of training to be convincingly determined. Given this limitation, the impact of
training was estimated by comparing the post-training experiences of trainees with those of deserters.
The results of this analysis were published as a Bank Working Paper s. STPS agreed to its internal
ci. culation in the Bank, although there were lingering concerns concerning the ultimate relevance of
the study, the results demonstrated that trainees not meeting selection criteria resulted in very low
rates of return while targeted trainees produced benefits far greater than the costs, thus calling for the
application of strict selection criteria. (A modified evaluation in the context of the preparation of the
Labor Market and Productivity Enhancement Project aimed at overcoming some of the
methodological issues reconfirm these conclusions, as described in para. 13 above, and is attached as
Annex 3).
31.   There are three reasons to raise the matter of the regional study in this PCR. First, the
concerns raised by the implementation team with regard to the study caused frequent discussions
during supervision missions, causing substantial loss of valuable time intended for support to the
project itself. Second, a lesson to be learned is that a carefully designed monitoring and evaluation
system should be planned from the outset with adequate provisions for specialized technical
assistance. A study should preferably be integrated into, agreed upon and negotiated together with
country authorities from the beginning to ensure that everyone involved agrees on the purpose and
benefits of the study. Third, in dealing with more advanced countries such as Mexico, it is
particularly be desirable to promote collaboration and joint analysis between the Bank and a relevant
agency in the country in question. This would have an effective impact on institutional development.
The handling of the subsector study in 1986 (para. 5) was very different by comparison; it was
carried out as a joint venture by several Government agencies and the Bank and it was both published
as a major STPS report and as a Bank subsector memorandum.
32.   Lessons Learned. Based on the above, the following are lessons for the Bank to consider:
(a)    when there exists a mutual interest (Borrower and Bank) to carry out studies or
evaluation to increase or deepen general understanding of the impact of a project,
such studies or evaluations should be included as part of the project design as was
done in this case, separate evaluation exercises outside the scope of the project (paras.
30-31) can cause confusion if the implementing agency is not fully involved; and
(b)   the Bank may wish to promote joint preparation and publishing, with Borrower
country agencies, of studies based on country supplied data, whenever feasible to
assist other member countries (para. 31).
L     The Borrower's Performance. and Lesson Learned
33.   The Borrower (NAFIN) and the Executing Agency (STPS) played a major role in carrying out
the initial subsector study, as well as in fbrmulating project objectives and determining project scope
and implementation procedures. The implementation organization consisted essentially of the
Directorate General of Employment (DGE), assisted by the State Employment Services and a number
E *Mexico Reraining Progran: Poverty Alleviation and Contribution to Growth-, LATHR, August 1991
(Report No. 6 of the LAT Regional Studies Program).



- 13 -
of other Directorates and agencies. DGE has been strengthened through staff training and contracting
of fixed-term consultants to perform a variety of implementation tasks.
34.   The implementation organization described above has functioned well and has ensured
competence, commitment, and continuity in project management. The excellent implementation
performance of this complex project attests to the exceptional quality of STPS management, including
at the highest levels. The workload of the management team notably at the Director General and Area
Director level, but also at lower levels has been extremely high throughout the implementation period.
Whether this model of project management could be successfully replicated in other operations would
depend to a large degree on the availability of similarly competent, devoted, and enduring
professionals for the key implementation team.
35.  Lessons Learned. The main lessons learned in this context are:
(a)   the critical importance, especially for complex and innovative projects, of having in
place a highly competent and committed management team which should preferably be
deeply involved from the beginning of sector work and project definition;
(b)   the feasibility, if (a) above is possible, of implementing large and complex projects
within the existing framework of a Government agency, complementing staff with
local consultants. It is important to note that no project implementation unit was
created for this project, thus the programs supported and the capacity building
provided, contributed directly to the institutional strengthening of a major government
ministry leading to a sustainable development impact; and
(c)   the paramount importance of thorough project preparation in full collaboration
between Borrower and Bank Staff.
J.    Project Relationshipg
36.   The relations between relevant Mexican agencies and staff and the Bank and its staff, as well
as among the Mexican authorities themselves, have been excellent throughout the eight years which
have elapsed since the initial subsector study began. The STPS leadership and staff, as well as those
of NAFIN and SHCP, have been unfailingly supportive and cooperative. The only item which caused
some strain in relationships was the retraining evaluation study mentioned in Section H, initially
conducted without adequate consultation with STPS. However, due to the mutual trust developed
between the teams on both sides, this did not substantially harm project implementation.
K.    Consultant Services
37.   Consultants, mainly Mexican professionals contracted individually by STPS under procedures
agreed with the Bank, have provided a substantial complement to Secretariat staff for project
implementation. The performance of these consultants has been generally very good, and has
permitted the implementation of major programs much as the inservice training component without
expanding permanent STPS staff (in fact, STPS staffing has been sharply reduced during project
implementation as part of the Government's general public sector reform program). Local private
and public institutions were contracted to do surveys and studies, to assist with the procurement
process during the first two years of implementation, and to help initiate and manage the CIMO



- 14 -
program. Some of these institutions and firms contributed to strengthening STPS since they worked
very closely with STPS staff and transferred knowledge and skills that allowed STPS to take over the
tasks when the institution's contract was over. Expatriate consultants, selected by the Government,
were also used, for instance, to provide training for STPS staff where local consultants with
appropriate skills were not available or where international experiences and comparisons were highly
germane. Their performance was also very good.
L.   PtRoe  Dockmentation and DAta
38.   Lega Agr ents. The Legal Agreements for the project have been satisfactory; there have
been no major legal issues. However, in hindsight, one provision in practice temporarily caused sub-
optimal concentration of implementation efforts on items of relatively low urgency, namely the
provision in Section 3.06 of the Guarantee Agreement (in its original wording) that 150 training
institutions had to be selected for upgrading before December 31, 1987 (Part III, Table 8). The
lesson here is that the Bank should be cautious about proposing dates for component implementation
during project implementation unless they are crucial for the project's success and there is a good
chance that they will be met.
39.   Adequacy of the SAR. The SAR was well balanced and focussed on key project issues of
relevance for project implementation.
40.   Availability of Data for the PCR. Due to the well designed systems for project monitoring,
no major problems were encountered in compiling the necessary information for inclusion in the
PCR. Project records and documents in the LAC Information Center were complete and easily
accessible.



- 15-
PART H. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE-
A.    Accuracy of Information Contained in Part III
41.   The information contained in Part HII was prepared jointly by the Bank and STPS based o;a progress
reports prepared for the project. These reports were thoroughly discussed by both institutions. Thus, there
is full agreement on the veracity and accuracy of information included in Part III of this PCR.
B.    AnalysTs of Part I
42.   The analysis in Part I includes the most significant aspects of project implementation and a number
of elements that would permit the improved formulation of new projects with similar orientation. The
analysis could also help improve the follow up and support provided by the Bank to improve efficiency and
effectiveness in the utilization of loan resources as well as Government counterpart resources.
C.    Evaluation of Bank's Performance during Project Preparation and Implementation
43.   During the preparation and implementation of the Manpower Training Project there was open and
honest communication between the Bank and Mexican authorities working on the project. Regarding the
Employment Services and Labor Retraining component, the Bank's performance was very positive,
although it would have been even better if the Bank had shared with STPS similar experiences developed
in other countries. As far as the CIMO program is concerned, there was a great willingness on the part
of the Bank to support the various requests made by the Mexican Government, particularly in the following
areas: (i) changes to the basic monitoring indicators for the component; (ii) accepting coverage of new
sectors and increasing coverage of training programs to staff of all levels within a company; and (iii)
authorizing the contracting of consultants for specific tasks or programs.
44.   Also, the agreement reached by the Bank and the Mexican Government on a set of standard bidding
documents for the procurement of goods was very important for the training institutions upgrading
component that provided complementary equipment to training centers. Once an agreement was reached
there were no major problems with these procedures.
45.   Regarding the Institutional Strengthening component, it is worthwhile to mention the importance
of the systematization and generation of statistical information to improve knowledge on project
implementation results and to learn about its impact. To attain this, the upgrading of staff skills and
knowledge about the labor market was essential.
46.   As indicated in Part I of this report, it is important that when the Bank decides to publish reports
or project implementation results, this should be done jointly with the Mexican authorities, avoiding a one-
sided decision on this matter.
F' This is an unofficial translation.



- 16-
D.    Lons Learned during Proiedt 1mplementation
47.   One of the factors for the success of the project was the experience and high technical level of Bank
staff assigned to the project, as well as continuity of the staff throughout the project implementation period.
48.   The Bank staff knew the project in depth which resulted in timely and substantive recommendations
and adjustments that benefitted the project.
49.   The Bank was able to verify that the success of the project was due in part to the excellent
coordination among government and private institutions that participated in the project.
50.   Bank staff observed that project objectives were reached because of STPS's knowledge of sector
problems that needed attention and of the selection of appropriate mechanisms that were put in place to
meet the objectives.
E.    Evaluation of the Borrower's Performance during Project Preparation and Implementation
and Lessons Learned.
51.   The Borrower's performance during project preparation and implementation was satisfactory.
52.   With regard to the Employment Services and Retraining component, the performance of the
Mexican authorities was good. The established targets were surpassed.
53.   In the case of the CIMO component, through the project the Mexican authorities were able to play
a role of program promoter that, without doubt, is in agreement with the current policy of modernization.
54.   -1- CIMO program in particular was able to create enterprise interest in the program through the
developmen;t oJf activities that linked competitiveness with a full range of training programs for the
enterprise. This opened a new opportunity for further development of the program.
55.   As far as the Training Institutions Upgrading program is concerned, we consider that equipment
procurement must begin with a detailed analysis based on the expected objectives that equipment
distribution needs to meet. Therefore, it is not recommended that equipment distribution targets be set for
the early part of the project implementation period for administrative reasons.!'
F.    Evaluation of the relationship between the World Bank and STPS
56.   The relationship between the Bank and STPS has been cordial and respectful. As the project began
implementation, the relationship grew closer resulting in visits, originally planned as supervision missions,
that became working meetings in which technical assistance was provided.
57.   On the Bank's part, there was permanent willingness to make adjustments to the project in
accordance with STPS requests, to adapt it to changes in the country's economy and policies.
2' At appraisal, it was agreed to complete selection of and commence procurement for the first phase of 150
training institutions by December 31, 1987. The Borrower found it difficult to meet this deadline for
administrative reasons related to government procurement policy.



- 17 -
58.   During the missions sent by the Bank, there were meetings not only with offices at the central
levels, but also with those working in the different components of the project at the local levels throughout
the country.
59.   The working meetings that the Bank had with State Employment Services and with UPCs,
implementing agencies of the first two components at the local level, allowed for a more direct contact with
the project's operations and with the problems being dealt with.
60.   Field visits were very productive because they offered the opportunity to learn about the project
results from the companies involved. Contact was established jointly with STPS, with company owners
in diverse regions in the country and in diverse economic activities. This provided feedback to the project.
G.    Evaluation of Cofinanciers
61.   During field interviews it was possible to verify that there was an important participation of the
private sector, particularly in the CIMO program. Since +he program was based on demand by enterprises
and on their needs they directed and approved the work programs developed by UPCs. In addition,
enterprises financed in a gradually increasing proportion all actions that were developed through the
program.
62.   The financial participation of enterprises was only partially covered when compared to the original
plan; however, a tendency of increasing this participation permanently can be observed.
63.   In the case of the Employment Services and Retraining component, State Governments participated
through financial contributions and by hiring some of the staff of the State Employment Services. The
State Governments also improved the working conditions of technical staff and provided some office
equipment.
64.   Both the enterprises as well as the State Governments supported the project by increasing their
financial contribution as a result of implementation of activities that benefitted the enterprises and the
regional labor market actions.



- 18-
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A.    Related Bank Loans
Table I: IBRD LOANS RELEVANT TO THE PROJECT
LOAN TITLE        YEAR OF                    PURPOSE                      STATUS
APPROVAL
Ln. 2042-ME             1981      A technical training project to support the  Successfully
(CONALEP 1)                      first phase of CONALEP's (Colegio     implemented
Nacional de Educaci6n Profesional -
National System for Vocational and
Technical Education) development
program.
Ln. 2559-ME             1985      To assist CONALEP in implementing its   Successfully
Second Technical                 second phase program by: (i) improving   implemented
Training Project                 the operational efficiency and
(CONALEP II)                     effectiveness of CONALEP; (ii)
increasing the supply of skilled workers
and technicians by expanding
CONALEP's training capacity; (iii)
improving the quality of CONALEP's
construction; (iv) developing an adequate
maintenance system and explore other
cost reduction measures; and (v)
providing flexible support for the
program as a whole by facilitating the
development of strategic training options
and institution building.
Ln. 3358-ME             1991      To improve the quality, efficiency and  Proceeding well
Third Technical                  relevance of the CONALEP system by:
Training Project                 (i) producing skilled manpower and small
(CONALEP III)                    business services required for the
restructured economy to sustain and
strengthen growth; and (ii) contributing to
the development, in the medium term, of
a more rational and efficient education
and training system in Mexico.



- 19 -
LOAN TITLE        YEAR OF                    PURPOSE                      STATUS
APPROVAL
Ln. 3542-ME             1993      The objective of the project is to assist  Proceeding
Labor Market                     the Government of Mexico in (i)        well
& Productivity                   increasing the productivity and
Enhancement                      competitiveness of micro, small and
Project                          medium-sized enterprises; (ii) reducing
costs incurred by employees and
employers of hiring and job search, and
providing education and training
opportunities for displaced and
unemployed workers, with special
attention to women; and (iii) improving
the availability, timeliness and
dissemination of labor market information
and, more broadly, the capacity to
monitor labor market changes and to
design, evaluate and implement relevant
policies and programs in the sector.



- 20 -
B.       re i Timdeable
Table 2: PROJECT TIMETABLE
TrEM                     PLANNED          |        ACTUAL
DATE                     DATE
Identification                        05186                     05186
Preparation 1                         10/86                     10/86
Preparation IT                        02/87                    02/87
Pre-Appraisal                         04/87                    04/87
Appraisal                             10/86                    05/87
Negotiations                          04/87                    08/87
Board Approval                        05/87                     10/87
Loan Signature                        10/87                     10/87
Loan Effectiveness                    10/87                     10/87
Loan Closing (Projected)              12/93                     06/93



- 21 -
C.    Loan Disbursements
Table 3: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ Million)
F PISCAL YEAR        JUNE   JUNE   JUNE   JUNE I JUNE    JUNE
1988    1989    1990    1991    1992         1993
Appraisal Estimatey'       7.5    16.0    32.0    48.0    64.0          78.0
Actual                     6.0    21.7    38.2    59.7    75.0          80.0
Actual as % of Estimate    80.0   135.6   119.4   124.4   117.2        102.6
Date of Final
Disbursement (projected)                                            05/31/93
Table 3a: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATE AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENT
ACCORDING TO DGE DATA
(US$ Million)
ENDYEAR: OC   -DEC   | DEC                DEC   | DEC    | DEC    | DEC    |TOTAL
-^    :  187  188  189     90       91         92        93
Estimate     0.0      8.0          8.0    16.0       16.0      16.0      16.0       80.0
Actual       5.1      5.7         14.7    15.9       23.9      14.7       0.0      80.0
Actual as %
of Estimate   n.a     71.3       183.8    99.4      149.4      91.9       0.0      100.0
1J Appraisal estinate adjusted to actual date of Loan approval (October 6, 1987).



- 22 -
TIME LINE OF PLANNED AND ACTUAL CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
By iscal Year
US$ Million
100.0
80.0 --.-----------.-----.78 .                            B0.
60.0-______________________   <        >   _54>________
40.0  - ---------------                   ---------------
20.0 -______           ---------------------------------
6.0       16.0
6/88    6/89     6/90    6/91      6/92     6/93 9/93
U Appraisal Estimate - Actual



- 23 -
D.       Project Costs and Financing
Table4; PROJECT COSTS
ESTIMATED COSTS           ACTUAL         ACTUAL
COSTS        COSTS AS
(Dec. 31, 1992)    % OF
ESTIMATED
PROJECT       LOCAL   FOR-  TOTAL           ACTUAL
COMPON.                  EIGN                 COST
(FINAL)
_____          ~TOTAL
Employment         74.1     1.8      75.9        85.4             112.5
Services and
Retraining
Demonstration      40.4     2.3      42.7        30.6              71.7
In-Service
Training and
Productivity
Institutional       2.0     0.6       2.6         6.3             242.3
Strengthening of
STPS
Training            1.7      8.3     10.0        23.2             232.0
Institutions
Upgrading
Total Base        118.2    13.0    131.2
Costs
Physical           11.8      1.3     13.1
Contingencies
Price              11.0     0.7      11.7
Contingencies
TOTAL             141.0    15.0    156.0         145.5             93.3
PROJECT
COSTS



- 24 -
Table S: PROJECT FINANCING
(JS$ MILLON)
.:a.
Enterprises                       40.3            16.0            39.7
Government                        35.7            49.5           138.7
Bank                              80.0            80.0           100.0
TOTAL                             156.0          145.5            93.3
Comments: The deviation from appraisal esfimates in the financing shares of Enterprises
and Government is explained in Part I, Para. 9.



-25 -
E.    Prylect Results
Table 6: DIRECT BENEFITS
INDICATIOR              ESTIMATE       ACTUAL    ACCOMPLISHM
D         (12/31/92)         ENT
AT                         ACTUAL
APPRAISAL                     DIVIDED BY
ESTIMATE (%)
A. Employment Services and
Retraning
1.      No. of SEE1' Staff            400           953                238.3
Upgraded
2.      No. of Trainees            160,000      293,317                183.3
Awarded Stipends and
Trained
3.      No. of Trainees              8,000         7,739                96.7
Participating in Follow-
up Study
4.      No. of Training Centers       615           741                120.5
Used2'
5.      No. of Courses               8,000        19,939               249.2
Conducted
6.      No. of Enterprises          2,160          1,078                49.9
Participating in
*Mixed"#- Retraining
Courses
7.      No. of Annual Surveys           4             5                125.0
of Expenditures on
"Mixed" Retraining
Courses
1' State Employmnit Service
V Annual Aveage.
-v Retaining under Cost-Sharing Arrangements with Enteprises.



- 26 -
INDICATOR              ESTIMATE    ACTUAL    ACCOMPLISHM
D         (12/31/92)        ENT
AT                        ACTUAL
APPRAISAL                    DIVIDED BY
ESTIMATE (%6)
8.      No. of Trainees           24,000        14,148                59.0
Awarded Stipends for
'Mixed" Retraining
Courses
B. inservice Training
1.      No. of UPCs-                  20           30                150.0
Operating
2.      No. of Training Courses    8,000        10,644               133.0
Conducted in Institutions
3.      No. of workers trained    75,500       212,380               281.3
by Institutions and In-
Plant
4.      No. of Enterprises       5,000a/        77,668             1,553.4
Participating in Training
5.      Annual Survey of               4             5               125.0
Expenditures on In-
Service Training Under
the Project by
Participating Enterprises
6.      Enterprises Reached       20,000        31,211               156.1
through Seminars and
Other Outreach Services
C. STPS Institutional
Strengthening
1.      No. of STPS Staff            100         1,041               104.1
Upgraded
2.      Improved Manpower              1             1               100.0
Information System
Operating
3.      No. of Studies                 1            17             1,700.0
-f Regional Imsenrice Training Promotion Units.



- 27 -
INDICATOR               ESTIMATE    ACTUAL    ACCOMPLISHM
D         (12131192)        ENT
AT                         ACTUAL
APPRAISAL                    DIVIDED BY
ESTIMATE (%)
D. Upgrading of Training
Progr&m
1.      No. of Training             1,000        1,374               137.4
Programs Selected for
Upgrading b/
2.      No. of Programs             1,000         1,374               137.4
Receiving Supplemental
Equipment b/
a/ Many enterprises and workers participated in more than one consecutive training activity. The
number 212,380 represents the number of trainee courses; the actual number of individual workers who
participated was 124,182. The number 77,668 is the total number of training activities with enterprises;
the number 32,304 is the actual number of individual enterprises.
b/ Pursuant to an amendment to the Guarantee Agreement, dated April 24, 1990, these indicators were
modified from a target of 500 training institutions to a more relevant target of 1,000 training programs
(specialties). This became necessary because many training institutions were justifiably provided support
for more than one program or specialty, in one or more locations, by participating in more than one
annual phase of the program.



- 28 -
Table 7; PROJECT STUDIES
STUDY                  PURPOSE AS               STATUS           IMPACT OF
DEFINED AT                                 STUDY
APPRAISAL
Mid-Term Review     Review project impacts,       Successfully    Led to partial
propose orientation, and     completed.      reorientation, of
specifically, review trends in               project
Bank/Government project cost-                implementation
sharing.                                     especially for in-
service training
component; and will
influence design of
future projects.
Other Studies (see  Not anticipated at appraisal.  Successfully   Led to strengthened
list in Annex 2)                                  completed.      policy formulation.



-29-
F.     Status of Covenants
TAblg : COMPLIANCE WITH COVENANTS
COVENAN        | I                       DESCRIPTION                                STATUS OF
.  -   .  ;- I                                                     COMPLIANCE
AGREEMENT
SECT ION:
4.01              The Borrower shall:
(i)        have the Special Account Audited, for each fiscal year, in   YES
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent and qualified auditors;
(ii)       furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not  YES
later than six months after the end of each such year a
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested;
(iii)      furnish to the Bank monthly certified statements of the     YES
Special Account; and
(iv)       furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the   YES
Special Account and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
GUARNTEE
AGREEMENT
SECTION:
3.01              The Guarantor shall carry out the Project, through STPS, with due       YuS
diligence and efficiency, and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, economic and educational practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
3.02              The Guarantor shall enter into the contractual arrangements referred to in  YES
Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement with the Borrower. Except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Guarantor shall not ehange or fail to
enforce any provision of such arrangements.



- 30 -
COVENANT                                 DESCRIPTION                            | STATUS OF
{ , . : . :,- :; ,, . , w I ~~~COMIPLIANCE
3.03             Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and  YES
consultant services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
3.04             Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Guarantor shall not modify the  YES
STPS Retraining program in such a manner which would materially and
adversely affect the carrying out of the Project, or fail to comply with
any of the provisions of such Program.
3.05             The Guarantor shall, through STPS until the completion of the Project:
(i)   cause CET to be regularly informed of the progress in the   YES
execution of Parts A and B of the Project; and
(ii)  take into account the views expressed by CET in carrying    YES
out such Parts of the Project.
3.06              The Guarantor shall:
(a) not later than March 31 of each year:
(i)   select, in accordance with criteria acceptable to the Bank,  YES
the training institutions which will assist the Guarantor in
carrying out Part A of the Project; and
(ii)   enter into appropriate arrangements with such institutions for  YES
the provision of such assistance; and
(b) select, in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Bank, the
training programs to be upgraded under Part D of the Project as follows;
(i)   not later than December 31, 1987, the first 300 training   YES
programs;
(ii)   not later than December 31, 1988, an additional 400 training  YES
programs; and
(iii)  not later than December 31, 1989, the remaining 300       YES
training programs.
3.07             The Guarantor shall establish and maintain the UPA not later than March  YES
31, 1988.
3.08             The Guarantor shall cause at least five UPCs to be established not later  YES
than June 30, 1988, and the remaining UPCs to be established not later
than March 31, 1989.
4.01             Financial Covenants:



-31 -
COV.NAT  0DESCRITON                                         STATUS OF
I COMPLI[ANCE
(a) The Guarantor shall maintain or cause to be maintained separate      YES
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect
of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Guarantor responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof;
(b) The Guarantor shall:
(i)    have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section  YES
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with generally
accepted auditing standards and procedures consistently
applied, by independent and qualified auditors;
(ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not  YES
later than six months after the end of each year, a certified
copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii)   funish to the Bank such other information concerning said   YES
accounts and the audit thereof, and said records, as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request; and
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the
Guarantor shall:
(i)        maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with        YES
paragraph (a) of this Section, separate records and accounts
reflecting such expenditures; and
.ii)       ensure that such separate accounts are included in the annual  YES
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report thereof contains, in respect of such separate opinion
by said auditors as to whether the proceeds of the Loan
withdrawn in respect of such expenditures were used for the
purposes for which they were provided.
SIDE LEIER          The Guarantor shall furnish to the Bank a report concerning the Project  YES
(10113/8fl          and covering all of the items referred to in Section 9.07(a) of the General
Conditions (Mid-Term Review - 01/01190).



- 32 -
G.     Use of Bank Resources
Table 9: STAFF INPUTS
STACGE OF PROJECT             <STATA WEEKS>
CYCLE                   HQ                  FIELD               TOTAL
Through Appraisal                  42.5                   33.5                 76.0
Appraisal Through                  20.0                    0.0                 20.0
Board Approval
Supervision                        22.5                   47.8                 70.3
(As of 12/31191)
PCR                                 0.8                    0.5                  1.3
TOTAL                              75.0                   81.3                166.3



- 33 -
Table Q.1 MISSIONS
MISSION     |MONT HjNO. OF   SW IN |  SPECIALTY    PERFORMANCE   TYPES Oi
YEAR     PERSONS  FIELD |        /           RATING      PROBLEMS
Identification         05186      2      1.6   C,N                      n.a.
Preparation 1          10/86      6      10.5   A,C,N,P,Q,R             n.a.
Preparation II         02/87      5      12.0   C,F,L,M,O               n.a.
Pre-Appraisal          04/81      2      2.0   A,C                      n.a.
Appraisal              05/87      4      6.4   A,C,J,M                  n.a.
Supervision 1        10/87 c/     2      2.0   C,F                      1          n.a.
Supervision 2          05/88      5      7.0   C,F,G,I,K                1          n.a.
Supervision 3        11/88 d/     3      6.0   C,F,S                    1          n.a.
Supervision 4          01/89      2      6.0   C,F                      I          n.a.
Supervision 5          06/89      4      4.0   C,F,G,H                  1          n.a.
Supervision 6          11189      4      5.0   A,B,C,F                  1          n.a.
Supervision 7          07/90      3      7.8   A,B,C                    1          n.a.
Supervision 8        05/91 Il     5      10.0   A,B,C,D,E               1          n.a.
Completion             03193      2      0.5   A,E                      I          n.a.
NAMs  al A=economist; B=operations analyst; C=senior technical training specialist; D=labor statistics specialist;
E=employment services specialist; F=technical education analyst; G=evaluation specialist; H=labor economist;
I=educationand trainingunit chief; J=institutionaldevelopment specialist; K=vocational educator; L=management and
in-service training specialist; M=project costing specialist; N=senior education planner; O=loan officer; P=manpower
information systems specialist; Q=industrial and management training specialist; R=technical educator; and S=training
organization and management specialist.
b/ 1=problem free or minor problems; 2=moderate problems; 3/4=major problems.
c/ Jointly with supervision mission of Ln. 2559-ME.
d/ Jointly with supervision mission of Ln. 2559-ME.
#L Jointly with Identification mission of Second Manpower Training Project.
n.a. = not applicable.



- 34 -
ANNEX I
List of Documents Related to this Project Completion Report
which are Available in the Prolect File
1.     'Reporte de Resultados del Programa de Fortalecimiento Institucional (PFI) del Proyecto de Capacitacidn de
Mano de Obra" (STPS, 1992).
2.      *Reporte de Resultados del Programa de Inversiones Complementarias en Centros de Capacitacioa (PICCC) del
Proyecto de Capacitacion de Mano de Obra" (STPS, 1992).



- 35 -
ANNEX 2
LIST OF STUDIES FINANCED UNDER THE PROJECT
STUDY                                     AUTHORS
1. Results of the Implementation of PCMO            Despacho Mancera Hermanos y Cia.
SC
2. Impact of Technology on the Modern Sector of the  Universidad Aut6norna Metropolitana
Economy                                             U. Azcapotzalco
3. The Free Trade Agreement and the Labor Market    Grupo de Economistas Asociados AC
4. Analysis of National Education System Flows      Del Villar y Alonso Sc
5. Diagnosis of the Employment Situation in the Tourism   CGAEE, S.C. y UCAPE
Sector and its Need fbr Training                                                       l
6. Identification of Key Sectors in the Generation of  Roque, Hern6ndez, Salgado
Productive Employment in Mexico
7. Labor Market in the Export 'Maquiladora' Industry  Colegio de la Frontera Norte AC
8. Job Turnover in the "Maquiladora" Industry in    Colegio de la Frontera Norte AC
Tijuana
9. Characteristics and Dimension of the Informal Urban    Facultad de Economfa de la UNAM
Sector and its Need for Training
10. Automation of the Information Flow within the Labor   Sistemas Globales de Automatizaci6n
Sector through a Computer Network                    SA de CV
11. Strengthening of the Documentation Center       Investigaci6n,Comunicaci6n e
Informaci6n para el Desarrollo AC
(CIDAC)
12. International Migration Flows in the Mexican    Maestros Rodolfo Casillas Ramires y
Southern Border                                      Manuel Angel Castillo
13. Migration to the Mexican Northern Border        Colegio de la Frontera Norte AC
14. Methodology for Labor Force Projection in Mexico  Roque, Hernandez, Salgado
15. Child Labor                                     Mercedes Pedrero (CRIM-UNAM)
16. Mexican Informal Sector (1991)                  Clara Jusidman



- 36 -
ANNEX 3
The Impact of Mexico's Retraining Program
on Employment and Wages
by
Ana Revenga
Michelle Riboud
and
Hong Tan
NOVEMBER 1992



- 37 -
In the mid-1980s, Mexico entered a period of economic crisis when rising
world interest rates, falling oil prices and a refusal by external creditors
to roll over Mexico's short-term debt put an end to expansionary policies.
Against this background, the Government of Mexico established a retraining
program in 1984 for unemployed and displaced workers (Programa de Becas de
Capacitacion para Trabajadores, or PROBECAT). Its objective was to dampen the
social costs of major economic restructuring and rising unemployment during
this period of macroeconomic turmoil. In 1987, the PROBECAT program was
incorporated into the Bank-supported Manpower Training Project, and its scope
and coverage expanded. Since that time, PROBECAT has provided short-term
vocational training to over 250,000 unemployed people--approximately 50,000
trainees per year.
Although originally viewed as a transitional measure, the PROBECAT
program is currently being considered for continuation over a longer period of
time. Several reasons exist for this. The most important is concern about
the impact of the proposed North America Free Trade Agreement (NAPTA) ona
migration flows, especially from rural areas, and on unemployment. Second,
while the adjustment process to date has taken place with relatively little
impact on observed unemployment rates, sizeable labor reallocations between
expanding and contracting sectors still remsin with further liberalization and
privatization of the Mexican economy. The third reason is that the PROBECAT
program is the only unemployment scheme currently in place in Mexico. In
making decisions about the future of the PROBECAT program, policymakers will
need information about the lmpact of retraining on target populations and the
cost-effectiveness of the program.
This report evaluated the impact of participation in the PROBECAT
program on the post-training employment and incomes of trainees. We sought to
address four questions: (i) what is the impact of training on post-training
employment of trainees; (ii) does training increase the speed with which they
move from unemployment to employment?; (iii) conditional on their finding
employment, what effect does training have on monthly earnings, hours worked,
and hourly wages of trainees?; and (iv) do the monetary benefits from program
participation outweigh the costs of providing retraining?
In answering these four questions, we compared the post-training labor
market experiences of trainees with those of a control group--a matched sample
of unemployed individuals who were eligible for, but did not participate in,
the PROBECAT program. Since individuals are not selected randomly to Joln the
training program, the evaluation methodology must account for any systematic



- 38 -
differences in the attributes of trainees and the control group. Otherwise,
group differences are likely to lead to biased estimates of program effects,
because of sample selectivity, or because trainees are overrepresented in the
data relative to their true weight in the unemployed population. Both kinds of
methodological problems were addressed in our evaluation. Our evaluation also
sought to estimate program effects for specific groups of trainees--by sex,
age, schooling completed, prior work experience, and degree of attachment to
the labor force--to provide policymakers with guidelines on specific groups of
unemployed individuals who should be targeted for retraining.
The evaluation was conducted using retrospective data on post-training
experiences of the 1990 cohort of PROBECAT trainees, collected by the STPS in
February 1992. For a control group, we developed a matched sample of unem-
ployed individuals from the 1990-91 quarterly urban labor force surveys
(ENEU). The two datasets permitted an evaluation of the PROBECAT program that
substantially improved upon previous evaluation efforts. The earlier studies
were constrained by lack of an appropriate comparison group (outcomes were
compared for training completers and those who dropped out of training), and
by relatively crude wage data (wage information was bracketed, and reported in
reference to the minimum wage). Both of these limitations have been largely
overcome in our evaluation.
Our evaluation of the PROBECAT program yielded several main findings:
(a) Compared to the control group, trainees on average tend to fild jobs more
quickly. Participation in PROBECAT reduces the mean duration of intervening
unemployment spell by 2.5 months for males, and by 1.9 months for females.
However, these figures hide considerable variations across different groups of
trainees. The strongest effects are for trainees over the age of 25 years:
training reduces the duration of unemployment spell by 3.7 months for males
and 3.7 months for females. Much smaller impacts are found for those age 25
and under. Training does not shorten unemployment duration for those without
work experience. They have longer spells of unewployment than the controls.
(b) Male trainees are more likely to be employed three and six moths after
training than the controls. However, this effect does not persist: at twelve
months, the probability of employment is the same for trainees and controls.
Taken together with (a), the implication is that PROBECAT training shortens
the time to first job, and thus increases the amount of time trainees spend in
employment in the first year after training.



- 39 -
(c) Female trainees with work experience are more likely to be employed three,
six, and twelve months after program completLon as compared to the controls.
However, those without prior work experience are less likely to be employed at
comparable intervals after completing training. This finding suggests that
many women without vork experience are being drawn into the PROBECAT program
who otherwise would have remained outside the labor force.
(d) Male trainees are more likely to find employment in large firms than
comparable controls. Large firms are known to pay higher salaries, and
provide more stable employment, more training and more promotion opportuni-
ties. For females, no similar effect is found.
(e) Training increases the monthly earnings of male trainees, but this effect
varies systematically by level of schooling attainment.   The largest effects
(increases of 28 percent to 37 percent in monthly earnings following training)
are found for males with 6 te L2 years of schooling. Some part of this
earnings effect among males is due to increased weekly hours worked, possibly
because they are more likely than the control group to find employment in
large firms where monthly earnings and work hours are higher. For females,
training does not appear to raise their monthly earnings. While there-is some
evidence of positive effects on hours worked, this does not translate into
higher monthly earnings for them.
(f) The monetary benefits of training outweigh the costs of the PROBECAT
program for certain groups of trainees. For some groups of male trainees
(those with prior work experience and those over 25), the benefits of program
participation outweigh the costs within 3 monhs of starting employment. For
all other males except those with no prior work experience, the benefits
outweigh the costs within gne_yea. Males with no prior work experience, on
the other hand, spend the longest time in job search after training (8 months
as compared to the trainee mean of 4.4 months) and benefit relatively less
from training in terms of monthly earnings (128 thousand pesos as compared to
the average benefit of 152 thousand pesos). For this group, the costs of
training are offset only after 17 months of higher earnings upon finding
employment. For women, we find that program benefits from earlier employment
offset the costs for those with prior work experience and for those over 25
years. Although we do not find significant wage effects, for these women the
program pays for itself. For other women, the costs exceed the benefits.



- 40 -
I. INE&QDMGION
Between 1950 and 1974, Mexico enjoyed a prolonged period of high growth,
low inflation, and moderate accumulation of external debt. However, this era
of economic stability ended when greater Government involvement in the economy
resulted in growing public expenditures unmatched by revenues, and inflation
and external debt became increasingly important sources of public finance. The
pace of Mexico's economic growth remained rapid until 1982, when rising world
interest rates, falling oil prices and a refusal by external creditors to roll
over Mexico's short-term debt put an end to expansionary policies. The country
then entered a period of declining per capita income, soaring inflation and
balance of payments difficulties.  The Government responded with a program of
both fiscal and monetary austerity and accelerated structural reforms, which
transformed Mexico into one of the world's most open economies and restored
real per capita income growth.
As a response to the economic crisis, in 1984 the Government of Mexico
established a retraining program for unemployed and displaced workers
(Programa de Becas de Capacitacion para Trabajadores, or PROBECAT). Its
objective was to dampen the social costs of major economic restructuripg and
rising unemployment during this period of macroeconomic turmoil. As adjustment
efforts accelerated, the need for policies aimed at supporting the unemployed
and facilitating their reemployment became more pressing. As a result, in
1987, the program was incorporated into the Bank-supported Manpower Training
Project (Loan 2876-ME), and its scope and coverage expanded. Since then, the
PROBECAT program has provided short-term vocational training to over 250,000
unemployed people, approximately 50,000 trainees per year.
Although PROBECAT was originally viewed as a transitional measure, the
Mexican Government is currently considering an extension of the program.
There are several reasons for this. The most important is concern about the
impact of the North America Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) on migration flows,
especially from rural areas, and on unemployment. Second, while the adjust-
ment process to date has taken place with relatively little impact on observed
unemployment--even in the worst years of the adjustment process, unemployment
rates did not increase above 6.1 percent--substantial labor reallocations
between expanding and contracting sectors are likely to occur with further
liberalization and privatization of the Mexican economy. The third reason is
that the PROBECAT program is the only unemployment assistance scheme currently
in place in Mexico. In making decisions about the future of the PROBECAT
program, policymakers will need information about the impact of retraining on
target populations and the cost-effectiveness of the program.



- 41 -
The purpose of this report is to provide an evaluation of the impact of
program participation on the employment and incomes of trainees. We seek to
address four questions: (i) what is the impact of training on the subsequent
employment experiences of trainees?; (ii) does training increase the speed
with which trainees move from unemployment to employment?; (iii) conditional
upon employment, what effect does training have on monthly earnings, weekly
hours worked, and hourly wages of trainees?; and (iv) do the monetary benefits
from program participation outweigh the costs of providing retraining?
In answering these four questions, we pose the counterfactual question:
how do post-training outcomes differ from what would have happened had
participants not received training? The approach we adopt is to compare the
post-training labor market experiences of trainees with those of a control
group--a matched sample of unemployed individuals who were eligible for, but
did not participate in, the PROBECAT program. Since selection of individuals
into the program is not random, the evaluation methodology must take into
account any systematic differences between participants and non-participants;
otherwise, these differences between groups could lead to biased estimates of
the program effects.
Our evaluation focuses not only on overall program effects, but also on
the effects of the program on specific groups of trainees. We seek to
determine whether, and how, training effects vary across groups of trainees
with different demographic attributes, such as age, sex, level of schooling
completed, prior work experience, or degree of attachment to the labor force.
These results will be important for providing Nexican policymakers with useful
guidelines on the specific groups of unemployed individuals who should be
targeted for retraining.
Previous PROBECAT evaluations have been constrained by several data and
methodological limitations.11 Specifically, they lacked (a) a comparison
group: outcomes (employment and earnings) for training completers six months
out were compared to outcomes three months out for the group that failed to
complete the training program ("deserters'); and (b) detailed wage data:
earnings information was bracketed, and was only reported in reference to the
minimum wage. Both of these limitations have been largely overcome in our
evaluation. First, we have access to detailed data on the post-training
experiences of the 1990 trainee cohort from a retrospective survey conducted
by the Secretariat of Labor and Social Welfare (STPS) in February 1992.
/ Sam Carlson, Mexig Labor Retraininf Program! Poverty Alleviation and
Contribution to Growth, LATHR Report #6, August 1991.



- 42 -
Second, we have developed a control group for the trainees, using panel data
on a random sample of individuals drawn from the 1990-91 quarterly urban labor
force surveys (ENEU).
We begin the report by providing a broad overview of the characteristics
of unemployment in Mexico and of the PROBECAT program. We also describe
several surveys that have been fielded to monitor the progress of trainees.
We use these surveys, and data from the Urban Labor Force Survey (ENEU) to
compare trainees and unemployed individuals that did not participate in
training. This is followed by discussion of the methodological issues that
arise in manpower training evaluations, and our approach to resolving them in
this study. The next tvo sections report our estimates of the effects of
training on probabilities of employment, time-to-first job, monthly earnings,
hours worked per week, and hourly wage. In the concluding section, we summa-
rize the most important findings, present estimates of the cost-benefit ratios
of training for various groups of participants, and discuss the implications
of these findings for the PROBECAT program and, more broadly, for other
manpower training evaluation studies.
II.  UNEMPLOYMENT AND THE PROBECAT PROGRAM: BASIC FEATURES
We begin by summarizing the main characteristics of unemployment in
Mexico. Next, we describe the salient features of the PROBECAT program: its
organization, the kinds of vocational training provided, and the criteria used
to select individuals into the training program. Finally, we describe the
data on PROBECAT trainees and a matched sample of unemployed individuals which
we use for the evaluation.
Background: Basic CharActeristics of Unemployment in mexico
According to official unemployment statistics, the open unemployment
rate in Mexico is quite low. In 1991, it stood at 2.8 percent of the labor
force, and even in the worst years of the adjustment crisis, it did not rise
beyond 6.1 percent. These unemployment figures, however, have a number of
shortcomings. First, they refer only to urban unemployment. Second, they are
based on a fairly loose definition of employment, which counts an individual
as employed if he/she works at least one hour per week. Third, and most
important, they include only those individuals who are actively searching for
a job. However, research on a number of countries suggests that the distinc-
tion between 'unemployed' and "not in the labor force" based on intensity of



- 43 -
search is usually very weak.11 Our analyses of employment survey data for
Mexico, confirm that, in practice, the distinction between these two catego-
ries is very fuzzy for certain groups of individuals, implying that the
official definition of unemployment tends to underestimate the true number of
people who are in fact jobless.21 In particular, we find a large fraction of
men who appear to be idle--these individuals are out of work, able to work,
not studying and not taking care of the household. If these idle male workers
are counted among the unemployed, the aggregate unemployment rate increases
from 2.8 percent to 5.5 percent in 1991.k'
Table 1 reports the distribution of unemployment by age and education
categories. Using the standard definition of unemployment, we find that for
men as much as 60 percent of total unemployment is accounted for by individu-
als below the age of 25. The comparable fraction for females is even higher,
at about 77 percent. Young workers are thus a very large fraction of the
unemployed. As regards education, 53 percent of total male unemployment and
62 percent of total female unemployment corresponds to individuals with 7 to
12 years of schooling. Individuals with completed secondary education (9
years of schooling) account for 20 percent of total male unemployment and
about 19 percent of total female unemployment. Those with high school '
education (10-12 years of schooling) account for an additional 20 percent of
male unemployment and a stunning 35 percent of female unemployment. These
figures suggest that utnemployment is concentrated among those with a certain
level of education and not, as could be expected, among the least educated.
However, this conclusion has to be modified when the alternative definition of
unemployment is used. Taking into account those individuals who report being
idle increases the fraction of males with less than secondary education in
total unemployment.
2/ For a discussion of the importance of considering these "idle" workers as
unemployed, see Kim B. Clark and Lawrence H. Summers, "Labor Market Dynamics
and Unemployment: A Reconsideration", Brookings Papers-On Economic Aciviy
1979.  Also Lawrence H. Summers, "Why is the Unemployment Rate so Very High
near Full Employment", Brookings Papers on Economic Activity, 1986.
]/ See A. Revenga and M. Riboud, "Unemployment in Mexico: An Analysis of its
Characteristics and Determinants", World Bank mimeo, 1992.
i/ We do not define a comparable group of idle female workers because family
responsibilities tend to make their labor market behavior patterns much more
complex, with frequent periods out of the labor force.



- 44 -
Program Features
The PROBECAT program is administered through the network of state
employment offices. Since 1987, it has trained a total of 251,181 unemployed
persons and provided 9268 courses. During the training period, program
participants receive a stipend equal to the minimum wage. Upon completion of
the course, the local state employment office helps trainees find a job.l1
The majority of program participants enroll in classroom training,
primarily in short-term vocational courses offered through contracts with
local private and public institutions. Training is provided in several
occupational areas: carpentry, construction, electricity, food preparation,
graphic arts and design, handicrafts, machinery, mechanics, refrigeration,
services and administration, shoe repair, textiles and apparel, and welding.
In principle, courses are organized to respond to the needs of the local labor
market, and are designed to redress local shortages of workers with particular
skills. These needs are determined through periodic studies of local labor
market conditions. Courses vary in duration from one to six months, with the
majority of courses lasting three months.
Not everyone is eligible to participate in the PROBECAT program. The
selection procedure gives variable weights to different criteria, including
the number of economic dependents, having attained certain levels of basic
education, prior work experience, and having been unemployed for less than
three months. The exact weighting scheme is quite complex and non-linear.
Individuals with a total composite score exceeding a threshold level are
eligible to join the program. In addition, participants must (in theory) be
between the ages of 20 and 55, and be registered as a job-seeker at the local
state employment office.11 This non-random selection of individuals poses
potentially serious measurement problems for any evaluation of the PROBECAT
program.
Data Sources
A number of surveys have been fielded to help monitor and evaluate the
PROBECAT program. The first, comprising follow-up surveys of trainees 3 and 6
2/ The follow-up survey data suggest, however, that most trainees find jobs
on their own and not through the state employment service.
f./ The original age bracket was amended to allow a small number of partici-
pants between the ages of 16 and 20. The follow-up surveys also show a few
participants above age 55.



- 45 -
months after program completion, has been used in several reports written by
the STPS.   A second, more complete retrospective survey, was administered
to the 1990 cohort of trainees in February 1992.   It elicited a wealth of
information on all jobs held since completion of training until February 1992,
including the start and end dates for each job, monthly salary, hours worked
per week, occupation and industrial sector. Our evaluation is based on the
second PROBECAT survey.
As a control group for these trainees, we use a sample of unemployed
individuals drawn from the 1990-91 quarterly urban labor force survey (ENEU).
ENEU, a household-based survey of the sixteen main urban areas in Mexico,
which elicits detailed information on employment status, jobs, monthly salary,
and hours of work broadly comparable to the PROBECAT survey. ENEU uses a
quarterly rotation system such that each rotation group (of households)
remains in the survey for five consecutive quarters, and then leaves the
sample. We obtained panel data for the rotation group that remained in the
survey from the third quarter of 1990 to the third quarter of 1991--the same
period spanned by the trainee data--and drew our control group from this
sample. This control group includes all those who were unemployed in the
third quarter of 1990 (who we then track for a year).1' For certain analy-
ses, we will augment this control group with a second cohort who became
unemployed in the fourth quarter of 1990 (and were not in the first cohort).
For this latter cohort, only nine months of data are available.
Table 2 presenats summary information on the demographic characteristics
of our samples of trainees and controls. In 1990, the average PROBECAT male
trainee was 28 years old, with the majority having completed primnry schooling
2/ See STPS, Reporte de Seguimiento del ProArama do Becas de Caacitacion
para TrabaIadores 9t                Segimint  del   ps-ama de Becas de
CaDacitacion Rara Traba1adores 1989, and  Reoorte de Seguimiento del Programa
de Becas de Cagacitacion 2ara Trabajadores 1990 (preliminary).  None of these
reports include comparisons of post-program outcomes for trainees with those
for a control group.
I/ The original 3 month follow-up survey had been administered to 1,995
trainees, but it was impossible to track down 273 of these. Some basic
consistency checks provided a match for 1,722 individuals. Four individuals
included in the new 1992 survey were not part of the original one.
2/ As discussed earlier, we use two alternative definitions of "unemployed".
Under the "standard" definition of unemployed, we include all those individu-
als who report to be (a) out of work the previous week and (b) scarching for a
job.  Under the "alternative* definition of unemployed for males, we also
include those who report to be (a) out of work the previous week, (b) able to
work, and (c) not students or retirees, whether they are searching for a job
or not.



- 46 -
and some secondary education. About 41 percint were married. The average
female trainee was 29 years old, with similar levels of education to males,
and about 46% were married. Among those trainees who were unemployed at the
time they entered the program, 74 percent reported having had previous work
experience; the proportions are higher for males (85 percent) than for females
(62 percent). Almost half of the men (45 percent) identified themselves as
being household heads. It is evident from Table 2 that trainees differ from
the general population of the unemployed. Compared to the controls, trainees
tended to be slightly older, be married or the household head, have completed
secondary school but not a higher education. Though not shown in Table 2, the
trainee group also tended to include a higher proportion of women than the
controls (51.4 percent versus 46.1 percent, respectively).
III. THE EVALUATION METHODOLOGY
In this evaluation, we are interested in estimating the impact of
training on several outcome measures: (i) time taken to exit from unemployment
(ie. time to first job); (ii) the probability of employment at three, six, and
twelve months after the end of training; (iii) post-training monthly earnings;
(iv) weekly hours of work; and (v) hourly wages. Analysis of such a wide
variety of outcome measures departs from the traditional focus of most
manpower training evaluations on the earnings impact of training, with
relatively little attention paid to its impact on subsequent employment.121
We believe this approach provides a ihore complete characterization of program
effects. For example, earnings comparisons are contingent upon having a job,
and one impact of training may be to increase the likelihood of employ-
ment.l1 Similarly, monthly earnings are the product of hours of work and
hourly wage rates, and training may have very different effects on these two
outcomes.
A number of methodological issues arise in evaluating the impact of the
PROBECAT program. The first issue is that of selectivilty bias. As Table 2
demonstrated, trainees are a non-random sample of the unemployed population.
Failure to control for these differences in observed characteristics of
trainees and controls can lead to biases in estimated program impacts. These
J2/ An exception is David Card and Daniel Sullivan, "Measuring the Effect of
Subsidized Training Programs on Movements In and Out of Employment', Economet-
LJ&A, Vol. 56, No. 3, May 1988, pp.497-530.
1./ Card and Sullivan (1988) provide evidence that a large part of the
measured training effect on earnings results from increases in the post-
training employment of trainees.



- 47 -
biases are potentially exacerbated by systematic differences across groups in
unobserved (to the analyst) characteristics, such as motivation, ability, or
tastes. A second, related issue arises because trainees are overrepresented
in our data relative to their true weight in the population; they represent 74
percent of our data sample versus 10 percent in the total unemployed popula-
tion in 1990. The oversampling of trainees, who have very different attrib-
utes from other unemployed individuals, gives rise to estimates of program
effects that are not representative of the underlying unemployed population.
We address these methodological issues in several ways. Two approaches
are used to control for selectivity bias. One uses PROBECAT's own selection
criteria to define comparable samples of controls for the trainees. This
involves first estimating a probit model relating the likelihood of program
participation to the PROBECAT selection criteria for which we have data, such
as marital status, number of children, dependents, schooling and time spent
unemployed prior to entering PROBECAT, and then limiting the control sample to
individuals with high predicted probability of program participation.."I
This approach is adopted in the analysis of training effects on employment. A
second approach, which we will use in the analyses of monthly salary, hours of
work, and hourly wage, is based on the two-stage selectivity correction.
procedure developed by Heckman (1979).2I This involves estimating a model
of selection into PROBECAT, calculating a variable to capture the individual's
likelihood of program selection, and including this variable as a regressor in
the outcome models.
The second issue arises when program effects are estimated without
taking into account the overrepresentation of trainees in the data. The
estimates are biased because these models give undue weight to the attributes
of trainees that differ, often substantially, from those of the control group.
This issue may be resolved by constructing choice-based weights to reflect the
true relative proportions of both trainees and controls in the unemployed
JZ/ A similar approach is followed in Westat, "Continuous Longitudinal
Manpower Survey Net Impact Report No.1", Report prepared for the US DOL, 1981.
Westat, "Summary of Net Impact Results", Report prepared for the US DOL, 1984.
Laurie Bassi, "The Effect of CETA on the Postprogram Earnings of Partici-
pants", Journal of HumanResource-s. Vol. 18, No. 4, 1983, pp. 539-56. And
Vincent Geraci, "Short-Term Indicators of Job Training Program Effects on
Long-Term Participant Earnings", Report for U.S. DOL, 1984.
12/ James Heckman, "SamPle Selection Bias as a Specification Error", Egonome-
trica, Vol. 47, No. 1, 1979, pp. 154-61.



- 48 -
population age 15-54 years.>/1 The population parameters of interest may be
recovered by using these choice-based weights to estimate weighted models of
program outcomes.
IV. TRAINING EFFECTS ON ESPLOYMENT
We begin the evaluation by assessing the impact of program participation
on the likelihood of employment, both in the short-term and over increasingly
longer periods of time. First, we ask if participation in training has any
effect on the time it takes for trainees to move from unemployment into a
first job. Next, we ask whether trainees differ systematically from the
control group in their probability of employment at three, six, and twelve
months after time 0. For trainees, this is the time since completion of
training; for the control group, this is the time since we first observe them
unemployed in the third quarter of 1990. Together, the two sets of analyses
can be used to draw inferences about the proportion of time both groups spend
in employment over the first twelve months.
Time To First Job
What is the impact of PROBECAT on time-to-first-job? For the trainee
sample, it is straightforward to construct a measure of time-to-first-job
(expressed in months) using information on the end-dates for training and the
start-dates 'or the first job. For trainees that have not found a job within
the sample period, we compute the time elapsed from training completion to
February 1992, and code this spell as censored. Constructing a time-to-first
job measure was more difficult for the control group. We have information on
time unemployed up until the third quarter of 1990. However, we only observe
their subsequent employment status at discrete points in time over a one-year
interval, and must therefore infer time-to-first-job by appealing to steady
state assumptions, or from individual transitions from one labor market status
to another.
We experimented with both approaches. First, we treat unemployment
duration reported by the control group as being representative of the underly-
ing distribution of incomplete unemployment spells. For each unemployed
individual, we observe an incomplete unemployment spell. Under steady state
Jl/See S. Lerman and C. Manski, "On the Use of Simulated Frequencies to
Approximate Choice Probabilities", in C. Manski and D. McFadden (eds.),
Structural Analvsis of Discrete Data, MIT Press, Cambridge, 1981.



- 49 -
assumptions, we can infer a distribution of completed spells by simply
doubling the duration of observed incomplete spells for each individual.-II
A second approach is to exploit the panel nature of the ENEU data. By
tracking individuals over time, we can identify the first quarter in which
they find a job or, if they remain unemployed at the end of one year, we code
the unemployment spell as being censored. However, knowing that the first job
was found (say) after one quarter does not allow us to compute time-to-first-
job. We therefore assume that the first job was found at the end, the middle,
or the beginning of the interval. These assumptions correspond to adding 3,
1.5, or 1 month(s) to the incomplete unemployment spell reported in the third
quarter of 1990. Both approaches, and all three assumptions, yielded similar
results, namely, that time-to-first-job is significantly shorter for trainees
than the control group. The results reported below are based on the second
approach using the most stringent start-time assumption.
We corrected for selectivity bias by applying to the control group the
same criteria used to select trainees into the program. We first estimate an
equation for the probability of selection into the PROBEC&T program, relating
program participation to the criteria for which we have information--narttal
status, number of children and economic dependents, schooling, and time spent
in unemployment at the selection point. We then limit the sample of controls
to "eligible' individuals who have a high predicted probability of program
participation. All the employment results presented below are based on
comparisons of the trainees with the selectivity-corrected sample of controls
who were eligible for, but did not participate, in the PROBECAT program.
Figure 1 plots survival curves for male trainees and controls using the
raw duration data on time-to-first-job. These survival curves are defined as
a function of time t (in months). They indicate the probability of remaining
unemployed t months after entering unemployment. We present separate survival
curves for those age 25 and under, and for those over 25 years old. They
clearly show that trainees exit unemployment more quickly than do the con-
trols: at three months, 62 percent of young trainees have left unemployment as
compared to just 42 percent of controls. The difference is more marked for
the older trainees; 72 percent of them have left unemployment within 3 months,
versus 33 percent of controls. We estimate that the average duration of
unemployment for male trainees aged 25 and under is 1.4 months shorter than
that for controls; for trainees over 25, average duration of unemployment is
1D See Stephen Salant, Search Theory and Duration Data: A Theory of Sorts',
Ouarterlyt JournaL of Economics, 1977.



- 50 -
3.7 months shorter than that for controls. We also computed comparable
survival curves without the selection correction for the control sample.
These yielded very similar results.
Figure 1 also shows survival curves for young males, age 25 and under,
both with and without previous work experience. Young trainees with work
experience exit unemployment more quickly than the controls. However, for new
entrants into the labor force, the patterns are quite different, with some
trainees exiting unemployment quite quickly, but others remaining unemployed
for a long time. About 39 percent of young trainees without work experience
remained unemployed twelve months after training completion. In contrast, all
young members of the control group without work experience exited unemployment
at twelve months. Not surprisingly, we find that the average duration of
unemployment for this group of trainees exceeds that for comparable controls
by 1.5 months.
With the exception of age categories, these graphical comparisons do not
control for any systematic differences in the demographic characteristics of
the trainee and control groups. These unadjusted comparisons may be misleading
if unemployment duration is related to education level or other individual and
household characteristics. li To address this potential problem, we esti-
mate a cox proportional hazards model of unemployment duration using pooled
trainee and control samples. This model decomposes reemployment probabilities
(the hazard rate) into a function of time (which is the same for all individu-
als) as well as other regressors. This regression approach allows us to
investigate the impact of training on time-to-first-job, controlling for both
individual and group differences in age, educational attaintment, prior work
experience, and various household attributes.
Table 3 presents the cox regression results for males. The estimated
coefficient on the indicator variable for training is both positive and
statistically significant in all cases, confirming the previous finding that
PROBECAT trainees exit unemployment more quickly than do the controls. The
size of this coefficient suggests that the average duration of unemployment
for the control group is 30 percent longer than that for trainees.
Figure 2 plots survival curves for female trainees and controls by age
group. Like their male counterparts, female PROBECAT trainees appear to exit
unemployment more quickly than female controls. At three months, 50 percent
16/ However, a parallel analysis of unemployment duration in Mexico suggests
that only age and having economic dependents are likely to be of importance.
See A. Revenga and M. Rtboud (1992).



- 51 -
of female trainees aged 25 years and under have found employment, as compared
to 32 percent of the control group. For the sample of young females, these
differences disappear over the course of the first year: after nine months the
survival curves for trainees and controls are virtually identical. For the
sample of older women, the trainee-control difference increases over the year
so that 75 percent of trainees have left unemployment after 12 months, as
compared to 47 percent of controls.
We also compared employment effects for women with different degrees of
attachment to the labor force. If training is enhanced by initial skill or
schooling endowments, we might expect training effectiveness to be diminished
for women with low attachment to the labor force because of skill obsoles-
cence. To explore this hypothesis, we distinguish between (1) the women that
worked sometime in the six months prior to training, and (2) those who were
without work for a longer period of time. Figure 2 shows the survival curves
for these two groups of women. In both cases, the trainees fared better than
the controls. However, trainees who recently left employment exit unemploy-
ment after training more quickly than women who were reentering the workforce
after a long inactive spell.
Table 4 presents the results of estimating a cox proportional hazards
model of unemployment duration for the pooled sample of women. They suggest
that differences in exit rates between trainees and controls disappear once
account is taken of individual characteristics. The coefficient on the
training indicator variable is invariably close to zero; however, this result
is due in large part to the unemployment effects of labor force attachment
shown id Figure 2. When an interaction term between training and duration of
prior unemployment is included in the cox model, the results suggest that
women who entered training after a relatively short spell of unemployment exit
more quickly than controls; those who entered training after a long spell out
of the labor force exit more slowly.
Emnloyment Probabilities Over Time
We also compared employment probabilities of trainees and controls over
progressively longer intervals of time. The ENEU reports the labor market
status of the control group at three, six, nine, and twelve months after the
third quarter of 1990 (when we first observe them). For PROBECAT trainees, we
use start and end dates from their retrospective histories to define labor
market status variables for comparable intervals of time after the completion
of training.



- 52 -
Table 5 presents, separately by sex, simple comparisons of the percent
of trainees and controls employed at three, six, nine and twelve months. The
figures suggest that trainees are more likely to be employed during the year
following training than are the controls. For men, the difference is about 9
percentage points at three and six months, and 5 percentage points at nine and
twelve months. For women, the difference between trainees and controls is
somewhat smaller, averaging 4 to 5 percentage points over the year.
These figures, however, are sensitive to the groups being compared. In
Table 6, we differentiate between new labor force entrants and those with
previous work experience. These figures suggest that training is much less
effective for new entrants. Trainees with work experience are slightly more
likely to be employed than the comparable control group at three months, but
thereafter the difference between the two groups becomes negligible. In
contrast, trainees without work experience are slightly less likely to be
employed than the control group at three months, and they are significantly
less likely to be employed at twelve months. A similar, but somewhat more
pronounced, pattern is found for the female sample of trainees and controls.
This example highlights the importance, in manpower training program
evaluations, of controlling for group differences in demographic characteris-
tics. As we noted earlier in the previous section on methodology, simple
comparisons can be very misleading if trainees differ systematically from the
control group. In this case, the critical difference between groups appears
to be a greater representation of new labor force entrants in the control
group. Group differences, that may be induced in part by program selection,
are explicitly taken into account in the following analyses.
We estimate probit models in which the probability of employment--at
three, six, and twelve months--is related to age, schooling, prior work
experience and unemployment duration, and an indicator variable for whether
the individual participated in the PROBECAT program. The issue of selectivity
bias is addressed using the same approach as in the analysis of time-to-first-
job. We also estimate weighted models to account for the oversampling of
trainees in our pooled data.
The effects of PROBECAT on the subsequent employment probabilities of
men and women are summarized in Tables 7 and 8, respectively. The regression
results on which these figures are based are available upon request. First,
consider the results for men. The unweighted regression model without
selectivity correction suggests that training produces a weak positive effect
on the probability of employment at three months, and a zero effect thereaf-



- 53 -
ter. Selectivity correction strengthens these results: the corrected esti-
mates show a statistically significant effect of training on the probability
of employment at three months, and a smaller but still significant effect at
six months. The weighted probits yield roughly similar results.
A slightly different pattern of training effects is found for women.
The simple unweighted estimates without a selectivity correction show that
training had no impact on probability of employment; the unweighted, but
selectivity corrected estimates, show a positive training effect but only in
specifications including dummy variables for different educational attainment.
The weighted model estimates (both uncorrected and corrected) show a marginal-
ly significant positive effect at three months, and a larger and statistically
significant impact on employment at six and twelve months.
A substantial proportion of the female trainee sample had no prior work
experience.1Z.' From the previous analysis, we know that these women are
more likely to remain unemployed for longer than the control group. To account
for this possibility, we modify the specification of the employment equations
to include an interaction term between training and an indicator variable for
prior work experience. These results, reported in Table 9, show that training
has a significantly positive effect on employment at three, six and twelve
months for women with prior work experience, but a negative and statistically
significant training effect at three and twelve months for those without work
experience.
To summarize, participation in the PROBECAT program appears to impact
subsequent employment probabilities of trainees, but in quite different ways
for men and women. For males, it increases their probability of being
employed up to six months after the program, but does not have an effect
thereafter. Taken together with the previous finding that they find jobs more
quickly, this result suggests that male trainees tend to be employed for a
greater proportion of the post-training period as compared to the control
group. For women, training appears to raise employment probabilities for
those with prior work experience. Unlike males, however, this positive
training effect persists over the year. In contrast, women without any work
experience benefit relatively little, if at all, from training.
IZ In contrast, the proportion of male trainees with no previous work
experience is quite small. Because of this, we decided not to estimate
separate training effects by previous work experience for males.



- 54 -
V. MONTHLY EARNINGS. H-URM QE WORK. AID HOUR LWAGE
We also investigate the impact of training on monthly earnings, weekly
hours of work, and hourly wage. We report two sets of results: the first
focusing on overall program effects, the second on program effects by level of
educational attainment of trainees. To anticipate the results, we find very
significant differences in the effects of training on monthly earnings and
weekly hours worked across schooling groups.
Data and Summary Statistics
The dataset used for this analysis was constructed from the retrospec-
tive PROBECAT survey and two ENEU cohorts. The first cohort included individu-
als who were unemployed in the third quarter of 1990 (they are tracked for 12
months). The second cohort included individuals who became unemployed in the
fourth quarter of 1990, and were not in the first cohort; for this latter
cohort, only nine months of information are available. We pooled all observa-
tions reporting positive (and usable) salaries anytime over the period of the
PROBECAT survey, and over the 12 (or 9) months interval in the case of the
ENEU cohorts.1*1 The dataset thus contains multiple observations on each
individual, for every job spell experienced by trainees, and for every quarter
in which ENEU cohorts are observed to be employed. The final dataset contains
1,212 trainee-observations and 1,051 control-observations for men; for the
women, the corresponding sample sizes are 681 and 300 observations, respec-
tively.
I
To accommodate the specific structure of this dataset, we created two
kinds of control variables. The first is a variable for the number of months
between the date salaries are reported and time 0, which is either the
completion of training or the initial date of unemployment for the ENEU
cohorts. The second is a set of quarterly dummy variables to account for
inflation in salaries over the base period (pre-1991).
Means of the three outcome variables for men and women are reported in
Table 10, separately for trainee and control samples. On average, male
trainees report monthly earnings of 682 thousand pesos as compared to 638
thousand pesos for the controls; in other words, earnings that are about 7
percent higher than those of the control group. However, higher earnings may
partly reflect inflation since trainee salaries lnclude those reported in the
1I/We define usable data as positive monthly earnings less than 5 million
pesos, and hours worked less than 85 hours a week.



- 55 -
first quarter of 1992 while control group salaries end in the third quarter of
1991. Trainees also report slightly higher hours of work, 45.8 hours per week,
as compared to 43.6 hours for the controls. Finally, the hourly ware of 3,984
pesos for trainees is slightly lower than the 4,016 pesos estimated for the
control group.
In the female sample, trainees report monthly earnings that are about 7
percent lower than those of the control group: 532 thousand pesos versus 572
thousand pesos, respectively. Like their male trainee counterparts, those that
worked did so for three hours a week longer than the controls. However, their
hourly wage was almost 700 pesos per hour less than that received by the
control group of women.
The Regression Results
We analyze the impacts of training on the logarithm of monthly earnings,
weekly hours worked, and the logarithm of hourly wages. Each of these outcome
measures is regressed on a vector of explanatory variables, including a
quadratic measure of potential work experience, level of schooling attainment,
prior work experience and unemployment duration at time 0, five quarterly
dummy variables, and an indicator variable for whether the individual partici-
pated in PROBECAT. We also experiment with interaction terms between training
and levels of educational attainment to see if training effects vary across
different schooling groups (these are reported below).
As discussed above, several potential measurement problems arise when
trainees are not randomly selected from the unemployed population. To correct
for potential selectivity bias, we first estimate a probit model relating
program participation to those selection criteria variables for which weave
data, namely marital status, number of children, schooling, and time spent
unemployed prior to training. Following Heckman (1979), we include the inverse
Mills ratio as a regressor in the outcome equations. The second issue--
overrepresentation of trainees in our data--is addressed by including choice-
based weights in these models.
Overall Program Effects
Table 11 summarizes the overall impacts of program participation for men
and women."/' The two columns in Table 11 correspond to different model
specifications: (1) simple ordinary least squares regression, and (2) models
12/ The full set of results are available upon request.



- 56 -
that correct for non-random selection into the PROBECAT program. The rows in
this table correspond to results for models estimated without corrections for
the oversampling of trainees and models which include choice-based weights.
The reported coefficients in Panel A and Panel C may be interpreted as the
average percentage change in monthly earnings and hourly wage attributable to
participation in the PROBECAT program; coefficients in Panel B are the mean
changes in weekly hours worked attributable to participation in training.
First, consider the monthly earnings of the male sample. Recall that
male trainees reported monthly earnings that, on average, were 7 percent
higher than those of the control group. However, the unweighted model
specification (1) without selectivity correction indicates that the monthly
earnings of male trainees are 12 percent lover than that of the controls,
suggesting that the two groups have very different attributes. In model (2),
which corrects for selectivity bias (and these group differences), this
earnings differential is reversed. The unweighted estimates now show that the
monthly earnings of trainees are 17.7 percent higher, a difference that is
statistically significant; however, the weighted results only show a training
effect that is marginally significant.
The results also suggest that training is associated with increased
labor supply for the male sample. In the raw data, trainees reported working
about two hours more a week as compared to the controls. The hours regression
without selectivity correction (model 1) reveals no significant differences in
hours worked between the two groups. However, model (2) shows that trainees
supply, on average, between 7.8 (unweighted) and 8.4 (weighted) more hours per
week'than the controls. In the hourly wage results, selectivity correction
reduces or even reverses the negative effect of PROBECAT on hourly wage. The
weighted results with selectivity correction (model 2) revealed no differences
in hourly wage between the two groups. Together, these results suggest that,
on average, training raises monthly earnings of male trainees through greater
supply of hours worked per week, not through higher hourly wages.
A similar pattern of training effects is found for the women. In the
aggregate data, women trainees received lower monthly earnings and hourly
wages, but worked more hours per week, than the control group. In model (1),
these program effects on earnings, hourly wage, and hours worked are generally
statistically significant. In model (2), however, many of these differences
disappear. The only statistically significant effect of PROBECAT is in the
unweighted results for hours of work; here, the results suggest that women
trainees work approximately six extra hours of work per week as compared to
the control group.



- 57 -
Training Effects by Schooling Group
Thus far, we have assumed implicitly that program effects are invariant
across different groups of trainees. This may not be a good assumption if the
effectiveness of training is shaped by the initial skill endowments which
trainees bring to the PROBECAT program. If educaticn helps trainees get more
out of training, we would expect training effectiveness to increase (at least
over some range) with level of schooling. We address this possibility by
including interaction terms between the training variable and the indicator
variables for each level of schooling attainment. As before, a separate set of
dummy variables for each schooling group (except one) are included to control
for pure schooling effects common to both groups of trainees and controls.
Table 12 presents the results of estimating these expanded model speci-
fications for men. To conserve space, we only report regression parameters
for two outcomes measures: the logarithm of monthly earnings and hours worked
per week.)1 Two sets of estimates are reported, one for models estimated
with the selectivity correction, and one with both selectivity correction and
choice-based weights. The corresponding results for women are largely
unchanged, suggesting that the training effects in these specific outcomes are
similar across schooling groups. The results for women are therefore not
reported here.
For the male sample, Table 12 suggests that training has positive and
statistically significant effects on monthly earnings and hours of work by
level of.schooling attainment. In general, these earnings and hours effects
exhibit an inverted U-shape pattern: being lowest for the least educated
males, rising with years of schooling to a peak at the secondary school level
(7 to 9 years of schooling), and then declining for the most educated individ-
uals (with post-secondary schooling). When corrected for sample selectivity,
the results indicate that training reduces the monthly earnings for the least
educated trainees (however, the parameters are not statistically significant).
In the weighted models, the earnings effects of training are positive and
usually larger, though they are statistically significant only for those with
7 to 9 years of schooling. The hours of work results change in a similar
fashion for the two specifications; however, unlike the earnings results, the
training effects tend to be positive and significant for most educational
groups.
2QW The hourly wage results are unchanged in the expanded specification. In
almost all cases, the training-schooling interaction terms are not different
from zero.



- 58 -
These results--positive impacts on monthly earnings and hours worked but
no systematic effect on hourly wage--raise questions about whether training
actually increases productivity, in which-case one might expect higher hourly
wages, or whether it raises earnings by inducing greater work effort among
trainees. We believe the answers lie in the kinds of jobs that trainees find
after completing training. The raw data suggest that a higher proportion of
trainees eventually find jobs in large enterprises as compared to the control
group. For the sample as a whole, employment in large firms is associated
with longer hours of work per week and higher monthly salaries, which may
partially explain the results that we find. To explore this hypothesis more
rigorously, we estimated an ordered logit model for the probability of
employment in ten (increasingly larger) size categories of firms. As
regressors, we included measures of experience, duration of previous unemploy-
ment, time dummy variables, and an indicator variable for participation in the
PROBECAT program.
Table 13 reports the results for three different model specifications:
training by itself, training interacted with a quadratic schooling measure,
and training interacted with indicator variables for each schooling level.
Compared to the control group, all three specifications suggest that trainees
are more likely to find jobs in larger firms. The fully interacted specifica-
tion reveals an inverted-U pattern of effects by schooling group, similar to
the previous findings for earnings and hour of work. In short, the PROBECAT
program appears to raise trainees' monthly earnings and work hours by facili-
tating their entry into larger firms offering higher pay and more stable,
full-time employment. It may achieve this result either by retraining the
unemployed in skills for which there is demand, i.e. a matching effect, or by
making them more trainable, i.e. providing them with learning skills.
PROBECAT may also indirectly impact their future earnings potential by placing
them in large firms that tend to provide employees with more on-the-job
training.Ul Trainees will have to be followed over a longer time period
for us to verify this hypothesis.
To summarize, the results suggest that participation in PROBECAT in-
creases monthly earnings of male trainees, and that this occurs primarily
through their increased hours of work. The disaggregated analyses by school-
ing reveals that this effect varies with schooling attainment. The effects of
training on monthly earnings are largest for those with secondary education (7
to 9 years of schooling). The hours of work effects are large and positive
XL/   Estimates drawn from the 1988 National Employment Survey show that the
proportion of workers receiving training in the workplace varies from 5% in
micro enterprises to 23% in large firms (those with more than 250 employees).



- 59 -
for most groups, except possibly for those with the lowest and highest levels
of education. For females, there is some evidence that work hours are
increased by training, but these do not translate into higher monthly earn-
ings. Unlike their male counterparts, the earnings and hours effects of
training do not vary by level of schooling. The results also suggest that,
for males, program participation increases the probability of finding employ-
ment in a large firm. Since large firms tend to pay higher wages, provide
more training opportunities and thus have steeper earnings profiles, finding a
job in a large firm is likely to imply increased earnings opportunities over
time for trainees relative to controls.
VI. CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATQIONS
Our evaluation of Mexico's PROBECAT program sought to measure the impact
of training on a larger set of labor market outcomes than is traditionally
investigated in manpower training evaluation studies. In these analyses,
training outcomes were estimated by comparing PROBECAT trainees to a control
group of unemployed individuals, and an effort was made to account both for
non-random selection of individuals into the program and for the choice-based
design of our datasets.
Summary of Findings
We arrived at the following general conclusions. First, trainees move
out of unemployment more quickly than do members of the control group.
However, training does not appear to reduce the duration of unemployment for
trainees without prior work experience. Second, training improves the
likelihood of employment for program participants over a longer period of
time. Compared to the control group, male trainees are more likely to be
employed three and six months after training; female trainees with prior work
experience also benefit, but unlike male trainees, these positive employment
effects appear to persist over a full year. Third, program participation for
males, increases the likelihood of employment in large firms, which typically
provide more training opportunities and higher wages. Fourth, program
participation raises the post-training earnings of men but not women. For
male trainees, these earnings effects vary systematically by level of school-
ing attainment, being greatest for those with 7 to 9 years of schooling.
Finally, for both men and women, training induces an increase in the number of
hours worked per week. For males, this hours of work effect translates into
higher monthly salaries; for females, it does not.



- 60 -
Cost-Effectkveness of PROBECAT
What do these findings imply about the cost-effectiveness of the PROBE-
CAT program? To answer this question we focus on two of the more significant
outcomes identified in the previous analyses: first, the impact of program
participation on the speed with which trainees find jobs; second, the impact
of program participation on monthly earnings. These two impacts, and their
implications for the benefit streams associated with program participation,
are combined with cost estimates to arrive at some tentative conclusions about
the cost-effectiveness of the PROBECAT program.
The costs and benefits of the program are discussed below. We include
both the direct training costs as well as the indirect costs associated with
participation in the program. Direct costs (costs for instructors, training
materials, and program administration) are readily available from STPS: in
1991, the average operating cost per course completed was about 350.4 thousand
pesos. To derive estimates of indirect costs we use the following approach.
We assume that at time to each unemployed worker faces two possible strate-
gies: (i) to immediately initiate job search (control group); or (ii) to enter
a training course and thus delay job search by the length of the couxse
(trainees). We know, from our previous analysis, that the expected duration
of search for trainees conditional on having attended the course (ie. once the
course is over) is shorter than the expected duration of search for cor.trols
(by about 2.5 months). However, we also have to take into account the
deferral of job search by trainees to participate in the program. We thus
calculate the time to job for trainees by adding to search time the cost of
delaying search by attending the training course (on average equal to 2.9
months).   The cost of the training period is thus valued in terms of search
time foregone. The benefit measures are calculated from the previous esti-
mates of training effects on monthly earnings. Monthly earnings are predicted
for trainees and controls using sample means of all regressors.
Table 14 summarizes the calculation of these cost and benefit measures
for different groups of male trainees and controls. The first two columns
show the mean duration of search for trainees (4 months) and controls (6.5
months), separately for those with and without prior work experience, and for
younger (age 25 or less) and older (over 25 years) individuals. The differ-
ence between (2) and (1) measures the gain in search time (employment effect)
attributable to the program. Column (3) adds the average duration of training
(2.9 months) to the search time for trainees. Column (4) reports the differ-
ence between columns (3) and (2).



- 61 -
For male trainees as a whole, column (4) shows that PROBECAT participa-
tion increases total time-to-first job (search + training time) by 0.4 months
relative to the control group (6.9 - 6.5 months). For male trainees aged 25
years and over, program participation actually reduces their time-to-first-job
by 0.8 months, even after including the added time spent in training; for
those with prior work experience, the delay in search from training is
completely offset by a shorter search after training. Column (6) shows the
predicted monthly wages for trainees and controls evaluated at sample means.
The difference between predicted wages for trainees and controls can be
interpreted as the earnings effect from training. These earnings effects are
large for all groups, averaging about 152 thousand pesos.
For female trainees overall, column (4) shows that training increases
total time-to-first-job by about 1 month relative to the controls. However,
this figure hides substantial differences by demographic group. For females
with prior work experience, program participation reduces their time-to-first
job by 1.1 months (even when delayed search due to training is included); for
those aged 25 and over, training reduces total time to job by about 0.8
months. Column (6) shows predicted monthly sages at sample means for the
female trainee and control groups. Although predicted trainee wages are
slightly higher than control wages for all demographic groups, these differ-
ences are not statistically significant.
The net benefits of training are shown in Table 15.  Column (1) shows
the direct average per trainee cost of training--350.4 thousand pesos.Z1a
The second column is the indirect cost of training, namely, the monetized
value of'incremental search costs (foregone earnings) associated with train-
ing, valued at the average wage of the comparable control group (i.e. the wage
trainees would have received had they not participated in PROBECAT). These
indirect costs average about 196 thousand pesos for males and 435 thousand
pesos for females, but vary by demographic group. They range from 2,088
thousand pesos for females without prior work experience to minus 514 thousand
pesos for those with prior work experience, and to minus 575 thousand pesos
for male trainees over 25 years. The final two columns summarize the benefits
of training associated with increased wages over three months and over twelve
months, respectively.
The main conclusion that emerges from Table 15 is that for some groups
of male trainees (those with prior work experience and those over 25), the
JZ/ The training stipend is not taken into account as it is simply an income
transfer and not an economic cost.



- 62 -
benefits of program participation outweigh the costs within 3 months of
starting employment. For all other males except those with no prior work
experience, the benefits outweigh the costs within one_yj&x. Males with no
prior work experience, on the other hand, spend the longest time in job search
after training (8 months as compared to the trainee mean of 4.4 months) and
benefit relatively less from training in terms of monthly earnings (128
thousand pesos as compared to the average benefit of 152 thousand pesos). For
this group, the costs of training are offset only after 17 months of higher
earnings upon finding employment. For women, we find that program benefits
from earlier employment offset the costs for those with prior work experience
and for those over 25 years. Although we do not find significant wage
effects, for these women the program pays for itself. For other women, the
costs exceed the benefits.
In short, the PROBECAT retraining program appears to be cost-effective
for improving the economic conditions of most groups of unemployed males,
except for those with no prior work experience. It also appears to be cost-
effective in reducing search time for certain groups of unemployed females,
namely older, more experienced female workers.
Policy Imolications
This evaluation suggests that the unemployed constitute a heterogenous
group and that eligibility criteria for program participation are important
determinants of the cost-effectiveness of the program. In the specific case
of Mexico, the analysis suggests that the selection criteria should be
modified to target those demographic groups likely to benefit most from the
program, namely unemployed workers with prior work experience, slightly older
workers (aged over 25), and those with 6 to 12 years of schooling. For
certain groups--the very young, new entrants into the labor force, and those
with low levels of schooling attainment--it may be more important to provide
other kinds of training, introduce apprenticeship programs to give new
entrants some work experience, or facilitate return to school.2W
More broadly, our study demonstrates that the results can be very
sensitive to the way in which training effects are measured. We identified
two principal sources of bias that many manpower training evaluations are
likely to encounter: biases arising from (a) sample selectivity and (b) from
ZV    Some of these conclusions have already been incorporated into the design
of the new PROBECAT program under the Mexico Labor Market and Productivity
Enhancement Project (1992).



- 63 -
non-representativeness of the treatment group. Addressing these biases is
essential in any program impact evaluation.
Our results strongly suggest that a wide variety of potential program
impacts be investigated. Training programs may have an impact on some labor
market outcomes but not others. Focusing on one outcome versus others may
make the difference between continuation or termination of the program. A
broad approach is also potentially more revealing about the direct and
indirect ways in which training programs affect target populations.
Although the Mexican retraining program has proven to be effective,
several issues need to be considered before such programs are replicated on a
large scale in other countries:
(1) As the impact of the program depends on the characteristics of the
unemployed, it appears essential to analyze the structure and character-
istics of unemployment prior to implementing any training program.
(2) Results and cost-effectiveness of the program also appear to be
sensitive to other factors such as the length of the program, and the.
overall state of the labor market. In the case of Mexico, the program
may have been helped by the fact that unemployment remained moderate and
employment fairly stable during the program implementation period.
(3) For the above reasons, implementation of these types of training
programs should be gradual, and accompanied by a strong monitoring and
evaluation system.
Finally, it is worth noting that this evaluation still has several
important limitations. One, our control sample is quite small. Two, our
unemployment duration data for controls had to be imputed by reconstructing
complete spells from observations on the same individuals in successive
quarters. Three, some important dimensions of PROBECAT--training duration,
type of training, mix of theory and practice, and different training provid-
ers--were not studied. Future evaluations should attempt to address these
shortcomings. In particular, they should investigate the differential impacts
of alternative training modalities, and evaluate their relative cost-effec-
tiveness. It could also be of interest to track PROBECAT trainees over longer
periods of time to measure the long-term effects of the program.



- 64 -
Tablo I
_ _ _DIUlUTION4 OF UNEMPLOYED BY AGE 1988 I
Men                                  Women
Age                Standard Definition      Ak emative Definition      Standard Definition
12-1S                    4.2                       10.7                      2.5
16.20                    33.3                      33.5                      36.6
21-25                    24.7                      19.3
38.1
26.30                    133                       10.5                      38.1
31-40                    8.8                       9.0                       11.7
41-50                    8.0                       9.5                       6.9
51-60                    5.1                       5.9                       2.5
61-70                    2.6                       1.6                       1.7
DISTRIBUTION OF UNEMPLOYED BY EDUCATION LEVEL, 198
___________Men                                              Wou_  
Yeaw of shool           Standard Definition      Aiunative Definition       Standard Definition
0                                             2.4                       4.4                      1.6
1-5 yeats                                     9.7                        5                       8.6
6                                            16.0                      20.0                     14.6
7-8   <                                      12.9                      12.8                      8.6
9                                            20.4                      18.8                     18.9
10-12                                        20.2                     1S.1                      35.6
13 and mom                                   18.4                      13A                      12.1



- 65 -
Table 2
Demographic Characterlstics of Trtainees and the Unemployed
_   "  ,   , -   IN( .es -    -   Females
Trainees      IU_  Trainees           ENEU
Age                               27.9        25.8         29.0       24.3
% Married                         41.2        27.2        45.7        27.2
% Unmarried Couple                 3.8         2.6          3.3        4.1
Education:
Average Yrs School               9.1         8.8    .   7.8          9.8
Highest level reached:
No formal                    0.1         1.7         0.4         1.5
Primary incomp.              3.4        12.7         9.1         7.7
Primary                     13.2        21.5        18.1        16.9
Secondary incomp.           17.5         9.6        24.5        11.8
Secondary complete          30.5        24.1        29.7        16.4
Higher secondary            26.6        13.6        13.8        28.7
University                   8.6        13.2         4.3        15.9
% Head of household               42.8        29.4         11.6        5.1
Note: Controls are unemployed individuals in ENEU 3/90.



- 66 -
Table 3
Cox Proportional Hazards Model:
Male Sample
Independent             (1)               (2)               (3)               (4)
Variables
Age                    -.009            -0.007             -.008             -.007
______________        (-1.595)          (-1.297)          (-1.551)          (-1.261)
Sch                    -.016                               -.016
(.1.370)                            (-1.401)
Ned                                       .110                                .106
(0.284)                             (0.272)
Priminc                                  -.168                               -.169
_-0.903)                            (-0.908)
Secine                                   -.015                               -.018
(-0.116)                            (-0.142)
Secc                                     -.139                               -.137
(-1.200)                            (-1.184)
Sech                                     -.031                               -.037
(-0.262)                            (-0.309)
Coil                                     -.296                                -.299
__ -1.940)                          (-1.961)
Hhead                   .318              .311              .315              .309
(3.233)           (3.154)           (3.203)           (3.135)
Nohijos                -.011             -.008              -.012             -.010
_____________ -(-0.349)           (-0.269)          (-0.394)          (-0.307)
Wkexp'0                 .737              .742              .777              .775
(5.593)           (5.612)           (5.565)           (5.538)
Trainee                 .355              .340
._______ _  (4.101)        (3.840)
Traineel                                                    .395              .373
______________    _______________   ______________      (4.034)           (3.739)
Trainee2                                                    .321              .312
______________ _  -   , ,____ _ _ ___  (3.380)  (3.215)
ndependent Variables
-    ago
sch-rr of school
ne&l if no formal education (-O otherwise)
primiinc-i if incomplete primary
:ecincl if incompiste secondary
ecc-l if completo secondary
sech- if histhr secondary
co*l1 *f coi lef
hhead-i if household head (.O otherwiso)
nohijos-number of chtldren
wkexpO0l if prior work experience
trainee-i it progrom participant
train.e-I it proaran participant 6 unmsplayed -6 mnths
trainee2-1 if program participant 6 unmeployod > 6 month



- 67 -
Table 4
Cox Proportional Hazards Model:
Female Sample
Independent             (1)               (2)               (3)               (4)
Variables
Age                    -.014             -.014             -.011             -.011
__________   (-1.866)  (-1.867)     (-1.467)          (-1.481)
Sch                    .005                                .004
(0.300)                             (0.240)
Ned                                      .949                                .876
(1.305)                             (1.208)
Priminc                                  .042                                .024
______________    ______________        (0.212)                             (0.119)
Secinc                                   -.017                               -.041
_____________ Z(-0.115)                                   (-0.276)
Secc                                     -.074                               -.109
(-0.490)                            (-0.727)
Sech                                     .125                                .123
______________        (0.787)                             (0.769)
Coll                                     .043                               -.0002
_____________                           (0.187)                             (-0.001)
Hhead                  .399              .390               .457             .449
______________        (2.970)           (2.881)           (3.427)           (3.343)
Nohijos                -.002             -.007              .006            -.0002
______________       (-0.056)          (-0.203)           (0.160)          (-0.007)
iWkexpO                .507              .506
(4.731)           (4.713)
Trainee                .012              .071
___ _  (0.098)         (0.543)
Traineel                                                    .236             .314
(1.631)          (2.078)
Trainee2                                                   -.153             -.083
(-1.175)          (-0.608)
odpen oat. var ubem      
-    age
- asb.ys  of school
ned-i it no formal education (-0 otherwise)
primincl tf incomplete primary
socine-I it incaplets secondary
coce-i if coplete *econdary
sechmi if hicoer secondary
coll-i if co ege
-    hhoad-I if household head (-0 otherwise)
-    nohijos'number of children
-    ukexpOl if prior wozh. expertence
-    train ee- if program participant
-    trsinoeeli if progrm participant b uneployed 6-  months
-    troineo21 tf program partiipzant 6 unemployed   4 I months



Td I S
Emploqment Outomes for Trakne vens Compaison Group (lEUI
Aktsmav Defitin of Unsployod
.~~~~~ ...                                te..          .              .                      m.  .... ....___.-  
Tr aiee                Cte  i a   .          Trai_                  Conto
% IPLOYED
3 mondh after                         60.0                   610                    33.0                   29.0
* months ftfer                        66.0                   66.0                   38.0                   32.0
9 mot after                           66.0                   61.0                   38.0                   34.0
12 mondhs                             71.0                   G6.0                    39.0                   36.0
11EE UIETWE CHANGES 
VAFOR cRAoU AND FMO
aftw 3 ontnd                          9.0                                            4.0
sftr6 _ mts                           9.0                                            6.0
afwt9r sonth                          6.0                                            4.0
afw 12 months                         6.0                                            4.0
Note: ' Utempb_ed defrnd as tleO wh. ae not workin, not otadln. not dred (ne SG. able to work (not   or disbdL. regwdle of whether actively searching
for Job or ncot Woenw who  pont being at hor  taking ar of Xte hous, am NOT counted as unemployed.



.              I    .       1  .                                     ,.   .                                  l~~~~~~T.. 
WI Wk __* tWk                w  ha                        wiWUk 6p                    no te UpI
S fMPLOYI.
3 meOn autw                                     06.0                         32.2                         00.0                        34.0
* Menm dnt.                                     70.0                         38.1                         00.8                        J3.1
9  m WO tt.                                     11.2                         37.4                         23.2                        40.4
12 m      oft.                                  30.4                         40.0                         74.                          49.3
0 OfiRSCt SEi  CHANGES FOR
TRb4tEES AND FOR COMPARsow GROUP
st. 3 mmw9.                                     6.0                          -2.4
*oeeueW me                                      Os.                           2.0
-sa   m_ws.                                     -2.0                         -3.0
dt. 12   ew                                      1.0                         -.4
bqSeyeuwet Om. be o~mmwew campum &oe.                  ams"a
tO
wl   __4  __/W  be _                 C         ., _      Z         
..~~~~~~~~~~~ ..o ... . ,.. .  ...3
% emfLOYw
3       ,u .                                    43.3                         18.1                         32A                         23.0
0 6ord*  du                                     50.0                         11A                          36.2                        28.0
* _ '    d.w                                    60.0                         10.0                         33.3                        34.8
12       t                                      60                           21.0                         34.3                         36.0
FFORPCE OIWES CHANGES FOR
TPAIUU AMD FOR COMPMUSON GROIR
*_s SinAi.                                      14.0                        -11.2
OUR 9 "Wets                                     10.1                        -16.5
ot 12* mut                                      16.0                        -1s.3
Seibdoo 'dmowid- wte   who t"hei c d tsh we pot odo.*w hoeum. _y doet b  a to fhd a ew
--'" _ # - _ Z     _     d     S t _         " " ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Toblo 7
Estimad Training Effet on Emplyomet - Mat"e
Trainees vs. Controls
D.ff.ters6e In Predictd Enp. Pnbablilos .ieDifference in Prdtotd Enp. Prboltittle
(spec, with duc Duswnies)                  ("a.. with oonnous scool vdbl
Uincorrecd           Sol. c ott               Uncorrtoed            Set. Corelo#t
FROM UNWEIGHTED
PRODITS:
Aftor 2 months                              .05                   .084'                   .072-                  .098
After 6 months                               0                     .05S.                    0                    .077-
Aftwr 12 months                              0                       0                       0                      0
FROM WEIGHTED PRO8ITSI:
Aftr 3 month.                               .1 1t                  .097-                   .1 13"                 .095--
After 8 months                               a                     .095-                     0                     .jO..
Aftr 12 months                               0                     .058                      0                      0
* Diflfronce between predice empoym  probabilities due to tratiig dumm. Etimated from probit euations shown in Taes-. Column  1)la based on unuorrected
probltt. Counmn 12) Is based on probits with selectivity correction.
^ Controls selcted according to selection criteria used for trainees.
' Sample weights are constructed to match proportion of trainees In total population of uneniployVd age 15-54 11988).
* Near-Significant (.10)
Significont .OS)



Table 8
Esthnsted trin Ettoct on Employmenif - Fernals
Trainees vs. Controls
Diltlseno In pred1ted Eimp. Pfabktis            Di   rteroie Io Pedictd tmn. Probiities
1spe. with Edue Pimnine1)                  (a: ,s. With aetolnoswhoo variable)
Uncorrtectd            Sa8. CorreotI            Unoorrted             Sol. Correodont
|   __________________________       _         (1)  .2) __      _                                                     (2)
FROM UNWEIGTED
PROBITS:
After 3 months                                0                     .0831                     0                       0
After 6 months                              .07                     .137-                     0                     .07-
After 12 mtonths                              0                     .113--                    0                      0
FROM WEIGHTED PROBITS:
After 3 months                                0                     .051                    .089                   .067'
After 6 months                               .09 -                  .106*                   .079"                  .087"
After 12 months                            .096"                    .092                    .0092                  .090.
Diflerence betwfen predieted employment probabilities due to training dummy. Estimated frorn probit equations shown in Tables --. Codunn il is based on uncorrectot
pmobis. Column (21 Ia based on probits with selectvity correcton.
b Controls selected according to selection criteria used for trainees.
' Sample weights are constructed to match proportion of trainees in total population of unemploypd age 15-54 (19881.
Ner-Signifianst (.103
Significant (.051



- 72 -
Table 9
Estimated Effect of Training on Employment-lemales SI
Experienced Workers vs. New Entrants
:-__________ .___               No Work Exp.       J      With Work EXP.
WEIGHTED PROBITS
3 months                         -.127*0                    .149-^
6 months                         -.083                      .209*
12 months                         _.103*                     .198*
Table 10
Monthly Salary, Hours Worked, and Hourly Wage
for Trainees and Controls
S: lPWR1e .:    Outcome 6vaiables :Trainees                   Controls
A. Male Samples (number of observations)        1212             1051
Monthy salary (1,000 pesos)        681.59         637.67
Weekly hours worked                 45.81          43.59
Hourly wage (1,000 pesos)           3.984          4.016
B. Female Samples (number of observations)       681              300
Monthy salary (1,000 pesos)        531.85         571.52
Weekly hours worked                 42.77          39.51
Hourly wage (1,000 pesos)           3.476          4.198



- 73 -
Table 11
The Effects of Participation in PROSECAT -- Men and Women
Model                       (1)                     (2)
Specification               Simple OLS             Corrected for
without corrections    training selection
coef.      t-tat_    coef.        t-atat
MALE SAMPLES
A. Logarithm of Monthly Salary
Unweighted                 -.108   -3.26                  .177     2.19
Weighted                   -.081   -1.49                  .269     1.54
B. Hours of Work Per Week
Unweighted                  .978    1.32                  7.796    4.32
Weighted                   1.260    1.12                  8.408    2.30
C. Logarithm of Hourly Wage
Unweighted                 -.09S   -2.61                  -.007   -0.07
Weighted                   -.076   -1.34                   .049    0.26
FINALE SAMPLES
A. Logarithm of Monthly Salary
Unweighted                -.122    -2.42                   .033    0.25
Weighted                  -.124    -1.40                   .021    0.08
B. Hours of Work Per Week
Unweighted                4.484     4.19                  6.234    2.06
Weighted                  4.268      2.43                 1.185    0.23
C. Logarithm of Hourly Wage
Unweighted                -.261    -4.48                  -.10S   -0.68
Weighted                  -.250    -2.50                   .180    0.61
Source: see tables 3.1 Et- T- ii-Anex  1.



Table 12
Effect of -rOBECAT Tgmmwg for MEN
Corrected for Sswpl. Selectim - UnweigWd & Choice-bssed Weijbts
Exnty Variable.                                             OLS Es_iae                                             Weighbd Let Square EaDzins
LOg MoUby Salay       Wely Hou$          Log Houdy Wage    Log MonthlY Salasy       WeekJy Hours        Log Houdy Wage
.iWold                                                        Worked
Conlsa                                           5.72600           42.537"              .574 "                5.711"0             43.561"10             .541 Os
Gemnal eie                                       .023 e                 .134            .019 '                .027                  .163 "21 *
_          dperieawe-squasd                      -.000"0            -.004 "0                       -.000".0" -*003                                      -.00*
Sdwousdw
tlo Education                            -.203 *"              -1.024               -.194             -.279                  -2.055             -.239 "
PFi Mazy-lYon0p                             -.005               -.797               .003                 -.041               -1.298                -.018
Secondafy-inoaip.                            .062               .430                .026               .084 e                  .SG2                 .035
Secondasymnop.                            .165                 -1.790             .186 **              .194 *              -1.328 *              .200 "0
HGbb eXcf                                 4.279                -.704              .2f e5              .324 *0                  .096              .316*
College                                  .571 '                 -.455             .SSS 0              .644 00                1.042              .5SI *
Training x Sckool-ug
NOl Educaton                                -.058             14.820               -.485                 .OS5                18.035                -.472
Primsy-iaomnp.                              -.063           9.101 "0            -.270 "                  .031            I1.755 *                  -.261
Primay-comp.                              .212**            8.409"*                -.002                 .311             11.306*                  .002
Secondar"y-ncop.                         .267 *              3 424 I"               .161              .366"                8.052O  *               .175
Seconday-conMW.                           .199"             10.132 **              -.039               .319 *             13.112                  -.019
lisb School                                .171 *           7.84S 1                -.029                 .277             10.502                   -.013
College                                     .045               2.769                .032                 .138                4.SS                  .053
Lamt a (gd. weod)                                -.179 "           .4.650*                -.049             -.197 *e            -5.216 *                 -.044
R-.ured                                             .1S7               .054                .145                  206                  .060                 .191
Sanle size                                          2330               2271                2271                 2330                  2271                2271
Now,s:  1. Regessions juded duraion of prviucs umploynme. osf employed csus, snd tsne dununy vardbles.
2. a Nd"  denots statiti significanc at dw S percent ad I per   l$ee,  espetve.



- 75 -
Table 13
Probability of POST-PROSECAT Employment
in a Larger Firm (Men)
Dependent Variable: Firm Size Categories 1-10
Explanatory Variables         Maximum Likelihood Ordered Logit
Estimates
(1)           (2)           (3)
Schooling Attainment
No education                  -.262         -.163          -.229
Primary-incomp.               -.014          .102          -.051
Secondary-incomp.           .289 **        .236 *          -.092
Secondary-compl.             .202 *          .189           .095
High School                 .517 **       .633 *S .541 **
College                     .482 *        .986 **        .845 0
PROBECAT Trainee
Trainee (1,0)               .786 **
x Schooling                               .246 **
x Schooling-squared                      -.017
x No education                                             -.236
x Primary-incomp.                                        .8270*
x Primary-comp.                                          .707 *0
x Secondary-incamp.                                     1.314 **
x Secondary-ccmW.                                        .893 **
x High School                                            .688 *
x College                                                  -.057
Lamda (Sel. coord)              -.354 **       -.282 **      -.338 **
NOTES:    1. Sample of 2330 observations. Regressions included
quadratic specification of general experience, the
duration of previous unemployment, and time dummy
-variables.
2. * and ** denotes statistical significance at the S
percent and 1 percent levels, respectively.



ESadma of Lab_ RetrFisl  1'oMU
.:wiqo Dtimdaof5saicb                                     I ..ubuaa'fle .ob .  T_imo to .ob T          Was Nifocis     PzAcMa Moty Wa'
Md
AI                         4.0                6.5                 6.9                  0.4               .2T           642            490
Wt POWi    Wk EN.          3I                 6.5                 6.4                  .0.1              .35           66S            SW0
No?vtb Wk RV               7.2                5.9                10.1                  4.2               .2r            54t           413
Ago <-2S                   4.7               6.1                  7.6                  1.5               .3r           609            421
Ag .> 2S                   3.2               6.9                  6.1                  .05               .221          719            577
sscbCioacutlsia            3.9                6.1                 6.e                   0.7           .25 to.IT         632           460
JU1                        5.9                7.5                 8.8                   1.0              .02            444           435
Wulh PtiorWk sp.           S.O                9.0                 ?.9                  -1.1              .11            467          457
NotosrWkE 8p J.2                              5.8                tl.t                  5.3               .02           402           394
Age < -25                  6.0                7.0                 1.9                  1.9               .16           4tS           404
Age >-25                   5.7               9.4                 A1.                   4.1               .04           454           436
SelectiaaCrltuia'          5.9                7,5                 8.1                  1.0            -.13 to .10      43S        -  422
* SsaScntat10% Jowl
'.Sid*Adat 5% b    ael
&mzividvah wb  at ja  conplek  pdmmy _ducaton but ao mae hn cooyW* bigbt seconday.
'Ale davtin of trming eodod - 2.9 monts.
1q1_ tdke cofficlkt an e _umny fo unMc sm (mm  gresaon of Ns monhl wages on open .. erpreawo sad and schooling. The megression alao includes quawter dumnu., a
dummy for lf.611IoyWOt, durat  Of uneuployment piot to tirn tO, a dunmy kg ptio work obnpe., and interticons between the training dummy and schooling snO, and betwen the
t%itin dunmy and age (see main an ad tables 10 and t I Ibr detailed descritn of ste).
* preicted montY wages at anyle mens om same S egreDsi.



Tabi IS
Nt Bomefih By Type d1 Traee
ofotf Tuning             _miot; Inc la maebly Woo
DcITr Coss             Seea"h Co'              Over3  ethe         Ove 12 man
Oft)                  (Oms)
___________  (I)      (2)                     (3)                  (4)
AD                        350.4                 196.0                   456.0                1,824.0
With Pdo Wk Exp.          350.4                -66.5'                   474.0                1,396.0
No Prior Wk Exp           350.4                 1,734.6                 334.0                1,536.0
Age <=25                  350.4                 631.5                   564.0               2,256.0
AgP > 25                  350.4                -575.2'                   426.0               1,704.0
Mee"ting Education
Sedection Criteri'        350.4                 322.0                    516.0               2,064.0
F    _ausi
AUI                       350.4                 435.0                     0                    0
Wdb PtiorWk Bp.           350.4                -513.7'                    0                    0
No Pior Wk E.p            3S0.4                2,083.2                    0                    0
Age < 25                  350.4                 767.6                     0                    0
AP > 25                   350.4                -348.8'                    0                    0
meeting Education
Sctn heI                  350.4                 422.0                     0                    0
'Equtc  a additional sims trainees Ia  to find a jab (becaus of time in tvaini  timc the qpatuy coat of that time (which equate the wage of thc cArvts -ic. the wage the traines would
ha" eceved wthout Om tnig.
a Train    wiAh wak exrience andthe aged 25 an over fidA  jab      acoenmuob even when yq take into accoun the training period. Thi estimate cqual the exta time worked by
tinse   elaive to oatol * tnee wa.



Figure 1: Survival Curves for Unemployed Males
1Swt** P OIIIlty                                                                            ,Sviv,  ProwbIllty
1.2
-   ^n > 26             ^                                                               de <g 26
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. S............... . ..I................... ..... . .......... ........
0$  ....                                                   .......... . ........               B    \. ..........
O A\   .. ............... .. 0<.. .. ..........0 .48                                              .......   .....
0.2  ...   ............                                                                       0.2  . ... . .. ... ....................
.O
I I   8   *   4   6                                                        a                         I 6    S  0  a  a 8   4   a   S   ?   a   0   wi    n
Dwation In months                                                                             Duration In months
I-wii.   lCn-a *&MM                                                                                                      _''-
Agp o 26                                                                                      Age * 26
Wfth Prbr Work Experbnoo                                                                    WMt No Pror Work Experinse
swvkd pmbamotY                                                                                Sv2l PPifow ty
si      1                                                           1       30                                        2                                        U         
s ,...............................    ..    ...    ..   ...    ........  .., ..........     .    ..   .     ........    .....  .......  I   ~.....    ...............
04~~~~~~~~. . .         .. .     ............ .... . ..  ...   .   . .. .. .I . ...   ................  .9
OA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........                                                OA                     .. .. ,.. .... ... .... Z
04  :-I ....... .s                                          ................O    ..... ..... ....
6 2  .... I ............                                                                     G I  .  ..  ....  .....
o   *       a            4   a *                  0 r  o   o            n  a                  o            2  a  4   a  O   r   a   O  "   n 
Duration In months                                                                            Duration In months
Ltainom                                                                                         Ttabo"          --t _   I_T  _     -



Figure 2: Survival Curves for Unemployed Females
8uvW  Pr*WbIRty                                                                     Surdvl  ProbsbINty
. V  _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  4-. 2
0 4                  ..............................    ...    .....   ............O                                .................. ..  ... ..... ...
04   ......  .. ...... I...........i.    .       ....................               0.0  .....      ....  .....................                 . ..... ....
CA  ............................                                                   OA  .....................     .  
O    1    2    6    4    6    0    7    8    9 S             n                      o          2    a    4    a0 O               a e        i          an
DurUon In month                                                                     Dwatio In month8
ww"Vi ProbmeWh
a2..                                                                                                                                 ..
0.S  .....
OA  .............. ... ...
0.2                                            TraInee1-1 If trainee  &  unemployed  '  6  months
.    ,    .    4    .    0    .    .    .    .    .Tralne*2-1  If tralinee  &  unemployed    6 8  months
O    1    2    4    4    a    a    r    0    9    la    n 
Dwation In months
cant""         -6- Tmalns.     T ak"2



_ _   __           _                                          _                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 20343l
\sA,  1\C-t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N w'F: C 'TA'E'    .    .\:   s
+nwl      ; 
NCAIIONA                          .-Vt          8'  
. 9  '  ;,   St.O Et 05 f A  _   ,  s                _                                                      ~~~M  E X I C O
t   ,   t   ).,, + ,.,,   /       5 ' X                                                         t   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NW,,=7 Iol7
-> t  i7tt3e1Wx { 2~~~~~~~ _ 6 6 t ^ b ^ 4 8 ,55 o 5t7te corat71S1ttamtenesace d\trlot neGquadets)~~~~~dIV1C h.dq..t.,.
6AJA \~~~-_ Ye7ii'r 2iz rr      8A- wddhs*
.. C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A    f ONA                                                                     *                                   n.......' t,v,,o''St- o.-  .g - lrcemrod
.  -   9               t' 'N   P -    W  ivt       x   w K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'-.]-P"
't ' \.    '           XultO~~~~~~r   U f A /. 0 jO   ._,'       ,,        ,_  _        ;
5 w \  v      C   z u,AgA T f  Av ,  ,t t  /r'-,J  rAi4llPt
,        \,s  A              ob'\1   ' t~~~'  ''  se1  J -''Al 1 -
t                                                               _                                                                        eV  >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OVINfANA 
CL5rrieS \, Xic-z P/ e:} | z Dr---POO
zlaateeje_   >Chp7clE          t               __--t          r\                           JEI7
r  etr  ..  tr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P.



