Page  1
                                                   CONFORMED COPY
                                           LOAN NUMBER 2876 ME
                    (Manpower Training Project)
                              between
                       UNITED MEXICAN STATES
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                      Dated October 13, 1987
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2876 ME
                        GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  October  13,  1987,  between UNITED MEXICAN
STATES (the Guarantor)  and  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A)  the  Guarantor  and  Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
(the Borrower), having been  satisfied  as  to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement,
have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
and
     (B)  by the Loan Agreement of  even date herewith between the
Bank and the  Borrower,  the  Bank  has  agreed  to  extend to the
Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to eighty million
dollars ($80,000,000), on the  terms  and  conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree
to guarantee the obligations  of  the  Borrower in respect of such
loan and to undertake such  other  obligations as provided in this
Agreement; and
Page  2
     WHEREAS the Guarantor, in  consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement  with  the  Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of  the  Borrower and to undertake such
other obligations as stipulated in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this Agreement and  Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                             Guarantee
     Section 2.01. Without limitation  or  restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as  primary  obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and  punctual  payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges  on,  the Loan, and the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual performance of
all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in the
Loan Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. The  Guarantor  declares  its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 1 to this
Agreement and, to this end,  shall  carry out the Project, through
STPS, with due diligence  and  efficiency,  and in conformity with
appropriate administrative,  financial,  economic  and educational
practices, and  shall  provide,  promptly  as  needed,  the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
     Section 3.02. The Guarantor  shall enter into the contractual
arrangements referred to  in  Section  3.01  of the Loan Agreement
with the Borrower. Except as  the  Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Guarantor shall not change  or  fail  to  enforce any provision of
such arrangements.
     Section 3.03. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the  goods  and  consultant  services required for the
Project and to be financed out  of  the proceeds of the Loan shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.04.  Unless  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree, the
Guarantor shall not modify the  STPS  Retraining Program in such a
manner which would  materially  and  adversely affect the carrying
out of the Project, or fail  to  comply with any of the provisions
of such Program.
     Section 3.05. The  Guarantor  shall,  through  STPS until the
completion of the Project: (i)  cause CET to be regularly informed
of the progress in the execution of  Parts A and B of the Project;
and (ii) take into account the  views expressed by CET in carrying
out such Parts of the Project.
     Section 3.06. The Guarantor shall:
     (a)  not later than March  31  of  each  year: (i) select, in
Page  3
accordance with  criteria  acceptable  to  the  Bank, the training
institutions which will assist the  Guarantor in carrying out Part
A of the  Project;  and  (ii)  enter into appropriate arrangements
with such institutions for the provision of such assistance; and
     (b)  select, in accordance with  criteria satisfactory to the
Bank, the training institutions to be upgraded under Part D of the
Project as follows:
          (i)   not later than  December  31,  1987, the first 150
                training institutions;
         (ii)   not later than  December  31,  1988, an additional
                200 training institutions; and
        (iii)   not later than  December  31,  1989, the remaining
                150 training institutions.
     Section 3.07. The Guarantor  shall establish and maintain the
SIP not later than March 31, 1988.
     Section 3.08. The Guarantor  shall  cause at least five GATES
to be established not later than  June 30, 1988, and the remaining
GATES to be established not later than March 31, 1989.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Guarantor shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate records  and  accounts  adequate to reflect in
accordance  with  sound   accounting   practices  the  operations,
resources and  expenditures  in  respect  of  the  Project  of the
departments or agencies of  the Guarantor responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Guarantor shall:
          (i)  have the accounts referred  to  in paragraph (a) of
               this  Section  for  each  fiscal  year  audited, in
               accordance   with   generally   accepted   auditing
               standards and  procedures  consistently applied, by
               independent and qualified auditors;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later then six months after the end of
               each such year, a  certified  copy of the report of
               such audit by said  auditors,  of such scope and in
               such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  have reasonably
               requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
               ing said accounts and  the  audit thereof, and said
               records,  as  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditures, the Guarantor shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with  paragraph  (a)   of  this  Section,  separate
               records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, or cause to be retained, until at least one
               year after the Bank  has  received the audit report
               for the fiscal  year  in  which the last withdrawal
               from  the  Loan  Account   was  made,  all  records
               (contracts, orders,  invoices,  bills, receipts and
               other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
Page  4
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such separate  accounts are included in
               the annual audit  referred  to  in paragraph (b) of
               this Section and that  the report thereof contains,
               in respect of  such  separate  accounts, a separate
               opinion by said auditors as to whether the proceeds
               of  the   Loan   withdrawn   in   respect  of  such
               expenditures were used  for  the purposes for which
               they were provided.
                             ARTICLE V
            Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
     Section 5.01. The Director General  de Credito Publico of the
Secretaria de  Hacienda  y  Credito  Publico  of  the Guarantor is
designated as representative of the  Guarantor for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 5.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Guarantor:
          Direccion General de Credito Publico
          Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
          Palacio Nacional - Edificio 10, P.B.
          06066 Mexico, D.F., Mexico
                                            Telex:
                                              01774300
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                       440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                     UNITED MEXICAN STATES
                     By /s/ Jorge Pinto-Masal
                                         Authorized Representative
                     INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                     By /s/ Rainer B. Steckhan
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
Page  5
                                 Latin America and the Caribbean
                            SCHEDULE 1
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to:
     (a)  strengthen  the  Guarantor's   employment  services  and
improve the effectiveness  of  the Guarantor's retraining programs
for displaced and unemployed workers;
     (b)  assist  private  enterprises,  particularly  Small-  and
Medium-Scale Enterprises, in selected  sectors  of the economy and
geographical  areas  of  the  Guarantor  in  developing  their own
capacity  for   in-service   training   of   skilled  workers  and
technicians;
     (c)  strengthen STPS in  order  to  enable  it to improve its
support and monitoring of  training activities and its information
system for coordination and linkage  of training with labor market
needs; and
     (d)  increase  training  capacity  through  the  upgrading of
selected training institutions.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank  and the Borrower may agree upon
from time time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Retraining
     (a)  Strengthening  and   expansion   of  employment  support
services at the  State  level  through  the provision of technical
assistance through STPS, including the acquisition and utilization
of computer equipment.
     (b)  Strengthening of STPS Retraining Program in the areas of
planning, content and  implementation, including the establishment
of systematic arrangements  for  the  monitoring and evaluation of
the effectiveness of the STPS Retraining Program.
     (c)  Retraining of  about  160,000 economically disadvantaged
and displaced or unemployed workers.
Part B:   In-service Training
     Implementation  of  a  system  for  promoting  and supporting
in-service  training,  including,  inter  alia:  (i) establishment
and operation of about 20 GATES  and the SIP to promote and assist
in the delivery of in-service training to workers, particularly in
Small- and  Medium-Scale  Enterprises;  (ii)  provision of produc-
tivity promotion services for Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprises;
and (iii) provision of short-term training to about 75,000 workers
in Small- and Medium-Scale  Enterprises, including acquisition and
utilization of training materials.
Part C:   STPS Strengthening
     Strengthening the  technical  and administrative capabilities
of STPS's  directorate  responsible  for  national  employment and
related programs including: (i) training of about 100 staff in the
area of project  and  program  design  and evaluation, statistical
analysis related  to  labor  markets  and  manpower,  and training
topics related to labor  productivity and occupational structures;
(ii) development of improved labor market and manpower information
systems,  including  acquisition   and   utilization  of  computer
equipment; and  (iii)  carrying  out  a  study  on  the  costs and
benefits of retraining and in-service training programs, to assess
options for the development of training systems for STPS.
Part D:   Upgrading of Training Institutions
Page  6
     Increasing the training capacity of about 500 existing train-
ing  institutions  in  critically  needed  specialties,  including
acquisition and utilization of  equipment inputs and staff upgrad-
ing in training-facility management  and general administration of
training programs.
                        *     *     *     *
     This Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1993.
                            SCHEDULE 2
               Procurement and Consultants Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part  C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded  in  accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections  I  and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  goods  manufactured in Mexico may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for goods  estimated  to  cost  between $40,000 and
$250,000, up to an aggregate  amount  not to exceed the equivalent
of $5,000,000, may  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded on the
basis of competitive  bidding,  advertised  locally, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   Items or groups  of  items  estimated  to  cost less than the
equivalent of $40,000 per contract,  up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed the  equivalent  of  $4,000,000,  may  be procured under
contracts awarded on the  basis  of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of  at  least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in  accordance  with  procedures acceptable to the
Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of $250,000 or more,  the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply. When
payments for such  contract  are  to  be  made  out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph  2  (d)  shall be furnished to the
Bank prior to the making of  the  first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Bank as  part of the evidence to be fur-
Page  7
nished pursuant to paragraph 4  of Schedule 3 (the Special Account
Schedule) to the Loan Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 25% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
     In order to carry  out  the  Project, the Guarantor shall, as
and when  appropriate,  employ  consultants  whose qualifications,
experience  and  terms  and  conditions  of  employment  shall  be
satisfactory to the Bank.  Such  consultants  shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of  the  "Guidelines  for  the  Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and  by  the  World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.
