Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20525
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-33380; SCL-3338A)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 100 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF POLAND
FOR AN EMPLOYMENT PROMOTION AND SERVICES PROJECT
JUNE 20, 2000
Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, and Poland Country Unit
Human Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective)
Currency Unit = Zloty
1 Zloty = US$ 0.23
US$ I = 4.32 Zloty
FISCAL YEAR
January I  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ALP          -     Active Labor Program
ALSO        -      Automation of the Labor and Social Welfare Organization
BLS         -      Bureau of Labor Statistics
BPZ         -      Biuro Promnocji Zatrudnienia (Office for Employment Promotion)
CIS         -      Career Information System
EDF         -      Enterprise Development Fund
ESPS        -      Employment Promotion and Services Project
FTP         -      Economic Transformation Program
GUS         -      Central Statistical Office
IASs        -      Industrial Adjustment Services
ILO         -      International Labor Office
LLO         -      Local Labor Office
MIS         -      Management Information System
MOL         -      Ministry of Labor
MOLSP       -      Ministry of Labor and Social Policy
NGO         -      Non-Governmental Organization
PCU         -      Project Coordination Unit
SAR         -      Staff Appraisal Report
SBAC        -      Small Business Assistance Center
SWO         -      Social Welfare Office
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager/Director:   Basil G. Kavalsky
Sector Manager/Director:   Michal J. Rutkowski
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Jan J. Rutkowski



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   12
6. Sustainability                                                                       13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      15
9. Partner Comments                                                                     17
10. Additional Information                                                             28
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    29
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   33
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   36
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    37
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   39
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      40
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  41
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                                    42
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                                  44
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P008582                                        Project Name: EMPLOYMENT PROMOTION
Team Leader: Jan J. Rutkowski                              TL Unit: ECSHD
ICR Type: h1tensive Learning Model (fLM) of ICR            Report Date: .une 7, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: EMPLOYMENT PROMOTION                            LiC/TF Number. CPL-33380;
SCL-3338A
CountryiDepartment: POLAND                                                Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: SE - Labor Markets & Employment
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD.  03/01/90                                 Effective: 09/30/91           09/30/91
Appraisal:  04/01/91                                  MTR. 04/04/94               04/04/94
Approval:  06/04/91                                 Closing: 12/31/96            12/31/99
Borrower/IImplementing Agency:  REPUBLIC OF POLAND/MOLSP/MOL
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn                           Wilfried Thalwitz
Country Manager:     Basil G. Kavalsky                          Ian Hume
Sector ,1anager:     Michal Rutkowski                           Ralph Harbison
Team Leader at ICR:   Jan J. Rutkowski                          David Fretwell
ICR Primary Author:   Arvo Kuddo
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN-Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: HS
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: H
Bank Performance: S
Borrower PerJormance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:
Project at Risk at Any Time:



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The objective of the Employment Promotion and Services Project (EPSP) was to promote
employment, investment and economic growth by improving labor force development. The
specific objectives were to: (a) iniprove the cost-effectiveness of existing employment and social
welfare programs; (b) increase occupational, sectoral and geographic mobility of the labor force;
(c) increase productivity of the labor force and promote investment; and (d) test mechanisms for
job creation by the unemployed through micro-enterprise development.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Project objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
EPSP comprises five components:
(I)   Management Infrastructure: to improve the administrative efficiency and coverage
of programs supported under the Employment and Social Welfare Law.
(IH)  Income Support: to improve the efficiency of income support programs by: (a)
establishing criteria for client means testing at Social Welfare Offices (SWOs); (b)
developing and implementing SWO staff training; (c) improving SWO facilities; and
(d) creating an unernployment benefit and financing system coordinated with other
cash benefit systems and financially independent from programs supported by the
Employment Law.
(1II) Employment Services: to expand and improve existing services. The project
supported: (a) development and implementation of Industrial Adjustment Services
(IASs), a rapid response mechanism to assist enterprises and communities
experiencing mass layoffs; (b) development of materials, techniques and facilities to
improve occupational counseling; and (c) improvement of national and Local Labor
Office (LLO) staff training;
(IV) Adult Training: to support establishment of national guidelines and procedures and
development of local training programs for unemployed adults. At the national level,
MOLSP would develop model procedures for LLOs to use in awarding contracts to
local training instituLtions and to improve the quality and cost-effectiveness of training
provided. At the local level, resources would be provided to institutions to develop
and upgrade vocational, junior and middle management, foreign language, mobile
training and basic education programs.
(J)   Micro-Enterprise Development: to strengthen the ability of local non-governmental
organizations (e.g., foundations and associations) to provide improved services: (a)
to the unemployed who have shown the aptitude to start micro-enterprises; and (b)
to Small Business Advisory Centers, Incubators, and Enterprise Development
(Credit) Funds to strengthen the existing enterpreneurship programs.
- 2-



3.4 Revised Components:
Components were not revised except, after renegotiations of the Loan in 1994 initiated by
the Government, components allocations were changed. The scope of the Adult Training
Component was reduced from 43.3 million to 6.0 million and the Micro-Enterprise Development
Component was expanded from 2.5 million to 13.1 million during implementation. (See below for
more detailed description).
3.5 Quality al Entry:
QAG review not available at the time of this project preparation.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall achievement of project objectives is judged to be highly satisfactory. The Project
was designed as a response to, and in support of, the Polish rapid Economic Transformation
Program (ETP). This was accomplished by two parallel initiatives: (a) broad policy and
institutional development at the national level, and (b) strengthening of the ability of local
government and non-government agencies to provide temporary income support and labor
re-deployment services to workers displaced by the ETP.
The project accomplished four broad development objectives: (a) the cost effectiveness of
existing employment and social assistance programs has been improved through an extensive
automation program for labor and social assistance offices, including a quasi experimental design
evaluation of labor programs; refining of policies and regulations for unemployment benefits,
employment programs, and social assistance programs; and improving labor market information;
(b) the mobility of the workforce between occupations, sectors, and regions has been improved by
strengthening of the job-brokering function of local Labor Offices, as well by improving adult
retraining programs; (c) productivity of the work force has been increased and investments
promoted through the adult retraining component; and (d) mechanisms for job-creation by the
unemployed have been tested through the programs undertaken by the micro-enterprise
component of the Project. Project objectives included activities that addressed gender equity and
access issues, including the evaluation of labor program which reviewed the use and impact of
programs by female unemployed. (See Section 4.2 (a)).
The Loan original closing date was the end of December 1996. However, in the view of the
necessity to complete the implementation of the automation of Social Welfare Offices and Local
Labor Offices; the need to expand the Industrial Adjustment sub-component connected with the
restructuring of the hard coal sector, and the need to enhance the micro-enterprise development
component, the Loan closing date was extended until the end of December 1999.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The principal outcomes of the project are as follows:
Component I.
Management Infrastructure: Improved cost-effectiveness and coverage of programs by
refining policy, improving management information, automating national and local social welfare
- 3 -



and labor offices, and enhancing labor market information.
(a) Management Informaition System (MIS): This sub-component was designed for the
MOLSP to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of Employment Law programs. Six basic
documents were prepared, including "Guidelines for Information Management Systerni
for Labor Market Programs in Poland" with corresponding application software. The
document "International Comparison of MIS for Employment and Training Programs"
presents a comparative study of objectives, principles, application and outcomes of the
system in eight countries. The Polish component of a quasi experimental Cross-Country
Evaluation of the Active Labor Programs (ALPs) was completed. Most programs
(except public works) were found to have a positive net impact on re-employment
chances of the unemployed. The study fostered a culture of cost-effectiveness at local,
regional and national levels. A process of refining targeting and allocation of resources
towards the programs that were found the most effective for different client groups has
been initiated.
An important product has been the development of a module for calculating
effectiveness indicators for all labor market programs which function in Poland, e.g.,
unemployment/social welfare benefits, job exchange services, training, credits for the
unemployed to set up a small business, public works, intervention works and job
subsidies. In 1995, after application software has been refined, efficiency indices were
tested in two labor offices in Krakow and Poznan voivodships. In 1996, implementation
of the system was commenced throughout the country, preceded by publishing a
handbook entitled "Analysis of Cost-Effectiveness of Labor Market Programs". A
series of training courses have been completed for managers of all labor offices at
national, regional and local levels. Based on the efficiency measurement system,
experimental software was developed to support the distribution of resources of the
Labor Fund.
(b) Refine Employment Law: This sub-component helped to improve targeting of
programs to needy groups. The legislative initiatives included the following: "Suggested
Rules for Unemployrnent Law for Poland", "Management Information System (MIS)
Guidelines for Employment Law Programs in Poland", "Suggested Revisions to the
Polish Welfare Law", and "Suggested Revisions to the Polish Employment Law" which
served also as an introduction to MIS, laid the foundation to introduce unemployment
insurance system ancl to improve targeting of programs to needy and special groups
(e.g., women, youth, older adults, handicapped and disabled).
(c) Automation of Local Labor Office operations (LLOs), Social Welfare Office
(SWOs) operations and cost reporting, and MOLSP central office: The ALSO
(Automation of the Labor and Social Welfare Organization) sub-component aimed at
establishment of program management and planning for Management Information
System (MIS) to fully automate services in local labor and social welfare offices and the
flow of information between these offices, the voivodships, central ministry offices and
the National Labor Office. A national communication strategy has been developed
-4 -



based on a uniform computer software system and a modem hardware and
telecommunications infrastructure has been established as follows:
(i) System of Labor Offices (PULS) - 410 installation sites throughout the country
and approximately 10,300 computer work stations;
(ii) Social Welfare System (POMOST) - ca 2,580 installations throughout the country
and approximately 6,000 computer work stations; and
(iii) MOLSP/MOL Headquarters - approximately 300 computer work stations.
(d) Labor Market Information subcomponent assisted frequent data collection, provision
of analyses/trend information, and refined the labor market information system to
reflect the changing market economy, including improving the framework of
employer/establishment based and household/panel surveys, and provision of analysis of
data in a manner that can be better understood by users. This subcomponent assisted in:
(a) design of labor market information systems; (b) verification and development of
standard research procedures; (c) establishment of a system of integrated analysis of the
labor market, and (d) development of living standards analysis system constituting a
part of social monitoring. The loan amount allocated to this subcomponent was mainly
earmarked for purchasing computer equipment necessary to carry out market surveys
and measurement of living standards, with a smaller amount for technical assistance.
The following surveys were conducted:
(i) The employment and earnings survey, by occupation, was conducted in eight
selected voivodships;
(ii) The analysis of labor costs was conducted for the first time in two sectors of the
economy, and methods for analyzing Employment Cost Index were developed;
(iii) A framework survey of labor force demand and business activities was developed
and an experimental survey was performed in big enterprises.
MOLSP and GUS (Central Statistical Office) revised occupational and sectoral
classification systems and established sample employer surveys to determine the
employment and wage structure of occupations by sectors. Also a table of occupations
by sector (economic activity) and an automated Occupational Information System were
developed. GUS has completed rework of labor market statistical programs.
All these activities have been accompanied with the support of long and short-term
training programs involving GUS staff and local labor officers, and included training on
estimating unemployment in local labor markets and on forecasting labor force demand
and supply.
(e) Project Coordinating Unit (PCU): a PCU was established under this Component and
at the first stage of Project implementation was assisted by a full-time advisor from ILO
to ensure proper implementation of the Project. The PCU provided administrative
support to departments which were implementing technical project components. The
- 5 -



PCU represented the project to the external ministerial authorities. The PCU has
performed its tasks in two teams: (a) procurement and documentation team; and (b)
finance tearn.
Overall, outcomes of the Component are assessed by the Bank in this ICR as highly
satisfactory.
Component II:
Income Support: Helpedi to refine unemployment and social welfare income support
measures to avert poverty and assist the unemployed, families and other individuals cope with
short and long-term income fluctuations.
(a) Establish objective criteria for client means testing at SWO: This sub-component
aimed at designing a simple procedure for means testing. The following activities were
implemented:
(i) an analysis of efficiency of the Polish social welfare legislation was accomplished,
and proposals regarding changes in the social welfare legislation were prepared.
Procedures of testing living standards were taken into account in amending the
Social Welfare Law.
(ii) survey procedures of welfare beneficiaries under new benefit granting circumstances
were improved and, in particular, changes in the format of family/community
interviews were made. This allowed simplification of procedures for testing clients
needs that can be used to determine the level of benefits and services.
(b) Define SWO traininig needs: The objective of this sub-component was to assess
recruitment needs of social welfare centers and organization of technical training
courses and internal training for the staff. The final report included a number of
proposals concerning training for the staff of SWOs in view of a new model social
welfare center. Training of social workers in Great Britain and Ireland was supported,
and an extensive short-term training program was provided to SWO staff.
(c) Improve SWO facilities: Under this sub-component, a model social welfare center was
designed that included all elements indispensable for social welfare personnel to fulfill
the growing number of duties. 750 social welfare centers were equipped under the
component with professional office equipment. Teaching aids were provided to 7
training centers involved in training the staff from social welfare offices.
Achievement of the objective of this Component is assessed as highly satisfactory.
Component III:
Employment Services Programs: Aimed to improve mass layoff, career counseling, job
search and labor exchange tecEniques to promote occupational and geographic mobility of the
labor force.
-6 -



(a) Develop and implement Industrial Adjustment Services (IASs): The objective of
this sub-component was to develop IASs aimed at assisting workers affected by mass
layoffs through the use of cost effective interventions at the enterprise level well in
advance of actual dismissal. A model of such services was field tested in two
voivodships in selected enterprises in which layoffs took place. Respective handbooks
(instructions and guideline manuals), including an information directory entitled
"Model of Services for Mitigating Layoff Effects" has been published and regularly
updated according to changes in legislation. A number of seminars on the model for
large scale layoff counselors have been organized, and training materials were
prepared. A 5-day training was also organized to all the managers of all local labor
offices. Questionnaire inquiries conceming former activities aimed at mitigating the
effects of layoffs have been conducted. The Employment Law rules were evaluated
and respective proposals with respect to changes in the regulations and governmental
policy were submitted.
The implementation of the Component was highly valuable, and was further extended
to support the Governmental Program of Restructuring the Hard Coal Mining Industry
in Poland by providing assistance to workers of the sector who faced layoffs resulting
from mine shut-downs and employment reductions. Five subprojects were
implemented: (a) assistance in establishing BPZs (Biuro Promocji Zatrudnienia -
Offices for Employment Promotion) whose aim is to provide direct assistance to
miners losing work in mines undergoing restructuring process. In mid-1999, 35 BPZs
were established; (b) staff training to improve competence among BPZ staff in the area
of interpersonal skills, vocational guidance, law, computer literacy and support of
self-employment; (c) development of institutions to support private economic
initiatives and small business ventures; (d) a public information campaign; and (e) a
small business assistance program. Five hundred former miners gained assistance
through the latter program, and 11.9 % of those who received the assistance started
their own small business (this compares favorably with intemational standards of 5%
to 6 %). The demand for related vouchers far outstripped the supply.
(b) The objective of the second sub-component was to develop materials, techniques,
facilities to support occupational counseling in Employment Services in order to
increase overall effectiveness of employment services. This was achieved through the:
(i) development and dissemination of modem tools for the needs of vocational
counseling; adaptation of occupational aptitude tests and vocational interest
questionnaires; development of a set of job characteristics; education and training
information systems; development of a computer software ("Doradca 2000")
supporting vocational counseling and containing data bases on education and
training opportunities. The Polish version of occupational aptitude tests and
vocational questionnaires with General Aptitude Test Battery and Self-Evaluation
Test have been adopted for use in Poland; 543 Job Characteristics, around 300 Job.
Files containing information on jobs, a Job Guide and the methodology of
developing job characteristics have been prepared for a "Occupational Guide
- 7 -



Book" and for use in the automated Career Information System (CIS).
(ii) introduction of new methods and approaches of employment services. This
subcomponent developed short-term training programs, including promotion of
active job exchange methods and marketing strategy; and job club programs and
training program for club leaders. Manuals "Skills of Job Club Leaders - Training
Program" and "Program of a Job Club" were developed. Training for job club
leaders have been conducted. In addition, curricula for the four different long-term
staff training programs have been completed and programs are underway at Lodz
University. A "Marketing Guidelines for Employment Services" was prepared
describing the principles and forms of marketing of services to be applied in public
employment service.
(c) The third sub-component assisted in development of Local Labor Office (LLO)
facilities, office eqtuipment, and improvement of national and local labor office
staff training. Six short-term training programs were developed: "Work With the
Unemployed"; "Marketing of Services and Active Methods of Labor Exchange";
"Cooperation  with  Extemal Partners"; "Skills of the  Job  Club  Leader";
"Self-Organization of Work", and "Management Skills". Four training programs at
university level in the area of vocational counseling were developed including 5-year
MA studies, 3-year BA studies, and annual and bi-annual post-graduate study
programs. A document "Guidelines for the Location, Layout and Equipment of Labor
Offices Throughout the Country" was prepared and tested in four model regional labor
offices. Four new model offices were developed, and the modernization of other labor
offices was taking place following the guidelines. Labor offices were all supplied with
basic office equipment.
The implementation of this Component exceeded the scope of the original agreement with
the World Bank due to savings gained in the fulfilling the other tasks under the project, and its
outcomes are assessed as highly satisfactory. Its completion had a major impact on the
infrastructure and institutions of employment services.
Component IV:
Adult Training: This component aimed to enhance labor force mobility by training and
retraining of the unemployed and increasing competence of unskilled workers so they could cope
with the structural unemployment.
In 1994, renegotiations 'between the new Polish Government and the Bank resulted in a
major reduction of foreign curTency resources from the Loan especially for the procurement of
training equipment. According; to SAR, it was assumed that US$ 43.3 million (Bank-financed
part) would be assigned for AdLult Training Programs. After renegotiations, the foreign budget for
this Component was reduced to US$ 6.0 million. Respectively, the scope of activities was reduced
to the implementation of 23 pilot courses based on modules developed for 21 vocational areas, as
opposed to the original objective of 42 courses, each of which were to be replicated 10 times for a
total of 420 programs. However, 110 institutions were given training in how to implement the 21
- 8 -



programs, some of which have done so by using their own internal resources. It was also agreed
that programs in foreign language training and management courses for middle managerial staff
would be deleted because the market for such training services was developed independently
while pilot modular training programs in management were developed and implemented aimed
mainly at small and medium-sized firms. Resources for the procurement of didactic equipment for
training institutions to implement modular courses were significantly reduced which considerably
limited the scope of this component.
(a) Establish national guidelines: The objective of the first sub-component was to
establish national guidelines for contracting procedures in disbursing Employment Law
funds to local training institutions, and a model program for customized training. Among
many tasks completed, the following activities were accomplished:
(i) Model contracts and procedures for LLOs were developed to be used in awarding
contracts to local training institutions, and to improve the equality and
cost-effectiveness of training provided. Programs and procedures have been
proposed for marketing and implementing customized training to support
revitalization of existing enterprises and creation of new enterprises. Resources were
provided to assist local institutions to upgrade vocational training;
(ii) National rules of cooperation between training institutions and labor offices,
including model procedures for contracting training institutions by labor offices were
developed. Fifty training specialists from labor offices have undergone training
conducted by the ILO International Training Center in Turin;
(iii) A document entitled "General Guidelines for Organization of Training for the
Unemployed" was prepared, and a handbook "How to Train the Unemployed" was
translated into the Polish language which allowed to develop standard procedures of
entering into agreements on provision of adult training.
(b) Develop local training programs for adults: This was achieved by conducting a series
of training courses for teachers and instructors from institutions offering courses for the
adults. One hundred and ten training institutions from all over Poland were selected and
133 types of courses were proposed for the modular approach. In total, 231 teachers
and instructors from eligible institutions were trained. Modular training programs
(curricula) for 21 occupational clusters, including training materials have been prepared.
The programs, in about 110 leading training institutions equipped with procured modern
didactic aids, are targeted for the unemployed, those who took up training on their own initiative,
those nominated by enterprises, and to the youth. This training is being conducted in occupations
where there is a labor demand (e.g., services, tourism, finance). For that purpose 354 modules
were used and resulted in 1600 hours of training for 288 persons. 14 leading training institutions,
which included private, public and NGO agencies, have been equipped with state-of-the art.
training equipment.
9-



Implementation of this Component provided a valuable contribution to the training services
market. Existing training programs have been upgraded by introducing the modular approach in
developing vocational curricula., While the scope of the Component was reduced, the outcome is
assessed as satisfactory.
Component V:
Micro-Enterprise Development: The principal objective of this component was to build
local capacity for micro-enteirprise development. Establishment of NGO network supported
local communities to operate local small business assistance centers, incubation facilities and
increase access to capital fo:r microenterprise formation and growth thus facilitating the
emergence of small and mediumn-sized firms.
After renegotiations of the budget in 1994, the total costs of this Component were
increased from US$ 2.5 million in SAR to US$ 13.1 million (Bank-financed costs). Such an
increase allowed to allocate additional funds for the expansion of project-financed small business
activities. Local authorities and other sponsors have committed substantial resources in terms of
money, equipment and local staff.
Seventy six local NGOs wvere selected to implement this Component. NGO involvement in
the promotion of entrepreneurial initiatives was arranged throughout the following activities.
(a) Access to capital for micro-enterprise formation and growth has significantly
increased. Thirty four Enterprise Development Funds (EDFs) have been established
versus twelve EDFs indicated as a goal in SAR to provide the unemployed with initial
capital required to start a small business. About 3,200 new jobs were created including
at least 2,170 persons were eliminated from unemployment register. The 95 %
repayment rate on micro-credits much exceeded expected 75 % minimum repayment
rate.
(b) Support to development of local small business was arranged through the
establishment of 61 Small Business Assistance Centers (SBACs) throughout the
country as opposed to about twenty SBACs in SAR with the primary aim of providing
intensive technical assistance and training for the unemployed. Respective business
activities included setting up and management of one's own business, including in the
field of business management, marketing, finance, and law; individual counseling
sessions; and provision of information and monitoring of company's standing. Training
premises for the unemployed were made available in 63 locations, and over 2,100
training courses were organized by SBACs for 54,800 participants, out of which 45 %
were unemployed.
(c)  Support in development of incubation facilities was provided to increase
microenterprise formation and development in selected localities. Thirty one Business
Incubators were established versus ten incubators indicated in SAR aimed at supporting
small companies during the first and most difficult period. Seven hundred seventeen
businesses were established providing employment to 3,965 persons.
- 10-



The implementation of this Component has helped build national capacity, with the
assistance of national and intemational consultants, to develop small business projects; to provide
improved services to the unemployed who have shown the aptitude to start micro-enterprises, and
to strengthen the existing entrepreneurship programs operated through LLOs. The outcome of
this Component is assessed as highly successful.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The impact of the Project achieved most of its intended development impact and exceeded
the expectation at appraisal. The tangible outcomes could be summarized as follows. The Project
provided assessment of efficacy of the present Polish labor policies and social welfare system
defined in respective laws taking into consideration procedures used in other European countries.
Suggested amendments to the legal acts helped to improve legislation regulating employment
services and social assistance programs in order to harmonize it with the legal framework similar
to the OECD one.
The project assisted in capacity building with respect to institutions dealing with labor
policies and social assistance. In particular, the project assisted MOLSP and its affiliated
institutions to transform into an assistance agency for vulnerable groups that were adversely
affected by the economic transformation; to act as a broker between employers and job seekers;
and to organize support for the unemployed who wish to become a private entrepreneurs. The
Ministry has also benefited from a range of Loan financed and Bilateral technical assistance
programs which through the provision of consultants and overseas study tours have permitted
large numbers of employment staff at all levels to become familiar with the administration and
design of benefits administration and the provision of proactive employment services in many
OECD countries. The project assisted GUS in improving monitoring of labor market
developments and social change in society.
The Project helped to increase the diversity and targeting of active labor programs and
services based on an evaluation of the cost-effectiveness of these programs with selected groups;
helped to improve information system to administer labor programs; established relevant
survey skills, and fostered a culture of cost-effectiveness at local, regional and national levels. The
Study on the evaluation of the active labor programs assisted to redesign current methods for
combating unemployment, such as public works programs, and recommends refinements including
intemships in businesses for the unemployed, employment subsidies and worker training schemes.
The new system aimed to achieve uniform labor office business processes that promote equal and
fair treatment of the citizenry independent of the location of the citizen seeking employment
benefits. The management systems developed are models for other nations in the CEE region.
The Project supported major enhancements in the infrastructure of labor and social offices
at national, regional and local level through the process of provision of modern information
- 11 -



technology and automation; establishment of new standards for offices, and equipment of facilities
with modem equipment.
The Project provided an extensive staff training, program and provision of modern
training equipment for the staff of national and local labor and social welfare offices. The Adult
Training Component enhanced training activities for the unemployed through a provision of new
training programs, a series of training courses for teachers and training of job seekers and other
vulnerable groups in the labor market.
The project facilitated restructuring of enterprises, and in particular, hard coal mining
industry, through the implernentation of industrial adjustment services. The capacity for
micro-enterprise development has been significantly enlarged, a new private business culture
enhanced, and involvement of local NGOs and local authorities to support small business activities
has been supported by the project.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors o2tside the control of government or implementing agency:
The project was designed in early 1990s. Since then, Poland's transition to a market economy
has made considerable progress, and the economic factors had an impact on project
implementation. Rapid emergence of the service and small enterprise sectors and development of
national and local labor and social assistance expertise and institutions led to the reduction of
international technical assistance, reallocation of equipment funds, and significant increases in the
micro-enterprise component. This also led to deleting some minor subcomponents from the Adult
Training Component because they were being addressed through other avenues.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The project fell behind the original appraisal schedule due to the following factors: 1) overly
optimistic appraisal schedule; 2) changes of ruling Government parties and ministers, and the
associated learning and adjustment periods for key policy makers both at the central level and at
the Voivod level; 3) difficult economic and political climate and some initial public
misunderstanding of project objectives; 4) rapid staff turnover within MOLSP; and 5) difficulties
in arriving at rapid decision making on project implementation matters.
In particular, the political pressure on MOLSP to use project resources in support of its
former role as a job creator rather than its current broader roles in providing temporary income
support, broad job brokering role, and involvement in assisting the structurally unemployed
re-enter the labor market was considerable. Public pressure also increased, during implementation,
towards increasing the use of local consultants and local sub-contractors, and reduction of the
overall level of international technical assistance.
In 1998, substantial changes were introduced by the Parliament to the Employment Law
and new legal provisions were amended in the Social Welfare Law which resulted in the necessity
of an extremely rapid update of the software due to administrative reorganization of local
government.
- 12 -



The project, especially the information technology and automation subcomponent, was
significantly affected by the Government administrative reform. Starting in January 1, 1999,
Poland has three layers of government - voivodships (regions), gminas (townships), and powiats
(counties) - instead of only two, each somewhat independent of each other, which created new
administrative linkages between entities.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
At the initial stage, Project implementation was slower than anticipated. This was due to
inadequate numbers of PCU staff, inappropriate premises, lack of professional staff in the MOLSP
and inadequate coordination of activities among stakeholders. As the Project progressed, the
MOLSP expanded PCU procurement staffing. Project coordinators also gained professional
expertise due to international exposure and work with consultants. The PCU Coordinator started
to report directly to the Vice Minister. These factors helped to successful completion of the
project.
5.4 Costs and financing:
Total project cost was estimated at US$ 142.2 million equivalent at appraisal, with the
Bank Loan of US$ 100 million, and a Government contribution in value of US$ 42.1 million. In
1994, the Loan was renegotiated, and the Bank Loan was reduced to US$ 80 million.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
Most outcomes of the Project will be sustained and will have a long-run impact on the
development of respective labor, social assistance and training institutions in the country. In
particular, according to contracts with adult training institutions, transfer of the equipment to
training institutions was conditioned by their obligation to continue modular training. Respective
monitoring system has been put in place in signing an agreement with the training institution.
Twenty institutions surveyed by MOLSP in 1998 had implemented 169 modular courses for 3,110
trainees.
In respect to micro-enterprise development, financing of programs have been supported by
PHARE and by local administration, in particular, to assist the creation of incubators that would
employ the disabled. Revolving funds continue to be used to support enterprise development
funds, and EDFs are now self-sustained.
Sustainability of several subcomponents is somewhat endangered. Implementation of
automation activities is being completed according to project objectives. However, the negative
impact of the administrative reorganization of the country had major software implications for
analysis of the effectiveness and targeting of social welfare programs. Many staff trained in the
implementation of the software were lost to other government functions during the
reorganization.
The decentralization programs essentially transfer administrative authority for operation of
labor/employment programs to local authorities in January 2000 which may work at cross
purposes to development of a mobile and flexible labor force and weaken the ability of local,
- 13 -



offices to maintain services which have been built-up over the past several years. Thus it is critical
that the Government adopts at the earliest a strategy to guarantee the long-term sustainability of
the systems implemented by the project and to allocate sufficient resources to ensure appropriate
support for the system.
Also the employment services component entailed developing model programs and services,
model offices and staff training programs. Recent legislation which decentralizes functions may
have some negative impact on selected services provided by local labor offices.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
None.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The project was put together in approximately nine months which was, at the time, rapid for
a Human Resource Project of this size and complexity. Key areas of policy development in the
field of employment services and social assistance, such as legal framework, institutional capacity
building, human development and infrastructure improvement were properly identified. Bank staff
appraised the project thoroughly. The objectives were consistent with the Polish Economic
Transforrnation Program and with the Bank Country Assistance Strategy.
7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision was professional. Through intensive supervision (19 missions in 9 years),
the project received timely advice on project implementation in light of the very dynamic political
and economic environment. However, a project of that size and complexity might require a more
regular Bank supervision rather than two times per year.
This was needed due to the fact that there was an extensive technical assistance component
implemented by numerous international agencies, and local contractors and consultants. However,
there were no noticeable deviations from Bank policies and procedures on financial management,
procurement and disbursement. The project benefited from the fact that Bank project team, with
appropriate skill-mix, including the task manager, essentially remained intact since 1990. In 1997,
the Project supervision was handled over to the staff of Resident Mission.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, Bank performance is assessed as satisfactory. The project made an effective
contribution to the Polish rapid economic and social transition.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
At time of project preparation, a World Bank Loan was the only possible way to fund
reform of labor policies and social welfare services and respective institutions inherited from the
socialist past. As a result, commitment of all stakeholders in the project design was high.
Nevertheless, Project preparation was Bank-led which provided its expertise and knowledge.
7.5 Government implementation perfnrmance:
- 14 -



Despite frequent changes in the MOLSP leadership, the Government in general remained
committed to implementing the components and accomplishing the project's objectives.
Counterpart funds were also timely and adequately provided. However, reshuffling in the
Government had a negative impact on the speed of the project, in one instance lead to downsizing
in 1994, and was a major factor in slowing down the completion of the project by three years.'
Numerous changes in the Polish legislation affecting the implementation of the project were also a
serious drawback.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
During the first phase of project start-up, the project implementation was slow, the number
of PCU staff was inadequate, and some of the obligations under the Loan Agreement retained to
timeliness and organization of technical implementation units (e.g., automation) were not met. In
1995, new premises were provided by the MOLSP, and new additional staff were assigned. Staff
training and some external technical assistance by ILO helped to ensure proper administration of
the Project.
7.7 Overall Borrowerperformance:
Overall, Borrower performance can be assessed as satisfactory. Project objectives were
achieved, and on several components, outcomes exceeded initial expectations.
S. Lessons Learned
The main lessons learned from the project to improve Bank operations in other countries
are the following:
1.    Proper management of information: The information generated on the efficiency of
labor programs by the MIS should be used very carefully during national implementation. Some
national management staff tend to use the information generated in a punitive manner as opposed
to using it to help offices redirect resources in a more cost effective manner. It is also difficult to
implement MIS program if client records are not automated.
2.    Nationally coordinated automation programs: Implementation of an automation
subcomponent was complicated by the spontaneous and uncoordinated automation at the local
level, changes in Ministry staff due to changes in the Government, changes in employment and
social assistance legislation, decentralization of social assistance offices, and development of the
National Labor Office. In order to improve implementation, there needs to be: a) strong
professional input from Bank staff, specifically on automation procurement issues; b) recognition
that implementation schedules should not be overoptimistic, even in the face of relentless pressure
from Ministry managers; c) the technical assistance management contractor must have specific
experience in the sub-sector; d) the technical assistance contract should provide for hiring of good
local long-term consultants/staff to assist with implementation; e) a special automation
procurement unit should be developed to oversee site installation as this task is too large and
complex to be handled by the normal complement of PCU staff; and (f) more resources need to be
made available for training local staff in the implementation and use of the data generated by the
MIS.
3.    New requirements in provision of information: Implementation of Labor Market-
- 15 -



Information was hindered by the fact that for "old line" statistical agencies coming from a history
of central planning, it is very difficult to become client responsive and user friendly. The
development of a formal inter-agency Coordinating Group to provide input to the collection and
dissemination of labor market information was a Loan Covenant but this was late in being
established. This should have been a condition of Loan Negotiation.
4.    Impact of administrative changes: Decentralization complicated project delivery on
Component "Social assistance/Income support". In this project, there were problems in
determining who would own Project financed equipment, the Ministry or the local government
which now operate local social assistance centers. Such problems need to be recognized during
project design and arrangements made. This problem also affected the automation component,
particularly at the earlier stages of project implementation when local government was
restructured.
5.    Involvement of stakehlolders and openness: Successful implementation of Industrial
Adjustment Services Component confirmed that a) involvement of all local social partners in the
affected communities, not just the local labor office, is required; b) the availability of local service
providers which can provide active labor program services to displaced workers once needs have
been defined should be deternined in advance; and c) a proactive public information work
contributed to a generally positive public image of coal sector restructuring program.
6.    Impact of changes in organizational environment: Development of modem client
centered employment services has taken longer than initially envisioned to conceptualize and
implement due to: a) the extrenme pressure in early 1990s at the local level to get unemployment
benefits paid during high levels of unemployment; b) high staff turnover in the Ministry including
recent administrative changes in local government as an entity separate from MLSP; c) initiation
of the National Labor Office in the middle of the project; and d) the difficulty of developing
materials and re-orientating local staff and clients to make them understand that the "individual"
needs to learn to help him/herself and the "state" is no longer responsible for providing everyone a
job.
7.    Importance of NGO inlvolvement: Implementation of a Micro-Enterprise Development
Component confirmed that a very important part of the NGO selection process was the national
competition between NGOs for resources. The participation of an excellent technical assistance
contractor was important to success of this component. The Project confirmed that business
incubators take some time to start and must be conceptually sound, but are very cost-effective.
Finally, small business credit programs, at positive interest rates, can and do work outside the
commercial banking sector. But, contrary to common opinion, credit programs are not necessarily
the most cost-effective way of supporting small business development. In fact, the Polish
experience shows that unless there is a SBAC nearby, the Credit fund is not used extensively.
8.    Adequate PCU staffin!g: A larger PCU should be established at the early stage of project
implementation. Because the PCU staff were Ministry personnel, there were problems in hiring
good staff, because of low sailaries, and there was political interference with staff. The first
problem was partially solved by hiring PCU staff as long-term consultants which allowed more
- 16 -



flexibility in hiring and in salaries. Other incentives such as training and fellowships abroad were
provided to retain staff at MOLSP. Project administration and coordination needs strengthening
by instigation of regular decision making meetings, attended by all project coordinators and
chaired by a selected Vice Minister. In the final stage of Project implementation, the PCU staffing
was sharply reduced. However, there is the need to ensure that key procurement and financial
staff be retained until project closure to ensure that project accounts and final procurements are
completed.
9.    Tough competition for automation specialists: The automation component was
adversely affected by continuous loss of technical staff caused by a mismatch between salary
levels offered by the MOLSP and the competition caused by high levels of demand for automation
specialists in the country. To accomplish successfully an automation component, there is a need to
address this issue at the outset, perhaps by hiring specialists on a contract basis either with loan or
local financing.
10.   Provision of information to the public: For successful project implementation, there is a
need to develop promotional materials and activities that can supplement efforts already
completed and more fully explain the contribution of the project to both local officials and the
general public. There is a need to spread additional reliable information to all stakeholders
emphasizing linkages between broad project objectives and technical implementation activities.
This was done at a midpoint in project implementation but should be done at the outset.
11.   Lack of incentives to accomplish Intensive Learning ICR: The project is the first
comprehensive "stand alone" employment promotion and services project of this type in the Bank,
and Intensive Learning ICR for the Project was proper. However, at the final stage of project
implementation, the Borrower has little interest to support such activities, since IL ICR takes
additional budget resources.
12.   Rigorous technical assistance: Rigorous international and local technical assistance was
key to success of the project. However, concerns were raised in regards to the quality of some of
the products prepared by the contractor or to the delayed delivery of some of the agreed
products. Conditions for contractors should be identified more specifically in contract agreements.
The Borrower was unable to demand a high quality of services since contract forms were at times
vague, and penalties for non-compliance are not defined sufficiently.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
SUMMARY OF
BORROWER'S IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
This summary was prepared by ECSHD and is based on a Project Implementation Evaluation
Report drafted by the
Polish Ministry of Labor and Social Policy
- 17 -



January, 2000
A. ASSESSMENT OF DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN
Original Obiective
1.    The goal of the Employment Promotion and Services Project (EPSP) is to promote
employment and economic growth of the country by investment into labor force and institutions
active in the area of labor market and social welfare. The specific objectives are to: (a) improve
the cost-effectiveness of existing employment and social welfare programs; (b) increase
occupational, sectoral and geographic mobility of the labor force; (c) improve the market of
educational services for the umemployed, and (d) test mechanisms for job creation by the
unemployed through micro-enterprise development.
Revised Obiective
2.    None.
Original Components
3.    EPSP comprises five components:
(I) Management Infrastructure: to improve the administrative efficiency and coverage of
programs supported under the E,mployment and Social Welfare Law.
(II) Income Support: to improve the efficiency of income support programs by: (a) establishing
criteria for client means testing at Social Welfare Offices (SWOs); (b) developing and
implementing SWO staff training; (c) improving SWO facilities; and (d) creating an
unemployment benefit and financing system coordinated with other cash benefit systems and
financially independent from programs supported by the Employment Law.
(III) Employment Services: to expand and improve existing services. The project supported:
(a) development and implementation of Industrial Adjustment Services (IASs), a rapid response
mechanism to assist enterprises and communities experiencing mass layoffs; (b) development of
materials, techniques and facilities to improve occupational counseling; and (c) improvement of
national and Local Labor Office (LLO) staff training;
(IV)  Adult Training:  to support establishment of national guidelines and procedures of
contracting local training programs for the unemployed and adults. (a) At the national level,
model procedures were developed for LLOs to use in awarding contracts to be executed by local
training institutions, and contracts for adjusting training program to actual needs of enterprises;.
(b) At the local level, resources would be provided to institutions to develop and verify by training
institutions programs in management skills, foreign languages, mobile training and basic "life
- 18 -



skills".
(19 Micro-Enterprise Development: to strengthen the ability of local non-govemmental
organizations (foundations and associations) to provide improved services: (a) to the unemployed
who have shown the aptitude to start micro-enterprises; and (b) to Small Business Advisory
Centers implementing entrepreneurship training programs.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVE AND OUTPUTS
4.    Assessment of output: Highly Satisfactory
Output by Components
5.    In order to achieve Project objectives, it has been divided into 10 sub-components as
follows:
(I) Management Infrastructure
Sub-component 1 - Project Coordination Unit (PCU).
6.    The PCU was established to ensure proper implementation of the Project and provide
administrative support to technical departments which were implementing technical project
components. The PCU has performed its tasks in two teams: (a) procurement and documentation
team; and (b) finance team. In the first phase of project implementation (1991-1994), its role in
the overall implementation process was underestimated.  The inadequate number of staff,
inappropriate premises, lack of formal authorization of its operations were the reasons for the fact
that some of the obligations under the Loan Agreement relating to timeliness and organization
were not met. The second phase of project implementation (December 1994-end 1999) started
with the renegotiations of the loan amount (cutting it from the original US$ 100 million to 80
million) and reallocation of proceeds due to changes in scope of some components. The PCU
received new premises and new staff which contributed to successful completion of the project.
Sub-component 2 - Management Information System for the labor market and improvement of
effectiveness of labor programs.
7.    The goal of this component was to improve the efficiency of the use of Labor Fund
resources, the effectiveness of programs run by labor offices and the net impact of those programs
on the fate of the unemployed. Following an intemational bidding, a contract with W.E. Upjohn
Institute for Employment Research was signed for development of Management Information
System (MIS) to be used by the system of labor offices in Poland. Under this component,
"Guidelines for Information Management System for Polish Labor Market Programs" were
developed with corresponding application software. Another document was also elaborated:
"Intemational Comparison of Information Management on Labor Market and Training Programs"
containing comparative data on the objectives, principles, applications and outcomes of those
- 19 -



systems in 8 countries. In 1995, after application software has been refined, efficiency indices
were tested in two provinces. In 1996, implementation of the system was commenced throughout
the country, preceded by publishing a handbook on the efficiency analysis of labor market
programs, distribution of training materials and country-wide training seminars. In the same year,
practical test was carried out in Poznan province with the use of light fiber technology in order to
implement internal and extemal communication channels of labor offices system. Based on the
efficiency measurement system, an experimental software was developed to support the
distribution of resources to the Labor Fund.
8.    The component also included an outcome in the form of basic assumptions of the
unemployment insurance system in Poland containing its goals, scope and financing, as well as
administrative schemes.
9.    Within the component, proposals on changes in labor legislation were elaborated in the
area of unemployment and social welfare aimed at stronger emphasis on developing motivation to
take up employment. Computer hardware and audiovisual equipment were also procured.
10.   Objectives and tasks of sub-component 2 were implemented as provided in the
Agreement, yet some of them exceeded the original contractual provisions. Application of
effectiveness indices introduces standard assessment of each program applied in the labor market,
thus facilitating to set up the budget of the Labor Fund and contributing to contract the services
by labor offices.
Sub-component 3 / 4 - Managemnent of automation of labor offices and social welfare offices
(ALSO).
11.   The objective of the sub-component is to provide information technology, via MOLSP, to
assist the System of Labor Offices and the Social Welfare System. The launching of information
programs is intended to bring about an improvement of customer service, cost-effective
expenditure planning control and assessment of undertaken activities. The IT component, called
ALSO, included 3 elements:
(1)   System of Labor Offices (PULS) - ca 400 installation sites throughout the country
and approximately 10,300 computer work stations;
(2)   Social Welfare System (POMOST) - ca 2,580 installations throughout the country
and approximately 6,000 computer work stations; and
(3)   MOLSP Headquarters - modeling a new organization - approximately 300
computer work stations.
12.  Implementation of this component started with Coopers&Lybrand, a company selected
under international tender. Due to an insufficient and costly implementation of the contract, the
performance was terminated in 1994. Since then the component was implemented solely by a
team of Polish experts, yet the change of performer and methodology resulted in considerable
delay of the entire task. On December 31, 1998, the Polish team of experts in cooperation with
- 20 -



companies Computerland and CSBI completed the supply and installation of application software
in social welfare units. Hardware equipment was supplied by companies "Siemens" (in labor
offices) " and "BULL" (in social welfare system). The contract was completed in 1998, and
state-of-art technological solutions have been used in developing the system.
13.   Among the main benefits of PULS Information System are implementation of: (a) more
efficient and advantageous ways of selecting employment offers for the unemployed; (b) improved
monitoring and control of cash flows in Labor Fund and Guaranteed Employee Benefits Fund; (c)
more efficient and complete transfer of information indispensable for monitoring the labor market
and forecasting trends; and (d) introducing conditions for increasing the higher efficiency of
employment services. The main advantages of POMOST system are as follows: a) more efficient
monitoring and addressing social welfare benefits; (b) more efficient and developed transfer of
information necessary to monitoring social welfare and to forecasting future trends; (c)
introducing conditions for increasing the higher efficiency of social welfare services.
Sub-component 5 - Development of labor market information.
14.   The component comprised the following tasks: (a) design of labor market information
system; (b) verification and development of standard research procedures; (c) establishing a
system of integrated analysis of the labor market; and (d) development of living standards analysis
system constituting a part of social monitoring. The tender for consulting services was won by the
Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) in Washington, D.C. The particularly important outcomes of the
implemented tasks comprise the methodology of forecasting labor demand, methods of assessing
labor costs, developing means of research presentation at regional and local level. The project also
resulted in the following:
(1)   Employment and earnings survey by occupation was conducted in two sectors of
the economy, production and construction;
(2)   A framework survey of labor force demand was developed and an experimental
survey was performed in several big enterprises;
(3)   Development of methods for analyzing Employment Cost Index;
(4)   Development of a methodology of monitoring living standards and designing of
indicators; and
(5)   Several seminars on estimating unemployment in local labor markets, on
forecasting labor force demand and supply have been conducted.
15.   Technical cooperation with BLS in reforming and modernizing of labor statistical methods
in Poland were evaluated highly by GUS, and allowed to accelerate process of improving
statistical work in the country. Lessons learned confirm the appropriateness of attempts to
integrate various aspects of labor statistics and integrate such statistics with other statistical
disciplines.
(II) Income Support
- 21 -



Sub-component 6 - Improvement of income support programs.
16.   The objective of this sub-component was the improvement of conditions leading to
targeting social assistance programs to the most needy. Target component also included the
design of a model social welfare center that would comprise all elements indispensable for sociaf
welfare personnel to fulfill the growing number of duties. The British Council became a partner
with the MLSP in the area of consulting services. The following activities have been completed:
(1)   An analysis of efficiency of the Polish social welfare legislation;
(2)   Improvement of survey procedures of welfare beneficiaries under new benefit
granting circumstances and, in particular, changes in the format of
family/community interviews;
(3)   Assessment of recruitment needs of social welfare centers and organization of
technical training courses and internal training for the staff;
(4)   Development of basic assumptions concerning the theoretical model of a social
welfare center.
18.   750 social welfare centers were equipped under the sub-component with professional
office equipment. Teaching aids were provided to 7 training centers involved in training the staff
from social welfare offices.
(III) Employment Services
Sub-component 7 - Industrial Adjustment Services.
19.   The task of this sub-component included the following activities: (a) development of a
model plan of speedy reactions in offering assistance to victims of layoffs caused by restructuring
processes taking place in the economy as well as developing programs of fast support services in
the period preceding layoffs; (b) evaluation of the Employment Law and rules concerning layoffs
and submission of proposals as regards changes in the regulations and governmental policy in this
field; (c) testing the model in two voivodships in which layoffs take place; (d) development of a
training outline and actual training of the staff of voivodhips and regional labor offices; (e)
development of methods and procedure of monitoring layoff service model; and (f) development
and publishing of an instruction and guideline manual for employees providing services to people
threatened with layoffs and those who were already given notice.
20.   The MLSP partner selected through an open tender was the British Council. A model of
layoff services was developed including monitoring procedure, changes in legislation and
suggested staff training areas proposed. The model was tested in selected enterprises carrying out
layoffs in two voivodships.
20.   The implementation of sub-component 7 was subsequently taken over by the National
Labor Office which adopted the model developed by British experts to Polish conditions. A
systematic, uniform and comprehiensive procedure regarding mass layoffs was elaborated. An
information directory entitled "Model of Services for Mitigating Layoff Effects" was published
- 22 -



23.  In July 1998, decision was taken to introduce an additional sub-component to be a
follow-up of a reaction model in mass layoff circumstances extended by a number of elements.
That sub-component supported hard coal mining industry restructuring by providing assistance to
the workers of coal mining sector who faced layoffs resulting from mine shut-downs and
employment reductions. Five major subprojects were implemented: (a) assistance in establishing
BPZs (Biuro Promocji Zatrudnienia - Office for Employment Promotion) whose aim is to provide
direct assistance to miners losing work in mines undergoing restructuring process. In mid-1999,
35 BPZs were established; (b) staff training to improve competence among BPZ staff in the area
of interpersonal skills, vocational guidance, law, computer literacy and support of
self-employment; (c) development of institutions supporting business ventures through an increase
of their capital capacities and office outfit; (d) development of a system to support private
initiatives; and (e) a public information campaign.
24.   The implementation of sub-component 7 exceeded the scope of the original agreement
with the World Bank yet the respective tasks gained its acceptance and their completion is feasible
due to savings gained in the fulfilling the other tasks under the project.
Sub-component 8 - Employment Services
25.   The task of this sub-component was to improve the standard of services provided by the
staff of labor offices and increasing cost-effectiveness of expenditures earmarked for prevention of
unemployment and combating its impact. Sub-component 8 was implemented under a contract
with the British Council in cooperation with British and Irish specialists (FAS) and Polish research
institutions.
26.   The sub-component goals comprise:
(a)   Development and dissemination of modem tools for the needs of vocational
counseling. As the result of the implementation of the sub-component, the
following achievements were accomplished: (a) characteristics of 543 jobs have
been prepared by means of special research methodology; (b) "Job Guide"
containing those characteristics has been prepared; (c) 300 files containing
information on jobs has been prepared; (d) Polish version of occupational aptitude
tests and vocational interest questionnaires with General Aptitude Test Battery and
Self-Evaluation Test has been prepared; (e) education and training information
systems have been developed; (f) a computer program ("Doradca 2000") has been
developed supporting vocational counseling and containing a collection of data
bases on education and training opportunities.
(b)   Introduction (including training courses) of new methods and approaches of
employment services. "Marketing Guidelines for Labor Market Services" was
elaborated describing the principles and forms of marketing of services to be
applied in public employment service. Another two documents were developed
conceming work methods focused on triggering out the initiative of the
- 23 -



unemployed - promotion of active job exchange methods and marketing strategy;
job club programs and training program for club leaders were another
achievements of the subcomponent.
(c)   Upgrading of labor forces and delivery of office equipment. As the result, six
short-term training programs were developed: "Work with the Unemployed"; "
Marketing of Services and Active Methods of Labor Exchange"; "Cooperation
with External Partners"; "Skills of the Job Club Leader"; "Self-Organization of
Work", and "Management Skills". Four training programs were developed at
university level in the area of vocational counseling - 5-year MA studies, 3-year
BA studies, and annual and bi-annual post-graduate study programs.
(d)   The task of this sub-component was also focused on initiating the labor office
modernization program and to raise the quality of services. A document "
Guidelines for the Location, Layout and Equipment of Labor Offices Throughout
the Country" was drafted and tested, containing also a uniform system of visual
information for the clients. Since 1996, modernization of other labor offices was
taking place following the above guidelines. Labor offices were supplied with basic
office equipment:, such as telephone switchboards, copying machines, faxes,
shredders, typewriters, safes, audiovisual equipment for job clubs and a number of
computer hardware for vocational counseling.
27.   In general, the implementation of sub-component 8 had an important impact on the quality
of employment service system. New work methods and tools introduced into labor offices and
modem equipment they were given increased the scope of their services and improved the work
of the officers. Simultaneous development of staff training programs actually made their services
fully professional. Once the standards of arrangements and outfit of the offices were established, a
critical element was reached - a country-wide unification of labor office system. One can say that
sub-component 8 facilitated to make up for a number of delays in the development of public
employment service which some years ago used to make Polish organizations differ so much from
those in the western countries. Today, the performance level of labor offices is very close to
similar services in the EU countries.
(IV) Adult Training
Sub-component 9 - Adult vocational training.
28.   The goal of this sub-component was to enhance labor force productivity, stimulate home
investments, and to increase labor force mobility by training and retraining of the unemployed and
increasing competence of semi-skilled and unskilled workers so they could cope with the
structural unemployment. The sub-component was implemented in 1993-1997 by MOLSP
assisted by ILO.
29.   According to SAR, it was assumed that US$ 43.3 million (Bank-financed part) would be
assigned for Adult Training Programs. It was assumed that technical assistance and training
- 24 -



hardware and software would be provided for the development of approximately 420 vocational
skill training programs, and would include development of approximately 30 new programs and
upgrading of 12 existing programs (each to be replicated approximately 10 times). In addition,
according to SAR, the sub-component would provide for development of about 30 mobile
training programs to provide rapid assistance in high priority areas. After renegotiations of
project costs in 1994, the total budget for sub-component 9 has been reduced to US$ 6.0 million.
Respectively, the scope of activities under the auspices of this component has been reduced
correspondingly. It was decided to focus the main actions on to 21 pilot training programs
(foreign language training was eliminated). In particular, the resources for procuring didactic
equipment for training institutions prepared to implement modular courses were drastically
reduced which considerably limited the scope of implementation work.
30.   Among many tasks completed, the component aimed at: (a) development of national rules
of cooperation between training institutions and labor offices. Model procedures for contracting
training institutions by labor offices have been developed. Fifty training specialists from labor
offices underwent training; (b) enhancement of the training offers addressed to the adults achieved
by conducting a series of training courses for teachers and instructors from institutions offering
courses for the adults. Modular vocational training courses were developed and lead training
institutions were equipped with modem training equipment for modular courses. 110 training
institutions from all over Poland were competitively selected and 133 types of programs were
proposed for the modular approach. In total, 231 teachers and instructors from eligible
institutions were trained; and (c) modular training programs (curricula) for 21 trade clusters,
including training materials have been prepared. In total, educational packages have been prepared
for 965 modules. Based on that documentation, a vast scope of training offers can be developed
adjusted to the client's needs. Fourteen lead institutions selected through subsequent competition
from among those taking part in the project were equipped with teaching aids, and additional 61
teachers were trained in the implementation of educational modular packages.
31.  In the second half of 1997, the lead training institutions which were awarded training
contracts, implemented 23 pilot courses. For that purpose 354 modules were used and resulted in
1600 hours of training for 288 persons. Conclusions gained from the evaluation of pilot training
were a basis for further improvement of the program.
32.  Implementation of sub-component 9 provided a valuable contribution to the training
services market. The competence and skills of the vocational training specialists of around 100
training institutions have been enhanced. The training programs have been upgraded by
introducing the modular approach in developing vocational curricula. The leading training
institutions have been equipped with state-of-the art training equipment and modular training
courses have been implemented. Since 1998 modular programs developed within sub-component
9 have been made available by MOLSP free of charge to training institutions interested in their
implementation.
(V) Micro-Enterprise Development
Sub-component 10 - Micro-enterprise Development Project.
-25 -



33.   The principal goal of this sub-component was to set up a system of institutions which
would actively support entrepreneurial initiatives, with special emphasis on the unemployed,
employees threatened with redundancy and looking for new life opportunities by starting a
business of their own. The program was implemented by the MLSP and supported by technical
assistance of Ohio State Universily.
34.   After renegotiations of the budget in 1994, the total costs of sub-component 10 were
increased from US$ 2.5 million in SAR to US$ 13.1 million (Bank-financed costs). Such an
increase allowed to allocate additional funds for the expansion of project-financed small business
activities. In SAR, it was assumed that about ten incubators would be developed in areas of high
unemployment, about twenty small business assistance centers (SBACs), as well as twelve pilot
enterprise development funds (EDFs) to provide flexible mixes of debt or equity capital for
start-up and early-stage micro-enterprises development by the unemployed.
33.   The concept of sub-component 10 consisted in substantive and financial support of local
NGO's to increase their involvemnent in the promotion of entrepreneurial initiatives among the
unemployed and those endangered by loss of work, and in the area of integration of local
communities aimed at pro-active form of combating unemployment. The task of the
sub-component was arranged throughout the establishment of three elements of the system: Small
Business Assistance Centers (SBAC); (b) Enterprise Development Funds (EDF); and (c) Business
incubators. Selection of the institutions took place through a two-stage country-wide
competition. Chosen organizations received assistance in the form of investments for adjustment
and refurbishing, and a single-time subsidy for operational purposes. They were also equipped
with computer hardware, audiovisuals and tools, and substantive assistance of consultants.
36.  In the course of project implementation, 61 SBACs were established throughout the
country with the primary aim of providing intensive training programs in many aspects of business
activity, i.e., on setting up and management of one's own business, including in the field of
business management, marketing, finance, and law; individual counseling sessions; and provision
of information and monitoring of company's standing. Training premises for the unemployed
were made available in 63 locations, and over 2,100 training courses were organized by SBAC for
54,800 participants, out of which 45 percent were unemployed. Also 34 EDFs have been
established to provide the unemployed with initial capital required to start a small business.
Around 3,200 new jobs including at least 2,170 persons were deleted from unemployment
register. In the course of project implementation, 31 business incubators were established aimed at
supporting small companies during the first and most difficult period. 717 businesses were
established providing employment to 3,965 persons.
37.   The implementation of this component brought about a series of positive social and
psychological effects and for many beginners it turned out to be the only chance to start their own
business. For local communities, the founding of a non-profit organization has become an
opportunity for acquiring external financing.
- 26 -



C. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
38.   The following seven points list the conclusions and lessons learned:
(i)    Borrowing for a World Bank Loan to finance Employment Promotion and
Services Project was, in 1991, the only possible way of ensuring comprehensive
improvement of employment and social welfare services in Poland;
(ii)   Lack of experience of the Polish partner in implementing projects co-financed by
the World Bank was the reason for underestimating the importance of logistics and
administration services for the Project itself. Frequent changes in the Polish
legislation affecting the contents of the project were a serious drawback;
(iii)   Generally, performance and relations with the World Bank representative who
supervised the implementation of the Project is highly appreciated. However, there
has been no clear cut division between advisory role of the Bank's experts and
decision-making role of the MOLSP bearing full responsibility of a Borrower;
(iv)   Experts and consultants selected by the MLSP, and given no objections by the
Bank, for technical assistance in the implementation of the project were highly
professional in their majority. However, the experience shows that the best results
are achieved when problems are being solved by joint efforts of the Polish and
foreign experts;
(v)   The question of standard procedures for the use of Loan proceeds and counterpart
fimds has to be solved for the sake of future projects. In the present project the
resources from the Loan were expended according to the World Bank procedures
while the counterpart funds - pursuant to the provision of Public Procurement Act.
In spite of certain similarities, the parallel application of two different procedures
creates some problems to the Borrower which is obliged to follow Polish
regulations;
(vi)   The requirement to follow World Bank procedures for procurement and the need
for "no objection" for each procurement proposal and contract award on the one
hand and the requirement to obtain similar approvals on many decision levels in
Poland on the other hand, have seriously impeded the project implementation
process;
(vii)  In order to take the full advantage of the achievement of the project and financial
resources invested in it, its activities should be creatively continued by the involved
institutions.
(1,) Cofinanciers:
- 27 -



No formal co-financing
(c) Other partners (NGO.s/private secto.r):
NGO/private sector firms were extensively used as sub-contractors to deliver project financial
service in the Industrial Adjustment, Micro Enterprise and Adult Training components
10. Additional Information
- 28 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. . ': .'.,,' ............. . .               .     . . . . .
Component I. Management Infrastructure:
(a) Develop a Management Information                                        Six basic documents were prepared,
System (MIS) to assist Implementation of                                    including "Guidelines for Management
employment programs                                                         Informabon System for Labor Market
Programs in Poland". The Polish component
of a quasi experimental Cross-Country
Evaluation of the Active Labor Market
Programs was completed. The final report
'Intemational Comparison of MIS for
Employment and Training Programs'
presents a comparative study of the system
in 8 countries. In 1996, training of labor
officers was conducted on a national level on
the application of labor policies effectiveness
indices.
(b) Refine Employment Law to improve                                        A report "Suggested Revision to the Polish
targeting of programs to needy groups                                       Employment Law" was completed presenting
principles of unemployment insurance
system in Poland. Other legislative initiatives
were proposed, including 'Management
Information System Guidelines for
Employment Law Programs in Poland",
"Suggested Revisions to the Polish Welare
Law", and 'Suggested Rules for
Unemployment Law for Poland".
(c) Establish program management and                                        Under the ALSO (Automation of the Labor
planning for automated management                                           and Social Welfare Organization)
information system (MIS)                                                    sub-component, a national communication
strategy was developed based on a uniform
computer software system and a modem
hardware and telecommunications
infrastructure.
(d) Automate Local Labor Office (LLO)                                       ALSO project included 3 sub-components:
operabons, MOLSP central and                                                1. System of Labor Offices (PULS) - ca 400
communications services and social welfare                                  installation sites throughout the country and
office (SWO) operations and cost reportng                                   approximately 10,300 computer work
stations;
2. Social Welfare System (POMOST) - ca
2,580 installations and approximately 6,000
computer work stations;
3. MOLSP/MOL headquarters - ca 300 work
stations.
(e) Labor Market Information: (i) Provide for                               The following surveys were conducted: (i) on
frequent data collection, and (Ii) Provide                                  employment and eamings: (ii) on labor costs,
analyses/trend information and analysis                                     and methods for analyzing Employment Cost
Index were developed; (iii) on labor force
demand and business activities.
Occupational and sectoral classification
systems were revised. An Automated
Occupational Information System was
developed. GUS (Central Statistical Office)
completed rework of labor market statistircal
programs.
-29-



(e) Implement Project Coordination Unit                                        PCU was established as a general liaison
(PCU)                                                                          with the Bank for project administration. PCU
operated within MOLSP structures, and
managed the project activities in two teams:
(a) procurement and documentation; (b)
finances;
Component II: Income Support Programs
(a) Establish objective criteria for client                                    An analysis of efficiency of the Polish social
means testing at SWO                                                           welfare legislation was accomplished, and
means testing procedures for weffare
beneficiaries were improved.
(b) Define SWO training needs                                                  New model social welfare procedure
proposals were prepared and implemented
concerning training for the staff of SWOs.
Training of social workers in Great Britain
and Ireland was supported. An extensive
short-term training was provided to SWOs
staff.
(c) Improve SWO facilities                                                     A model social welfare center was designed.
750 social weffare centers were equipped
with professional office equipment. Seven
training centers were provided teaching aid
and were involved in training the SWOs staff.
(d) Create an unemployment benefit and                                         Due to constant changes in the
financing system that is financed separately                                   administrative, legal and institutional
from the state budget                                                          framework of employment services, and
concems over high wage taxes, the task was
not completed. However, financial policy
options were revived under sub-component
(a) of the Component 1.
Component III: Employment Service
Programs
A model of lASs was developed and field
(a) Develop and implement Industrial                                           tested. Handbooks and information
Adjustment Services (lASs) to assist with                                      directories, including 'Model of Services for
mass layoffs                                                                   Mitigating Layoff Effects" was published. A
number of seminars on the model for layoff
counselors were conducted. The
sub-component was extended to support the
restructuring of hard coal mining industry.
(b) Develop materials, techniques, facdities                                   Three aptitude and interest questionnaires
to support occupational counseing                                              were adopted for use in Poland; An
"Occupational Guide Book" was prepared
for use in the automated Career Information
System. A software supporting vocational
counseling was prepared. Manuals "Skills of
Job Club Leaders - Training Program" and
"Program of a Job Club" was developed. "A
Marketing Handbook for Employment
Services", and information directory "Model
of Services for Mitigating Layoff Effects"
was published.
- 30 -



(c) Develop Local Labor Office (LLO)                                        Four new model LLOs were developed, and
facilifies and improve national and local labor                             the modemization of other offices has taken
office staff training                                                       place. Labor offices were supplied with basic
office equipment. "Guidelines for the
location, layout and equipment of labor
offices throughout the country" were
prepared. An extensive staff training progran'm
was developed and training made available
for LLOs staff.
Component IV: Adult Training
(a) Establish national guidelines                                           Model contracts and procedures for
awarding contracts to local training
institutions were developed. National rules for
cooperation between training institutions and
labor offices were developed. A document
'General Guidelines for Organization of
Training for the Unemployed" and a
handbook "How to Train the Unemployed"
was prepared.
(b) Develop a range of local training for                                   Due to Project cut, 23 pilot courses have
adults                                                                      been deveoped as opposed to the original
obJective of 420 courses; 133 types of
courses proposed for the modular approach.
231 teachers and instructors from 110
training institutions were trained. Training
institutions have been equipped with
state-of-the art training equipment.
Component V: Micro-Enterprise
Development
(a) Build local capacity for micro-enterprise                               76 local NGOs selected to implement this
development                                                                 Component as detailed in the following
points
(b) Increase access to capital for                                          i) 34 Enterprise Development Funds were
micro-enterprise formation and growth                                       established versus 12 Indicated as a goal in
SAR. 3,187 new jobs created. The
repayment rate on micro-credits was 95 %
which much exceeded expected 75 % rate.
(c) Support development of local small                                     ii) 61 Small Business Assistance Centers
business assistance centers to provide                                      established as opposed to about 20 in SAR.
entrepreneurial training to help                                            Training premises for the unemployed were
microenterprises start, survive and grow                                    made available in 63 locations. Over 2,100
training courses were organized for 54,800
participants, of which 45 % were
unemployed.
(d) Support development of incubation                                      iii) 31 Business Incubators were established
facilities to increase micro-enterprise                                     versus 10 incubators indicated as a goal in
formation and development in selected                                       SAR. 717 businesses were created providing
localities                                                                  employment to 3,965 persons.
- 31 -



Output Indicators:
t 40 ....~. .. .     .   . ,    . W ; . . .   .   .."'''"''''" ''"',"'I
End of project
- 32 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Proect Cost by Coniponient (in US$ million equivalent)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ M....."..."                                    ...
1. Managerial Infrastructure                        50.90           56.95          111.9%
PCU                                               1.20            5.36          446.7%
Management Information System                                     0.51            n/a
Automation                                        46.60           49.37         105.9%
Labor Market Information                          1.20            1.12           93.3%
2. Income Maintenance Support                        6.20            5.22          84.2%
3. Employment Services                               4.50            13.50         300.0%
Mass Layoff Services                              1.20            2.44          203.3%
Employment Services                               3.30            11.06         335.2%
4. Adult Training                                   49.90            7.43           14.9%
5. Micro Enterprise Development                      8.20           27.30          332.9%
Total Baseline Cost                                    119.70          109.81       91.7%
Physical Contingencies                                 12.00                       0.00%
Price Contingencies                                    10.50                       0.00%
Total Project Costs                142.20           109.81      77.2%
Exchange Profit                                   -0.04
Total Financing Required          ________109.77                    77.2%
In 1994, the Loan was renegotiated, and the foreign budget was reduced from US$ 100.0 million to US$
80.0 million
The real amount disbursed from the loan account is US$ 110.37 million. US$ 0.04 million is the
difference between the amount paid and US$ equivalent disbursed according to the currency pool.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                     0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                     81.00         2.50          0.80         0.00          84.30
(81.00)        2.50)       (0.80)       (0.00)        (84.30)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         16.50         0.00          16.50
._________ _  (0.00)   (0.00)       (14.30)       (0.00)       (l4,30)
4. Miscellaneous              0.00         0.00          1.40         0.00          1.40
Enterprise Development       (0.00)        (0.00)       (1.40)       (0.00)        (1.40)
Funds
- 33 -



5. Miscellaneous               0.00           0.00         12.10          0.00          12.10
Building Lease and            (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Rehabilitation
6. Miscellaneous               0.00           0.00          0.00          8.50          8.50
Incremental Staffing          (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
7. Materials and               0.00           0.00         19.30          0.00          0.00
Maintenance                   (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                       81.00          2.50         50.20          8.50          142.20
(81.00)        (2.50)       (16.50)       (0.00)        (100.00)
Project Costs bY Procurement Arran ements ActuallLatest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Er                               g    t             1             s         .,,,,.,,,  W..---~~~~~~~.............
1. Works                       0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
2. Goods                       45.00          9.60         13.60          0.00          68.20
_    (42.10)       (9.00)       (11.70)        (0.00)        (62.80)
3. Services                    0.00           0.00         16.70          0.00          16.70
_    (0.00)       (0.00)        (10.40)        (0.00)        (10.40)
4. Miscellaneous               0.00           0.00          7.30          0.00          7.30
Enterprise Development        (0.00)         (0.00)        (5.70)        (0.00)        (5.70)
Funds                     _
5. Miscellaneous               0.00           0.00         10.00          0.00          10.00
Building Lease and            (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Rehabilitation
6. Miscellaneous               0.00           0.00          0.00          5.80          5.80
Incremental Staffing          (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
7. Materials and               0.00           0.00          2.40          0.00          0.00
Maintenance                   (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                       45.00          9.60         50.00          5.80          110.40
_    (42.10)       (9.00)       (27.80)        (0.00)        (78.90)
Compensation Profit            0.00           0.00          -0.6          0.00          -0.6
_    (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total cost                     45.00          9.00         50.00                        109.80
(42.10)        (9.00)        (27.8)                      (78.9)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
X Includes civil works and goods tc, be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services., and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govemment units.
Project Financing by Component 4in USS million equivalent)
-34 -



~~~~~~~~~~W                                                                        M 
1. Managerial            35.79     18.89               45.79      10.57             127.9  56.0   0.0
Infrastructure
PCU                      0.63      0.42                 2.08      3.28              330.2  781.0   0.0
Management Information   0.32      0.05                 0.22      0.29               68.7  580.0   0.0
System (1)
Automation               34.04     18.12               42.42      6.95               124.6  38.4   0.0
Labor Market Information    0.80   0.30                 1.07      0.05               133.8  16.7   0.0
2. Income Support        6.66      0.67                 4.25      0.97               63.8  144.8   0.0
3. Employment Services   3.67       1.54                9.86      3.64              268.7  236.4   0.0
Mass Layoff Services     0.91      0.49                 1.90      0.54              208.8  110.2   0.0
Employment Services      2.76       1.05                7.96      3.10              288.4  295.2   0.0
4. Adult Training        50.81      7.00                5.95       1.48              11.7   21.1   0.0
5. Micro Enterprise      3.07       6.47                13.06     14.24             425.4  220.1   0.0
Development
rotal              100.00     34.57               78.91     30.90               78.9   89.4   0.0
Exchange                                          -0.04                        0.0    0.0    0.0
Profit(2)
Total cost         100.00     34.57   ___         78.87      30.90   ___   78.9   89.4   0.0
In 1994, Loan was renegotiated and the foreign budget was reduced from US$ 100.0 million to 80.0
nillion
The real amount disbursed from the loan account is US$ 78.87 million. US$ 0.04 million is the difference
between the amount paid and US$ equivalent disbursed according to the currency pool.
- 35 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
N/A
- 36 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions.
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists. I FMS, etc.)    Implementation      Development
Month/Year    Count        Specialty                        Progress          Objeciive
Identification/Preparation
FY90 through FY91             3   Task Manager                           S                 S
(December through                  Operations Officer
January)                           Implementation Specialist
Labor and Employment
Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
FY91                          3   Task Manager                           S                 S
(January through June)             Operations Officer
Labor and Employment
Specialist
Social Welfare Specialist
Automation Specialist
Legal Counselor
Sr. Architect
Supervision
FY92 through FY2000           19  Task Manager                           S                 S
Procurement Specialist
Project Officer
Labor Specialist
Implementation Specialist
Automation Specialist
Small Business Specialist
Labor Specialist
ICR
FY2000                         I   Labor Economist - Task                S                 S
Manager
Principal Employment and
Training Specialist -
Program Team Leader
Labor Economist - ICR
Coordinator
-37 -



(b) Staff:
Stage of Prject Cyck:W       i         ;CtaVLst Estimate
Identification/Preparation               57.5                       160.7
Appraisal/Negotiation                    24.8                        77.3
Supervision                             205.0                       688.2
ICR                                      20.0                        70.0
Total                                   307.3                       996.2
-38 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Z Macro policies                           O H  * SU O  M  O N  O NA
N Sector Policies                          O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
E Physical                                 O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
E Financial                                O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
 Institutional Development                * H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
F Environmental                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
N Poverty Reduction                 O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
E Gender                            O H O SU * M O N O NA
[ Other (Please specify)            OH  OSUOM  O N  * NA
F Private sector development               0 H  O SUO M  0 N  0 NA
X Public sector management                 O H  O SU * M  0 N  0 NA
; Other (Please specify)                   0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
- 39 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                  Rating
El Lending                                            OHS*S  OU  OHU
l Supervision                                         OHS OS  Ou   OHU
O Overall                                             OHS OS O u O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                              Rating
O Preparation                                         OHS Os   Ou   O HU
E  Government implementation performance              O HS O S   0  U  0 HU
E Implementation agency performance                   O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
E Overall                                             OHS OS  O u O HU
-40 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
-41 -



Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
As a part of the Intensive Learning Implementation Completion Report (IL ICR), a Polish
Sociologist was hired by the Bank, with terms of reference as discussed with MOLSP, to
undertake a brief limited qualitative review of project impact. The results of this review were'
presented at a Stakeholder Conference on May 29, 2000 in Warsaw. The conference, hosted by
the MOLSP, was attended by about 70 people including: the management and key staff of
MOLSP, a number of local labor and social assistance office management and staff, NGO service
providers, parliamentary officials, representatives from technical assistance firms which were
involved in project. The conference included short formal presentations by MOLSP, the Bank,
Upjohn Institute which completed a net program-impact evaluation, and the Polish sociologist
who completed the stakeholder review.
The findings of the stalceholder review and conference are incorporated into the overall
ICR report. The Stakeholder review included 44 individual in-depth interviews with managers and
coordinators of the EPSP project at central and local levels and with the staff of local
entrepreneurship support institutions and institutions implementing modular training programs in
three locations - Krakow, Ostroleka and Lodz. The purpose of the survey was to gather general
qualitative information on the impact of the project on the performance of institutions involved
and outcomes of the project components in a few regions. While the findings are not
representative to the whole sample of the project network, it is useful to highlight the main
conclusions and recommendations of the Bank Project Team. They are based on the survey
interviews and discussions at the Stakeholder Conference as well as on broader knowledge of
overall project operation and implementation (the full report of the survey interviews is in the
project file).
a) In cases of such complex projects as the EPSP, the logistics and division of
responsibilities among the partners involved has to be thoroughly worked out during the
preparation phase. However, it wvas recognized that the EPSP was prepared quickly in response to
the rapidly deteriorating labor situation in Poland in 1990.
b) Allowance and preparations should be made in advance during project design to
address: potential changes in the national government planning, institutional changes,
administrative and legislative reforms, and impact of these changes on coordination between
project activities. These factors may cause delays in project implementation and force substantial
changes in the project initial design.
c) Involvement of local social partners and NGOs into the project design and
implementation proved to be crucial in securing the success of project components (e.g., small
business assistance, training, labor adjustment).
d) Technical assistance and consulting services should be based on close collaboration
between foreign specialists and local specialists (to the extent they are available) during each stage
of project implementation. This will help secure proper and faster utilization of new solutions
within the local institutional environment.
-42 -



e) The complexity and ambiguity of Bank budgetary procedures and necessity of applying
the Bank and emerging national and local governnental budgetary procedures can have a negative
impact on the speed of project execution.
f) Dissemination of project information and knowledge, training of local staff, and linking
of project activities to the overall project goals and activities is crucial in gaining stakeholder
understanding and acceptance and in securing the success of the project.
-43 -



Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results
See Annex 8.
- 44 -



