Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9408-POL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
POLAND
EMPLOYMENT PROMOTION AND SERVICES PROJECT
MAY 15, 1991
Country Department IV
Human Resources Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
0 This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Zloty (ZL)
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
(Zlotys per US$)
1989       1990         1991
(Feb.)
US$1.00 - ZL              1,400       9,500       9,500
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BISE               Bank for Social and Economic Initiatives
CIS                Career Information System
EDF               Enterprise Development Fund
EPSP               Employment Promotion and Services Project
ETP                Economic Transformation Program
GUS                Central Statistics Agency
IAS                Industrial Adjustment Services
ICB                International Competitive Bidding
LLO                Local Labor Office
LMI                Labor Market Information
MIS                Management Information System
MISAU              Management Information System & Automation Unit
MOLSP              Ministry of Labor and Social Policy
MONE               Ministry of National Education
NGO                Non-Government Organization
OECD               Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development
OIS                Occupational Information System
PCU                Project Coordinating Unit
POM                Project Operational Manual
SBAC               Small Business Assistance Centers
SWO               Social Welfare Offices
TOR                Terms of Reference
UB                 Unemployment Benefits
VLO                Voivod Labor Offices
POLAND FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
POLAD
EMPLOYMENT PROMOTXION AND SERVICES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT I/
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   SECTORAL BACKGROUND . ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ..  1
A.   Economic Context  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    2
B.   The Labor ForcK' Consequences of Restructuring ... .  .  .  .    .   2
C.   Employment Program Issues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
D.   Rationale for Bank Involvement in the Sector .  . . . . . . .   8
E.   Donor Coordination  .... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    8
II. PROJECT ............. ... 8
A.   Project Origin  ....................... .                       8
B.   Project Objectives  ..................... .                     8
C.   Project  Description  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   9
D.   Project  Components    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  10
III. PROGRAM COSTS  FINANCING  MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION.   . . . . .  19
A.   Cost  of  the  Project   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  19
B.   Project  Financing  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  23
C.   Project Management and Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . .  23
D.   Project Procurement Arrangements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  28
E.   Status of Preparation and Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . .  31
F.   Project Supervision and Evaluation  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  32
IV.   BENEFITS AND RISKS   . ...... .......                               33
A. Benefits. .  . ...........  33
B. Risks. . . ...........  33
V.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  33
I/ This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Poland January 13 - 28, 1991. Mission members were David H. Fretwell
(Mission Leader/Training and Employment Specialist); Sverrir Sigurdsson
(Sr. Architect); Terrice Bassler (Operations Officer); Consultants,
Armando Gonzalez (Social Welfare Secialist); and Kurt Moses (Automation
Specialist). In addition, Julian Schweitzer (Principal General Educator);
Sachi Takeda (Young Professional); and Consultants, Nicholas Barr (Social
Sector Economist); Brendan Leahy (Training Specialist); Peter Bearse
(Small Business Specialist); Francois Ducloux (Employment Services
Specialist); Jolanta Hess (Industrial Services Specialist); Marita
Aljbaili (Administrative Assistant); and Celestine C. Collins (Staff
Assistant) contributed during earlier missions and in preparation of the
report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
1.    Sector Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        35
I.    Employment and Labor in Poland  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    42
II.   Employment Programs in a Mqrket Economy . . . . . . . . . .    48
III.  Policies, Institutions and Programs in Poland . . . . . . .        56
IV. Issues and Strategies .67
2.    Criteria for Selection of Sub-Projects. . . . . . . . . . . . . .   109
3.    Estimated Quantities and Schedule for Implementation. . . . . . .   115
4.    Schedule of Disbursements ....  .       .  .    . .....  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    126
5.    Bibliography of Materials in the Project File . . . . . . . . . .   127
Map No. IBRD #22897



POLAND
EMPLOYMENT PROMOTION AND SERVICES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Lean and Project Summary
Borrower:          Republic of Poland
Amount:            US$100 million
Terms:             Seventeen years, including a five year grace period, at the
IBRD standard variable interest rate.
Project            The project objectives are to:  (a) improve the cost-
Objectives:        effectiveness of existing employment and social welfare
programs; (b) improve the mobility of the work force between
occupations, sectors and regions; (c) increase productivity
of the work force and promote investment; and (d) test
mechanisms for job-creation by the unemployed through micro-
enterprise development.
Project            The loan will finance equipment and technical assistance to
Description:       support the development of social safety net measures
ranging from reactive income maintenance programs to
proactive labor force development nrograms. It will help
MOLSP cope with short to medium-te.m unemployment, and lay
the ground-work for long term development of Poland's
employment infrastructure. The project consists of five
components with a base cost of US$119.7 million and a total
cost, including contingencies, of US$142.2 million.
The Management Infrastructure Component (US$50.9 million
base cost) will improve the administrative efficiency and
coverage of programs supported under the Employment and
Social Welfare Laws. This will be done in consultation with
regional/local Labor and Social Welfare Offices, labor
councils, and the Central Statistics Office (GUS). MOLSP
will undertake actions in three areas: general
administration, automation of all social welfare and
employment services/offices, and improvement of labor market
information systems.
The Income SupoRrt ComRonent (US$6.2 million base cost) will
improve the efficiency of income support programs by: (a)
establishing criteria for client means testing at Social
Welfare Offices (SWOs); (b) developing and implementing SWO
staff training; (c) improving SWO facilities; and (d)
creating an unemployment benefit and financing system
coordinated with other cash benefit systems and financially
independent from Employment Law programs.



- ii -
The Emglovment Service ComRonent (US$4,5 million base cost)
will expand and improve existing employment service programs
including: (a) development and implementation of Industrial
Adjustment Services to assist enterprises and communities
experiencing mass layoffs; (b) development of materials,
techniques and facilities to improve occupational
counselling; and (c) improvement of national and Local Labor
Office (LLO) staff training.
The Adult Training ComRonent (US$49.9 million base cost)
will support the establishment of national guidelines and
procedures and development of local training programs for
unemployed adults in support of structural adjustment. At
the national level, MOLSP will develop model: (a) contracts
and procedures for LLOs to use in awarding contracts to
local training institutions, to improve the quality and
cost-effectiveness of training provided; and (b) programs
and procedures for marketing and implementing customized
training to support revitalization of existing enterprises
and creation of new enterprises. At the local level, the
project will provide, through MOLSP, resources to assist
local institutions to upgrade vocational, mobile,
junior/middle management, and foreign language training.
The Micro-Enterprise Component (US$8.2 million base cost)
will strengthen the ability of local non-government
institutions (e.g., Chambers of Commerce, Agencies of Local
Initiative) to provide improved services- (a) to the
unemployed who have shown the aptitude to start micro-
enterprises; and (b) to strengthen the existing
entrepr6neurship program    ig operated through LLZ..
Activities supported unde .rae project will be divided into
two overlapping phases. Phase I will build the general
understanding of micro-entrepreneurship in MOLSP and LLOs
and the capacity of local non-government institutions to
promote micro-enterprise development by the unemployed.
Phase II, including technical assistance and limited
capital, will provide resources for sub-projects proposed by
these local institutions to: (a) furnish technical
assistance to micro-entrepreneurs; (b) establish incubators,
providing affordable space and other services, for micro-
enterprise development; and (c) test the feasibility and
effectiveness of providing non-subsidized credit through
NGOs to new and early-stage micro-enterprises which have
difficulty obtaining initial credit from commercial sources,
due to lack of collateral.
The project's major Rolicy actions include: (a) improving
the breadth, cost-effectiveness and targeting of existing
employment programs by establishing management information
systems and revising the Employment Law; (b) coordinating
and strengthening the financial base of income support



- iii -
programs by revising employment and social welfare
legislation; and (c) requiring, and providing assistance to
improve the ability of, local employment services, training
and micro-enterprise support institutions to help the
unemployed respond to changing labor market conditions.
Benefits           Benefits.  The major benefit will be to refine and improve
Risks              the cost-effectiveness of significant investments the
Government is making in employment programs (about US$2
billion in 1991). These programs must promote a quick and
flexible supply response to changing economic conditions and
will be a key factor in the transition to a market economy
in Poland. The policy framework for the employment and
social welfare systems will be further clarified through
refinement of legislation. The unemployed and other
vulnerable groups will be better served by well-coordinated
and efficiently administered income support programs.
Mobility of labor between occupations, economic sectors, and
regions will be facilitated through improved employment
services and training programs. Models of proactive
trairing and employment promotion programs will be
developed, tested and replicated, thus widening alternatives
to prolonged and costly income support in the face of
structural unemployment and deficient demand for labor. The
capability of national and local institutions will be
enhanced to deliver the employment programs needed for a
smoothly functioning labor market in a market economy and to
develop human capital to support economic development.
Risks. The major risks are that: (a) the Government's broad
policies for economic restructuring may not sufficiently
compel enterprises to shift emphasis from employment to
productivity; (b) employment and social welfare institutions
may not have sufficient resources and services to cope with
major displacements in tha labor force, or may misdirect
resources if the economic restructuring program is not
implemented effeztively; and (c) training and micro-
enterprise support institutions may not be capable of
providing se4vices to enable new investment and enterprise
development. These risks have been recognized and addressed
in the project through review of employment and social
welfare budget support, legislation and policy, organization
and staffing levels, and methods of delivering services to
clients. MOLSP has made adjustments in all these areas
along the lines recommended by the Bank and will continue to
improve institutional capabilities during the project. All
components of the project include technical assistance which
will assist with supervision, provide for substat.tial
evaluation of project activities and improve institutional
capabilities and performance at the national and local
levels.



- iv -
Estimated Project Costs:
LOCA1   Foreign  Total
-US$ Million ----
Managerial Infrastructure                        20.7     30.3    50.9
Income Maintenance Support                        0.7      5.5      6.2
Employment Services                               1.6      2.9      4.5
Adult Training                                    6.5     43.3    49.9
Micro-Enterprise Development                      5.7      2.5      8.2
Total Base Costs                                 35.2     84.4   119.7
Physical Contingencies                            3.5      8.4    12.0
Price Contingencies                               3.4      7.2    10.5
Total Costs                                    42.1    100.0   142.2
Financing Plan:
Local   Foreign  Total
---- US$ Million -----
Government of Poland                             42.1      0.0    42.1
IBRD                                              0.0    100.0   100.0
Total Financing Requirements                   42.1    100.0   142.2
Estimated Disbursements:
IBRD FY
FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97
------------- US$ million -------------
Annual                                8.0   20.0   33.0   10.0   20.0       9.0
Cumulative                            8.0   28.0   61.0   71.0   91.0   100.0
Economic Rate of Return: Not Applicable



POUAND
EMPLOYMENT PROMOTION AND SERVICES PROJECT
I. SECTORAIL BACKGROUND
1.1      With the launching in early 1990 of its Economic Transformation
Program (ETP), Poland embarked upon the difficult transition from a centrally
planned socialist economy to one in which market forces and free enterprise
will dominate. In scope and speed as yet unprecedented in the region, the ETP
has already commanded support from the World Bank in macroeconomic policy,
industrial restructuring, private sector development, financial sector reform,
agriculture, infrastructure, and environmental management.
1.2      Massive displacement of labor is an inevitable and desirable feature
of the transition to a market economy. Millions of Poles will change jobs in
the coming years, as markets signal the need to shift labor from sectors,
occupations and regions where it is redundant to productive uses elsewhere in
an economy undergoing profound and rapid structural change. As is true with
respect to its neighbors in the region which confront similar challenges,
Poland has yet to establish the employment policy framework, institutions, and
programs which in well functioning market economies facilitate redeployment of
labor, and thereby strengthen the human capital base for economic adjustment.
1.3      In response to the situation described above, the Employment
Promotion and Services Project (EPSP) will provide assistance (US$100 million
over five years) to the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy (MOLSP) to refine
and improve the cost-effectiveness of employment programs for which the
Government has budgeted approximately US$2 billion in 1991 (approximately two
percent of GDP). The project will assist the Government of Poland to remove
the labor constraints to economic restructuring, provide a social safety net
for those displaced by restructuring, and foster the full range of employment
policies and programs needed in a market economy. As such, the EPSP is
conceived as the first of several operations to address the human capital
preconditions to the emergence and sustainability of the required supply
response to the new market-oriented economic environment.
1.4      The remainder of this chapter provides summary information on: the
economic context for the reform program, existing labor force conditions, and
the issues to be addressed if Poland is to have effective and efficient
employment services and promotion.l/
I/ Readers unfamiliar with the general role of employment policies and
programs in economic restructuring, or with specific developments to date
in these fields in Poland, may wish to review Annex 1: Sector Background.
This annex provides an overview of employment programs typically found in
a market economy along with a more detailed information on programs,
issues, and strategies for employment promotion and services in Poland.



- 2 -
A. Economic Contet
1.5      Poland, with a per-capita CDP of about US$1770, has a total
population of about 38 million, which is growing at the rate of about
0.8 percent per year. The labor force was 17.1 million people in 1989. The
economic system established as the end of the 1940s was a traditional model of
centrally planned socialism, although modifications were introduced in
subsequent years. By the end of the 1980s the socialized sectors accounted
for about 70 percent of GDP and 70 percent of employment.
1.6      While the initial. focus of the ETP was on stabilizing the economy, a
number of important complementary measures seeking longer term structural
adjustment were also adopted from the beginning. Such measures include price
liberalization, introduction of a competitive trade regime, and fiscal reform
appropriate to a market economy. Other reforms that will more directly affect
employment include privatization of state-owned enterprises, reduction or
elimination of subsidies to remaining public enterprises, tariff reform in the
medium term that will reduce the level of protection of industry, and new
legal provisions for bankruptcy.
1.7      The ETP's stabilization measures have achieved favorable results, but
there is serious concern about unemployment. Following the start of the ETP,
registered unemployment rose from 55,800 in January 1990 to 1.125 million in
December, 1990 (about 6.1 percent of the labor force), and is expected to
reach 2 million by the end of 1991 (10.6 percent of the labor force). Persons
becoming unemployed through mass layoff rose from about 4.5 percent of total
registered unemployed in February to more than 16 percent in November 1990.
Roughly 10,600 firms issued notice in December 1990 of impending mass layoffs
expected to affect approximately 400,000 workers in the early months of 1991.
The Ministry of Labor and Social Policy (MOLSP), which is responsible for
administration of employment and social welfare programs in Poland, estimates
that registered unemployment will average 1.5 million in 1991. The growing
unemployment problem is reflected dramatically in operations of Local Labor
Offices (LLOs), where the ratio of job vacancies to the unemployed was 1:21 at
the end of 1990 as compared with 250:1 in 1989.
1.8      The Government's response to growing unemployment will be a critical
element in the political scene and a key factor in the effective transition to
a market economy. If the social costs are perceived to be too high and
employment and training efforts are unable to revitalize the labor force, the
Government may be forced to slow or halt reform efforts and to choose a more
expensive alternative of protecting jobs at the cost of productivity.
B. The Labor Force Consequences of Restructuring
1.9      The Government's response to increased joblessness caused by
restructuring will be affected by existing labor force conditions including:
the sectoral distribution of employment, labor force participation rates, the
education and skill levels of the work force, and labor force mobility.
1.10     Sectoral distribution.  The private sector, accounting for 29 percent



- 3 -
of employment, comprises mainly private agriculture (encompassing about 75
percent of all agricultural land and output), small industrial and
construction firms, and service enterprises (shops, restaurants). The
agriculture sector, with 27 percent of the employed, is larger than in most
countries of a similar income level, a reflection of labor intensive
operations. The service sector, with about one-third of employment, is
similar to that of other Eastern European countries but considerably smaller
than those of western countries, where it often represents about two-thirds of
the labor force. Industry, with 29 percent of the employed, is a smaller
sector iLi Poland than in other East European countries but is comparable to
those in several western countries (Annex 1, Attachment 1, shows employment by
sector).
1.11     The relatively low number of people in the industry sector may make
it possible to keep much of the labor force in the sector, but this will
require considerable capital investment and modernization combined with
reskilling of the work force. The high proportion of the work force in
agriculture may result in displacement in this sector, particularly if over-
staffed industries make a practice -- ,eleasing workers who also maintain
small farms (a practice being discussed by managers of several larger
enterprises). The Government anticipates that there will be a need for
expanded services in rural areas and related labor force development. The low
proportion of the work force in the service sector and changes in the finance
and commerce sub-sectors provide opportunities for growth but this too will
require investment and development of new skills.
1.12     Labor force particiDation.  Participation rates are high, ranging
from 87 percent for men and 77 percent for women in 1987. The high
participation rate for women is an important aspect of the unemployment
problem, as experience in OECD countries shows that women tend to have longer
jobless spells. Enterprise managers indicate they will concentrate staff
reductions initially in administrative support occupations, which are
dominated by women, and on individuals considered to be second wage earners in
families (e.g., if they own a private farm plot). The Government will need to
ensure that assistance is targeted to segments of the labor force that are
particularly affected by restructuring.
1.13     Education and skill levels.  About 30 percent of the work force has
only eight years or less of education. Recent surveys of unemployed by MOLSP
indicate that this pattern is repeated in current unemployment statistics.
Roughly another 30 percent of the work force has only narrow basic trade
school qualifications which will require upgrading with industrial
modernization. At the end of 1990, about 15 percent of the registered
unemployed were school leavers. Unemployment among this group was greatest
among those with little post primary education and for certain groups of
vocational training school graduates. The Government will need to ensure that
retraining programs provide for both general education and vocational skill
training.
1.14     Labor force mobility.  Geographic mobility has tended to decline in
recent decades. In 1989, there was internal migration of 597,000 people
compared with an annual average of 930,000 for the period 1976 to 1980.



-4
Internal migration declined by 8 percent from 1985 to 1989, with rural to
urban morement slowing by 6 percent and urban to rural flow by 11 percent.
Declining mobility is attributed chiefly to a shortage of affordable housing,
but the problem is exacerbated by the type of skill found in the labor force
(para. 1.13) and the lack of a national labor exchange. Hlgh labor force
participation, which may constrain migration for two-income earner households,
and scarcity of demand for labor tend to diminish the rate of internal
migration.   Lack of local infrastructure to support development of new
industries and population influx also inhibit migration. MOLSP cannot solve
all these problems, but Government employment programs can help broaden labor
force skills and strengthen national labor exchange mechanisms.
S.  Km1oJen&Proaram Issues
1.15     Experience in OECD countries has shown that programs to address the
employment dimension of economic restructuring combine reactive and RrQactive
measures. While some of these measures may not be directly applicable to the
Polish environment, they do provide a point of reference for enhancing Polish
employment policies and programs. Reactive measures ameliorate the short-
term costs of adjustment to individuals through income support. These include
unemployment and social welfare benefit programs for poverty prevention.
Proactive measures seek to add value to human capital through development of
new skills, thereby facilitating capital investment and redeployment of labor
to newly created jobs. These measures include employment services which
respond to frictional unemployment and assist with redeployment of labor, and
training and employment generation to address structural unemployment and
regional lack of demand for labor. These measures working together comprise
essential elements of the social safety net in a market economy. To be
effective these measures must be used in various combinations and carefully
targeted to different client groups.
1.16     The foe~us of the EPSP is on the urgent need in Poland for
institutions that can provide appropriate reactive and proactive programs in
an effective, efficient, and well integrated manner. Poland hns initiated
programs to meet that need, but a number of critical issues remain to be
addressed in five broad areas: management, income cupport, employment
services, training, and micro-enterprise development.
Management
1.17     Targeting of Resources.  An Employment Law and a Social Welfare Law,
both enacted since the start of the ETP, provide for a broad range of reactive
and proactive employment measures, including temporary income support,
employment services, training for the unemployed, and assistance with micro-
enterprise development. Employment programs are supported by a national Labor
Fund, which derives revenue from the central government budget and an employer
contribution of 2 percent of the wage bill. While there are only limited data
on programs launched in 1990, there appears to be overemphasis on reactive
income support measures and limited attention and resources directed to
proactive programs. In 1990, more than 60 percent of Labor Fund expenditures
were for income support, and the share is expected to increase to nearly
80 percent of an even larger budget this year. Such concentration of effort



in reactive measures is not in keeping with successful practice in OECD
countries and could create problems in the long-term if clients become
increasingly reliant on income support and withdraw from the labor force.
MOLSP needs therefore to monitor carefully the effectiveness of various
programs with specific client groups and to target policies and resources
accordingly.
1.18     Adeguacv of Financing.  Poland spent less than one percent of GDP on
employment programs in 1990, compared with an average of about 2.8 percent for
10 OECD countries. It is tentatively estimated that expenditures in 1991 will
be about two percent of GDP. About 72 percent of total resources come from
the central budget with the remainder from employer contributions   Current
levels of resources will support delivery of programs under the Employment Law
in MOLSP's scenario of moderate unemployment during 1991 (para. 1.7). If
restructuring is greatly intensified, however, mass layoffs could increase
more sharply than expected. Financing requirements will be influenced by
inflation and by decisions on the mix of employment programs to be provided in
light of evaluation of initial efforts. In 1991 unemployment benefits are
projected to encompass approximately 80 percent of employment program
expenditures. For all these reasons, current budgetary provisions may not be
adequate for the future and there is a need to identify alternatives to
central budget financing of unemployment benefits.
1.19     Staffing.  Local Labor and Social Welfare Offices face an enormous
challenge in reorienting their services to a market economy and to the
immediate crisis of unemployment. In 1990, MOLSP allocated considerable
resources to increase numbers of staff at the local level. The situation is
worsening, however, as unemployment continues to rise rapidly.  The ratio of
staff in Poland's Local Labor Offices (LLOs) to the registered unemployed is
currently about 1:225, compared with 1:64 for selected OECD countries.
Staffing constraints will increase in importance as LLOs seek to expand the
services they provide beyond simple registration and benefit payment
'transactions" to include more labor-intensive employment services. Few staff
in the LLOs or SWOs have training or experience in modern techniques such as
job counseling, and problems are exacerbated by the lack of support materials.
There are higher education diploma and postgraduate courses in social work,
but similar courses need to be developed for employment counselors.
1.20     Automation.  The present approach to automation of employment an&
social welfare service administration is fragmented. Inadequate
telecommunication factlities and disparate proposals for external assistance
for automation of selected labor offices are perpetuating this piecemeal
approach and leading to incompatible systems. While the current initiatives
could facilitate experimentation and support local autonomy, they also impede
development of inte5grated management information systems and result in
considerable duplication of work and inefficient use of public resources.
1.21     Labor Market Information.  Current systems for collecting labor
statistics were designed by the Central Statistics Office (GUS) for central
planning and have numerous shortcomings for use in a market economy. GUS is
not yet able to provide: (a) current and projected employment by occupation
based on systematic enterprise sample surveys and different scenarios of



- 6 -
sector development; (b) comprehensive and timely data on unemployment and
wages; (c) time-series data to reflect trends; and (d) data with sufficient
coverage to include the private sector or smaller enterprise units. Also
lacking are modern classification systems for occupations and economic
sectors. Information users--enterprises, gove;nment policy makers, and
individual citizens--need to be much more involved in the system to articulate
what information is needed and how it should be presented to assist in
decision-making. MOLSP has begun to address these problems with formation of
an inter-agency Occupational Information Coordinating Committee.
Income Support
1.22     The Employment Law provides for unemployment benefit at 70 percent of
an individual's previous wage for three months, reducing to 50 percent for a
further six months and then to 40 percent without time limit. There is
provision of a minimum pension for people over retirement age with no other
source of income, financed out of the Social Insurance Fund. The Employment
Law further provides for public works programs and an early retirement option
for older workers who become unemployed through mass layoff. Social welfare
legislation provides for assistance to orphans, invalids, the elderly or
homeless, and drug and alcohol abusers.  Assistance includes cash or in-kind
support for individuals and families with short term difficulties and
financial support for persons who require residential care in a specialized
facility. Subsistence support for other long-term unemployed has not yet been
made available.
1.23     The linkages and complementarity of the Employment Law and social
welfare programs are not yet clearly defined and reflected in the provision of
services. When unemployment benefits are limited, as is being proposed,
Social Welfare Offices will be hard pressed to deal with increasing numbers of
clients who have exhausted their unemployment benefits, particularly without
having methods of objective means testing for these clients. The existing
approach to financing the unemployment benefit system from the Labor Fund,
which also supports proactive employment programs, tends to crowd out
proactive programs during periods of high unemployment. OECD experience
indicates that unemployment benefits and employment programs coexist most
successfully when they are financed separately and supported by social welfare
programs of last resort.
Employment Services
1.24     Economic restructuring is shifting the role of LLOs from that of
"matchmaker" of job orders from state enterprises with available local labor
to provider of broad employment services, including not only labor exchange
functions but also client assessment, counseling and administration of
proactive programs. This reorientation will need to be supported by
automation of registration and job matching, training in job search and job
development techniques, and development of modern aptitude and interest
assessment procedures linked to information on occupations, and education and
training. Techniques for responding to mass layoffs also need to be further
developed and disseminated.



-7-
Adult Training 2/
1.25     At the local level, training is viewed as a reactive measure that
should be provided for the unemployed when there is a guarantee of employment
at the end of the training period. This is resulting in a very low proportion
of the adult unemployed participating in training during the current economic
transition. Training that does occur is focused on specialized vocational
skill training and does not incorporate basic education or general life and
foundation skills increasingly found in adult training in OECD countries.
Most local training institutions are not accustomed to delivering the type of
flexible services required by unemployed adults. These concepts and
approaches need t) be broadened and facilities need to be upgraded. Labor and
training inst!   'Tr' should incorporate training as a tool to deal with
structural ur.e    .nent and to add value to human capital.  Training
institutions i      o promote cost recovery through provision of customized
training for . .6t'ng enterprises, which wish to increase productivity, and to
new enterprises wlilch require a specialized work force to ensure an efficient
start-up. Train'i.g should be used as a proactive tool to support structural
adjustment (para. 1.10), investment, and economic development.
Micro Enterprise Development
1.26     Micro-enterprise development by the unemployed is regarded as an
important proactive employment promotion and economic development initiative
throughout Poland. MOLSP uses the Labor Fund to provide limited capital
(loans) and technical assistance through the LLOs to unemployed individuals
seeking to start small-scale enterprises. Loans are limited to 20 months of
unemployment benefits, half of which is forgiven if the enterprise stays in
operation for 24 months. The program is not well managed. MOLSP and LLOs
staff have limited expertise and time to administer the programs. Little
technical assistance is provided to clients, and efforts to grant autonomy to
LLOs have resulted in widely varying application procedures, appraisal
methodology, lending terms, and grace periods among LLOs. Based on
international and Polish experience, the option of micro-enterprise
development is desirable for a small portion (2-3 percent) of the unemployed.
To make this option viable in Poland, there is need to: (a) strengthen local
NGO's (e.g. Chambers of Commerce, Agencies for Local Initiative, and
Industrial Societies) so they can provide technical assistance, access to
affordable facilities and support services, and credits to the unemployed who
wish to start micro-enterprises; and (b) narrow the role of LLOs to evaluating
the initial aptitude and interest of the unemployed in starting micro-
enterprises, in order to refer these individuals to appropriate local
institutions where they could obtain assistance.
2/ The Ministry of National Education (MONE) has overall responsibility for
education and training, including licensing of agencies which wish to
provide training services. Training is provided by several Ministries,
enterprises, and other institutions including more than 700 licensed NGOs
and semi-private training associations. The latter are the principal
agencies receiving funds from MOLSP at the local level to train the
unemployed.



- 8 -
D. RAtionale for Bank Involvement ln the Sector
1.27     Inadequate attention to the human capital base could constrain and
possibly paralyze economic reform in Poland. Ongoing analytical work on the
cash benefit components of the social safety net, unemployment, education and
training, science and technology, and health is assisting the Bank and the
Government to identify and understand the human capital constraints to
generating and maintaining the needed supply response to the new economic
environment. The Bank is able to bring to Poland experience in other
countries with employment policy, cash benefit and income support, employment
services, and employment promotion. The Structural Adjustment Loan (Ln 3247-
POL) addresses core policy issues of income support programs for workers
displaced by economic restructuring. But policy alone will not suffice. The
proposed project will improve the cost effectiveness of the major investments
the Government is already making in employment programs (para. 1.3), including
strengthening institutional capacity and delivery of these and more proactive
employment service and promotion programs.
E. Donor Coordination
1.28     Support from other donors is generally focused on technical
assistance for introduction of employment service techniques in LLOs at
selected locations. Several donors have defined specific programs and
allocated foreign currency to MOLSP. The European Economic Community has
committed ECU 18 million (US$23 million), including assistance to the MOLSP
staff training center. The ILO has committed US$1.8 million to be used over
three years for vocational guidance and placement, staff training, self
employment and development of seven model labor offices. The US has committed
US$4.9 million to be used over four years for development of employment
services, mainly in two regions (Gdansk and Szczecin). The UK has committed
£2.0 million (US$3.8 million) over three years for employment services,
training, small business, and health and safety, with regional implementation
to be focused in Krakow. In addition, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France,
Ireland, Germany and Sweden have expressed readiness to provide assistance
and, along with the previously mentioned donors, have offered approximately
1,600 training fellowships of varying lengths and content. Bank staff met
with many of these donors during project preparation. The project is designed
to provide a framework for coordination of long-term development of employment
programs and the incorporation of additional assistance, particularly in the
fields of social welfare, training, and micro-enterprise development.
II. PROJECT
A. Proiect Origin
2.1      The project was prepared by the Government and appraised by the Bank
in January, 1991, following initial discussions in Poland between the Bank and
MOLSP in June and October, 1990. Negotiations were completed in Washington,
D.C. on May 3, 1991.
B. Project Obiectives



- 9 -
2.2      The goal of the Employment Promotion and Services Project (EPSP) is
to assist the Government to develop employment policies, institutions and
programs which will in turn mitigate the negative employment impact of
economic adjustment and contribute to a resurgence of economic growth. The
project will focus on institutional development at the national and local
levels and on strengthening of short and long term employment programs. In
support of economic restructuring, the project will have four broad
objectives:
(a) Improve the cost-effectiveness of existing employment and social
welfare programs.
(b) Improve the geographic, sectoral, and occupational mobility of the
labor force.
(c) Increase the productivity of the work force and promote investment.
(d) Support job creation through micro-small enterprise development.
C. Project DescriRtion
2.3      The project will support the development of social safety net
measures ranging from reactive income maintenance programs to proactive labor
force development programs. Specifically, it will help MOLSP cope with short
to medium-term unemployment, and lay the groundwork for long term development
of Poland's employment infrastructure.
2.4      The project consists of five components involving a total cost of
US$142.2 million:
(a) Management Infrastructure for Employment and Social Welfare Programs
(US$50.9 million)2/: to improve cost-effectiveness and coverage of
programs by refining policy, improving management information,
automating national and local services, and enhancing labor market
information.
(b)  Income Support Programs (US$6.2 million):  to refine unemployment and
social welfare income support measures to avert poverty and assist
the unemployed, families and other individuals cope with short and
long-term income fluctuations brought about by introduction of a
market economy.
(c)  Employment Service Programs (US$4.5 million):  to improve mass
layoff, career counseling, job search and labor exchange techniques
to promote mobility of the labor force by actively assisting job
seekers to obtain initial employment or be redeployed in situations
of frictional unemployment.
3/ Figures in parentheses for the various project components refer to base
costs, excluding contingencies. As shown in Table 3.1, the total of these
base costs is US$119.7 million and of contingencies is US$22.5 million.



- 10 -
(d) Adult Training (US$49.9 million): to improve productivity, promote
inward investment and enhance labor force mobility by retraining the
unemployed and improving qualifications of low/semi-skilled workers
to enhance their ability to react to structural unemployment.
(e) Micro-enterprise Develogment (US$8.2 million): to generate
employment by activating local institutions, mechanisms and systems
to support creation and expansion of private micro-enterprises by the
unemployed and improve their ability to respond to unemployment
caused by a lack of demand for labor.
2.5      In all components, special attention will be given to issues of long-
term financial viability and efficiency.
D. Project Components
(1)      Management Infrastructure for EmRlovment and E.ocial Welfare
Proerams(USS50.9 million)
2.6      The aim of this component is to improve the breadth and
administrative efficiency of programs supported under the Employment and
Social Welfare Laws. This will be done in consultation with regional and
Local Labor and Social Welfare Offices, labor councils, GUS, and consultants
provided under the project. For this purpose, MOLSP will undertake actions on
three sub-components: general administration, automation and labor market
information.
2.7      General Administration (US$1.2 million).  This sub-component of the
project will provide for development of a Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) and
a management information system leading to further revision of the Employment
Law. The project will provide 44 person-months of consulting services, 15
person-months of fellowships and a small amount of support equipment.
(a) Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) (US$0.9 million). The PCU will
assist MOLSP technical units with procurement of goods and services
provided under the project. A Project Operational Manual (POM) has
been developed by Bank and MOLSP staff to assist project
implementation. The POM includes: project action matrices for all
project components, terms of reference for all technical assistance,
and procedures for identification and selection of sub-projects to
support adult vocational training and micro-enterprise development by
the unemployed.
(b) Management Information System (MIS) (US$0.2 million). The MIS will
improve targeting of employment programs to needy groups by:
(a) providing management information to evaluate the effectiveness of
programs for different clients; and (b) implementing an annual
planning and budgeting process at the local level based on this
information and evaluation.
(c) Employment Law (US$0.01 million). Refinements will be based on



. 11 -
output from the management information system and review of similar
legislation in other countries and will increase the diversity and
targeting of programs and services based on an evaluation of the
cost-effectiveness of these programs with selected groups
(e.g., women, youth, older unemployed adults and ethnic groups).
2.8      Automation (US$48.6 million).  In this sub-component MOLSP will, in a
three phased process: (a) automate all regional/local LLOs; (b) develop a
related communications strategy; and (c) automate all regional/local SWOs,
including providing related computer training to all staff. The project will
provide 437 person-months of consulting services, 530 person-months of
training/fellowships (a major portion of this being local consultants and
training) and significant amounts of computer support equipment.
(a)  Program Management (US$0.8 million).  MOLSP will establish program
management and planning systems for a three phase automation of
local, regional and ational offices. MOLSP will obtain program
management and planning contract assistance, complete conceptual
design for automation, develop a comprehensive plan and a simplified
automation timetable, procedures and manuals for MOLSP central
operations.
(b)  Labor Offices  (Phase I, US$18.7 million).  MOLSP will, with the
assistance of contracted management services, prepare specifications
for management information, computer hardware, software, site
preparation, installation, maintenance, and training for MOLSP,
Voivod, and LLOs thereby establishing operational computer capacity
in local, regional and national offices. Areas to be addressed
include: (a) automation of LLO client registration, calculation of
unemployment benefits and payment to unemployed persons;
(b) automation of labor exchange information at local, regional and
national levels; and (c) design and implementation of an automated
system for monitoring and evaluating the cost-effectiveness of
employment programs supported by the Employment Law. This latter
activity will improve the targeting of services to the unemployed and
the development of annual budget and service plans at the local level
based on the number and type of clients to be served (para. 2.7
(b)).
(c)  Communications Services  (Phase II, US$10.7 million).  A
communications plan including manual, telephonic, and electronic data
transfer will be developed and implemented taking into account the
shortcomings of telecommunications infrastructure as well as
anticipated improvements. An electronic inter-connection at all
feasible levels within MOLSP and between LLOs and SWOs will be
established.
(d)  Social Welfare Offices  (Phase III, US$18.5 million).  Computer
facilities will be provided to national, voivod, and local SWOs for:
(a) automation of registration, benefits calculation, payment and
cost reporting; and (b) automation of welfare services referrals,
activity tracking and cost reporting.



- 12 -
2.9      Eff^^tive staff training, especially in LLOs and SWOs, is a critical
factor for the operational success of automated management information
systems. On-site as well as external training will be planned and implemented
during each phase of the project covering computer literacy, introduction to
general functions, and specific applications linked to existing forms and
procedures. Individual follow-up training would take place after
approximately six months of operation at LLOs and SWOs.
2.10     Labor Market Information (US$1.2 million).  The Government recognizes
the need to improve labor statistics and labor market analyses to support the
market economy, and the operation of employment services and training
programs. For this sub-component the project will provide resources to:
(a) refine the existing framework of employer/establishment-based and
household surveys, and (b) provide analyses and present the information in a
manner that can be understood by user institutions and individuals. The
project will assist the GUS to undertake this work. MOLSP and GUS will
jointly define the requirements and strategies, with the assistance of the
existing interagency Occupational Information Coordinating Committee, for
collecting, analyzing and providing information for institutional planning and
individual career decision making (vocational counseling) in enterprises,
labor offices and education/training institutions. The project will provide
16 person-months of consulting services, 9 person-months of fellowships, and
computer equipment.
(a) Freguent labor market statistics: GUS will: (a) introduce a
quarterly household sample survey to obtain more current information
on the labor force; (b) improve the establishment universe file
(REGON) to provide more comprehensive coverage of small and private
sector enterprises; and (c) refine the Living Standard Measurement
Surveys.
(b) Labor market analyses and trend information: MOLSP and GUS will work
jointly to: (a) revise occupational and sectoral classification
systems; (b) establish sample employer surveys to determine the
employment and wage structure of occupations by sectors; (c) develop
a table of occupations by sector (economic activity); (d) conduct
sample follow-up studies of education and training program
completers; (e) develop an automated Occupational Information System
(OIS) to link previously developed occupational demand and supply
information, thereby providing a basis for related labor trend
analysis; and (f) train institutional planners and counselors how to
interpret and use analyses.
2.11     During loan negotiations, the Government confirmed that during
project implementation the MOLSP will: (a) submit to Parliament draft
legislation containing revisions to the existing framework for employment
programs to improve cost-effectiveness, targeting and financing of such
programs at the local level (by December 31, 1992); (b) develop a
comprehensive plan, in concert with government authorities, to support
automation and sharing of information between labor and social welfare offices
at the local, regional and national levels (by June 30, 1992); (c) in
cooperation with the inter-agency Occupational Information Coordinating



- 13 -
Committee, develop a framework, including job tltles, for a new national
occupational classification system, satisfactory to the Bank, for use in all
MOLSP programs (by December 31, 1991); (d) use agreed upon criteria to
identify local sub-projects in social welfare, adult training and micro-
enterprise development which will receive project funds; and (e) will
substantially staff all units (i.e., the Project Coordinating Unit, Management
Information and Automation Unit, Employment Services, Training, and Micro-
Enterprise Development) supporting major project components (by December 31,
1991).
(2)      Income SuDport Programs (USS6.2 million)
2.12     Through this component, the efficiency of income support programs
will be increased by: (a) improving criteria for client means testing at
SWOs; (b) developing and implementing SWO staff training; (c) upgrading SWO
facilities; and (d) creating an unemployment benefit and financing system
independent of other Employment Law programs. The project will provide
25 person-months of consulting services, 17 person-months of fellowships, and
equipment.
(a) Means Testing (US$0.1 million). MOLSP will design an objective
procedure for testing clients needs (means test) that can be used to
determine the level of benefits and services to individual clients.
MOLSP will also develop standardized levels of benefits for each
category of beneficiaries (e.g., single, single parent with child,
married couple). MOLSP will prepare: (a) guidelines on policy
interpretation; and (b) operating instructions for all staff to
conduct means tests effectively. Staff training will be organized at
the national, Voivod, and SWO office levels to facilitate the
implementation of these procedures.
(b) Staff Training (US$0.5 million). A selected number of MOLSP senior
staff, special homes directors and social workers wii.L study a
variety of social programs, systems and methods abroad. An
assessment of staff training needs will be conducted at all levels by
surveying at least ten percent of the social welfare facilities.
Results of the assessment will be used by the MOLSP Staff Training
Institute to develop and deliver: (a) specialized courses; and
(b) on-the-job training (OJT) for all social workers, including
entry-level staff. Finally, training courses will be developed and
delivered for newly appointed supervisors and managers. The training
programs will include skills development on interpersonal relations,
counselling, interviewing, etc.
(c) Improving SWO Facilities (US$5.5 million). MOLSP will design model
field offices with necessary furniture and equipment that will allow
and encourage social welfare personnel to improve service delivery to
the public. Subsequently, MOLSP will: (a) facilitate the provision
of adequate office space to ensure easy access by elderly and
physically disabled claimants (e.g., ground floor); and (b) provide
office equipment to about 500 SWOs. The model SWOs will be selected
using criteria defined in Annex 2, Part I.



- 14 -
(d) Unemployment Benefit Financing (US$0.1 million). MOLSP will propose
legislation and procedures for an unemployment benefit system that is
administered and financed separately from existing Employment Law
programs, possibly as an insurance fund operated outside the state
budget. Fellowships will be provided to allow MOLSP staff to study
benefit and financing systems in several countries, and limited
consultative assistance will be made available to draft legislative
alternatives and implementation procedures.
2.13     During loan negotiations, the Government confirmed that during
project implementation MOLSP will review and submit to Parliament, draft
legislation, for benefits and financing of the unemployment, social welfare
and related income support systems to: (a) coordinate benefit provision; and
(b) separate financing of unemployment benefits from employment programs and
increasingly from the state budget (by December 31, 1992).
(3)      EmRlovment Service Programs (USS4.5 million)
2.14     The main focus of this component is to expand and improve the
existing employment service programs. The project will support: (a)
development and implementation of Industrial Adjustment Services to assist
enterprises and communities experiencing mass layoffs; (b) development of
materials, techniques and facilities to improve occupational counselling; and
(c) improvement of national and LLO staff training. The project will provide
69 person-months of consulting services, 78 person-months of fellowships, and
equipment.
(a) Industrial Adjustment Services (IAS) (US$1.2 million). MOLSP will
work closely with Regional and National Labor Councils to establish
Industrial Adjustment Services to assist with mass layoffs. This IAS
program will focus on early intervention at the plant or enterprise
prior to layoff, will use a joint employer-employee committee to
develop intensive support programs and will make the best use of
existing employment services. First, a model IAS (containing a plan,
materials and guidelines) will be developed to provide rapid response
assistance to workers being displaced in large numbers. Second, the
developed model will be field-tested in two Voivods (chosen on the
basis of announced large scale layoffs) by setting up an intervention
team composed of representatives of management, workers, community
(particularly in single industry situations) and local labor offices.
Third, a cadre of local consultants from approximately 10 regions
will be trained to assist with implementation of IAS on a flexible
basis. Finally, monitoring procedures to evaluate the cost
effectiveness of the IAS model, (e.g., are workers being re-deployed
faster as a result of earlier intervention by IAS?), will be
developed such that the model can be revised accordingly.
(b)  Occupational Counselling (US$1.2 million).  Integrated materials and
techniques for occupational counselling will be developed and LLO
staff trained to use them. Development will be guided by a career
information task force that will be part of the existing Occupational
Information Committee. Five activities will be undertaken:
(i)   Automated and paper and pencil interest and aptitude assessment



- 15 -
procedures will be developed so that LLO clients can identify
suitable occupations on a self-help basis with minimal
intervention and assistance from LLO staff.
(ii) A national information base of occupational information will be
established using regularly updated information
(e.g., occupational descriptions, location, wages, required
qualifications, working conditions, and related occupations).
This information base will be automated and directly linked to
the assessment procedures described above.
(iii) A national information base of education and training
opportunities will be developed. Information compiled in the
automated database will include items such as institutions,
programs, linkage to occupations, schedules, fees, certificates
or diploma provided, location, profile of clients, enrollment
conditions, and sports and residential facilities.
(iv)  A Career Information System (CIS), with automated and print
components, will be developed to integrate previously described
assessment procedures, occupational and educational information
bases, and information from the labor-exchange. The CIS will
be designed to be used by clients on a self-help basis with
minimal intervention and assistance by LLO staff. The cost-
effectiveness of the CIS will be evaluated in selected schools
and LLOs.
(v)   Job development techniques (e.g., targeted visits to employers,
journals, radio, TV) to improve LLO relations with enterprises,
and improve information on job vacancies, will be developed as
well as iob club and iob seeking training programs to help
individuals and small groups of job seekers find jobs, training
opportunities,and improve their employability.
(c)  Facilities/eguiRment (US$1.2 million).  Facilities and equipment will
be provided to selected LLOs to support more cost-effective provision
of services to job seekers and enterprises and to support the use of
new employment service materials and techniques.
(d) National and LLO Staff Tra!ning (US$0.9 million). The MOLSP Training
Department will organize short-term staff training courses for MOLSP,
Voivod, and LLO staff in such areas as career development, interview
techniques, aptitude/interest assessment, occupational and
educational information, job search, job development, mass layoff,
micro-enterprise development, and language training. Managerial
training for LLO managers and training of trainers will also be
conducted. In addition, MOLSP will jointly develop, together with
MONE and selected higher education institutions, long-term education
programs for job counselors (e.g., a higher education diploma or
postgraduate program) that can provide occupational counseling staff
for schools, training institutions, LLO/SWOs and large enterprises.
(4)      Adult Trainins (USS49.9 million)



- 16 -
2.15     The project will help local training agencies upgrade and change the
skills of the work force in response to the rapid economic transformation
program by:  (a) establishment of national guidelines and procedures to help
LLOs develop performance contracts with local training agencies and help local
training organizations implement customized training programs for existing
enterprises which wish to increase productivity, and for new enterprises which
require a specialized work force to ensure an efficient start-up; and
(b) development of a range of local training programs for unemployed adults to
allow them to react to, and to support, structural changes in the economy.
The project will provide technical expertise and resources; including 168
person-months of consulting services, 483 person-months of fellowships, and
significant amounts for equipment.
2.16     National Guidelines and Procedures (US$1.0 million).  MOLSP will
develop model contracts and procedures for LLOs to use in awarding contracts
to local training agencies. This is intended to improve the quality and cost-
effectiveness of training provided. Performance criteria to be included in
contracts will include: (a) training agency responsibilities for job
placement and minimum levels of placement performance; (b) methods of
instruction to be used (e.g., modular instruction, flexible entry/exit
scheduling); and (c) performance evaluation procedures (e.g., unit costs per
trainee, job placement rates). Such guidelines will be intended to shift the
emphasis of instruction to rapid skills development, and to make training more
accessible to the unemployed.
2.17     MOLSP will, in cooperation with selected local training agencies,
develop a model program and procedures for marketing and implementing
customized training to support: (a) revitalization of existing enterprises;
(b) start up of new enterprises; and (c) partial recovery of the costs of
retraining. These programs will initiate training at short notice (i.e., 30-
60 days). MOLSP staff, in cooperation with international consultants, will
develop necessary regulations, materials and programs and provide technical
assistance and training to key st.aff at local training agencies which will be
selected by MOLSP to field test these programs.
2.18     Local Adult Training Programs (US$48.9 million).  The project will
provide technical expertise and equipment, through MOLSP, to local training
agencies to develop vocational skill, mobile, junior-middle management, and
foreign language training programs. Selection of sites for all programs will
be done by MOLSP following criteria agreed upon with the Bank and set forth in
Annex 2, Part II. A detailed competitive proposal process has been developed
with the Government for managing the major vocational skill development
program. This process is set forth in Part B:I of the Project Operational
Manual which is available on request.
(a) Vocational/Skill Training (US$44.2 million): Technical assistance
and training hardware and software for development of approximately
420 vocational skill training programs will be provided. This will
include development of approximately 30 new programs and upgrading of
12 existing programs (each to be replicated approximately 1C uimes).
The programs will be based on job analysis and use flexible entry
exit scheduling and modular instruction techniques. Emphasis will be
given to programs needed to support structural adjustment and the



- 17 -
emerging market economy requiring reskilling in key sectors such as
industry, finance, and service. New and upgraded vocational training
programs will be designed to provide the unemployed with new skills
to assist their reentry into the labor force as well as raise the
skills of low and semi-skilled workers.
(b)  Mobile Training (US$3.3 million):  The project will provide for
development of about 30 mobile training programs to provide rapid
assistance in high priority areas (e.g., areas affected by mass
layoffs, isolated areas lacking training facilities and with poor
transportation). This will allow training agencies to intervene at a
very early stage (e.g., after mass layoff notification) and will make
basic skill training available in selected localities.
(c)  Management (US$0.2 million):  Resources will be provided to develop
about 10 junior-middle management programs to assist: (a) workers
threatened with layoff; (b) the unemployed; and (c) enterprises which
wish to increase productivity.
(d)  Language Skills (US$0.8 million):  The project will provide resources
for about 10 language training programs in localities where there is
demand for workers with such skills and language training capacity is
limited.
(d)  Foundation Training (US$0.4 million):  Resources will be provided for
development of foundation training programs (e.g., job search, life
skills, basic education) in about 20 locations to assist unemployed
workers with low educational skills to reenter the labor market.
These programs will provide job seeking skills and confidence to
unskilled adults with low education who have difficulty adjusting to
the work environment.
(5)      Micro-enterprise Development (USS8.2 million)
2.19     The focus of this component of the project is to strengthen the
ability of local non-government organizations (e.g. Chambers of Commerce,
Agencies for Local Initiative) to provide improved services: (a) to those
unemployed who have shown the aptitude to start micro-enterprises, and (b) to
strengthen the existing entrepreneurship program being operated through LLOs.
Activities supported under the project will be divided into two overlapping
phases. Phase I will provide technical assistance to build the general
understanding of micro-entrepreneurship in MOLSP and LLOs and to develop the
capacity of local non-government institutions to promote micro-enterprise
development by the unemployei. Phase II will provide assistance for sub-
pro4ects proposed by these local institutions to: (a) furnish technical
serviLes to micro-entrepreneurs; (b) establish incubators, providing
affordable space and other services, for micro-enterprise development; and (c)
test the feasibility of providing non-subsidized capital through NGOs to new
and early-stage micro-enterprises which have difficulty obtaining credit from
commercial sources, due to lack of collateral. The project will provide 74
person-months of consulting services, 52 person-months of fellowships,
equipment, and limited capital for micro-entrepreneurs.



- 18 -
2.20     Capacity Building (Phase I) (US$0.8 million).  In this initial phase
of the project, to be completed by 1993, technical assistance will be provided
to strengthen MOLSP and LLO capacity to promote micro-enterprise development
by the unemployed. MOLSP will: (a) design a simple process for LLO staff to
determine the initial aptitude and interest of the unemployed for initiating
micro-enterprises, in order to refer these individuals to local small business
development institutions to participate in entrepreneurial training and/or to
obtain credits, if needed; and (b) develop an improved model contract for LLOs
to use with local institutions which will be selected to provide training and
administer credits for the unemployed.
2.21     MOLSP will, with the assistance of consultants provided through the
project and through selected small enterprise assistance institutions
(e.g., Agency for Local Initiative, Economic Societies), develop and deliver
t-;aining to local small enterprise development agencies to enhance the human
resource base capable of assisting micro-enterprise development. Selected
publications and training materials on micro-enterprise development from other
countries will be collected, translated, and compiled in a resource center at
MOLSP for distribution to local institutions.
2.22     MOLSP will gather relevant data on small enterprise credits being
granted under the Employment Law and the Project and create a central database
allowing MOLSP to monitor and evaluate the cost-effectiveness of the credit
program. The database will be used to help match the unemployed to internship
opportunities in successful micro-enterprises established by people who were
previously unemployed.
2.23     Sub-Projects (Phase II) (US$7.4 million).  MOLSP will provide project
resources to qelected NGOs which propose to assist the unemployed in starting
up their own micro-enterprises. Sub-projects will be selected on a
competitive basis according to criteria (see Annex 2, Part III) and procedures
as agreed upon previously by the World Bank and MOLSP and defined in the POM
(para. 3.9). Sub-projects will provide assistance for the three types of
services described in the following paragraphs and more fully defined in Part
B:II of the POM. Local institutions could apply for one or several of these
sub-projects:
(a)  Technical Assistance (US$0.9 million):  Technical assistance will be
provided to strengthen or develop about twenty small business
assistance centers (SBACs) throughout Poland. The major activity of
SBACs will be to conduct intensive entrepreneurial training programs
to serve the unemployed who are referred to them by LLOs. SBAC staff
will also provide ongoing business assistance (e.g., sales and
marketing assistance, inventory control, legal advice) to those in
need of it. Centers will be eligible to apply for Enterprise
Development Funds (EDFs, see (c) following) so they could be in the
position of being able to provide both financial and technical
assistance to micro-enterprises.
(b) Micro-enterprise Incubation (US$4.8 million): Technical assistance
will be provided to establish incubators to support micro-
enterprises during their critical first several years of operation.



- 19 -
About ten incubators will be developed in areas of high unemployment
to provide the combinations of affordable space, technical and
possibly financial assistance that micro-enterprises need in order to
grow and employ others. The incubators will be large-scale
operations (minimum size of approximately 3000 square meters of net
leasable space to serve approximately 30 micro-enterprises). They
will be planned and developed according to competitive project
proposals from local agencies. The design, development and operation
of incubators is more complex than for EDFs or SBACs. Thus a two-
phase project proposal process will be used including: (a) proposal
for conducting the pre-development phase, including market analysis,
feasibility studies and incubator planning; and (b) a facility
development proposal which will include plans for building
renovation, equipment, staff and management training, and the start-
up of incubator operations. Incubators will also be eligible to
obtain SBAC and EDF grants. The project will also support incubator
manager training, including fellowships abroad.
(c)  Enterprise Development Funds (US$1.7 million):  These pilot sub-
projects are designed to develop a mechanism to improve the existing
MOLSP program which disburses capital from the Employment Fund to the
unemployed who wish to start micro-enterprises. The project will
provide technical assistance and limited capital for establishing and
evaluating, according to successful international experience, about
twelve pilot Enterprise Development Funds (EDFs) proposed by local
non-government, non-bank organizations. EDFs will provide flexible
mixes of debt or ecuity capital at non-subsidized market rates for
start-up and early- 3tage micro-enterprises development by the
unemployed.  EDF3 -ill be staffed by a maximum of two full-time
professionals, sLqplJemented by a volunteer loan review committee
including at least one representative from a commercial bank. EDFs
will maintain exc.ksive commercial Bank accounts for all EDF
financial transaction3s with individual micro-entrepreneurs and MOLSP.
EDF capital will be nrovided during the early stage of business
development and act v-. a transition financing mechanism until the
enterprise is able to obtain credit frc- commercial sources (e.g.,
banks).  Initial capi al allocations provided by the loan, and the
number of EDFs, will be augmented by the MOLSP from the Labor Fund if
the evaluation of ini-'ial EDF performance reveals that they satisfy
acceptable standards for the management and performance of micro-
enterprise investment portfolios. Initial capital provided through
project loan funds will be small, approximately US$100,000 per EDF.
Capital commitments to individual micro-entrepreneurs will be limited
(usually no more than US$'J0,000, encompassing up to approximately
80 percent of total capital invested) and generally short-term in
nature (approximately one year).
III. PROGRAM COSTS. FINANCING. MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Cost of the Prolect
3.1      Summary of Proiect Costs.  Total project costs are estimated at



- 20 -
ZL1,322 billion or US$142 million equivalent. Major cost items are hardware
and software for automation of client and management services, equipment for
training, facility renovation to support micro-enterprise development, and
technical assistance for all project components. The main incremental
recurrent costs included ir the proposed project will arise from: (a)
maintenance and consumable supplies related to automation of services, and (b)
additional staff and facilities for training and micro-enterprise support
institutions. The estimated cost distribution by project component is shown
in Table 3.1 following, while the summary of cost estimates by category
appears in Table 3.2.
3.2      Basis of Cost Estimates.  Technical assistance (TA) costs (about 12
percent of project total) are based on recent costs for comparable TA in the
Third Industrial Restructuring Project in Hungary (Loan 3020-HU), adapted to
costs in Poland. The monthly costs are estimated as follows: (a) foreign
consultant costs of US$11,000 (foreign cost) and US$5,000 (local cost);
(b) Polish consultants US$5,000 (local cost); (c) foreign fellowships US$8,000
(foreign cost); and (d) local fellowships US$3,140 (local cost). Equipment,
furniture and materials/software costs (about 60 percent of project total) are
based on detailed analysis of unit costs and requirements for the project
components described in Chapter II. Building lease and refurbishment costs
(about 10 percent of project costs) are based on discussions with local
officials of per-square meter costs for similar renovation work. Polish staff
month costs are estimated at US$500 inclusive of salary and benefits.
3.3      Customs Duties and Taxes.  Project costs include an estimated
10 percent, or US$0.9 million equivalent, for indirect taxes on locally
procured civil works and goods. Equipment and goods imported directly for use
by Government ministries are exempt from duties and taxes.
3.4      Contingency Allowances.  Project costs include a contingency
allowance for unforeseen physical additions (US$10 million), equal to
10 percent of the estimated cost of all project items, except the EDFs which
are net of physical contingencies. Price contingencies between negotiations
(April, 1991) and the end of project implementation are estimated at
US$10.4 million equivalent, or 9 percent of base cost plus physical
contingencies. Total contingencies represent 19 percent of the base cost.
Annual rates of foreign price increases have been estimated at 3.5 annually
during project implementation. Local price increases have been estimated at
55 percent for 1991, 25 percent for 1992, 10 percent for 1993 and 3.5 percent
thereafter. Because of the large differential between the estimated annual
foreign and local price increases, the overall price increases for the project
have been calculated on the basis of the estimated annual foreign price
escalation rates. This approach is justifiable on the assumption that the
policy of adjusting the Zloty exchange rate to reflect the inflation



- 21 -
differential between Poland and its trading partners will continue. 5/
Tabl 3.1:  PROJECT SUMMARY BY PROJECT ITEMhk/'
I ot      I
--- 'loty Billion ----        ----  US$ Million  -- Base  Foreign
Local  Foreign    Total   Local Foreign   Total  Costs Exchange
MANAGERIAL INFRASTRUCTURE
General                                 3.9        f.9      10.8      0.4      0.7      1.2       1S      641
Automation                            185.3    266.7    452.6    19.9    28.7    46.6            401      59S
Labor Market Information                3.0        7.8      10.8      0.3      0.8      1.2       11      731
Sub-Total Administration:    1922    281.5    473.6    20.7    30.3    50.9               431      591
INCOME MAINTENANCE SUPPORT                  6.6      51.0      57.6      0.7      5.5      6.2       5S       81S
Sub-Total Income Mainten. Support           6.6      51.0      57.6      0.7      5.5      6.2       51      891
EMPLOYMENT SERVICES
Mass Layoff Services                    6.7        4.3      11.0      0.7      0.5      1.2       1S      391
Occupational Counselling                2.9        8.4      11.2      0.3      0.9      1.2       11      741
Facilities/Equipment                    2.9       8.2       11.2      0.3      0.9      1.2       1S      741
Nat'l & LLO Staff Training              2.3       5.7        8.0      0.2      0.6      0.9       1S      711
Sub-Total Employment Services:         14.8      26.6      41.4       1.6      2.9      4.5       41      641
ADULT TRAINING
.National Framework                     8.6       0.9        9.5      0.9      0.1      1.0       11      101
Local Programs                         52.1    402.2    454.3         5.6    43.2    48.8        411      891
Sub-Total Adult Training        60.7    403.1    463.8         6.5    43.3    49.9        42S      871
MICRO ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT
Capacity Building (Phase I)             4.0        3.9       7.9      0.4      0.4      0.8       11      50S
Local Sub-Projects (Phase II):
Technical Assistance                  3.9       4.8       8.6      0.4      0.5      0.9        11      55S
Incubator Development                33.6      10.9      44.5      3.6      1.2      4.8       41      251
Enterprise Dev. Fund                 12.1       3.6      15.7      1.3      0.4      1.7        11      231
Sub-Total Small Business Dev.         53.5      23.2      76.6       5.7     2.5       8.2       71      301
Total Base Costs                         327.7    785.3  1,113.1    35.2    84.4   119.7    1001             711
Physical Contingencies                 32.8      78.5    111.3        3.5      8.4    12.0       101      71X
Price Contingencies                    31.3      66.6      97.8       3.4      7.2    10.5        91      681
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                      391.8    930.4  1,322.2    42.1   100.0   142.2    1191             701
U1    Foreign costs, equipment/materials and technical assistance are net of taxes and duties; local costs,
primary civil works and staff, include taxes. A more detailed breakdown is provided in Annex 5.
k/   Figures may not total exactly due to rounding.
5_/ The following table shows the effects on project cost estimates in Zlotys
of applying the projected local price increases to local and foreign
costs. This calculation is informative with respect to the projected
Zloty amount required during the project implementation period.
Local             Foreign               Total
-------  Zlotys  Billion  --------
Total Base Costs                               327.7                 785.9          1,113.6
Physical Contingencies                          32.8                  78.6             111.4
Price Contingencies                            290.4                 666.0             956.4
Total Project Costs                         650.9             1,530.5            2,181.3



- 22 -
Table 3.2: PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
Sof      S
--- Zloty Billion ----     ----  US$ Million  -- Base  Foreign
Local  Foreign    Total   Local Foreign   Total  Costs Exchange
A. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COSTS
Fellowships (Local)                 15.0      0.0     15.0      1.6     0.0     1.6       12      0X
Fellowships (Foreign)                0.0     41.6     41.6      0.0     4,5     4.5      42    1001
Consultants (Local)                 18.0      0.0      18.0     1.9     0.0     1.9       21      0S
Consultants (Foreign)               18.0     39.7     57.7      1.9     4.3     6.2       51     69S
Sub-Total Technical Assistance:      51.0     81.3    132.3      5.5     8.7    14.2     122      611
B. EQUIPMENT, FUINDS AND SOFTWARE
Equipment                            2.3    654.7    657.5      0.2    70.4    70.6      592    1001
EDF Funds                            9.7      1.5     11.2      1.0     0.2     1.2      12      13S
Software                             0.0      4.2      4.2      0.0     0.5     0.5  0_        1001
Sub-Total Equipment and Software:      12.0    660.4    672.4      1.3    71.1    72.3     601      98X
C. BUILDING FACILITIES
Building Lease and Renovations      80.6     13.9     94.5      8.7     1.5    10.2       82     152
Sub-Total Building Facilities        80.6     13.9     96.5      8.7     1.5    10.2      82      152
D. RECURRENT COSTS (MOLSA)
Staff                               23.3      0.0     23.3      2.5     0.0     2.5      22       02
Materials & Maintenance             88.2     22.0    110.2      9.5     2.4    11.9      102     202
MOLSA: Sub-total                 111.5     22.0    133.5    12.0      2.4    14.4     122      162
E. RECURRENT COSTS (Local Governments)
Staff                               41.8      0.0     41.8      4.5     0.0     4.5      42      O0
Materials & Maintenance             30.8      7.7     38.5      3.3     0.8     4.1       32     202
Local Government: Sub-total       72.6      7.7     80.3      7.8     0.8     8.6      72      102
Total Base Costs                      327.7    785.3  1,113.1    35.2    84.4   119.7    1002       712
Physical Contingenr4es              32.8     78.5    111.3      3.5     8.4    12.0     102      712
Price Contingencies                 31.3     66.6     97.8      3.4     7.2    10.5      92      682
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                   391.8    930.4  1,322.2    42.1   100.0   142.2    1192       702
=~~~~~   ,               -_   I   _   
3.5         Foreign Exchange  ComRonent.   The  foreign exchange  component was
estimated as follows: (a) construction and refurbishment of existing
facilities, materials and EDF funds - 15 percent; (b) equipment - 100 percent;
(c) consultative services - 69 percent; and (d) fellowships - 90 percent.
Including contingencies, the resulting foreign exchange component is estimated
at US$100 million, or about 70 percent of total costs.
3.6         Recurrent  Costs.   The  total  additional  recurrent  (base)  costs  for GOP
will be ZL34 billion per year, whi.;h is less than 1 percent of the
ZL66 trillion MOLSP administrative budget (excluding benefit payments).
However, only about 50 percent of the total recurrent costs are expenditures
usually paid out of the MOLSP budget. The remaining recurrent costs are
incurred by local offices or other institutions (ZL73 billion). For example,
the training and micro-enterprise components of the project include local sub-
projects which will require local institutions to provide local resources for
capital and recurrent costs. LLO and SWOs will also need to cover costs of
materials and maintenance to support automation of services. The additional
recurrent costs include: (a) recruiting additional MOLSP staff to support
national level programs; (b) maintaining new computers as well as supplying



- 23 -
consumable materials and communications support; and (c) conducting and
processing labor market surveys; and (d) providing initial support to local
institutions to start new services and programs. At the local level, an
incremental budget will be needed for recruiting additional staff to sustain
new programs and maintaining computers and other equipment. MOLSP will pay
extra attention during implementation, to monitor the adequacy of reeurrent
funds for maintenance and operation of newly instituted programs, and to take
necessary actions to rectify any deficiencies.
3.7      Project costs include only incremental recurrent costs.  For example,
the MOLSP Labor Fund budget for 1991 includes ZL288 billion to train up to
100,000 unemployed for an average duration of six months (up from ZL5 billion
and 4,000 in 1990). The project will create new or upgrade existing
vocational training capacity for approximately 42,000 of these clients in
existing local institutions. However, because MOLSP has already budgeted for
more training places than will be developed and/or upgraded by the project,
the training costs have not been included as additional recurrent costs.
B. Proiect Financing
3.8      The proposed Bank loan is for US$100.0 million which will finance 100
percent of the foreign exchange component of the project. The Government will
finance the balance of project costs (US$42.1 million). Project financing
will be in accordance with Table 3.3. In order to permit the MOLSP to
complete final equipment lists, to facilitate the completion of appropriate
technical assistance agreements, and to launch project preparation activities,
retroactive financing of up to US$10.0 million is included to cover the cost
of equipment and technical assistance necessary for timely project start-up.
Retroactive financing will be limited to expenditures incurred prior to loan
signing but after appraisal (January 24, 1991).
Table 3.3: FINANCING PLAN BY DISBURSEMENT CATEGORY
(US$ Million)
World    ------------ Government of Poland ----------->    Total
Bank    Min. of Labor  Dept of Stat. Local Govt.  Financing o
Category of Expenditure  Amount    S   Amount   X   Amount  S  Amount  I    Amount  Total
Technical Assistance       14.3    86   2.0   12  0.2    1  0.0    0    16.5   12
Equipment & Software       84.3   100   0.0    0   0.0    0  0.0    0    84.3   59
Enterprise Development Funds  1.4   100   0.0    0   0.0    0  0.0    0       1.4    1
Building Lease and Rehabilitation   0.0  0    0.0    0   0.0    0  12.1  100    12.1    9
Incremental Staffing        0.0     0    2.9   3.  0.2    2  5.4   64    8.5    6
Materials and Maintenance   0.0     0    14   74  0.1    0  5.0   26    19.3   14
________________________  -------  -------  -------  -------   -------   -------   ------   -------  ----------  ---
Total Financing           100.0    70  19.1   13  0.5    0 22.5   16   142.2  100
________________________  ______  ------  -------  -------   -------   -------   ------   -------  ----------  ---
C. Proiect Manazement and Imilementation
3.9      MOLSP will implement the project.  Responsibility for implementation
of different components of the project will be distributed to technical
departments within the MOLSP. In view of its limited institutional capacity
to implement the project, MOLSP has agreed to hire additional full-time



- 24 -
professional staff for selected departments. The project will also provide
technical assistance to assist with institutional development at the national
as well as the local level. A Project Operational manual (POM) has been
prepared which includes: (a) project action matrices for each project
component; (b) operational manuals for selection of training and micro-
enterprise sub-projects; and (c) detailed terms of reference for technical
assistance to be obtained for each project component.
3.10     A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) has been established.  A
coordinator has been hired and 3-4 additional full-time support staff will be
allocated. These staff will have skills in finance, equipment specification,
procurement, and clerical support and will facilitate project procurement and
be the principal liaison with the Bank for project administration and
supervision purposes. The PCU will not design or implement programs and
activities supported by the project, as this will be the responsibility of
MOLSP technical departments. The GUS has assigned an individual to coordinate
implementation of the labor market information sub-component of the project
(US$1.2 million). The following paragraphs, recapitulated in tabular form in
Chart 3.1, define management and implementation procedures for each component
of the project.
Chart 3.1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION RESPONSIBILITIES
Component & Sub-Component       Responsible Agency & Department   POM Reference
1. Management Infrastructure
PCU                         MOLSP, International Dept.          TOR #1
Employment Fund             MOLSP, Employment Dept.             TOR #2
Automation                  MOLSP, Employment Dept.             TOR #3,4a,b,c
*      Labor Market Info.          GUS                                 TOR #5
2. Income Support
Social Welfare              MOLSP, Social Welfare Dept.         TOR #6
Unemployment                MOLSP, Employment Dept.             TOR #6
3. Employment Services
Mass Layoff                 MOLSP, Employment Dept.             TOR #7
Employ. Services            MOLSP, Employment Dept.             TOR #8
4. Adult Training
Adult Training              MOLSP, Employment Dept.             TOR #9
POM Part B
5. Micro-enterprise
Micro-enterprise            MOLSP, Employment Dept.             TOR #10
POM Part B



- 25 -
3.11     Management Infrastructure Component.  The MOLSP International
Department has taken responsibility for initiating the PCU which will have
approximately five staff to assist technical departments with procurement. A
Management Information System and Automation Unit (MISAU) has been
established, with two staff, within the Employment Department. MISAU will (in
cooperation with the Departments of Employment and Social Welfare), oversee
the design and implementation of management information systems and automation
of labor and social welfare programs and offices. The project will provide
MISAU with supporting technical assistance and will implement project
components in three phases. Phase I will automate all LLOs by the end of
1992; Phase II will develop national linkages between labor and social welfare
offices and MOLSP by the end of 1992. Phase III will automate local social
welfare offices and provide associated support software to MOLSP by mid-1993.
The MOLSP Staff Training Department, in cooperation with MISAU and the
Departments of Employment and Social Welfare, will assist with design and
implement staff training for the automation component of the project. The
Department of Employment, in cooperation with MISAU, will develop the cost-
benefit analysis and planning model for use of the Labor Fund and refinement
of the Employment Law during 1992.
3.12     GUS will implement the labor market information sub-component of the
project between 1991 and 1993. GUS will work with the MOLSP initiated
Occupational Information Coordinating Committee, composed of representatives
from government (i.e., MOLSP, MONE, GUS), local training and employment
institutions, enterprises and individuals involved in job counseling to
provide guidance for the development of an OIS and CIS. The MOLSP PCU will
procure equipment and technical assistance for this sub-component according to
specifications defined by GUS.
3.13     Income Support Component.  The Department of Social Welfare in MOLSP
will refine client means tests, define and implement staff training (in
cooperation with the Staff Training Department) and improve facilities in
about 500 SWOs between 1991-93. Selection of offices for upgrading will be
based on MOLSP criteria agreed with the Bank and set forth in Annex 2, Part
I. Tne Department of Employment, in cooperation with the Departments of
Social Welfare and Social Security, will create revisions for the unemployment
benefit and financing scheme by December, 31, 1992.
3.14     Employment Service Component.  The Department of Employment will
develop this component of the project between 1991 and 1994. MOLSP will
assign five full-time professional staff to a unit in the Department in the
fields of occupational counseling, interest and aptitude assessment,
occupational and educational information, mass layoff and job development to
assist with development and implementation. MOLSP will appoint a task force
as part of the existing inter-agency Occupational Information Coordinating
Committee, to guide the development of the CIS. The task force will include
representatives of employers, employees, higher education institutions,
training institutions and labor market statisticians. The Department will
work closely with the National and Regional Labor Councils in develo,i'ng mass
layoff services. The Department will sub-contract with appropriate
institutions to develop and disseminate materials and techniques to LLOs to
support occupational counseling (the CIS), job search and job development
activities. The MOLSP Staff Training Department will develop and implement,
in cooperation with the Department of Employment and sub-contractors, short-



- 26 -
term LLO staff training on new counseling materials and techniques. MOLSP, in
cooperation with the MONE, will provide support to selected higher education
institution(s) to develop a long-term diploma and/or post-graduate training
program for vocational counselors in schools and LLOs.
3.15     Adult Training Component.  The MOLSP Department of Employment
Training Unit will implement this component between 1991 and 1995. The MOLSP
will strengthen the Training Unit in the Department of Employment Training
Unit by adding two to three professional staff who will have the
responsibility to provide leadership for development of national
services/models including: (a) model LLO contracting procedures; and (b)
custom training procedures to support new enterprise investments. The
Training Unit will also administer the selection process, organize procurement
with the support of the PCU, and audit subsequent implementation of sub-
projects for upgrading and developing training at the local level. Annex 2.
Part II, contains: (a) criteria to be used by Voivods and Regional Labor
Councils for evaluating all training proposals (vocational, mobile,
management, language, and foundation training) from local training agencies;
and (b) criteria to be used at the national level to assure an equitable
distribution of sub-projects between Voivods. In addition, the POM contains a
detailed operational manual for inviting local proposals for the major
vocational training sub-component which entails approximately US$44 million.
3.16     Competitive selection procedures and criteria for the latter
vocational training sub-projects are summarized below. Details are stipulated
in the POM which has been reviewed with MOLSP, LLO and selected local training
agency representatives.
(a)  Eligibility.  NGOs, private and public training agencies will be
eligible to submit proposals through Voivods to the MOLSP. Proposed
training programs will be designed flexibly to meet the needs of
adult unemployed participants. To be eligible for project funding,
training proposals will need to: (a) incorporate modular instruction
techniques; (b) allow flexible entry/exit of participants; and (c) be
designed to develop specific occupational/job skills (including job
related language and basic education skills).
(b)  Selection Criteria.  Local training agencies will provide a detailed
proposal for each training program they wish to implement. Voivod
level selection criteria will include: regional importance, i.e., the
ability of the proposal to assist regions with high and structural
unemployment levels; skills, i.e., relevance of skills to the local
job market; cost effectiveness; staff training and experience;
placement, i.e., willingness to contract with the local labor office
to place a predetermined proportion of trainees in jobs; and the
overall quality and level of response of the proposal. National level
criteria will include level and composition of the unemployed, type
of economic restructuring in the region, and availability of training
institutions (see Annex 2, Part II).
(c)  Procedures.  Staff of the MOLSP Department of Employment Training
Unit will provide Voivods and local training agencies with advisory
services, including the POM, to guide proposal development.
Announcement and distribution of requests for proposals will be done



- 27 -
by MOLSP through Voivods. Proposals will be evaluated at the
regional level before being forwarded to MOLSP for final evaluation
and selection (using criteria agreed with MOLSP and the Bank and set
forth in Annex 2, Part II, and the POM). Specification of technical
assistance and equipment will be coordinated by the MOLSP Employment
Department Training Unit in cooperation with local institutions and
the PCU. All procurement will follow Bank guidelines and be
accomplished through the MOLSP PCU. The MOLSP Department of
Employment Training Unit will monitor and audit sub-project
implementation.
3.17     Micro-enterprise Development Component.  MOLSP will staff a small
Micro-Enterprise Technical Unit, consisting of 2-3 professionals, to implement
this component of the project between 1991 and 1994. This unit will: (a)
provide resources to help develop local institutional capacity to provide
small enterprise services to the unemployed through three types of sub-
projects (micro-enterprise technical assistance services, incubation
facilities, EDF credits as described in para. 2.19; (b) administer the
competitive grant programs to identify and fund sub-projects; and (c) evaluate
services provided by sub-projects. Selection procedures and criteria for
SBAC, incubators, and EDF sub-projects are summarized below. Details are
stipulated in the POM that has been reviewed with MOLSP, LLO and selected
local agency representatives (e.g. Chambers of Commerce).
(a)  Eligibilitv.  Local organizations will submit sub-project proposals
to support micro-business development, through Voivods, to the MOLSP.
Proposed programs must: (a) be submitted by non-government
organizations based in the locality of its proposed assistance
program; (b) identify core staff who will administer the sub-
project; and (c) be designed to assist the unemployed.
(b)  Selection Criteria.  Local institutions will provide a detailed
proposal for each program (SBAC, incubator, EDF) they wished to
implement. Selection criteria at the Voivod level will vary slightly
by program, as defined in Annex 2, Part III and the POM, Part B:II,
and will include such items as; staff capabilities, financial
viability, cost effectiveness, capacity to mobilize additional
external and local resources, cooperation with other institutions
(including commercial banks), provision of managerial assistance,
targeting of assistance to the unemployed, and overall completeness
and responsiveness of proposals to guidelines contained in the POM.
National criteria will include the level and composition of the
unemployed, type of economic restructuring in a region and
availability of small enterprise support institutions.
(c)  Procedures.  MOLSP Micro-enterprise Technical Unit staff, and
consultants financed by the project, will provide Voivods and local
institutions with advisory services, including the POM procedures
manual, to: (a) guide proposal development, (b) provide ongoing
operational assistance, and (c) evaluate the programs and make
recommendations for replication. Announcement and distribution of
requests for proposals will be done by MOLSP through Voivods.
Proposals will be evaluated, using criteria defined in Annex 2, Part
III, and contained in the POM, at the regional level before being



28
forwarded to MOLSP for final evaluation and selection. Specification
and procurement of technical assistance and equipment will be
coordinated by the MOLSP Micro-enterprise Technical Unit in
cooperation with local institutions and the PCU. The activities of
each EDF will be guided by a loan committee that will include at
least one representative from a commercial bank. All procurement
will follow Bank guidelines and be accomplished through the MOLSP
PCU. The MOLSP Micro-enterprise Technical Unit, with consultants,
will monitor and audit sub-project implementation including providing
training to sub-project personnel and ensuring that necessary
measures are taken by micro-enterprise sub-projects to comply with
new environmental legislation and Bank Operational Directive 4.00,
Annex A concerning environmental assessment.
3.18     Architectural Designs.  Renovations of buildings, with the exception
of the Micro-enterprise incubator sub-component, are expected to be minor.
Regional and Local Labor and Social Welfare Offices will develop plans for
minor renovations required to support office automation and implementation of
improved technical/staff services. Local institutions applying for sub-
projects in vocational training and micro-enterDrise services will define
facility changes during the proposal process. This definition will include
identification of local resources available to supplement MOLSP project
financing to implement the changes. Local institutions requesting support for
incubator development will submit pre-development proposals to MOLSP
containing engineering cost analysis and preliminary architectural work.
After initial evaluation and review by MOLSP, successful institutions will be
asked to prepare, with the support of technical assistance, detailed facility
and management plans.
3.19     Maintenance.  Regional and local employment and training facilities
and equipment, while often old and inadequate, are generally well maintained.
It is expected that regional and local institutions will continue their
practices in this regard. The project will provide additional recurrent
financing for maintenance of new investments in computer hardware and
software.
3.20     Environment.  The environmental impact of the proposed project is
expected to be neutral (Class C). Construction will be primarily for training
and administrative facilities which will conform to local building codes and
be primarily limited to inside work with no negative implications for the
environment.  Environmental awareness will be included as a concern for new
curriculum and materials to be developed under the proposed project (para.
3.15) and in development of micro-enterprises (para. 3.17).
D. Project Procurement Arrangements
3.21     Contracts for civil works are a minor component of the project
(approximately 8 percent of total), are locally financed and will be awarded
by the MOLSP and local institutions following local regulations. These
regulations will result in economic and efficient procurement. Invitations to
bid on equipment will be grouped by MOLSP into major packages of goods, the
contents of which could typically be supplied by one supplier. Those items,
suitable for International Competitive Bidding (ICB) will be procured in
accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and



- 29 -
IDA Credits" (May, 1985), and will account for about 90 percent of the total
value of equipment. For the remaining 10 percent of the equipment value,
there will be minor packages, suitable for procurement other than ICB.
Contracts will be awarded as per Table 3.4.
Table 3.4:  PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS I
(US$ Million)
Category of Expenditure               ICB      Local    OTHER    N/A    TOTAL
Technical Assistance                                     16.5             16.5
(14.3)          (14.3)
Equipment                             51.9       2.5      0.3             54.7
(51.9)    (2.5)    (0.3)           (54.7)
Equipment with TA (Turnkey)           29.1                                29.1
(29.1)                             (29.1)
Software                                                  0.5              0.5
(0.5)           (0.5)
Enterprize Development Funds                              1.4              1.4
(1.4)           (1.4)
Building Lease and Rehabilitation                        12.1             12.1
(0.0)           (0.0)
Incremental Staffing                                               8.5     8.5
(0.0)   (0.0)
Materials and Maintenance                                19.3             19.3
(0.0)           (0.0)
Total Financing Requirements        81.0       2.5     50.2      8.5   142.2
Total Bank Financing               (81.0)    (2.5)   (16.5)   (0.0) (100.0)
Xa  Figures in brackets are the respective amounts financed by the Bank Loan
3.22     The exceptions to ICB procurement will be as follows:
(a)  Locally financed rehabilitation of existing buildings estimated to
cost a total of US$12.1 million will be carried out in accordance
with local competitive procedures.
(b)  Contracts for furniture and equipment estimated to cost less than
US$200,000 equivalent each, which in the aggregate will not exceed
US$5.0 million and which will not be expected to interest foreign
suppliers because of the variety of each contract, could be awarded
on the basis of international shopping procedures acceptable to the
Bank.
(c)  Sundry items not exceeding US$50,000 in each contract and aggregating
to a maximum of US$500,000 equivalent could be purchased on the basis
of a minimum of three quotations in accordance with local shopping



- 30 -
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
(d)  Contracts for intellectual properties such as text books, training
materials, copyrights, computer software, translation rights and
reprinting (estimated to cost about US$0.5 million) will be awarded
following negotiations with the property owners.
(e)  Technical assistance (fellowships and consultative services)
estimated to cost US$16.5 million will be procured following
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by Worl.d Bank Borrowers and by
the World Bank as Executing Agency."
(f)  Locally financed materials (US$19.3 million) rill be procured in
accordance with standard government procedures which are acceptable
to the Bank,
(g)  Micro-encerprises will purchase goods, under EDF-financed sub-
projects (US$1.4 million) following normal local commercial
practices.
3.23     In comparison of bids for equipment to be procured through ICB,
domestic manufacturers will be allowed a preferential margin of 15 percent, or
the existing customs duty, whichever is lower, over the CIF prices of
competing imports. Under ICB procedures, invitations to bid and the proposed
award of contracts will be reviewed by the Bank prior to final award
decisions. It is estimated that this review will cover about 85 percent of
the value of all equipment contracts. The remaining 15 percent of equipment
contracts will be subject to selective post award reviews.
3.24     Technical Assistance.  Because of the diversity of project
components, the required assistance will be grouped into 10 packages which
include common elements. The packages will include related consultancies and
fellowships, but could exclude a small number of international fellowships
which will be administered by MOLSP on a case by case basis. A summary of the
Technical Assistance is contained in Annex 3. Terms of Reference (TORs) agreed
with the Bank are contained in the POM, Part C.
(a)  Management Infrastructure.  Technical assistance contracts are
envisioned in five areas: (i) operation of the PCU; (ii) development
of an evaluation, planning and budgeting model for the Labor Fund and
related revision of Employment Law; (iii) management of MOLSP
automation, (iv) development/implementation of the three phases of
MOLSP automation services; i/ and (v) refinement of Labor Market
Information (LMI). The LMI Technical Assistance will be designed by
GUS.
(b) Income Support Component. One package of assistance is envisioned
for refinement of social welfare programs and revision of the
./ Note: TORs for these three phases are presented in the POM as items 4a,
4b, and 4c. These TORs would be integrated and combined with related
equipment specifications because it is intended that the technical
assistance and equipment and software will be procured as a unit for each
phase to provide a "turnkey" operation.



- 31 -
unemployment benefit/financing scheme.
(c)  EMB1Coment SeLrvie Component.  Two packages of assistance are
envisioned for development of: (i) mass layoff services; and
(ii) improved materials, techniques and staff training for local
labor office personnel.
(d)  Adult Training Component.  One package of assistance is envisioned
for development of: (i) national guidelines for LLO contracting and
customized training; and (ii) local vocational, mobile, management,
language, and foundation skills training for adults,
(e)  Micro-enterprise Component.  One package of assistance is envisioned
for development of institutional capacity for micro-enterprise
development, SBACs, incubators, and EDFs.
3.25     Qualified firms will be invited to submit bids for comprehensive
packages of consultant services and fellowships in accordance with the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executive Agency (August, 1981)." During loan negotiations, the
Government confirmed that technical assistance will be procured in accordance
with terms of reference agreed with the Bank and in keeping with the schedule
outlined in Annex 3.
E. Status of PreRaration and Disbursements
3.26     Status of Preparation.  This project is in a state of preparation
that will permit timely implementation because: (a) construction of buildings
will be limited to minor refurbishment of existing facilities; (b) equipment
lists with bid specifications for the initial phase of LLO automation
(approximately US$9 million) have been prepared; (c) draft tender documents
for the first phase of automation have been prepared and reviewed by the Bank,
and proposals are expected to be invited by June 30, 1991; (d) criteria and
procedures for identification of sub-projects in training (approximately US$44
million) and micro-enterprise development (approximately US$7.4 million) have
been agreed; and (e) technical assistance packages have been defined, draft
terms of reference are prepared.  The POM contains items (d) and (e) as well
as a matrix of project activities by objective and component.  Project
completion will be June 30, 1996. The Closing Date will be December 31, 1996.
3.27     Disbursements.  The proposed project will be disbursed over a period
of about five years (see Annex 4).  Because of the newness of lending to
Poland, there are no applicable profiles. Disbursements will be made against:
(a)  100 percent of the foreign expenditures for services of consultants
and for training outside the territory of the Borrower, and 100
percent of local expenditures for services of consultants domiciled
within the territory of the Borrower and for training therein.
(b)  100 percent of foreign expenditures, 100 percent of local
expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 80 percent of local expenditures
for other items procured locally.



- 32 -
(c) 80 percent of EDFs.
3.28     Disbursements against contracts for goods and services exceeding
US$100,000 equivalent will be made against normal documentation.
Disbursements against contracts below that level and EDF sub-loans will be
made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), available for
examination by Bank missions. To facilitate timely project implementation,
the Government will establish, maintain and operate, under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, a Special Account in the National Bank of
Poland to which the World Bank will make an initial deposit, equivalent to
about US$5.0 million which is judged adequate to meet about four months of
expenditure under the project. The Special Account will be replenished as
appropriate when the undisbursed balance of the account falls below an amount
equal to 50 percent or less of the amount of the Special Account.
3.29     Accounts and Audits.  The MOLSP will maintain separate accounts for
the project and will prepare semi-annual descriptive and financial reports
(beginning from date of loan effectiveness) on each project component,
objective end activity describing: (i) current status; (ii) deviations, if
any; and (iii) reasons for deviations and corrective actions being taken.
Project accounts, including the Special Account, will be audited in accordance
with the March 1982 Bank "Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of
Projects Financed by the World Bank." The Bank will be provided within six
months of the end of each fiscal year an audit report of such scope and detail
as the Bank may reasonably request, including a separate opinion by the
auditor on disbursements against a certified statement of expenditures.
During loan negotiations, the Government confirmed that it will furnish an
annual audit of expenditures six months after the end of each fiscal y'ear.
F. Project Regorting and Evaluation
3.30     ReDorting.  Reporting, and Bank supervision, will concentrate on in-
depth reviews of the policy framework for sectoral improvements, the
consistency of activities for each component and sub-component with agreements
reached during appraisal, performance of the implementing groups and
departments, assessment of emerging needs for adjustments to program
parameters, and possible follow-up operations which could be supported by the
Bank. The bases of Bank supervision will be semi-annual progress reports and
the annual evaluation of project activities by the PCU. This will be
supplemented by a review of project expenditures and availability of financial
resources, plus substantive discussions with technical assistance groups
implementing the various components and discussions with higher echelon
officials of MOLSP. The POM, developed and agreed upon by the Government and
Bank during project appraisal, will also be used to assist supervision and
reporting. The POM contains: (a) a summary matrix of project activities by
component, (b) two manuals for identification and selection of sub-projects in
vocational training and micro-enterprise development, and (c) detailed terms
of reference for technical assistance. Durlng Loan Negotiations, the
Government agreed to provide a project technical and financial report by
November 30 of each year and to participate in an annual Government-Bank
review of project implementation for review of resource requirements and other
actions necessary for the subsequent year to achieve the project objectives.
3.31     Evaluation.  Implementation of the proposed project will be reviewed,



- 33 -
and the extent to which it is achieving the stated objectives will be
evaluated annually and upon project completion. A joint Bank-Government mid-
term review of the development program will be conducted about two years into
the project as a basis for: (a) determining implementation progress and for
making mid-course adjustments, if and as necessary, in project procedures as
well as (b) identifying possible follow-up operations to ensure continuity in
the Bank's involvement in the sector.
IV. BENEFITS AN4D RISKS
A. Benefits
4.1      The major benefit will be to refine and improve the cost
effectiveness of significant investments the Government is making in
employment programs (about US$2 billion in 1991). These programs must promote
a quick and flexible supply response to changing economic conditions and will
be a key factor in the transition to a market economy in Poland. The policy
framework for the employment and social welfare systems will be further
clarified through refinement of legislation. The unemployed and other
vulnerable groups will be better served by well-coordinated and efficiently
administered income support programs. Mobility of labor between occupations,
economic sectors, and regions will by facilitated through improved employment
services and training programs. Models of proactive training and employment
promotion programs will be developed, tested and replicated, thus widening
alternatives to prolonged and costly income support in the face of structural
unemployment and deficient demand for labor. The capability of national and
local institutions will be enhanced to deliver the employment programs needed
for a smoothly functioning labor market in a market economy and to develop
human capital to support economic development.
B. Risks
4.2      The major risks are that:  (a) the Government's broad policies for
economic restructuring may not sufficiently compel enterprises to shift
emphasis from employment to productivity; (b) employment and social welfare
institutions may not have sufficient resources and services to cope with major
displacements in the labor force, or resources may be misdirected because the
economic restructuring program is not implemented successfully; and (c)
training and micro-enterprise support institutions may not be capable of
providing services to enable new investment and enterprise development. These
risks have been recognized and addressed in the project through review of
employment and social welfare budget support, legislation and policy,
organization and staffing levels, and methods of delivering services to
clients. MOLSP has made adjustments in all these areas along the lines
rect-mmended by the Bank and will continue to improve institutional
capabilities during project implementation. All components of the project
include technical assistance which will assist with supervision, provide for
substantial evaluation of project activities, and improve institutional
capabilities and performance at the national and local levels.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECO"MENDATIONS
A. Aureements Reached During Negotiations



- 34 -
5.1      During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that:
(a) The MOLSP will submit to Parliament draft legislation containing
revisions to the existing framework for employment programs to
improve cost-effectiveness, targeting and financing of such programs
at the local level (by December 31, 1992) (para 2.11).
(b) The MOLSP will develop a comprehensive plan, in concert with
government authorities, to support automation and sharing of
information between labor and social welfare offices at the local,
regional and national levels (by June 30, 1992) (para. 2.11).
(c) The MOLSP, in cooperation with the inter-agency Occupational
Information Coordinating Committee, will develop a framework,
including job titles, for a new national occupational classification
system, satisfactory to the Bank, for use in all MOLSP programs (by
December 31, 1991) (para. 2.11).
(d) The MOLSP will use agreed upon criteria to identify local sub-
projects in social welfare, adult training and micro-business
development which will receive project funds (para. 2.11).
(e) The MOLSP will review, and submit to Parliament, draft legislation,
for benefits and financing of the unemployment, social welfare and
related income support systems to: (a) coordinate benefit provision
and; (b) separate financing of unemployment benefits from employment
programs and increasingly from the state budget (by December 31,
1992) (para. 2.13).
(g) The MOLSP will substantially staff all units (i.e., the Project
Coordinating Unit, Management Information and Automation Unit,
Empl3yment Services, Training, and Micro-Enterprise Development)
supporting major project components (by December 31, 1991)
(para. 2.11).
(h) Technical assistance will be procured in accordance with terms of
reference agreed with the Bank and in keeping with the schedule
outlined in Annex 3 (para. 3.25).
(i) The Government will provide assurances to furnish an annual audit of
expenditures six months after the end of each fiscal year
(para 3.29).
(j) The Government will provide a project technical and financial report
by November 30 of each year and to participate in an annual
Government-Bank review of project implementation with a view to
review resource requirements and other actions necessary for the
subsequent year to achieve the project objectives (para. 3.30).
5.2      The proposed project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of
US$100 million equivalent to the Government of Poland.



- 35 -
POLAND
EMPLOYMENT PROMOTION AND SERVICES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ANNEX 1
SECTOR BACKGROUND



- 36 -
,OLMfD
EMPLOYMENT PROMOTION AND SERVICES PROCT
STAFE APPRAISAL REpORT
AMNEX_1
SECTOR BACKGROUND
Table of Contents
Paa2
INTRODUCTION  . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . * *   39
I.  EMPLOYMENT AND LABOR IN POLANQ    .   .  .  .    . . . . . . . . . .  42
A. Employment.. . . . . . .  42
B.  Labor Force . .           .  . . . . .. .  *... . . .  . .  * . .*.   44
C. Implications for Employment Policies and Programs . . . . . . .  47
II. ELYENT PROGRMS IN A MAKT ECONOMY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  48
A. Overview  . . . . . ..... . . . . .  . . . . . . . .*    .  48
B. Income Support  . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . e . . . . . .  50
C.  Employment Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  52
D. Training   . .     .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  53
E. Employment Generation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   54
III.  POLICIES, INSTITUTIONS AND PROGRAN8 IN POLAND . . . . . . . . . . .  56
A.  Legislation and Policy  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  56
B.  Institutional Framework... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0         58
C.  Financing . . . . . . . . .      .         . . .  .  .          . . . . .  61
D. Income Support Programs . . . . . . . .       . . . . . .        62
E.   mployment servce Programs..  *.. . . . . .    63
P. Training Programs . . . . .                 . . . . . . . . . .  64
0. Zmployment Generation Programs             ....... ........    65
IV.  ISSUES AND STRATEGIES  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  67
A.  Legiulation and Policy  . ...... .@. . .   . .    67
B.  Institutional Framework      .. ...............   . .    72
C.  Financing            . . . . . . . . . .             . . . . .  74
D.  Income Support Programs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  * .  .  76
Z.  Employment Service Programs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  77
F.  Training Programs . . . .               . . . . . . . . . . .  79
0. Employment Generation Programu        .* .   .  ..  .  .  ..     81
H.    Sumnary   o  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  83
Iext Tables
Table l  Sectoral Employment in Selected OECD Countries  . . . . . . . .  42
Table 2: Registered Unemployment in Poland, 1990 . . .    . . . . ... * . .    44
Table 3s Labor Fund Revenue Sources and Expenditure, 1990 avd 1991 . . .  61
Table 4: Ratio of Labor Staff to Unemployed in Selocted OUC) Countries .  72



- 37 -
PaaeNo.
Fiaures
1. Poland: Unemployment Estimates for 1990-1993 by Quarter of
Year and by Different Scenarios  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   45
2.  Poland:  Labor Fund Expenditures, 1990 and 1991 . . . . . . . . . . .  68
3. Labor Force Participation and Unemployment in Selected
OECD Countries  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   70
4. Central Government Public Expenditures on Labor Market Policies in
Percent of GDP for Selected OECD Countries (1988) and Poland (1991)   71
Attachments
Attachment A
Table 1     : Employment in the Socialized and Non-Socialized Sectors,
1980, 1985-1989  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   84
Table 2     : Employment by Economic Sector, 1980 and 1985-1989  . . .    85
Table 3     : Employment in the Socialized Sector by Industry and Sex,
1989   ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  86
Table 4     : Employment by Industry, 1989 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  87
Table 5     : Employment by Region and Sector, 1989  . . . . . . . . . .  88
Table 6     : Unemployment, 1990 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  89
Table 7     s Unemployed School Leayers  .....  .  ..  .  .  .  ..  .  .   .   90
Atta-chment 13: Unemployment Scenarios, 1990-1993 (Assumptions and Sources
of  Figure  1)  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  91
Attachment C
Table  1    : Labor Force Participation Rate . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  93
Figure 1    : Labor Force Participation Rate . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  94
Table  2    s Internal Migration of the Population, 1989 . . . . . . . .  95
Figure 2  : Migration by Age and Sex .96
Table  3    t Migration of the Population by Age, 1989 . . . . . . . . .  97
Figure 2 : Internal Migration .                                            98
Attachment D: Organization Structure, Ministry of Labor and Social Policy  99
Attachment E: Prospects for Automation of Labor and Social Assistance
Services   ... 100
Attachment F: Revenue and Expenditure of the Labor Fund, 1990 and Planned
Figures for 1991 ................                     . 102
Attachment G:  Initiatives in Financing and Technical Assistance for
Small/Micro-Enterprise Development   . . . . . . . . . . . 103
Table       t Enterprise Development Loans to Address Unemployment . . . 105
Attachment :  Expenditures on Public Employment Services in OECD
Countries, 1987  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 106
Attach Ment I:  Poland, Resources to Address Unemployment in 1990  . . . . 107
Attachment Jz OECD Experience in Retraining Displaced Workers  . . . . . 108



- 38 -
Preface
This annex provides an overview of employment programs typically
found in a market economy as well as specific issues and strategies for
employment promotion and services in Poland. It was compiled by T. Sassler
(operations Officer, EM4HR) and D. Fretwell (Employment and Training
Specialist, EMTPH). J. Rutkowski (Consultant, Economist) assembled background
data and statistics and M. Allak (Consultant, Economist) provided the model
for projection of unemployment. The contents are based on close collaboration
with the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy during World Bank missions to
Poland in February, May/June, and October 1990 and January 1991. Incorporated
are the contributions of the following persons who participated in these
missions: N. Barr (Connultant, Economist), P. Bearse (Consultant, Micro/Small
Business Development), F. Ducloux (Consultant, Employment Services), R. Ellis
(Consultant, Technical Educator), A. Gonzalez (Consultant, Social Security
Administration), J. Hess (Consultant, Industrial Adjustment Services),
B. Leahy (Consultant, Training), M. McElroy (Consultant, Labor Statistics),
K. Moses (Consultant, Information Technology), J. Schweitzer (Principal
General Educator, EM4HR), S. Sigurdsson (Senior Architect, EMTPH), S. Takeda
(Economist, EMTPH), A. Thompson (Consultant, Economist), A. Twigger
(Consultant, Training Specialist), and A. Wheeler (Labor Economist, EM4HR).
L. Achsien was responsible for document processing and production.



- 39 -                     Annex 1
Page 1 of 45
POLANR
EMPLOYMENT PROMOTION AND SERVCES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPO
ANNEX I
SECTOR BACKGROUND
INTRODUCTION
1.       The Polish Government has adopted an Economic Transformation Program
(ETP) to make the transition to a market economy. This annex report is
focused on the implications of that economic restructuring for employment
policies and programs. These implications relate to reactive income support,
an important element of the "social safety net", as well as Proactive measures
which promote redeployment of labor and employment generation. The report
examines the employment structure and outlook for the near-term in Poland
(Chapter I), outlines the employment policies and programs typically present
in OECD countries (Chapter II), describes existing employment programs in
Poland (Chapter III), assesses Poland's system in relation to international
experience and identifies strategies for further development of policies and
programs (Chapter IV).
Economic Context
2.       Poland has a per-capita GDP of about US$1770 (World Bank Atlas
methodology, 1988) and total population of approximately 38 million, which is
growing at the rate of about 0.8 percent per year. The labor force was about
17.1 million people in 1989.1/ The economic system established at the end of
the 1940s was a traditional model of centrally planned socialism, although
modifications were introduced in subsequent years. At the end of the 1980s,
the socialized sectors--state enterprises and cooperatives--accounted for
about 70 percent of GDP. The private sector is comprised mainly of private
agriculture (which accounts for about 75 percent of all agricultural land and
output), small industrial and construction firms, and service enterprises
(shops, restaurants).
3.       There have been a number of attempts to reform the economic system in
Poland. The Government has embarked on a major new initiative which radically
departs in scope and design from previous reform efforts. Upon assuming
office in September 1989, the Government of Prime Minister Mazowiecki began to
tighten macroeconomic management during the remainder of 1989, while at the
same time preparing the more comprehensive and ambitious ETP. The ETP was
I/ Statistical Year Book, Central Statistics organization (GUS), Poland,
1990.



- 40 -                     Annex l
Page 2 of 45
launched at the beginning of 1990 in pureuit of wide-ranging goals and
objectives. Ultimately, the Government strives to raise living conditions to
levels similar to those in Western Europe by introducing a market economy with
restored growth, equitable sharing of benefits, and environmental
sustainability. Newly elected President Walesa and the recently formed
Government of Prime Minister Bielecki have reiterated support for the basic
objectives of the reform and also called for its acceleration. The World Bank
is assisting Poland's economic transition with technical assistance and
lending support, particularly in the areas of macroeconomic policy, industrial
restructuring and private sector development, finance, agriculture,
infrastructure, environmental management and the social sectors.
4.       While initially the focus of the ETP was on stabilizing the economy,
important complementary measures of a longer-term structural nature have also
been adopted from the beginning. These include price liberalization,
introduction of a competitive trade regime, and fiscal reform to support a
market orientation. Other broad economic reforms that will affect employment
include cuts or elimination of subsidies to enterprises, tariff reform in the
medium-term that will reduce the level of protection of industries, and new
laws concerning enterprise ownership and bankruptcy.
Emerging Unemolovment
5.       Stabilization measures have had favorable results in Poland, but
there is growing concern about unemployment. At the beginning of the ETP in
January 1990, there were only 55,800 registered unemployed; by year's end the
total had risen to more than 1.1 million. The present level of unemployment
at between 6 and 7 percent of the labor force is still low by comparison with
levels reached in the West during the 1980s, but mass layoffs, already
announced for many parts of the country, are expected to increase this
proportion sharply in coming months. Public anxiety about rising unemployment
is palpable.  The Government's handling of unemployment therefore could be a
critical determinant of the political future and of a sustainable transition
to a market economy. If the social costs are perceived to be too high and
employment and training efforts are unable to revitalize the labor force, the
Government may be forced to slow or halt reform efforts and choose a more
expensive alternative of protecting jobs at the cost of productivity.
6.       Like other Central and Eastern European countries, Poland had until
recently lacked the policies and institutions to assist reallocation of labor
and occupational mobility. Under the command economy, open unemployment did
not exist (in fact, enterprises hoarded labor). Now, with unemployment rising
rapidly, the Government must work quickly to establish legislation and
institutions to administer unemployment and social welfare benefits. In the
past, the main function of labor offices was to allocate workers among
competing enterprises. In the new situation, Poland's local labor offices are
seriously understaffed. The offices possess limited technological capacity
(computers, accounting systems, databases, etc.) to register and pay benefits
to the unemployed, monitor the local employment situation, operate a regional
or national labor exchange, or evaluate employment programs. Also lacking are



- 41 -                     Annex 1
Page 3 of 45
knowledge of modern techniques for career counseling and assessment, job
search and job development, and proactive approaches which have been
successful in OECD countries.
Government Strategv
7.       In conjunction with structural change to the economy, the Government
is developing programs to protect vulnerable groups during transition to the
market economy. The Employment Law was enacted in January 1990 and revised
social welfare legislation was approved in early 1991. The Government is
seeking to combine reactive income support measures for the unemployed with an
increasing emphasis on proactive policies and programs that support investment
and employment, develop human capital through training, and promote
entrepreneurship and job creation. A major task lies ahead for the Ministry
of Labor and Social Policy (MOLSP) to provide leadership for the development
of legal, technical and managerial capacity. The World Bank, in parallel with
other multilateral and bilateral agencies, is providing technical and
financial support for MOLSP's effort to address the short-term implications of
structural change for employment and to develop the employment policies and
programs required for a smoothly functioning market economy.



- 42 -                     Annex 1
Page 4 of 45
I. EMPLOYMENT AND LABOR IN POLAND
A. Employment
8.       Poland is the largest country in Eastern Europe with about 38 million
people in 1988 and a labor force of about 17.1 million.;/ The socialized
sector predominates with 33 percent of employment in 1989, although private
sector development outside agriculture has begun to rise with an increase of
30 percent between 1988 and 1989. Throughout the 1980s, the distribution of
employment among agriculture, industry and services was virtually static.
(Attachment A contains additional detail.) The agriculture sector in Poland
is larger than in other countries of similar income level, a reflection of
labor intensive operations (Table 1). The service sector is similar to other
Eastern European countries but considerably smaller than in western countries
where it represents about two-thirds of the labor force. Industry is a
smaller sector in Poland than in most of its East European neighbors but
comparable with several western countries.
Table 1: SECTORAL EMPLOYMENT IN SELECTED OECD COUNTRIES, 1989
% Emolovment in
Country            Agriculture            Industry             Services
Sweden                3.6                   29.4                 66.9
Germany               3.7                   39.8                  56.5
U.S.                  2.9                   26.7                 70.5
Japan                 7.6                   34.3                 58.2
Portugal             19.0                   35.3                 45.7
Poland               27.7                   36.9                 33.0
Source: OECD; Attachment A, Table 2.
I/ Figures for total labor force and employment, especially in years prior to
1990, vary depending on source and are sometimes problematic in use for
comparisons and assessment of trends. Prior to 1990, the concepts of
labor force and employment were interchangeable in Poland (as in other
centrally planned economies) as there was no reported unemployment. In
this report, a distinction is made between annual average employment
figures (numbers of jobs with part-time jobs calculated into full-time
equivalents) and end of year employment figures (numbers of persons
employed as of December 31).



- 43 -                     Annex 
Page 5 of 45
9.       Following the start of the Economic Transformation Program (ETP)
(Introduction, para. 2), total registered unemployment rose from about 55,800
in January 1990 to 1.125 million persons as of December 31, 1990. This total
represents about 6.5 percent of total labor force. The steadily rising growth
in registered unemployment over the course of 1990 is shown in Table 2. The
largest increases occurred in the second and third quarters, with numbers
rising by approximately 120,000 to 130,000 per month during June, July and
August. At much lower levels than the numbers of unemployed, reported job
vacancies countrywide rose gradually from 20,000 in February to a high for the
year of 64,000 in October and thereafter declined to 54,000 or about one
vacancy for every 21 unemployed persons in December.
10.      By the end of August, about 100,000 people had become unemployed
through mass layoffs. Those affected as a percentage of total registered
unemployed rose from about 4.5 percent in February to more than 16 percent in
November 1990 (Attachment A provides detail). The "soft reduction", that is
identification and layoff of employees who are close to retirement age, own
small firms or have other sources of income, occurred in early to mid-1990.
The so-called "hard reductions" of a more structural nature are beginning.
Mass layoffs as a proportion of the flow into unemployment rose steadily
during the second half of the year. In September and October, group
dismissals accounted for about a quarter of the monthly increase Ln
unemployment. By December, they represented about half of the total flow into
unemployment. In December 1990, roughly 10,600 firms issued notice of mass
layoffs which are expected to affect approximately 420,000 people in the early
months of 1991.
11.      Substantial increase in unemployment during 1991 is expected.
Figure 1 presents unemployment projections during 1990-1993 in three scenarios
based on average unemployment duration of 12 months. Under Scenario A,
unemployment would increase to an average of 1.5 million throughout 1991 (the
figure being used in MOLSP planning) and would not peak until late 1992 with
total unemployment of 1.8 million and a rate of 9.5 percent. Under
Scenario B, unemployment would increase to an average of 2 million throughout
1991. Under Scenario C, unemployment would be about 1.5 million in early 1991
and reach a peak at year's end of about 2.5 million (Attachment B provides
detail on scenarios). Scenarios 8 and C are similar, with unemployment
reaching a maximum of 2.5 million and at a rate of 13 percent by the end of
1991 and tapering off sharply thereafter. These two scenarios are likely only
if downsizing and closure of firms are intensified. Scenario A, which most
closely matches present trends, assumes a slower pace of economic
restructuring and higher levels of unemployment for a longer period.



- 44 -                     Annex I
Page 6 of 45
Table 2: REGISTERED UNEMPLOYMENT IN POLAND, 1990
Persons Unemployed       An % of labor force A/
(- (C000) ----_____ -_
January                                 55.8                       0.2
February                               152.2                        0.8
March                                  266.6                        1.5
April                                  351.1                        1.9
May                                    443.2                        2.4
June                                   568.2                        3.1
July                                   699.3                        3.8
August                                 820.3                        4.5
September                              926.4                        5.0
October                               1008.4                        5.5
November                              1089.1                        5.9
December                              1124.8                        6.1
a/ This ratio is not fully comparable with the concept of "unemployment rate*
as no current and exact data on the labor force are available;
unemployment is measured by the number of "registered unemployed".
Figures include an un-estimated number of individuals who have not been in
the labor force (new graduates, military reservists, and new labor force
entrants).
Source: Central Statistical Office (GUS), Ministry of Labor and Social
Policy.
B. Labor Force
12.      Participation.  Labor force participation rates in Poland have been
high for several decades, ranging from a high of 94 percent for men and
85 percent for women in 1970 to a high of 87 percent and 77 percent,
respectively, in 1987.2/  For all age groups within a range of 25 years to 54
years, participation rates for both men and women were higher than 70 percent
in 1988. Rates were 60 to 70 percent for persons aged 20 to 24 years and 50
to 60 percent for persons in the 55 to 59 year age group (Attachment C).
These participation rates, while higher than in many western economies, have
been drifting downwards. A possible factor in the decrease is deteriorating
2/ Central Statistical Office, Poland Statistical Data, Warsaw, 1989.



- 45                      Annexi 
Page 7 of 45
Figure (1)
Poland   Unemployment  Estimates for
1990-1993 by Quarter of Year and by
Different Scenarios
(000)
2500 -
2000
1500-
iO00       Scen C
.  .Scen A
500'              ..        .  .  .  .                         Sce .R 
20  3D 4           3412                     2  3  
1990        1991         1992          1993
Scenario As Average of 1.5 milllon unemployed through 1991.
Scenario Bs Average of 2 million unemployed through 1991.
Scenario C: Unemployment starts at 1.S million in 1991 and increases to
2.5 million by the end of year.
Sources  See Attachment B.



- 46 -                     Annex l
Page 8 of 45
health status, particularly of male workers.a/ The high participation rate
for women is an important feature of the unemployment issue. Experience in
OECD countries shows that women tend to have longer jobless spells. Managers
of enterprises in Poland indicate they will concentrate staff reductions in
administrative support occupations, in which there is a high proportion of
women,4/ and individuala considered to be second wage earners in families
(particularly if they are maintaining a private farm plot). This is occurring
at the same time that high inflation is requiring families to have two
incomes.
13.      Mobility.  Labor was highly mobile during the 1950e and early 1960.,
particularly in terms of rural to urban migration, while Poland was
experiencing rapid industrialization and significant increase in housing stock
in cities and towns. Geographic mobility has tended to decline in recent
decades, however. In 1989, there was internal migration of 597,000 people
compared with an annual average of 930,000 for the period 1976 to 1980.
Internal migration declined by 8 percent from 1985 to 1989, with rural to
urban movement slowing by 6 percent and urban to rural flow by 11 percent.
For 1989, overall numbers of male and female migrants are roughly equivalent,
with the greatest migration occurring during ages 20 to 34 years. Rateo
decline thereafter with 10-15 percent of the age cohort 35-39 years migrating
and below 10 percent later on in life. Declining mobility is attributed
chiefly to a shortage of affordable housing. High labor force participation,
which may constrain migration for two-income earner households, and scarcity
of demand for labor compound the difficulty of internal migration. Movement
of labor is also inhibited by lack of local infrastructure to support
development of new industries and population influx and the absence of a fully
functioning labor exchange also inhibit movement of labor.
14.      Education/skill Levels.  About 30 percent of the workforce have
formal education of only eight years or less. Another 30 percent have only
narrow basic trade school qualifications which constrain occupational
mobility, especially in the present period of economic transformation and
industrial modernization. Recent surveys of unemployed by MOLSP authorities
3/ Between 1978 to 1988, the labor force participation rate for men of
working age declined by 2.3 percent. There were declines of 2.5 to
9.5 percent for males in age groupings between 45 and 59. The Ministry of
Health estimates that from 1978 to 1984, males aged 50 to 59 who were
disabled or certified by physicians as unable to work increased from 23%
to 31% of the age cohort (Ministry of Health data). Decline in labor
force participation among the female population was les during this
period with an overall decrease of 1.7 percent. Within age groups the
most significant declines occurred during years 20-34.
i/ Women account for more than 60% of total employment in trade, education,
culture and arts, health and social welfare, public administration and
justice and finance.



- 47 -                     Annex 1
Page 9 of 45
indicate this pattern is reflected in current unemployment statistics. At the
and of 1990, about 15 percent of the registered unemployed were school
leavers. Unemployment among school leaver. was heaviest for those with little
post primary education and for certain group of graduates of vocational
training schools.
C.  Imolications for Emylovment Policies and Proorams
15.      In the near-term, employment policies and programs will need to
respond to structural changes in employment. The about average proportion of
employment in the industrial sector may make it possible and desirable to
retain much of the labor force in industry, but this will require modernizing,
investment and retraining. The high proportion of the labor force in
agriculture implies that there may be dieplacement in this sector to achieve
greater efficiency. Additional problems may emerge if overstaffed industries
make a practice of releasing workers who also maintain small farms (an option
proposed by managers of several larger enterprises). If these individuals are
unable to subsist on agriculture alone, they may need to seek reemployment in
industry. The low proportion of the workforce in the service sector provides
an opportunity for growth, but this will require investment and retraining.
16.      The increasing trend in unemployment and low numbers of reported
vacancies imply that the Government will be faced with high costs for income
support in the near-term.  Given that joblessness is increasingly structural
in nature, however, it is essential that employment programs emphasize not
only adequate income support and employment services to assist with frictional
unemployment but also retraining and retooling of workers for emerging
industries and jobs. Lack of demand for labor and the embryonic private
sector also indicate a need for proactive employment promotion measures.
Limited geographic mobility, at least in the near-term, implies a need for
careful targeting of programs to local populations, particularly in the case
of communities experiencing mass layoffs.
17.      Characteristics of the workforce will also affect the types of
employment programs required. OECD experience indicates that workers with low
levels of education tend to experience longer periods of unemployment and will
require careful targeting of services, including counseling to obtain new
employment. The alarming decline in health status in Poland, especially among
middle-aged and older male workers, also implies that physical and
psychological considerations will need to be factored carefully into the
deosgn and delivery of services to the unemployed.



- 48 -                     Annex 1
Page 10 of 45
II. EMPLOYMENT_PROGRAMS IN A MARKET ECONOMY
A. Overview
18.      Employment policies and programs in OECD countries comprise measures
to protect the unemployed and vulnerable groups (workers at risk of
unemployment, unemployed persons and their dependents) as well as measures to
encourage productive employment and job development in the labor market. The
need for such measures is acute during economic stabilization and
restructuring when incomes and jobs of large numbers of people are adversely
affected. Experience in OECD countries shows that effective employment
programs combine reactive and proactive measures.5/ Reactive measures
ameliorate the short-term costs of adjustment to individuals, enterprises and
communities through income support and maintenance programs. Proactive
measures seek to reemploy individuals and to add value to human capital
through development of new skills, thereby facilitating investment and
redeployment of labor to newly created jobs. Proactive measures are usually
closely integrated with broader economic development efforts.
19.      The package of measures in a market economy, which together comprise
the elements of a social safety net, would normally include:
(a) Reactive income support for poverty prevention, including
unemployment benefits, family and maternity allowances, pensions,
social assistance (welfare) payments of last resort, and protection
of the unemployed and vulnerable groups from interruption of access
to or decline in the quality of health care;
(b) Proactive programs including, but not limited to:
(i)  Employment services which address frictional unemployment and
help to: (a) rapidly redeploy workers; and/or (b) screen
clients prior to use of more expensive proactive measures.
These services include provision of labor market information,
job counseling and job search training, all of which promote
mobility, assist workers to find jobs and employers to find
qualified workers.
(ii) Training and employment generation initiatives which address
structura2 unemployment and lack of demand for labor. These
programs generally add value to human capital and are intended
j/ Economic Adiuatment and Worker Dislocation in a ComDetitive Society,
Report of the Secretary of Labor's Task Force on Economic Adjustment and
Worker Dislocation, U.S. Department of Labor, Washington D.C., 1986.



- 49 -                     Annex 
Page 11 of 45
to improve productivity, promote investment and facilitate
mobility. They include traditional skill training, custom
training to support new inveetment, related education and life
skills training, and assistance for small enterprise
development and other job creation schemes.
20.      OECD studies have shown that the success and cost-effectiveness of
these measures depend on an individual's education level, age, gender,
previous employment and tenure, as well as on local economic conditions. In
general, income support measures are focused on poverty prevention and
alleviation. Employment services help to address frictional unemployment.
Proactive training and employment generation are useful in situations of
structural unemployment or lack of demand for labor. Linkages between
reactive and proactive measures are important. No single action is likely to
be effective in isolation. Combining measures can increase overall impact
(e.g., unemployment benefits with job search training). Active measures often
need support mechanisms if they are to be cost-effective (e.g., job counseling
with training, small business technical assistance with financial support).
Effectiveness can be enhanced by targeting assistance to meet the needs of
particular groups.
21.      Responsibility for financing and implementation of programs is often
shared among national and local agencies, councils and boards, and
enterprises. Financing of employment programs is most often through general
tax revenues, although there are exceptions, particularly in the financing of
unemployment benefits. In Japan, employers contribute through a payroll tax
to an employment insurance scheme which is used both to finance programs that
help reemploy displaced workers and to pay unemployment compensation benefits.
The custom in some countries is to rely on the private sector to help directly
their redundant workers.
22.      In most OECD countries, employment and social welfare programs are
generally delivered by professionally trained staff, including labor
information specialists, job counselors, training specialists, social workers
and others. Private groups also play an important role in job counseling and
placement, employment promotion, training/retraining and other programs.
Implementation of employment programs is supported by management information
systems that: (a) provide efficient and effective means of registering
clients (both individuals and employers) and calculating income support
payments; (b) monitor labor market changes and provide labor market
information to clients; and (c) monitor expenditures by program and evaluate
the cost-effectiveness of different programs with different client groups to
assist with future planning, budgeting and program desigla.



- 50 -                     AnnexI
Page 12 of 45
23.      The following sections review experience in OECD countries with
reactive and proactive employment programs of most relevance for Poland. Thus
the discussion is not an exhaustive inventory of employment programs.j/
B. Income Support
24.      Unemployment Benefits (UB) are generally cash transfers to
individuals w!o are temporarily unemployed. During economic adjustment, UB
shoulds (a) facilitate people becoming unemployed, so that labor can move to
more productive uses; (b) support the unemployed at or above subsistence; and
(c) facilitate reentry into employment. The level and duration of benefits
and the mandated linkage of unemployment benefit with other employment
programs are widely debatid and are key determinants of program cost and the
structure of incentives motivating behavior of the affected individuals. OECD
countries use varying benefit and financing schemes, although in general
unemployment benefits are funded through a payroll tax (approximately two
percent).
25.      Payment of UB is usually based on either the insurance or the
assistance concept. The insurance concept assumes that benefits are an
entitlement based on previous work experience, payable in proportion to wages
for a fixed duration, and are financed entirely out of wage-linked
contributions. Both the employer and employee share the contributions. In
the U.S., for example, the employer pays the entire contribution, whereas the
employer pays two-thirds in France and one-half in Germany.  The assistance
concept does not assume entitlement stemming from previous employment and
duration of benefit may be as long as the person remains out of work.
Assistance schemes are invariably funded from general revenues. Experience
suggests, however, that high unemployment compensation available for
relatively long duration tends to lengthen an individual's period of
unemployment and does not necessarily lead to an equivalent or higher paying
job.
26.      In most OECD countries, unemployment benefit is provided through a
combination of insurance and assistance schemes. An insurance scheme funded
from a payroll tax would cover a fixed duration of unemployment. An
assistance scheme funded from general revenues would cover the benefits of
unemployment insurance exhaustees for an extended period. The clear trend,
however, is toward unemployment insurance schemes financed through
employer/worker contributions and away from assistance schemes financed
largely by budgetary resources. In general, unemployment benefits are payable
6/ For more comprehensive discussion of employment programs, see Employment
Dimensions of Economic Restructurina: A Review of Policies and Proarams in
Induatrialized Countries, D. Fretwell, M. Lowell, R. Bednarzik, EMTPH
Working Paper, World Bank, April 30, 1991.



- 51 -                     Ann-x I
Page 13 of 45
for a maximum duration compatible with the financial equilibrium of
unemployment insurance schemes. In accounting terms, these schemes are
autonomous from the central government budget. This does not necessarily
exempt the government from liability as the financier of last resort,
especially when insurance schemes are just being initiated or in other
situations (e.g., ecor nmic recession or post-recession) when reserves are low
or exhausted.
27.      Social aBsistance (welfare) payments are intended to provide
subsistence level support for individuals who may have exhausted other
benefits, particularly unemployment compensation, or who never qualified.
Beneficiaries are likely to include those who are physically disabled or
otherwise unable to be employed. Financing is typically through public
budgets, including especially those of regional and local governments.
Legislation is often required to establiah the eligibility criteria for social
welfare benefits. In most OECD countries, the level of benefits is determined
for an individual or household through means-testing, which is an objective
assessment of the individual's circumstances and other public or private means
of income support. Effectiveness of social welfare programs depends on the
extent to which the policies and administration are able to target those most
in need of support.
28.      Public sector eLmnloyment programs provide temporary job opportunities
for unemployed workers in public sector agencies or on projects sponsored with
public funds. Such programs can be good for morale, build up community in-
frastructure and help workers retain skills, but there is little evidence that
they reduce long-term unemployment. Actually, these programs may result in an
individualls dependence on public employment and longer duration of
participation than budgets or work requirements warrant.7/
29.      Government-financed early retirement schemes provide budget-financed
payments to enable older workers not yet of retirement age to leave the
workforce voluntarily, and thus create openings for unemployed workers. These
programs can be very costly, however, and must be carefully targeted and
defined. Firms often do not replace the retiree and some individuals who opt
for early retirement may both collect benefits and continue to participate in
the labor force, particularly in the informal sector.
30.      Health Benefits.  The unemployed, or those confronting job lose, and
other vulnerable groups face increased physiological and mental streso. In
addition, lose of employment can mean loss of access to job-related health
services and benefits. It is important to protect the health benefits of the
unemployed and to target needed health services for them and thelr dependents.
2/ OECD, Manpower and Social Affairs Committe&, Manpower Measures and
Evaluation Proaramme. Measurea to Assit Workers Dis2laced by Structural
Chanae: Report by Evaluation Panel No. 1, Paris, November 1984.



-52 -                      Annexi 1
Page 14 of 45
Other vulnerable groups, including pensioners and single parent families,
often need special coverage and careful targeting of subsidies for such items
as drugs and medical aids.A/
C. Emplovment Services
31.      Advance notification of workers and employment offices of an
impending major layoff or plant closing is an important first step in
preparing the community and providing cost-effective assistance to displaced
workers.
32.      Ranid reseonse to mass layoff involves mobilization of
representatives of the enterprise, employees, government, and community to
provide intensive support at the workplace prior to layoff. These measures,
provided through "industrial adjustment services", have been particularly
successful when highly specialized staff or teams located at the national or
regional level are quickly deployed for brief periods to enterprises
anticipating mass layoff. Flexible support services (e.g., employment
services and training) must be available and are financed by a variety of
sources, including central and local governments, enterprises, and community
resources. Early, rapid-response programs have proven more cost-effective
than the same services after a layoff occurs. A study of 36,000 displaced
workers in Canada reported that the average duration of unemployment for laid
off workers assisted by industrial adjustment services was 7 1/2 weeks, as
compared to 22 weeks for unemployed people not provided such service.9/
33.      Labor exchange mechanisms provide a critical link between individuals
and the labor market. These mechanisms include registration of job openings
and job seekers; job counseling with skill, interest and aptitude assessment;
job search training; and occupational and education information services.
Services are generally provided through publicly financed employment offices,
which are supplemented in many countries by private agencies, non-profit
community organizations, the mass media and education and training
institutions. Private provision may generate competition that leads to
increased effectiveness in public employment offices. It is important,
however, that regulations exist to deter fraud in private provision of
services and to ensure equal opportunity to clients. Labor exchange
j/ For description of health issues related to employment in Poland and
discussion of prospective reforms in health services, see Poland's Health
System Reform:  Meeting the Challenge, Report No. 9182-POL, World Bank,
March 1991.
2/ fEconomic Adiuitment and Worker Dislocation, US Department of Labor, 1986.



53 -                     Annex l
Page 15 of 45
mechanisms can reduce the duration of an individual's reliance on income
support and, through careful screening, increase effectiveness of investment
in more expensive programs such as training and small enterprise assistance.
34.      Relocation Sunport.  Financial or in-kind incentives may be used to
encourage mobility of workers and their families from areas in general
economic decline. Relocation grants are effective only if existing housing
can be sold and there are both jobs and affordable housing in the new
location. Relocation schemes have been most successful in countries where
there has been a strong tradition of geographic mobility, such as the US. In
Central and Eastern European countries with housing deficits and relatively
low internal labor migration, attempts to promote geographical mobility are
likely to have limited success in the short term (para. 13).
D. Training
35.      Training/retrainino for unemployed workers can help facilitate
reemployment, encourage investment, and support structural adjustment. These
programs include general education and skill training for those with very low
levels of education, as well as specialized skill training in new or different
skills. Training is provided by both public and private institutions through
government and self-financing mechanisms. Effectiveness of training and
retraining efforts in OECD countries has been somewhat mixed, although there
is broad consensus that resources must be committed to these programs if the
general skill levels of unemployed workers are to be upgraded or changed.
Training can be difficult and expensive to organize. To be effective,
training must be flexible, and specialized training programs must be targeted
to emerging employment opportunities.  Client participation and program impact
is affected by factors such as the amount of pre-assessment available, the age
and education of the unemployed person, locality (rural/urban) and the
difficulty and cost of reaching a training center. Older workers have special
problems and often need aptitude and interest assessment and career counseling
prior to retraining.
36.      Combined trainina/employment schemes provide career development
experiences. They include special summer employment programs for youth, part-
time work for individuals reentering the work-force after long absences and
job-sharing programs. Again, experience is mixed.
37.      Contract training involves timely provision of training that is
custom-made for an enterprise by a private or public training organization.
Contract training can promote cost recovery of training services and may be
used to support initiatives of an existing enterprise in new production or
productivity improvement through introduction of new technology. It can also
serve as an incentive for the start-up of new enterprises, especially those
that will require a specialized workforce to ensure high productivity upon
starting operation. Trainees may be unemployed persons or employed workers
who are at risk of layoff unless they are reskilled. Training organizations



- 54 -Annex 1
Page 16 of 45
in OECD countries increasingly are providing customized training services on
demand. Training is fully or partially funded by enterprises intending to
invest and hire in the community. Contract training can help new enterprises
reach productivity goals rapidly and free them from maintaining large and
potentially costly internal training organizations.
E. Emplovment Generation
38.      Micro-enterprise develooment.  Provision of assistance to
entrepreneurs is an attractive strategy in areas of limited employment
opportunity. Experience shows that an effective development policy should
seek to increase the use of labor relative to capital, to the extent that is
economically efficient.10/ Small-scale firms generate more direct jobs per
unit of invested capital than large organizations. In most OECD countries, a
small number of unemployed (2 to 3 percent) opt for micro-enterprise
development schemes. Successful participants are predominantly middle aged
with professional, managerial or technical backgrounds. Small enterprise
initiatives by employment agencies usually focus on supporting micro-
enterprise development rather than larger-scale efforts, primarily because of
limited financing resources. Financing is often provided through
capitalization of unemployment benefits. Employment agencies often act as
intermediaries between the unemployed and small business development
organizations. Programs may be financed and delivered through public sector
agencies, financial institutions, and non-governmental organizations.
Provision of carefully targeted technical and financial assistance to
entrepreneurs (e.g., incubators which provide affordable facilities with
support services, training in business management) can increase survival
rates. Evidence suggests that the increased tax revenues generated may equal
or exceed the levels of public funds expended in providing technical
assistance to entrepreneurs.11/ Availability of affordable credit to the
micro-entrepreneur can be a major problem. Few institutions in the financial
sector express interest in making very small loans. Alternative financing
schemes with non-bank, non-governmental organizations are sometimes used--in
the U.S.,12/ France and Colombia--to assist micro-entrepreneurs.13/
1Q/ Emplovment and DeveloDment of Small Enterprises, Sector Policy Paper,
World Bank, 1978.
11/ "Statement to Senate Small Business Committee", Association of Small
Business Development Centers, Washington, D.C., 1987.
la/ "Factors Influencing the Performance of US Economic Development
Administration Sponsored Revolving Loan Funds", U.S. Department of
Commerce, August 1987.
jI/ World Bank Lending for Small and Medium Enterorises: Fifteen Years of
Experience, World Bank, (Report No. 9530), April 1991.



Annex 1
-55-                       Page 17 of 45
39.      Emolovment oromotion measures are payments to firms to maintain
employment and to hire displaced workers. The arrangement may benefit both
the unemployed individual and the enterprise, and costs are often shared.
Public funds may provide partial or full wage subsidy for a specified initial
period of employment, with expectation that the employee will thereafter
remain with the firm. Provision must also be made for continuation of social
security, health and other benefits. Carefully formulated eligibility
criteria are essential for wage subsidy programs. Firms may be tempted to uoe
subsidies even if they would have hired additional staff without them, and
other unemployed workers may be denied employment because they were not
eligible for subsidies. Often, the primary effect of theee subsidies is
preferential hiring of the workers entitled to a subsidy rather than actual
creation of jobs.



- 56 -                     Annex 1
Page 18 of 45
III. POLICIES. INSTITUTIONS ND PROGRAMS IN POLAND
A. Leaislation and Policm
40.      Labor Laws.  The major thrust of labor legislation in Poland is to
withdraw the state from its central directive role and to move toward
collective bargaining and employment contracts. The existing labor code was
adopted in the mid-1970e and provides for up to 90 days of notice for
termination of employment, depending on an employee's length of service. A
Commission on Labor Law Reform has been constituted in the Ministry of Labor
and Social Policy (MOLSP) with responsibility for revising the code to reflect
the transition to a market-oriented economy. An entirely new labor code is
expected to be in place within two years. In the meantime, amendments are
being prepared to clarify the rights of individuals and enterprises in
employment contracting and the role of collective bargaining. Initial
amendments will be put forward to Parliament in the first half of 1991 and
work is underway in Parliament on three comprehensive pieces of legislation
relating to: trade unions, workers' councils, and dispute resolution. All
laws have had first readings and are expected to be adopted in mid 1991. In
development of new labor legislation, MOLSP is observing ILO conventions.
41.      Wages.  A law on enterprise wage systems applies to all employers
except agencies financed by the central budget. Employment contracts
concluded between employer and employee must be based on the internal wage
system of the enterprise. There is some flexibility within enterprises to
determine this structure, set wage levels by job category, and distribute
increases across the wage scale. The wage structure of an enterprise must be
agreed with any trade union associated with the enterprise. The Ministry of
Finance is responsible for rules governing indexation of the overall wage bill
of firms. A law on wage increases is part of the stabilization phase of the
ETP. The essence of the law, which took effect in January 1990, is that the
wage bill of any enterprise is constrained in a given month to rise by not
more than a specific percentage of the rate of inflation for that month. The
constraint takes the form of a penal tax on any wage increase which raised the
wage bill of the enterprise by more than that specified by the law. If an
enterprise sheds labor, its remaining workers could have larger increases;
thus the law provides enterprises an incentive for more efficient use of
labor.
42.      Industrial Relations.  At present, relations between labor unions and
firms are governed by a law on trade unions that was adopted in 1982 under
martial law. Provisions for settlement of disputes and right to strike are
included but are highly formalized and act to discourage due process. Revised
legislation (para. 40) is expected to provide procedures for initiation of
dispute, opportunities for speedy resolution through mediation and
arbitration, and provision for strikes. An employee who does not participate
in a strike would 'e guaranteed a base wage. The bill would ban strikes for
those in military service, criminal justice, and fire and rescue operations.



- 57-                      Annex I
Page 19 of 45
43.      ImRloint.  An Employment Law enacted in January 1990 establiohes
policies for temporary income support (unemployment benefits), employment
services, employment generation and small and micro-enterprise development.
This legislation provides for employment programe which are to be financed
through the state budget and a Labor Fund administered by the Ministry of
Labor and Social Policy (MOLSP). The Fund supports: (a) benefito for
individuals who are unemployed, whether or not they are also undergoing
training; (b) training; (c) loans to employers for creating additional jobs;
(d) loans to unemployed persons for micro-enterprise development; (e) public
service employment; (f) wage subsidies for people re-employed after a maos
layoff; (g) job creation for disatkled people; and (h) relocation expenses for
the unemployed.14/
44.      Mass Layoffs.  Legislation was passed in 1989 to establish procedures
for group redundancies and a formula for severance pay. The law requires 45
days advance notice in cases of: (a) layoffs involving 10 or more employees;
and (b) layoffs of 10% or more of employees of enterprises employirng up to
1,000 people. The notice must announce to trade unions and local labor
offices that a layoff is intended but need not specify individuals to be
affected. During the advance notice period, trade unions may attempt to
negotiate the status of the layoff. Workers made redundant are to receive 30-
90 days notice and severance pay of up to 90 days determined by previous
earnings and length of service. Proposed amendments would allow individuals
directly affected by mass layoff to use selected physical assets of their
former enterprise to start their own businesses and receive training during
the period between notification of layoff and their becoming unemployed.
45.      Social Welfare.  Until recently, provision of social assistance was
based on a law enacted in 1923. Administration of benefits, including
determining the level and type of assistance, was largely at the discretion of
individual social workers. A new Social Welfare Law was enacted February 15,
1991. The law provides relief for individuals and families whose income from
all other sources does not yet remove them from poverty. The law seeks to
consolidate and systematize existing arrangements for means-tested cash
benefits, institutional care and other benefits in-kind. Gminas are now
responsible for implementing mandatory local "tasks" (ensuring shelter, food
and clothing for the needy) and those tasks entrusted to the voivodship and
financed by the state budget (awarding and paying permanent allowances).
46.      Voivod and Local Government.  Two laws passed in 1990 define the
functions and responsibilities of the newly created local (gmina) and Voivod
authorities. A more comprehensive law is expected to be presented to
14/ Action was taken during the initial year of implementation to propose
amendments to the Law that would limit abuse of benefit provisions (e.g.,
payment of unemployment benefits to adults who have not worked), reduce
disincentives to accepting employment, increase incentives to take
training, and provide support to improve management and operations.



- 58 -                     Annex l
Page 20 of 45
Parliament in August 1991. This logislation could have considerable impact on
the provision of employment and social welfare servlces because of the number
of local offices involved.  Currently, MOLSP finances a major portion of
parsonnel in these offices, and provides the majority of financing for benefit
programs. However, the offices are administered by local authorities. This
division of financial and administrative authority, while supporting local
autonomy, is resulting in considerable varlation in types and quality of
service delivery. Variation is exacerbated by the changing nature of natlonal
employment and social welfare legislation. If local administratlve control of
these services is retained, it will become increasingly necessary to provide
more detailed national regulations to onsure equity of services and promote
cooperation and fostering of labor mobility among regions.
S. Institutional Framework
47.      Emplovment and Social Welfare.  The Ministry of Labor and Social
Policy (MOLSP) is responsible for employment programs (Attachment D provides
an organizational chart). At the local level, MOLSP services are delivered
through a network of approximately 335 Local Labor Offices (LLOs) and
Voivodehip Labor Offices (VLOs) with more than 5,000 staff.11/ In 1990,
responsibility for social assistance programs was transferred to MOLSP from
the Ministry of Health. The system comprises approximately 2,300 local
(Gmina) Social Welfare Offices (SWOs) as well as numerous specialized
residential facilities and rehabilitation centers and is staffed by about
43,000 employees. MOLSP has also formed tripartite Labor Councils, comprising
representatives of government, erterprises and labor, to advise on development
and implementation of national, regional and local policies and programs.e ]
j5/ MOLSP has recently been authorized to increase staffing of LLOs by 2,SOO
positions, which should result in total staffing of about 7,500 by the end
of 1991.
16/ A Supreme Employment Council of 24 members, and Regional Employment
Councils at the voivod level of 16 members, are appointed by the Minister.
Local Employment Councils of eight members are appointed by the regional
governor in each voivod. The Supreme Council evaluates drafts of
employment legislation and advises on Labor Fund program investments.
Regional Councils advise on labor market trends, evaluate the
effectiveness of Labor Fund management, comment on reports and financial
plans from voivod and local labor offices, and submit reports to the
Supreme Council on activities of these offices. Proposed legislation
would allow Regional Councils to participate in the evaluation and hiring
of voivod labor office managers as well as provide for creation of Local
Labor Councils to advise on development of employment programs to meet
local requirements.



- 59 -                     annex I
Page 21 of 45
48.      Education Mad TrAining.  The Ministry of National Education (MONE)
has overall responsibility for education and training, including special
schools and adult training. Various other institutions, including other
Ministries (Health, Agriculture, Industry, Mining and Transport and especially
MOLSP, through its role in retraining displaced workers) and the Catholic
Church finance and supervise substantial amounts of sector and occupation
specific training. In 1988, there were some 300 associations and institutions
for adult education and training which trained more than 2 million people. A
considerable number of new private institution. have been created during the
past two years. MONE estimated that an of October 1990 there were more than
700 such agencies licensed within the country. MONE coordinates training,
primarily by licensing and approving regulation. and procedure., while leaving
performance monitoring up to individual ministries or implementing
institutions.
49.      Staffing in Labor Offices.  Many staff in LLOs have few or no
relevant professional qualifications and little or no informal training for
the work they must now perform.   This situation exists for several reasons.
First, the number of staff in LLOs has expanded very quickly during the past
year (from 2,000 in late 1989 to more than 5,000 in late 1990). Another 2,500
are to be added in 1991. Many staff have been hired in haste and directly
from the unemrloyment roster. Second, the role of the employment service has
changed. The LLO can no longer operate as a simple local labor exchange in
which the number of vacancies greatly exceeds the number ofijobseekers. LLOs
must now deal with registering and paying large numbers of unemployed,
counselling workers, and operating a variety of employment programs ranging
from public works to micro-enterprise assistance. Third, there are no diploma
or post-graduate training programs for employment and vocational counselors in
higher education institutions in Poland. Large LLOs may have one or two staff
with higher level qualifications in psychology and pedagogy. Often, however,
their attention is focused on a small proportion of cases, primarily invalids,
and they are ill-prepared in terms of training or support materials to help
large numbers of unemployed.
50.       Staffing in Social Welfare Offices.  Staffing in SWOe is also
inadequate and will worsen as unemployment becomes greater and some clients
who have exhausted unemployment benefits will turn to social welfare programs.
In December 1990, an estimated 150,000 persons previously receiving
unemployment benefits became clients in the social welfare system as a result
of amendments to the Employment Law. This new client group will force the
broadening of social welfare services to serve not only the disabled but also
persons who are temporarily out of the labor market. MOLSP has a long-term
objective of one social worker per 3,000-3;500 population. While this goal
appears within reach in terms of a national average, there are a large number
of localities, particularly in rural areas, that are substantially below this
standard. As in the LLOs, the majority of SWO staff have not received special
training. Roughly 15 percent of presently employed social workers have been
directed to the SWOs through the public service employment provision of the



- 60 -                     Annex 1
Page 22 of 45
Employment Law. MOLSP has estimated that 12,600 employees in SWOs will
require more than 43,000 person day. of training to attain appropriate
qualifications for their positions.
51.      Manacement Information.  Local and regional labor office reports to
MOLSP include a semi-annual report that gLve. six-monthi totals of performance
and expenditure Ln each program (e.g., training, small business loans), a
monthly report on Labor Fund expendLtures, and a semi-monthly report of the
numbero of unemployed and clients served in various programs. Until recently,
data were collected by MOLSP via telephone to VLOs. In January 1991, an
improved system took effect in which a single form is used to collect all
monthly data and additional data on demographlcs of the unemployed. Data are
now routinely Jlisaggregated by sex. Data flow once each month from the LLO to
the regional branch of the Central Statistical Office (GUS) for aggregation.
Further aggregation and analysis takes place in the central office of GUS ln
Warsaw, and completed reports are forwarded to MOLSP by the tenth day of the
month following the reporting period. Detailed cost-benefit analysis by
program and client characteristic is not yet available for evaluating program
effectiveness.
52.      Automation.  Administration of benefits and services in both labor
and social welfare programs is supported largely by outdated office technology
with very limited automation (Attachment E provides further background).
"Pencil and paper" systems are relied upon for most aspects of office
operations, although MOLSP has recently purchased approximately 400
microcomputers to support benefits calculation. It is estimated that with
this recent investment there will be a total of about 700 computers available
in LLOs throughout the country. There is considerable interest in automation
of employment programs, including registration of LLO clients, development of
a management information data base, benefits calculation, labor exchange
operation and labor information collection and analysis. There are no
national guidelines, however, for management information and automation and no
networking between offices, a shortcoming of the system that will become
increasingly apparent as clients move among unemployment benefit, employment,
and social welfare programs. To address needs in this area, MOLSP has
initiated a task force and contracted a consultant group to review the entire
area of automation.
53.      Labor Market Information.  Labor statistics are developed by GUS &s
well as the MOLSP Statistics Office. GUS has experience in surveying
households and enterprises as the primary sources of occupational and labor
market information. However, existing labor statistics were developed to
support a centrally planned economy. They are not always useful for
monitoring and detecting trends in a fluctuating market economy and are not
able to be quickly disseminated to users. At present, there is no regular
establishment-based sample survey of employment by sector, including detail on
occupations, and no household survey that monitors levels of unemployment.
The register of establishments does not adequately encompass the private
sector and there is no regular method of monitoring wage data by occupation.
GUS has limited experience in working with data users (e.g., training



- 61-                      Annex 1
Page 23 of 45
inetitutions, labor officers, and individuals) to determine how to present
data in a format that is eauily understood, to perform non-technical analyses
for these users, and train users to analyze and use labor market information
in decision making.
C. FinAncino
54.      Labor Fund Reyenue and Expenditures.  Income to finance Labor Fund
provisions (para. 43) derives from two sources: a contribution from all
employers of two percent of the wage bill; and a transfer from the central
government budget. This transfer was 1.8 percent of the total state budget in
1990 and is expected to be 5.5 percent in 1991. The various sources of
revenue and broad categories of expenditure in 1990 and 1991 are shown in
Table 3; Attachment F provides further detail.
Table 3: LABOR FUND REVENUE SOURCES AND EXPENDITURE, 1990 AND 1991
1990              1991 Estimate
(-------- (percent) ----------
Revenue
From central budget                        74                       72
2% payroll contribution                    24                       19
Other                                       2                        9
100                     100
Xx2enditure A/
Income Support                             64                       19
Training                                   18b/                     14
Enterprise Development                     17                        7
Administration & Other                      1           (Less than 1.)
100                     100
al In nominal terms, total expenditures were ZL4,197 billion in 1990 and are
estimated at ZL20,428 billion for 1991.
k/ only about 40 percent of the expenditures in this category was used to
support training and retraining programs for the adult unemployed and
youth. The bulk of these expenditures were for vocational training and
apprenticeship for youth of secondary school age.
Source: Ministry of Labor and Social Policy.



- 62 -                     Annex I
Page 24 of 45
55.      Manaaement Costs.  The estimated total cost for management of
employment and social welfare programs under MOLSP in 1991 is
ZL26.51 trillion. Of this amount, approximately ZL460 billion will be
required for VLOs and LLOs, ZL26 trillion for SWOs and about ZL51 billion for
the central ministry. Costs are shared by local and central government
budgets. Special budget appropriations are being made by the central
governmrnt to increase staff in LLO.  In 1990, ZL35 billion were allocated to
localities to increase staff by 1,800 positions. In 1991, approximately
ZL60 billion will be made available to finance an additional 2,500 positions.
In SWO0, new staff positions are financed by central (90%) and gmina (10%)
budgets.
D. Income SuRoort Proarams
56.      Unemolovment Benefits.  Under the present Employment Law, an
individual is entitled to unemployment benefit provided he/she cannot be
offered a suitable job or training program and ha. been employed or self-
employed for at least 180 days in the 12 months preceding the day of
registration. These criteria are waived in special cases, specifically for
persons who become unemployed through mass layoffs, persons under 18, school
leavers, sole breadwinners, women at the end of prolonged maternity leave, a
person whose spouse is receiving unemployment benefit, and those with a long
employment record (at least 20 years of work for men, 15 years for women).
Setting benefit levels entails complex calculations based on past salary and
declining replacement rate payments.27/ The minimum benefit is 95 percent of
the minimum wage, defined as 35 percent of the average monthly wage projected
for the current quarter. People under 18 are entitled only to the minimum
benefit. School leavers are entitled to benefit for six months at the
following levels: 125 percent of the minimum wage for university graduates;
110 percent of the minimum wage for others. Some problems with the initial
law would be rectified through proposed amendments. For example, initial
analyses of unemployment benefit claimants in April 1990 indicated that
43 percent did not work for a recognized enterprise prior to registration.
Revisions would make the definition of unemployment more precise. Amendments
would also limit the maximum duration of unemployment benefit to one year.
57.      Social Welfare.  Assistance is currently aimed mainly at orphans,
invalids, elderly or homeless individuals, and drug and alcohol abusers,
although the law is worded in a way that would allow provision for anyone in
poverty. Two kinds of support are provided. One is assistance in cash or in
kind for individuals or families with short-term difficulties who are normally
able to look after themselves in their own home with support of community
17/ There is no benefit for the first seven days of unemployment; thereafter
benefit is payable 30 days in arrears at 70 percent of the individual's
previous wage for three months, reducing to 50 percent for a further six
months and then at 40 percent without time limit.



- 63 -                     Annex 1
Page 25 of 45
facilities. The second type of assistance is financial support for persons
who require residential care in a specialized facility. Individuals currently
receiving a pension or those on permanent social welfare benefits will be
required to pay for any services received in a residential facility. Benefits,
whether in cash or in kind, are recommended by social workers and approved by
social office or center directors. Residential care at the voivodship level
is partially funded by the state budget.
58.      Emoloyment Subsidies provided for under the Employment Law resulted
in about 490,000 youth being employed in 1990. Under this arrangement, the
wage and social security contribution of a person taken on by an enterprise is
paid out of the Labor Fund for six months, after which the enterprise is
assumed to take over responsibility. In practice, these subsidies may give
participating enterprises an unfair competitive advantage and create
incentives for laying off the subsidized employee after six months and
replacing that person with another unemployed person.
59.      Public Emolovment.  About 107,000 people were placed in temporary
jobs in the public sector in 1990. This number is expected to decline in 1991
to about 70,000. A proposed amendment to the Employment Law would focus
assistance on programs that contribute to social and economic development and
environmental protection. The labor coste of these works are paid out of the
Labor Fund.
60.      Government-Financed Pensions.  There is provision of a minimum
pension for people over retirement age with no other source of income. The
pension is financed out of the Social Insurance Fund. In addition, a person
who becomes unemployed through mass layoff and is of a certain age and length
of service is eligible for a epecial higher level of unemployment benefit
(75 percent of last monthly wage) for a period not to exceed 5 years. In
general, to qualify for this benefit, a person would need to have about 40
years' employment history.
61.      Trainina Benefits are paid at two levels.  Persons becoming
unemployed as a consequence of group redundancies (i.e., closure of an
enterprise or mass layoffs) receive 100 percent of their previous wage
(para. 56). Others seeking to enhance employment prospects through training
may receive 80 percent of previous wage. There is a minimum benefit but no
upper limit for the duration of the training program. In addition, the Labor
Fund pays the training institution for the cost of training services.
E. Employment Service Proorams
62.      Services of Local Labor Offices.  Prior to economic restructuring,
LL4e functioned as "matchmakers" of job orders from state enterprises with
available local labor. The rapid change in the role of LLOs as a result of
rising unemployment and new programs initiated through the Employment Law has
placed immense strain on these offices. Although HOLSP has more than doubled



- 64 -                      AnneIS 1
Page 26 of 45
staff in LLOs since 1989 (para. 49), most offices are able to provide only
very limited job counseling, information referral and job placement services
in conjunction with administering unemployment benefits. Few staff are
trained to provide counseling services (e.g., aptitude and interest
assessment, occupational/educational information, job search orientation and
training). Up-to-date support materials for these services are not commonly
found in LLOs. Assessment materials ueed at present are outdated, require
direct staff supervision and are not deaigned to be directly used by large
numbers of clients. Information sources (e.g., job vacancy data, labor market
and training information) are local and at best regional in nature. Job
development by staff, including contact with eifterpriess to obtain job vacancy
information, is limited due to time and financial constraints. Staff must
also develop contracts with training agencies and act as micro-enterprise
advisors to clients seeking start-up loans for private enterprises.
63.       Rapid Resoonse to Mass Layoffs.  While there are provisions for
advance notification of layoffs and special financial support (para. 44), and
several communities have initiated rapid response services on their own
initiative, MOLSP and its network of offices have not yet been able to provide
systematic provision of service to enterprises and individuals prior to mass
layoff.
64.      Relocation Assistance.  In a small number of cases, the Labor Fund
provides funds for travel costs of relocation to new work sites. An
individual may receive loans from local authorities to support resettlement
and housing costs. The Labor Fund will reimburse one quarter of this cost,
not to exceed the value of three months' average wage (at present wages are
about ZL14 million per month). In 1990, only a few thousand persons received
such assistance. Low investment in relocation measures may reflect housing
and other constraints to mobility.
F. Training Proarams
65.      Training and retraining for the adult unemployed is focused on
specialized vocational training. Basic education and general life/foundation
skill., which are increasingly a part of adult training in OECD countries, are
generally not found in programs in Poland. MOLSP supports training for
unemployed youth and adults by providing Labor Fund resources to LLOs which in
turn contract with local institutions to provide training for selected skill
areas. In 1990, approximately 10,200 unemployed adults, or 0.9 percent of the
number of total registered unemployed in December, had been referred to
training. In addition, 490,000 young persons participated in training/
apprenticeship programs. MOLSP has recognized that training programs are
reaching only a small fraction of the unemployed population and intends to
strengthen emphasis on training in 1991 with a substantial increase in
training investment (from ZL56 billion in 1990 to ZL1.2 trillion in 1991) for
an estimated 100,000 beneficiaries (approximately 5-7 percent of the number of
unemployed).



- 65 -                     Annex 1
Page 27 of 45
66.      In the past, development and provision of training was generally
limited to responses to requests from enterprises for: (a) a particular type
of training; (b) the organization of training through the labor exchange to
help meet a significant number of job orders for a particular occupation; and
(c) in some cases training for existing workers to upgrade productivity.
MOLSP has recently signed general agreements to obtain training and counseling
services from four major training associations: Association of Vocational
Upgrading Institutions (ZZDZ); Federation of Engineering Associations (NOT);
Scientific Society of Organization and Management (TNOIK); and Solidarity.
Training contracts are not yet based on pre-determined performance criteria
with related incentives. Contracts do not specify job placement and graduate
earnings levels to be achieved, and training organizations are not required to
undertake placement activities. Programs provide group time-'seed training.
There is relatively little use of modular or competency based concepts found
in OECD countries. Training is not organized on an open entry/exit system.
67.      There is already some cost recovery in training and additional
options are being explored. Some non-governmental training organizations,
notably ZZDZ, are registered and taxed as commercial organizations and use
trainees to manufacture goods sold on the commercial market.   Some training
institutions indicate that they could do customized contract training to
support new enterprise investments but they do not actively market these
services and are inexperienced in such "quick-start" training. Cost recovery
through payment of training fees by the unemployed is not viable. In the
future, following the transitional period of high structural unemployment,
increasing numbers of employed persons may wish to increase their mobility
through retraining. These individuals could be expected to pay part of the
costs involved.
G. Emolovment Generation Proorams
68.      Small/Micro-Enterprise Development by the Unemoloved is regarded as
an important proactive employment promotion and economic development
initiative throughout Poland. The MOLSP uses the Labor Fund to provide
limited capital and technical assistance to unemployed individuals seeking to
start micro and small enterprises. As of end 1990, approximately
27,900 persons--2.4 percent of the total registered unemployed in December
1990--had received loans totalling ZL324 million to start enterprises.
Individual loan amounts could not exceed the value of 20 months average wage
(wages are presen r about ZL14 million per month) of which 50% is forgiven if
the enterprise continues in operation for 24 months. There is considerable
variation among voivodships in the use of small business loans to address
unemployment (Attachment G) as well as discretion as to the interest rates
charged and terms of credit.
6-..     MOLSP'e activities in micro-enterprise development and employment
generation for the unemployed are being developed in cooperation with the
Government Plenipotentiary for Support of Enterprises and Economic



- 66 -                    Annex 
Page 28 of 45
Initiatives. This office was established by the Council of Ministers in
November 1990. Institutional capabilities for providing small business
advisory services and credit in Poland are weak, and those that exist have
limited experience in a market economy. Services directed at the special
challenges of helping the unemployed start micro-businesses are particularly
weak. In early 1990, the Ministry of Finance established a unit to work with
the Economic Societies and private businesses in the advocacy of small and
medium enterprises, and the Ministry of Industry established two departments
to promote and conduct research on small- and medium-scale enterprise. The
Ministry of Domestic Markets is developing a database of enterprises involved
in trade and services.
70.      There are numerous initiatives by non-governmental organizations to
develop training programs for private businesses, provide information and
advisory services on regulation or legal matters, and establish small business
incubators to create a viable business environment. MOLSP has provided a
grant to the Agency for Local Initiatives to establish 17 small enterprise
advising centers. As of January 1991, nine of these centers were operating
and 6 others were being developed.
71.      Banking services available to private enterprises are very limited.
With the exception of deposit accounts, banks are rarely used by the private
sector. MOLSP has been the primary force behind the initiation of the Bank
for Social and Economic Initiatives (BISE) to assist micro and small
enterprise development. Resources from the Labor Fund have been provided
directly to BISE to support its formation and to provide financing of its
credit operations.
72.      Emolovment Promotion.  In 1990 loans totalling ZL375 billion were
made to 32,400 enterprises for the creation of additional jobs. The average
benefit for these employment subsidies, which provide wages for a duration of
6 months per job, was ZL163 million.



- 67 -                     AMe ul
Page 29 of 45
IV. ISSUES AND STRATEGIES
73.      Thli  Chapter identifleo major losues emergLng an the Government
develops employment policies and programs for economlc tranrltlon and beyond.
It assesues the present system in Poland (Chapter III) ln the context of
experience in OECD countrles (Chapter II). The unemployment crlsl ln Poland
confronts the Government with an enormous challenge. The Minlitry of Labor
and Social Pollcy (MOLSP) has made remarkable progross ln 1990 toward meeting
thie challenge and keeping pace with what is a worsening employment situation,
at least in the near-term, for some segment. of ths population. Thli
assessment is not intended to be crltlcal of the substantial efforts to date
but rather to focus on areas that mlght be further developed and improved to
strengthen employment policies and problems.
A. Leaislation and Policy
74.      Overemohasis on Reactive Measures and :Jied for Tagatin.  Poland has
deflned a range of reactive and proactive employment masues ln the
Employment Law and revised Social Welfare Law.  Data on peepa  expenditures
suggest there is overemphasis on reactive income support meacures and
insufficient attention and resources for proactive programs.  Trends in this
direction may become even more evident in 1991 with expected Lncreases in both
the number of clients seeking services and in overall allocatlon of resources
for employment programs. Experience in OECD countries indlcates that
concentration of effort in reactive measures could result ln problem  Lf
clients become increasingly rel'lnt on income support and withdraw from the
labor force. MOLSP leadership recognLzes this problem and is working to
adjust policy to increase the use of proactive programs. As yet, MOLSP does
not have a management information system for determLnLng the effectiveness of
programs for various clients and targeting resources accesdiegly.
75.      In 1990, more than 60 percent of Labor Fund expendltures were for
income support and the share is expected to increase to nearly 80 percent of a
significantly larger budget next year (Figure 2). Nearly 70 percent of
beneficiaries of programs supported by the Labor Fund were those receiving
income support; loes than 4 percent of beneficiaries were adults who received
proactive training or retraining support or assistance wlth micro-enterprise
development. The fiscal burden for income support ia expected to Lncrease ln
1991 from ZL2.7 trillion Ln 1990 to more than ZL16 trillimn La nomLnal terms.
In part, this increase will be justified by lnflatlon an%  -anticlpated
increases ln unemployed due to industrial restructuring (go". 11). Figure 2
illustrates, however, that the increase in income support eeeld overshadow
development of more proactive employment programs.
76.      There are several underlying reasons for the emphasis on income
support in Poland's employment programs. First, there is a need for incom
support to help ensure political stability and avoidance of poverty in a



- 68 -                        Annex I
Page 30 of 45
Fig= 2
Poland: Labor Fund Expenditures
1990
Income Support
63.7%_
Acdmin. & Other
1.3%
-      --------------    Enterprise   Dev.
16.7%
Training
18.3%
Total Expenditures: ZIA,197
1991 Estimate
Income Support
79.3%
AdmIrn & Other
0.1%
Enterprise Dev.
6.6%
Total Projected Expenditures: ZL20,428
Note:   Only about 40% of the expenditures on training were for training of the unemployed. The
bulk of exper itures were for vocational and youth apprentice programs.
Source: Ministry of Labor and Social Policy.



- 69 -                      Annex 1
Page 31 of 45
period of rapidly expanding unemployment. Second, decades of widespread use
of state subsidies under the previous economic system have given rise to
strong expectations of support from the state and perceived entitlement to
income maintenance. Third, institutions capable of delivering proactive
programs are limited in number and experience. And, fourthly, as noted above,
there is a lack of management information at the national and local levels to
evaluate various programs and provide a rationale for shifting resources ang
alternatives.
77.      International comparisons suggest that heavy emphasis on income
support in relation to more proactive measures may not be a cost-effective
strategy for labor force development. Figure 3 graphs unemployment and labor
force participation trends in eight OECD countries from 1983 to 1988. During
this period in Sweden, the country with the highest labor force participation
and lowest unemployment, there was a decline of more than 1 percent in
unemployment and a roughly 5 percent overall increase in labor force
participation. This was achieved, in part, through very proactive employment
programs, especially adult training. About 70 percent of Sweden's
considerable expenditures on employment programs in 1987 were for proactive
measures (Attachment H). In the Netherlands, France and Australia, countries
with relatively high unemployment and lower labor force participation,
employment programs are strongly biased toward income support.
Strategy for Resource Allocation
It will be necessary to refine the Employment Law to
provide for greater diversity of employment programs,
particularly proactive measures. Methods will need to
be developed for monitoring both the nature and level
of expenditures, evaluating the effectiveness of
programs with various client groups, and improving
targeting of programs to needy groups. Monitoring
should encompass local expenditures and initiatives as
well as national efforts and result in development of a
planning and budgeting process with the LLOs that
incorporates this evaluative information and takes into
account the number and characteristics of employment
program clients.
78.      Incomplete Regulatorv Environment for Enterprise Develooment.  There
are a number of policy issues in the broad economic and legal framework that
affect the development of micro and small private enterprises. Stabilization
measures have led to short-term downturn of domestic demand, though promising
signs are beginning to emerge. While major progress has been made to improve
the legal framework through several laws for private business, further



Labor Force Participation and Unemployment in
Selected OECD Countries
100
90
-       Swedon
.080
-.,Dnhark
c70 - USA 0
I..                                          UK~F.~   SAG
Ot   -                                                                                          -, :
o60  -                                                                                          0Australia  X
Germany    FrS:ce
50 -Netherlands
*1983 
40   £ £  I a a p I a p p I a a a I a a i I i a a I a a p I a p i1988                     :
0        2        4         6        8        10       12        14       16              o
Unemployment Rates
Source: OECD.



- 71 -                         Anex 1
Page 33 of 45
FlUIUI 4
.CENTRAL GOVENMENT PUB;IC EXPENDllVES
ON LABOR MARKET POLICIES
IN PERCENT OF GDP
FOR SELECTED OECD COUNTS (1988)
AND POLAND (1991 ESTIMATES)
NORWAY
USA
AUSTRIA
FINLAND
GERMANY
UNrTED KINGDOM
SWEDEN
FRANCE
SPAIN
NETHERLANDS                                                                     Reactive
Income
BELGIUM                                                                    Maintenance
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _      Measures
IRELAND            __  _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _   _ _  _
Proactive
DENMARK                                                                     Measures
POLAND
l   l  !  l   l   l   l              lll llll      l   l,,
1         2         3       4         5        6 Percent
Source: OECD, Poland Ministry of Labor and Social Policy, World Bank estimates



-72 -                      annex I
Page 34 of 45
improvement and wider dissemination of regulatory information are needed. The
Plenipotentiary for Small Business Development will need to coordinate
initiatives of different Government institutions and offices within the
framework of a clear and common strategy. While the licensing process has
been greatly simplified, individual small and micro-enterpriaes, such as food
services, may find they must still meet additional regulations that were
designed for large scale state enterprises. In general, MOLSP does not have
authority over these regulations.
B. InBtitutional Framework
79.      Low Levels of Staffing.  Despite MOLSP's efforts to increase the
numbers of staff at local levels in 1990, the situation is worsening as levels
of unemployment rise rapidly. In comparison with staffing ratios in other
countries, staffing in LLOs is still inadequate (Table 4). There io
considerable difference between the average of 1 staff per 64 unemployed
persons for six OECD countries, ranging from 1:9 in Sweden to 1:120 in
Portugal, and Poland's current staffing ratio of 1:225. Even with the 2,500
new positions to be allocated in 1991 to LLOs (para. 49), the ratio is
expected to remain static or worsen due to increases in unemployment. The
staffing ratio could become an even greater concern as LLOs seek to expand the
services they provide beyond simple registration and benefit payment
"transactions" to include more labor-intensive employment services. There
also is a wide disparity among voivodships in the staffing of VLOs and LLOs
(Attachment I), which suggests there is inequity in the types and quality of
services available to the unemployed. Staffing ratios by voivodship range
from a low of 1:339 (Olsztynskie) to a high of 1:128 (Opolskie) unemployed
persons. In many, but not all, localities, low staffing ratios are linked
with relatively high unemployment levels.
Table 4: RATIO OF LABOR STAFF TO UNEMPLOYED IN SELECTED OECD COUNTRIES a/
Country                             Staff:Unemployed
Sweden                                  1:9
United Kingdom                          1:98
Austria                                 1:33
Germany                                 1:37
Portugal                                1:120
Italy                                   1:88
Poland (as of 12/31/90)                 1:225
a/ Figures for public employment services only.
Source: OECD and Ministry of Labor and Social Policy.



- 73 -                     Annex 1
Page 35 of 45
80.      Lack of Ouglificationo.  OECD experience indicates that specialized
employment and social oervices will be needed by unemployed workers and their
families if they are to be quickly reintegrated into the labor market. Few
staff in the LLOs or SWOs have training or experience in modern techniques
such ae job counseling and approaches for responding to large numbers of adult
dieplaced workers. There are higher education diploma and postgraduate
courses for social workers but no similar courses for employment counselors.
As a start, MOLSP has initiated short-term training and orientation programs
for office staff beginning with orientation of managers to the Employment Law.
In social welfare, staff training needs have been assessed and training
programs are being formulated.
Strategy for Staffing
It will be necessary for MOLSP to continue monitoring
the staffing ratio in LLOs and to make adjustments as
necessary in the allocation of new positions to be
funded through the central government budget. Ongoing
work will need to be completed on staffing plans for
offices of various sizes and generic job descriptions.
Short-term, in-service training will need to be
initiated for Ministry staff, staff of LLOs and SWOs
and support staff. Long-term training programs will
need to be implemented for occupational counselors in
LLOs and schools.
a1.      Fraomented Approach to Automation.  At present in Poland, there is a
tendency toward piecemeal development of automation. Disparate offers of
external assistance for automation of selected labor offices may broaden
experience and capabilities of a number of LLOs, but they will also perpetuate
a fragmented approach involving incompatible systems. Inadequate
telecommunications facilities exacerbate tendencies toward piecemeal
development. While the current approach may facilitate experimentation and
support local autonomy, it could also impede development of integrated
management information systems and result in considerable duplication of work
and inefficient use of public resources. In order to avoid these problems,
there will need to be stronger linking of MOLSP's automation effort with
development of other government information systems. Coordination is urgently
needed in the systematic analysis of information needs and in acquisition of
hardware and software. Planning for the introduction of new systems and
training of staff will also be critical. MOLSP recognizes the urgent needs in
this area an-' has commissioned a study to improve the quality and efficiency
of its operations.



- 74 -                     Annex
Page 36 of 45
82.      Inappropriate Information Systems.  Current labor statistics were
designed by GUS for central planning purposes and have numerous shortcomings
for use in a market economy. GUS is not yet able to provide: (a) current and
projected employment by occupation based on systematic enterprise sample
surveys and different scenarios of sector development; (b) comprehensive and
timely data on unemployment and wages; (c) time-series data to reflect trends;
and (d) data with sufficient coverage to include the private sector or smaller
production units. Also lacking is a modern classification of occupations and
economic sectors. information users--enterprises, government planners, and
individual citizens--need to be much more involved in the system to articulate
what information is needed and how it should be presented to assist decision-
making. MOLSP and LLO staff are very concerned about the lack of this
information because it directly affects their ability to counsel clients and
institute skill training programs. MOLSP has begun to address these problems
by forming an inter-agency Occupational Information Coordinating Committee.
Strategy for Information Systes
MOLSP will need to establish a national management
information unit with responsibility for identifying
priorities for automation, developing a communication
plan in cooperation with other central government
authorities and formulating information technology
guidelines for LLO and SWo systems and procedures
MOLSP will also need to finance software development,
provide for testing of programs and disseminate
programs countrywide. Development of telecommunications
links between LLO and the Ministry and between LLOs
and VLOs or regional centers will need to be
coordinated by MOLSP. Procurement and implementation
of LLO and SWO systems will need to be coordinated and
emergency procedures and maintenance will need to' be
ensured. Staff training will need to be organized.
With respect to labor statistics, GUS will need to
refine the employer, establishment-based and household
surveys and provide for data analysis and presentation
of labor and employment information in a form that can
be understood and used by institutions and individuals.
C. Financino
83.      Adeauacv of Resources. Poland spent less than one percent of GDP on
employment programs in 1990, compared with an average of about 2.8 percent for
10 OECD countries in 1988 (Figure 4). Assuming increases in unemployment and



-75                      Annex
Page 37 of 45
expansion of employment programs this year, it is tentatively estimated that
expenditures on employment programs in 1991 will be about two percent of GDP.
In the late 1980., a number of OECD countries with unemployment rate. of about
10 percent or higher, a level that Poland will likely face next year,
allocated as much as 3 percent of GDP or higher to employment programs.
However, it is recognized that these countries have a higher income level and
hence can afford greater investment in these programs. Current budgetary
resources will support provision of services under the Employment Law for a
scenario in which there are moderate levels of unemployment during 1991
(para. 11). If restructuring is greatly intensified, however, and mass
layoffs increase more sharply than expected, the budget could become
inadequate. Financing requirements will be influenced by inflation and
decisions on the mix of employment programs to be provided based on evaluation
of initial efforts. Another possible factor in cost is the considerable
discretion of LLOs in allocating resources. In Hungary, this decentralized
approach has resulted in rapid expansion of some programs and concequent
budget overruns.
84.      As already discussed, most employment programs in OECD countries,
with the exception of unemployment benefits, are financed from general tax
revenues (para. 23, 24-26). Financing and payment of unemployment benefits
are most commonly based on the insurance principle with both the employer and
employee contributing to financing. This is not yet the case in Poland where
development of unemployment benefit and financing schemes are in initial
stages. Financing is complicated by high levels of unemployment, pending
c-hanges in local and national government financing strategies, new forms of
Strategy for Financing Employaent Programs
There to a need for MOLSP to carefully monitor levels
of axpenditures taking into account current and
projected levels of unemployment and clients requesting
employment services. There is a need for a
comprehensive review and reform of employment, social
welfare, and related income support systems that would
focus on ways to improve the management and cost-
effectiveness of programs, coordinate benefit
provision, introduce cost-recovery and local financing
where possible, and--in the long run--to shift
financing of unemployment benefits to an insurance
system that is detached from the state budget and
separate from other employment programs.



- 76 -                     Annex I
Page 38 of 45
individual and enterprise taxation, inadequate social welfare systems, and
high levels of inflation.  Current analyses indicate that the level of
unemployment is likely to be high for a number of years before a reduction to
a reasonable level of frictional unemployment and the expected targeted flat
rate benefit systems have not yet been developed. These factors combine to
make difficult to implement limited duration benefit systems that are fully
based on insurance financing. Financing will therefore need to combine
insurance with state budget supplements for some time to come.
D. Income Sunport Programs
85.      Inappropriate Financing  Mechanisms.  The existing approach to
financing the unemployment benefit system from the Labor Fund, which also
slpports proactive employmeait programs, could crowd out proactive programs
during periods of high unemployment. The Labor Fund resources are hard-
pressed to finance even unemployment benefits during such periods, let alone
other programs (Attachment F). OECD experience indicates that unemployment
benefits and employment programs function most successfully when they are
financed separately and supported by separate social welfare programs of "last
resort".
86.      Limited Capacity and Growing Demand.  The social welfare system and
local offices are facing considerable difficulties in delivering services to
rapidly increasing numbers of unemployed who have reached the end of their
unemployment benefits and to other vulnerable groups. The existing
discretionary method of providing social welfare assistance may lead to abuse
Strategy for Income Support Programs
MOLSP will need to review alternatives for separating
the unemployment benefit financing system from the
state budget. Continuing effort will be needed to
refine the administration of income support programs.
Guidelines need to be developed for minimum service
delivery and staffing standards in SWO offices.
Objective criteria will need to be established for
means testing of clients at SWOs. There should be
standardization of benefit levels for dtfferent
categories of clients and guidelines for policy
interpretation and operations. Facilities and
equipment of SWOs should be upgraded.



- 77 -                     Annex 1
Page 39 of 45
and inequitv in defining benefit levels. Staff have little training in how to
assist the unemployed in returning to the labor market, and SWOs are often
poorly equipped to provide services. MOLSP has recognized many of these
problems and initiated a new Social Welfare Law that was approved in
Parliament in November 1990 and took effect in February 1991. Steps have also
been initiated to minimize fraud and abuse of the benefit system. New
questionnaires are being doveloped to capture more pertinent information on
claimants and their needs. Anticipating a rapid Increase in workloads, MOLSP
is deve)oping training programs and revamping claim intake procedures
countrywide to improve workload management.
E. Employment Service Programs
87.      Reorientation to New Functions.  The LLO faces a tremendous challenge
to reorient its role from one of filling job ordere under a centrally planned
economy to one of fostering labor mobility and freedom of choice in employment
in a market economy. Programs such as job clubs and job search training,
which have been cost-effective in OECD countries, could be developed in
Poland's LLOs. This is hindered at present, however, by several problems with
the labor exchange. It is not automated on a regional or national basis and
there is little sharing of information between LLOs and VLOs regarding job
vacancies and applicants. Occupational classification systems are outdated
and inadequate for job matching (para. 82). There is a specific
categorization of vacancies "accessible to women" which may promote
inappropriate gender typing of occupations and may indirectly bar individuals
from jobs for which they are qualified. Job orders are often posted with
names and addresses of employers and, as a result, there is little control of
the quantity and quality of potential workers who may visit the enterprise
concerned. LLO staff have little time and incentive to visit employers for
job development.
88.      Shortage of Materials and Techniaues.  Supporting materials for job
counseling and aptitude and interest assessment in LLOs are outdated, limited
in scope, and unavailable to the majority of clients. Material that does
exist in LLOs has been used mainly for invalids and small numbers of clients
with serious difficulties. Rudimentary information on occupations and
education and training exists in some offices but is mainly regional in scope
and often overemphasizes LLO job vacancy data as a proxy for labor demand.
The form and content of instruments used for aptitude and interest assessment
are outdated, and linkages with occupational descriptions, labor market
information and educational options are very weak. In many OECD countries,
automated career information systems (CIS) connect and disseminate this
information. Existing materials should be designed for direct use by clients,
and regularly updated to reflect changes in the labor market. These materials
would then serve the dual purposes of helping the client identify options for
reemployment as soon as possible and assess his or her capabilities and
interests before investments are made in measures such as training or micro-
enterprise development.



- 78-                      Annex I
Page 40 of 45
89.      Lack of Rapid Resoonse to Mass Layoffs. With the expected rise in
total numbers of unemployed and in the proportion of those affected by group
dismissals in the flow vf workers into unemployment (para. 10), MOLSP will
need to develop a systematic response to mass layoff. There is an urgent need
for services within enterprises and communities before layoffs take effect.
At present, very few LLOa and enterprises are organized to make full use of
the advance notice period. MOLSP is aware of these shortcomings and is making
modifications to the Employment Law to allow workers to participate more fully
in proactive employment programs before layoff (e.g., enter retraining and
micro-enterprise development programs). In addition, several regions are
implementing pilot programs to address the needs of those affected by mass
layoff.
90.      Experience in other countries suggests that how the Government deals
with the effects of mass layoff will affect not only the readiness of the
labor force to accept necessary economic changes but also the responsiveness
of enterprises and individuals to investment opportunities. Experience shows
that mass layoff affects the "survivors" in a firm as well as the "victims".
Those directly affected need to have well-developed support systems; the
survivors need visible signs that their colleagues are not being abandoned.
In other countries, industrial adjustment services address these crucial
issues through early intervention prior to layoff (para. 32) and by bringing
Strategy for 3Eploysant Services
MOLSP will need to train and equip staff to promote
upgrading of techniques and resources uwed by LW4e to
provide employment services. Additional expertise will
neod to be acquired in counseling, asse*sment, and
provision of information on options. -In particular,,
MO&SP will need to develop and diesinate aptitude and
interest asesisment aaterial and informatio  on 
education and training. Tv the oxtent posiblze, these
resources ahould lie developed in print and automAted
forut. that link the various materials.  XOLSP will
also need to promote job development and job se4arch
tclhniques and job clubs.  Programs to train. staff and
upgrade facilities and equipmant in LW  should eupport
the inroduction of new techxiques4  To address mass
layoffs, MOLSP should assign. a specialist to cortdinate
development of a rapid response MechantisL A cadre of
rapid response specialists should then b  organized, and
trained at the regional lovel to provide snrvice  a
nesedi.



- 79 -                      Annex I
Page 41 of 45
together representatives of employers, communities and employees, together
with local employment and training support institutions, to generate
information on options, to develop referral mechanisms and to provide other
support needed during adjustment.
F. Training Programs
91.      Loy Levels of Particilation.  At present in Poland, training is being
provided to lses than one percent of the number of adults registered as
unemployed. Thir level is very low in comparison with training efforts of
other countries, where it is not uncommon for parttcipation to be
10-20 percent of the unemployed population and 1-2 percent of the total labor
force (Attachment J). Several factors contribute to low participation in
Poland. First, training in the centrally planned economy was provided as a
"reaction" to requests from enterprises for specific types of workers and for
specialized skills training within an enterprise.l8/ This way of thinking
shaped past MOLSP practice.  Second, staff of MOLSP, LLO and training
institutions are unfamiliar with the use of competitive performance
contracting procedures that are commonly used in OECD countries to help ensure
that training is cost-effective, of high quality, and includes cost recovery
techniques. Third, training institutions are not given responsibility :!or
placement as part of their contract, as is common in OECD countries, and this
affects performance and attractiveness of their programs to clients.
92.      InavDrooriate/Outdated Content and Delivery.  Training institutions
provide contracted services to LLOs for groups of unemployed who follow
traditional time-based curricula. Pre-assessment of trainee skills, and
advance placement and program exit are not common. Trainees must often wait
until a course begins because institutions do not operate open entry/exit
modular programs which are found in most OECD countries. There is no evidence
that MONE, in its role of overseeing adult training associations, is
encouraging institutions to use job analysis and local advisory committees to
develop curriculum standards. Training needs in life skills, basic education
and foreign languages are not commonly addressed by local institutions
providing services to LL.08. Training equipment and staff skill in existing
workshops and laboratories are sometimes outdated. As noted above, MOLSP does
not yet have sufficient technical staff to guide LLOs in developing
performance contracts with training institutions or evaluating and funding
model training programs. In addition to skill training for the unemployed,
)II/ OECD countries recognize that several types of related edacation/skill
development are needed for the adult unemployed, particularly when large
numbers of unemployed have low levels of general education and narrow or
obsolete job skills, as is the case in Poland (para. 14). These related
courses include literacy tralining, life skills training, job search
training, language training and general skill development.



-     80-                  Annex 1
Page 42 of 45
there is also substantial room for productivity improvements through junior
and middle management training (OECD studies suggest that managers spend 5-10
days per year in training).
93.      Conflict between Training and Production.  Excessive use of trainees
to produce goods and services can compromise efficiency in training and the
principle of fair competition in a market economy. Production by trainees
does, however, contribute to cost recovery. Some training aseociations in
Poland have production goals and derive a large portion of their income
(75 percent in some ZZDZs) from selling products manufactured by trainees.
While it is important to expose trainees to the workplace environment,
Strategy for Training
To. increase and ensure emphasis on this proactive
measure, a minimum proportion of funds (5 to 10
percent) for employment programs should be allocated to
training. It will be necessary to develop expertise
within MOLSP to guide LLOs in developing training
contracts as well as authorize and require training
institutions to become involved in job placement for
trainees. In cooperation with LLOs and training
organizations, MOLSP needs to develop and field test
national models and procedures fort (a) performance
contracting between LLOB and training institutions; and
(b) helping local training institutions develop
customized training programs. These options would
assist enterprises who wish to make new investments in
a given community and would also contribute to cost
recovery.
MOLSP should promote development of local education and
training programs that are flexible and provide for
open entry and exit. Support for development of such
programs could be provided by MOLSP to non-governmental
training institutions through a competitive proposal
process. Priorities for support would need to include
revised and new skill training programs targeted to
assist with restructuring of the economy; mobile
training programs that can serve priority areas of high
unemployment and provide opportunities in rural
agricultural areas; life skill, basic education and job
search programs for unemployed adults with weak basic
education and skills; junior and middle management
training; and foreign language training.



-81                        Annex 1
Page 43 of 45
production by trainees may unnecessarily extend training. Moreover, the
products of training agencies have an unfair competitive advantage over those
of firms whose labor inputs are not similarly subsidized.
94.      Remoteness from Economic Develogment.  Employment and training
institutions in Poland do not yet view themselves as key contributors to
economic development in terms of promoting productivity and new investment.
This is a key issue if training institutions are to help facilitate structural
changes in the economy. There is little initiative by training institutions
to market their services to enterprises under they types of arrangements which
are common in OECD countries (para 37). Such services will become
increasingly attractive and important as: (a) more small enterprises emerge
that cannot afford to maintain internal training capability; (b! large
enterprises downsize and divest themselves of functions which can be provided
on a more cost-effective basis through sub-contracting; (c) workers in
existing enterprises need technical and managerial skill upgrading; and
(d) new investors need access to institutions that provide "quick start"
training to ensure that appropriately skilled workers will be available upon
start-up. These programs also provide an avenue for cost-recovery because the
costs of training are either fully or partially met by enterprises.
G. Emplovment Generation Proarams
95.      There are wide-ranging issues in development of small and micro-
enterprises in Poland, which extend beyond the scope of this analysis and the
role of MOLSP as a promoter of micro-enterprise development in Poland. The
Government, MOLSP in particular, has decided that micro-enterprise development
is one option that should be considered by unemployed adults and that this
work should support the broader enterprise development program being
coordinated by the Plenipotentiary for Support of Enterprises and Economic
Initiatives (para. 69). The analysis and recommendations presented in this
report are in the narrower context of micro-enterprise development for the
unemployed. Aside from the regulatory environment for micro- and small
businesses, which is beyond the scope of MOLSP authority, there are three key
issues: (a) what should be the role of MOLSP with regard to assisting the
unemployed become self-employed? (b) what mechanisms can be used to improve
technical support? and (c) how can credit be made available to potential
entrepreneurs among the unemployed?
96.      Caoacitv of MOLSP and LLOs.  Staff of MOLSP and the LLOs staff have
limited expertise and time to provide technical assistance and operate credit
schemes for micro-entrepreneurs. Nevertheless, based on international and
Polish experience, it is evident that this option is desirable for a small
portion (2-3 percent) of the unemployed and is being sought by a substantial
portion of the unemployed in Poland (para. 68). It should therefore be
supported. There are several problems, however, with programs now being
developed and implemented by the LLOs. Both staff and budgetary resources in
LLOs are focused on administration of unemployment benefits and are ill-



- 82 -                     Annex 1
Page 44 of 45
equipped with staffing and expertise to appraise and monitor micro-enterprlse
loans. This situation leads to vulnerability of the scheme to abuse and
failure. Further, it is questionable whether LLO ftaff should even attempt to
develop this specialized expertise. Efforts to grant autonomy to LLOe in this
area have resulted in widely varying application procedures and appraisal and
lending terms. Interest charged varies from 5 to 60 percent. The
determination of grace periods and debt repayment plans vary widely.
97.      Given this situation, MOLSP has several options:  (a) eliminate the
micro-enterprise support provision from the Employment Law; (b) train LLO
staff to operate micro-enterprise technical assistance and credit schemes in a
cost-effective manner; or (c) create or strengthen local small-business
support institutions so they can provide better support to the unemployed who
wish to start micro-enterprises. Given the unmet demand for assistance among
the unemployed and potential micro-entrepreneurs, option (a) is probably not
satisfactory. Option (b) is perhaps overly ambitious at this stage and could
misdirect resources away from other vital functions of the LLOs. Option (c)
is likely to be the most viable. Under this option the role of LLOs would be
appropriately limited to determining the initial aptitude and interest of the
unemployed in starting micro-enterprises, in order to refer them to local
small business support organizations (e.g., Economic Societies, Agency for
Local Initiatives, Chambers of Commerce) which would provide the needed
assistance.
98.      Limited Technical Suo2wrt.  There is a serious lack of training in
business related skills, including accounting, financial analysis, marketing,
and in basic principles of management. Thus LLOe have few local agencies to
which they can direct potential micro-entrepreneurs. In addition, there is a
shortage of business infrastructure such as: communications, transport and
buildings; information to more precisely identify entrepreneurial potential
and requirements; leasing services; and legal advisory services. There are a
number of local organizations emerging but they have limited capacity to
provide technical advice, credit and infrastructure support and little
experience in assisting the unemployed.
99.      back of Affordable Crodit.  A severe shortage of credit at affordable
terms and lack of access to small amounts of credit for micro-entrepreneurs
pose serious obstacles to micro-enterprise development. MOLSP, through the
Employment Law, is attempting to help fill this gap by providing financing
that can either help micro-entrepreneurs obtain additional start-up credit
from financial institutions or initiate activities which can grow to the point
that they will qualify for commercial credit at a later date. Experience in
other countries indicates that the BISK (Attachment G), establis!'d by MOLSP
in the summer of 1990 to channel funds to the unemployed, is not an
appropriate financial intermediary to serve the unemployed or to finance
start-up operations for two reasons: (a) start-up operations typically
require flexible financing which is not best provided by commercial banks; and
(b) the high risk nature of lending to the unemployed is likely to compromlis
the financial viability of a bank that has the unemployed as its primary
clientele. Rather than creating and supporting thie new central institution,



- 83 -                    Annex I
Page 45 of 45
local institutions could be strengthened to complement the role of LLOr and
croate credit mechanisms that assist the micro-entrepreneur to obtain credit
from commercial sources or provide alternative sources of financing.
strategy for t-plo@yet Gbouratioa
if MOLSP is to play a role in emp1oymeunt geuieratioz, it.
should be to strengthen local, non-governtal
inftitutions that can provide support to pote6tial
micro-entrepreneur' one   the wusployed.  The.. -lo- ;
institutions should su''or  the LOS wht  at cur t
attempting to provid asstance.  Th function of 1*O.
in direct support to  lients should be elaited to
ssessaing the. initiative and atiptudt   of unoyp1.:
pertian to start micto-enterpri    in ordet to ref    -{
appropriate individuals to 'ocl small bins          ot
institutions that can priovide need   ei
H. Summar
100.     Each of the previously outlined issues and strategies must be
supported by actions on three fronts: (a) legislation and policy; (b)
technical leadership; and (c) supporting materials and techniques. Although
Poland has made great strides in reorienting its employment and social welfare
legislation and polices to a market economy, further adjustment and revision
will be needed to integrate the intent and substance of various policies and
programs, increase coordination among national and local institutions, and
improve targeting and cost effectiveness of programs. Changes in government
and local autonomy have resulted in weakened technlcal leadershLp at national
and regional levels. MOLSP needs to "trengthen capacity to help develop local
programs and disseminate new approaches nationwide. The focus should be on
reducing duplication of effort at the local level and helping to build
programs with common elements where appropriate. New policies, national
leadership and additional staff will not in themselves result in the services
needed. Staff working in employment and social welfare programs must have
access to new techniques and related support materials. Automation is needed
to reduce the amount of clerical work in registering and processing clients.
New approaches and equipment are needed to educate and train the unemployed.
Staff, enterprise., government institutions and individuals need labor market
information to inform decision-making. Poland lacks these tools, and without
them new policies alone will not succeed.



- 84 -                          AttachmeA
Table 1
EMPLOYMENT DATA
EMPLOYMENT IN THr SOCIALIZED AND NON-SOCIALIZED SECTORS
1980, 1985-1989
Av. annual
1980    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989  % change
1985-I9N1 
(000)
Total Labor Force a) 17768.9  17914.7  17938.6  17878.8  17698.7  17558.0  -0.5
Women             8222.2  8269.7  8200.5  8197.1  8092.1  8031.9        -0.7
Socialized Sector   12797.9  12451.7 12530.7 12497.8  12313.0  11709.4   -1.5
Private Sector     4971.0  5463.0  5407.9  5381.0  5385.7  5848.6          1.7
Outside agriculture   621.9   957.5  1005.9  1111.0  1247.7  1780.1      16.8
Agrculture        4349.1  4505.5  4402.0  4270.0  4138.0  4068.5         -2.5
a) As of December 31
Source: Statistical Yearbook 1990, GUS.
Note: Until 1990 the concept of the labor force- and that of employment' have been
undistinguishable In the economy of Poland (as well as other centrally planned economies) as
there has been no reported unemployment.



- 85 -                               Attachment
Table 2
EMPLOYMENT BY ECONOMIC SECTOR,
1980 and 1985-1989
Year      I  Total  lindustlAgriculture Servies
(000)
1980        17333.7    6581.5    5307.1         5091.3
1985        17144.1    6158.9    5128.7         5534.3
1986        17193.2    6223.3    5031.9         5613.2
1987        17137.9    6249.3    4911.8         5644.9
1988        17022.8    6244.1    4779.4         5633.9
1989        16854.1    6212.6    4671.4         5555.5
96
1980           100.0      38.0       30.6         29.4
1985           100.0      35.9       29.9         32.3
1986          100.0       36.2       29.3         32.6
1987           100.0      36.5       28.7         32.9
1988          100.0       36.7       28.1         33.1
1989          100.0       36.9       27.7         33.0
Source: Statistical Yearbook 1990, GUS.
Note: Industry comprises manufacturing, mining, electricity and construction;
Agriculture Includes forestry, hunting and fishing; Services embrace transport,
communication, trade, public utilities, housing, research & development, education
culture and arts, health care and social welfare, sport and recreation, public
administration and justice, finance and insurance. Some employment could not be
distributed by economic sector, which explains the lower totals here than In Table 1.



- 86 -                         AttachmnZA
Table 3
EMPLOYMENT IN TE SOCIALIZED SECTOR
BY INDUSTRY AND SEX, 1989
(as of December 31)
Total  I Men  |   Women
Industry                                    a 8 96 of
(000)            total
TOTAL EMPLOYMENT         11222.4   5979.5   5242.9   46.7
Mining & Manufacturing    4016.3   2524.1   1492.2   37.2
Construction               814.8    652.0    162.8   20.0
Agriculture                745.4    538.5    206.9   27.8
Forestry                   129.5    105.5     24.0   18.5
Transport                  739.2    558.6    180.6   24.4
Communication              172.7     71.4    101.3   58.7
Trade                     1161.8    352.2    809.6   69.7
Community services         321.5    239.0     82.5   25.7
Housing                    205.7    117.7     88.0   42.8
Research & Development     115.4     59.7     55.7   48.3
Education                 1085.9    255.0    830.9   76.5
Culture & Arts             114.8     44.8     70.0   61.0
Health & Social Weffare    845.1    157.5    687.6   81.4
Sport & Recreation         105.7     47.3     58.4   55.3
Public Administration &
Justice                   227.1     80.8    146.3   64.4
Finance & Insurance        148.9     23.1    125.8   84.5
Source: Statistical Yearbook 1990, GUS.



- 87 -                                              Attachment A
Table 4
EMPLOYMENT BY REGION AND SECTOR, 1989.
Total dctov  Socialized Sctor
Votvodshlp                    Employment                a  of total  Manufacturing as %
(000)    I  %     employment   of sector employment
POLAND                          17161.0    100.0            U.S           I&A
veamW e1154A                                  *             36.0          3.0
gaIkopoditi                       is"        0..            61              .
inWmIJ.                           661.3      1.0            4 
lb.40                             4111       3.4            16            435
tdgzlo                           0477.5      LT             a"            04
Ch134tb                           194.4      0.7            4A4           P.1
Cdm _ows                          810.0      1.1            SI.?          us
C        _mscio&I                 56.3       3.0 a           .1           361
Eblbw                             14.4       1.1            gay          V2.0
odauni.                           6t3        3.3            as            ar.
ear%*ke                          a216L.      1a             VA7           U4
J*b.Iwgm.k1                        6.2       1.3            31.           410
K&W                               30.6       1.6            3.3            r.S
KaIo,                            1770.1     10.1            1L$           U4.6
KI*WW                             £7T.1      L3             410           6A
Keol1kki                          3140       1.2            44.1 t        X.1
Ko08880"W                         227        1.3            U.S           go.o
KrakowW                           66.4       3.3            WY r            .7
Kam"i                             260.1      IA             41.2          U
L4o6isM                          a2ar        1.3            31.1          41.6
L.awft.ke                         136.1      1.0            W4            S"
Lb*Mb                             43.        La eLT                       S"
Lct.iw.ki                         166.       1.0 ao*                       .a0
dw                                62.        LO             o43           4s.0
Nowosad.ckie                      144.I      3.             60.? ao.
Ows"kwk                            :         1.6            36.7          5.o
Opab                              466        2e             3.             3
ObuI0I                            164.0     11              ao           33.
P1aoa 2012                                   1.2 a6.                      34
PI@43w10                          314.2      1.6            41.1          461
PbookI                            26t1       1.4           4<a            34o
Po     1                           60*A      3A4            2a            37.0
PvnmokM                           20O.       1.1            462           n.?
6ot                               370.6      3.             4L.           40.3
Ptb    ~~~~361   ao                                5.1           a6
Sl00d10                          311.1  1J                 S"      a     3.6
Sbr8 kis                          306.3      1.2                          OLD
s_w ibki.                         is"        1.1           U1s a6.
34UPakir 174.3                               1.0 2o.a                      aa.
6uWaJkI                           206.0      1.2            nA e            1
qzCzpo_bkw                        416.       2.4            32            351
Tw4brwkis                        S1132       1.0            46.7          40J
TUaw"                             316.7      1.6            47r           15*
To bna                            36.2       1.6            11.5          U.S
htbIys3 3213S                                1.$            We            40A
Wl_dawb                           1za        1.1            44.2            .
Zn0Qw%vw                          4a6.e      3.             5.e           30.4
ZaiwIskI.                         26.6       1.5            S".           36.6
Z10lmioguskIs                     287.1      1.6            aSL            U33
em: Ytsw



- 86 -                                                AtgtIchment
Table 5
EMPLOYMENT a) BY INDUSTRY, 1989
Indus  -ry                       (000) 
TOTAL                                                  17122.2            100.0
bdUt66                                                 1334.6             70.4
PfIva.                                                  60.2              23.6
ltsIde ttaiUtp                                         1616.2              L.a
AgmIourte                                              210.0              20.t
lmbt  Wt  Mt  mut   .i 4_t4.3                                              23.6
6ot 54easier                                            41769             24.4
Private                                                     A 7144 4.2
C4rm w o                                                161.,3              7.7
Soo4ialutd  oeoWil3.                                                       5.6
Prbatn                                                   354.6            z2.
~IA46UM                                                 46iLf              2L.4
6oaiaM34d melW366.                                                         66
Pifuao 09W                                               60.0             20.6
90rem 7                                                  146.61             0.0
OootaJamd seatw,                                         140.0             Ole
Prtvate metr6.6                                                            0.0
Truw"Pw                                                  610.3              4.7
SoL6a 0mdo                                               754.0             4.4
P*gat 000                                                 413              0.2
0i""nmwfim                                               168.3              1.0
So04fitz.d  016M                                         166.2             1.0
Tat                                                     14".               8.t
TgO."                                                   1466.7             6.6
P,* Ws                                                   117.0             0.7
CWt6'Wfliy W                                             432.2              Ls6
SO4oAIz   wtor                                           321.1             1.0
Privat. eo                                               111.1             0.6
HouSig     _210.0                                                          1.2
soeaiao"d mW206A                                                           1.2
Private                                                    1.6             0.0
6A-- d       In    t _a.1t                                                  0.7
Educohm                                   lory~~~~~~07.7     6.3
sadaJhz.d seem                                          1077.1             6.3
Private   @0.6                                                             0.0
CUR    n NW AFr 124.4                                                    0.7
Solalieod                                                116.0             0.7
Private gotr7.6                                                            0.0
Heifi & boddwbIIW                                        672.               Li1
6ao410od se                                               111611.2         6.
Prvate                                                   2O                0.0
spot AR u                                                132.3              0.6
6odu34d .ooM                                             121.3             0.7
prlato  aor                                               11.0             0.1
ftabk AMw66bu k     i .osI 3w321.7                                          1.6
Pbk&k,atowu                                              172.*4             1.0
a) AtfiUal aegragin; pal . jo fteeo  e Into fUB-Wti  WMb OQUIValet.
Paug0: 6140.m 7001. 10. GMS0
Hob: The Olfforoeo baoohmfinu amverage70. a6840d  tnho  e yew labor tm4pom.
singre 01*VWtIe amll 00.0691161016100theuffIof cicb (pe-liM  wigs ,sOeimlt  into
fus-.te jobs OqufuMOtI) citefI 6.9600.00a" relfer " met number Os p01S0.



UNEMPLOYMENT, 1990
January  |February   March         April   I June  I  July  ISeptemberl October jNovember December
No. of registered unemployed (000)        55.8    152.2       266.6       351.1    568.2   699.3       926.4    1008.4    1089.1    1124.8
UnemploymentAaborforcea) %                 0.3       0.8        1.5         1.9      3.1       3.8         5        5.5        5.9        6.1
Unemployed due to mass lay-offs as % of
total unemployment                        4.3       4.5        5.7         7.8     10.2     11.3       13.6       14.6       15.2      16.3        f
Job vacancies (000)                       35.2      20.1       24.1        31.7      42.5    47.7         61       63.9       56.1       53.4
Unemployment/Vacancies
Total                                      2         8         11          11        13       15         15        16         19         21
Men                                        1         6          8           8         9        9        10         10         13         14
Women                                      3        14         24          23        30       36        37         37         41         40
a) This ratio is not fully comparable with the concept or Ounemployment ratel as no current and exact data on the labor force are available; moreover. uneMployment
Is measured by the number of 'registerel unemployed.2
Source: Central Statistical Office (GUS). Monthly Information. January 1991.
en
m
o'9



- 90 -           Attachment A
Table 7
UNEMPLOYED SCHOOL LEAVERS
(as of December 31, 1990)
(000)
I              I~~~~Number of      
|School Leavers I % Female
Tertiary                        8.9       51
General Secondary              21.4     82.3
Vocational Secondary           49.5     66.2
Basic Vocational               84.4     47.5
Total                         164.2     95.2
Source: Ministry of Labor and Social Policy.



- 91 -                         Attachmsnt B
Poland:  Unenlo=ment Scenarios. 1990-1993
Asaumtions and Sources of Ei
1.    Figure 1 estimates the unemployment level and rate in three scenarios:
A:    unemployment would average 1.5 million during 1991 (MOL
assumption),
B:    unemployment would average 2.0 million during 1991,
C:    unemployment would be 1.5 million at the beginning of 1991
and would reach 2.5 million by the end of the year.
The estimates are carried out by quarter of a year for the period 1990-1993.
2.    The underlying assumptions of the model are:
(a)   Initial labor force and unemployment figures are for the first
quarter of 1990 and derived from R. Bednarzik's "The Importance of
Social Dimension for Western Assistance in Poland", U.S. Dept. of
Labor (August 1990)
(b)   Labor force distribution by sectors are for 1988 and derived fron
R. Bednarzik's "The Importance of Social Dimension for Western
Assistance in Poland", U.S. Dept. of Labor (August 1990)
(c)   Hidden unemployment in each sector is assessed on the basis of the
labor market analysis in R. Bednarzik's "The Importance of Social
Dimension for Western Assistance in Poland", U.S. Dept. of Labor
(August 1990)
(d)   School leavers and figures of those dispatched from the army are
derived by the mission. These figures are assumed to remain at
the same level during the project period (1990-1993). All these
groups are assumed to enter the labor market and become initially
unemployed.
(e)   Unemployment estimates are carried out for 6 and 12 months
durations and the probability of finding a job was calculated as
the reciprocal of unemployment period.
(f)   Unemployment flow is estimated on the basis of the pattern of
releasing hidden unemployment over the projection period, added to
it the numbers of school leavers and those dispatched from the
army. The pattern of releasing hidden unemployment is done
according to each of the three scenarios mentioned above.
(g)   Labor force is estimated on the basis of the initial level added
to it school leavers and those dispatched from the army minus 2X
annual attrition. The attrition is estimated in line with the low
fertility and the relatively aged population.
(h)   Unemployment stock is estimated by adding the flow of unemployment
to the initial level of unemployment. Unemployment rate is
calculated as the ratio of unemployment to the labor force.



- 92 -                             Attachment B
Table I
POLAND: Unemploymens Esnmats. by Differen Scenarios and by Quarur
1990-1993 (unemploympe duration of 12 months)
Year    QuU10r  Uuemployment level               Unemployent Rate
ScenA     Scea n     Scen C     Seen A     Scan B    Seen C
1990         2        561        561        561       3.0%      3.0%       3.0%
3       939        939       109S       5.0%       5.0%       5.9%
4      1222       !222       149S       6.6%       6.6%       8.0%
1991         1       1382       1590       1795       7.4%      8.S%       9.6%
2      IS03       1970       2124       1.1%      10.6%      11.4%
3      1593       22S6       2371       1.5%      12.1%      12.7%
4      1661       2470       25S6       1.9%      13.2%      13.6%
1992         1       1711       2422      2487        9.1%     12.9%      13.2%
2      1749       2178       2227       9.3%      11.6%      11.8%
3      1778       1892       1928       9.4%      10.0%      10.2%
4      1799       1677       1704       9.5%       3.8%       9.0%
1993         1       1659       1516       1536       8.7%      8.0%       3.1%
2      ISS4       1187       1202       8.2%       6.2%       6.3%
3      1424        940        9S2       7.5%       4.9%       5.0%
4      1326        7SS        764       6.9%       3.9%       4.0%
Scenario A: Averge of 1.5 m unemployed through 1991 (MOL Aumption)
Scenario B: Average of 2 m unemployed through 1991
Sec unio C: Unemploymet star t 1.5 m in 1991 and incrom to 2.5Z   by tho end of yeo
Table 2
POLAND: Unemployment Estizates by Different Scenarios and by Quarter
1990-1993 (unemployment duration of 6 months)
Year    Qurer  Unemployment level                Unemployment Rate
Soen A    Scen B     Seen C     Scen A     Scen B    Scen C
1990         2        S6A       561        561       3.0%       3.0%       3.0%
3       798        798        9S4       4.3%       4.3%       5.1%
4       917        917       1151       4.9%       4.9%       6.2%
19!          1        924       1132      1249       5.0%       6.1%       6.7%
2       928       1344       1402       5.0%       7.2%      7.S%
3       930       1450       1479       S.0%       7.8%       7.9%
4       931       IS03       1517       S.0%       8.0t       8.1%
1992         1        931       1321      1329       5.0%       7.0%       7.1%
2       932       1023       1026       4.9%       S.4%       S.4%
3       932        769        771       4.9%       4.1%       4.1%
4       932        643        643       4.9%       3.4%       3.4%
1993         1        776        579       580       4.1%       3.0%       3.1%
2       698        575        57        3.7%      3.0%        3.0%
3       607        576        S76       3.2%       3.0%       3.0%
4       578        578        578       3.0%       3.0%       3.0%
Scenario A:  Average of 1.5 m unemployed through 1991 (MOL aseumption).
Scenario Bs   Average of 2 m unemployed through 1991.
Scenario C:  Unemployment etarts at 1.5 m in 1991 and increases to 2.5 m by
the end of year.



- 93 -                    Attachmenl C
Table 1
LABOR FORCE PARTICIPATION RATE
Age group          Total    I         Men               Women
I   1978 1   1988      1978 1   1988J   1978 1   19881
Total a)      67.3      65.3     76.6     74.3     58.7      57.0
15-17          6.4      3.1       7.5      3.9      5.2       2.3
18 -19        51.0     46.7      58.3     52.1     43.2     41.0
20 - 24       75.7     71.7      82.7     79.0     68.4      64.0
25 - 29       85.8     82.3      96.2     94.3     75.1      70.0
30 - 34       88.3     86.5      97.1     96.1     79.5      76.7
35-39         89.0     89.3      96.2     95.6     81.9      83.0
40 - 44       88.7      89.8     94.8     94.1     82.7      85.6
45 - 49       85.2      85.3     92.1     89.6     78.5      81.2
50 - 54       78.8     76.6      87.1     82.4     71.6      71.1
55 - 59       68.6     60.7      81.5     72.0     57.9      50.6
60 - 64       48.2     42.7      62.4     53.6     37.4      34.3
65 +          25.4      24.1     34.9     32.5     19.4      19.0
a) Economically active (labor force) as % of the population aged 15 and more.
Source: Statistical Yearbook 1981 and 1990, GUS; own calculations.



- 94 -                               tacMbintDC
Figure 1
Labor Force Participation Rate
Iby Age and Sax
110
100-
90 
70 
so ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~x -fu
0a
60
30
20
15 -7    20-24  I30-34  I4.0- 4              50-54    so 60-4I
la -i1     25 -29    35 -39    45 -49    55- 59           65 +
Age groups
0  Men   +  Women



- 95 -                              Attachment C
Table 2
INTERNAL MIGRATION OF THE POPULATION, 1989
|1976-   198_1-    1986-_    1985.0
19       198      1989a)-    19850   1986.0 1 1987.0 1  1988.0 1 1989.0|
(000)
TOTAL        932.4    732.2    629.9    650.6    652.7    631.0       639.5    596.5
Men          446.2    358.1    309.4    319.4    321.8    309.8      313.2    292.9
Women        486.2    374.1    320.5    331.2    330.9    321.2      326.3    303.6
From urban    385.7    316.8    258.8    273.2    272.1    258.3      261.2    243.5
Men          184.5    155.1    127.1    134.2    134.6    126.6      127.5    119.6
Women        201.2    161.7    131.7    139.0    137.5    131.7       133.7    123.9
From rural a   546.7    415.3    371.2    377.4    380.6    372.7     378.3    353.0
Men          261.7    203.0    182.4    185.2    187.2    183.2      185.7    177.3
Women        285.0    212.3    188.8    192.2    193.4    189.5       192.6    179.7
a) Annual average.
Source: Statistical Yearbook 1990, GUS.



- 96 -                               Aktachat;_
Figure 2
Migration by Age and Sex
Per o000 of the PopuItion
60
50 
40 
*
E30 
20-
10 
0 1                     X
15 -19         25- 29         35   3         45 -9             - 59
20 - 24        30   34        41-44          50 - 54          60 +
AJe OMup
0  hen    +  Woman



- 97 -           Attachment C
Table 3
MIGRATION OF THE POPULATION
BY AGE, 1989
Migration per 1000 of the
population a)
Total     Men I Women
TOTAL          15.7      15.8     15.6
of which:
15-19          11.7      8.7      14.8
20- 24         41.2     32.7      50.0
25 - 29        37.2     39.4      34.9
30 - 34        20.5     22.7      18.3
35 - 39        11.6     13.1      10.1
40 - 44         7.4       8.5      6.4
45 - 49         5.4      6.1       4.8
50 - 54         4.5      4.9       4.2
55 - 59         4.2      4.2       4.2
60 +            6.3       5.2      7.0
a) Of given age and sex group.
Source: Central Statistical Office (GUS).



- 98 -                              Attsae=LQ
Figure 3
Internal Migrction
of the Populabon
0.9
0.8
0.7
0.3
0.2 
1976-                           1981-                            1986-
AmuLl averge
0  Tol   +  bln   O  Womern   A  From won amwas            X  From rumal ars



I""S    V-                                             __
''p Is It
l mbiW~~~~~~~310 IV30 GeV asv AG611
Iuiween             ^16 ss_twtl 5p5          £g  sonv s_ t_  IaI
l I _ . | I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11__  _US    l   I inl  , I
. ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ qj                               m      imij                       1qj~
[~~~~~~J~ ~                                        lXI-t susp|na    s ~ sapwis,  w~  um       msup                 *ao
~~~~~-~^l@   %w@   ll   was}  Jau                                                     p lASlla*              5 W
5 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~l|"1 'Wi   i                          lSSZ S,5d  P 



- 100 -                  Attachment 
POLAND
PROSPECTS FOR AUTOMATION
OF LABOR AND SOCIAL ASSISTANCE SERVICES
1.       Under its previous economic system, Poland srecialized in computer
peripherals for the COMECON countries. This involved production of computer
terminals, tape drives, and disk drives for computers. Poland also developed
a cadre of experienced programmers of systeme and software applications. Most
of the software and many of the computer hardware designs were of Western or
West European origin. The predominant design base was IBM mini and mainframe
computer products, and the DOS operating system for microcomputers. In recent
years, microcomputer database programs such as DBase III, Clipper and
RBase have been used to a limited extent in industries in Poland. In most of
the country's major cities, there exist groups of computer programmers who are
familiar with software languages such as Fortran, COBOL, Pascal, and C.
2.       The Government, through its various ministries, has contributed to
diffusion of computing resources and skills with its policy of developing
regional minicomputer centers. The number of centers (Rodan)--depended upon
the Ministry (GUS, for example, has 18 such centers). Communications between
centers and between centers to their services offices involved only seldom
make use of communications lines because of the overall poor quality of
Poland's telecommunications. The staffing in such centers varied between 25
and 200. Most centers used an IBM minicomputer standard built around VM and
VMS operating systems on IBM 43XX 48XX series machines. Some ICL and
Honeywell Bull equipment can also be found--most in DPS5 to DPS6 range in the
case of Honeywell Bull. Within the last. three years, a number of Asian built
microcomputers have been imported, by both the private and public sectors.
Exact numbers or monetary value of these imports is difficult to determine.
During a recent visit, approximately 200 firms dealing with microcomputers in
various cities in Poland were identified.
3.       The Ministry of Labor and Social Policy (MOLSP), with 335 local labor
offices (LLOs), 49 voivodship offices, and a central staff in Warsaw has very
few computers and little experience with automation. Approximately 7 local
labor offices have microcomputers, and only 2 have these microcomputers
networked. The most experienced office is the Warsaw LLO, which is presently
serving 19,000 unemployed using custom software (built with Clipper database
program). Computers have been used in this office since 1980. There exist
approximately 3 labor office specific software programs dealing with some or
most of a labor office function. These are written with Polish text and in
one of the microcomputer database programs. As of fall 1990, three voivodship
offices had computers and software programs used for some facet of labor
office support. The most prevalent automated area is budgeting and financial



- 101 -                  attaghment X
accounting. With the aesistance of a local software consulting group, MOLSP
iu presently evaluating the efficacy of both local and voivodehip level
programs.
4.       At MOLSP, there are a handful of IBM compatible microcomputers.
These are used for isolated, individual analysis. There are no networks, no
minicomputers and no data quality communications lines in to MOLSP. Only a
few staff appear to have computer experience, and this is limited to the usual
microcomputer programs such ao word processing, spreadsheet and simple
databases. The MOLSP supports no regional computer centers.
5.       For the social welfare services, the automation system is even less
developed. Of the 2,300 local social welfare offices (SWO), three to four
have microcomputers. The largest office, in Warsaw, has two microcomputers
used for accounting, registration of claimants, and calculation of welfare
benefits. The microcomputers are of Asian manufacture, have operated somewhat
intermittently for three years, and use a custor -bigned, Clipper database
program of low quality. Because of the shortage of telephone lines, even the
largest SWO has only three telephone lines with a staff of 54 persons, and
there are no links among offices via telecommunications. A few staff,
primarily accountants, have limited microcomputer experience. At the ministry
level, given that the social welfare function was transferred to MOLSP only in
March 1990, there has been no social welfare related automation.
7.       Overall, for these two subsectors, the automation level is clearly at
a beginning point. It appears that a majority of the computer talent for
Poland's automation development lies with the traditionally trained government
data processing centers (many of which are not privately incorporated) and
with an increasing number of Polish expatriates who have returned to start
computer related businesses.



- 102 -                               Aachmenm   F
REVENUE AND EXPENDITURE OF THE LABOR FUND, 190
AND PLANNED FIGURES FOR 1991
item                           1990                1991
_ 21lbn    %       Zi  21bn.
REVENUE
TOTAL REVENUE                                    4510.5  100.0      20941.3    100.0
2% payroll tVix                                  1090.4   24.2      4000.3      19.1
Transfer f. central govrnment budget             3339.7   74.0      5156.0      72.4
Other                                              80.4    1.8      1785.0       8.5
EXPENDTURE
TOTAL EXPENDITURE                                4197.0  100.0    20428.1    100.0
Unenplm   beneft                                 2431.0   57.9      13764.0     67.4
Lump-sum payment                                 1700.0   40.5      9625.0     47.1
Social Insurance contrlbution on behalf
of unemployed persons                            731.0   17.4      4139.0      20.3
Trainingfretraning                                 56.0    1.3       1195.0      5.8
Training allowance                                 34.0    0.8       691.0      3.4
Social insurance contrlbution
on behalf of trainees                             15.0    0.4       297.0       1.5
Tralning costs                                      7.0    0.2       207.0       1.0
Credits to unemployed a)                          324.0    7.7       775.0       3.8
Credits to enteprises b)                          375.0    8.9       575.0       2.8
Public works                                      111.5    2.7       692.0       34
wages                                              78.0    1.9       184.0      2.4
Social Insurance contrlbution                      33.5    0.8       208.0      1.0
Equalizing benefit c)                              18.5    0.4       123.4       0.6
Lump-sum payment                                   12.9    0.3        86.4      0.4
Social insurance contribution                       5.6    0.1        37.0      0.2
Creation of jobs for Invalids                      29.0    0.7       660.0       3.2
Employment subsidies In respect of Invalid employees  27.0    0.6    741.0       3.6
Wages                                              18.9    0.5       518.0      2.5
Social Insurance contribution                       8.1    0.2       223.0      1.1
Benefits to mentally handicapped employees         58.2    1.4       210.0       1.0
Payments to enterprises for training
gvn to young people e)                            135.0    3.2       331.2      1.6
Employment subsidies In respect of young people f)  577.0   13.7    1333.0       6.5
Wages                                             403.0    9.6       932.0      4.6
Soclal Insurance contribution                     174.0    4.1       401.0      2.0
Development of labor market Information system d)  10.6    0.3        21.0       0.1
Other                                              44.2    1.1         7.5       8:8
SURPLUSIDEFICIT                                    313.5              513.2      2.5
a) To start smaWl business; b) To create new jobs; c) Granted In the case of unemployment resulting from
mas lay-off; d) Including vocational counceling; e) Baslc vocational training; f) High xhool
drop-outs taking evening courss.
Source: Ministry of Labor and Social Policy.
Note: The Labor Fund was established In 1990, and previously no analogous fund has existed.



- 103 -                       ttaghmnt G
POLAND
INITIATIVES IN FINANCING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
FOR SMALL/MICRO ENTERPRISE DEVELQPMENT
Credit
1.       The virtual absence in Poland of credits at affordable terms appears
to be the most serious obstacle to micro-enterprise development. To address
this problem, numerous proposals for providing financing are surfacing both at
the local and national levels. These include: (a) start-up of new banks (in
mid-1990, 20 new banks had been granted licenses and 20 more applications were
on file with the National Bank of Poland); (b) creation of two major Apex
financing institutions for small and medium enterprises (the National Recovery
Bank and the American Enterprise Fund); and (c) a number of quasi or special
purpose financial institutions, including, the Bank for Social and Economic
Initiatives (BISE) under MOLSP and a bank supported by the Ministry of
Domestic Trades for financing privatization of small shops. Prevailing
adverse terms of credit are largely the result of broader economic conditions,
however, and are not likely to be improved by emergence of new banks.
2.       In 1989, two special credit schemes were introduced for employment
generation under the Employment Law. Under these schemes, local labor offices
can provide loans to: (a) the unemployed to start up their own businesses;
and (b) established enterprises for expansion with additional labor
requirements. The upper limit to the loan amount is 20 times the average wage
per person, with a provision that half the principal can be forgiven after 24
months of successful operation. There are several issues with this scheme.
First, both manpower and budget in LLOs focused primarily on the
administration of unemployment benefits and are ill-equipped in terms of
staffing and expertise to undertake appraisal and monitoring of projects.
These shortcomings increases the vulnerability of the scheme to abuse and
failure. Attempts to grant autonomy to local labor offices has resulted in
highly random and variable application and appraisal and lending terms.
Consequently, interest charged varies between 5 and 60 percent. The
determination of grace periods and debt forgiveness eligibility have been at
the discretion of labor office personnel.
3.       The second scheme provides credits to existing enterprises for
expansion of their activities. Micro- and small businesses are not targets in
this scheme. However, the size of the overall budget practically limits such
credits to relatively small-scale ixpansion. In the first quarter of 1990,
there were over 300 credits made under the scheme, and administration suffers
from the same weaknesses as the micro-enterprise credit scheme.



- 104 -                     Attachment G
4.       In oummer 1990, MOLSP established the Bank for Social and Economic
Initiatives (BISE) with capital injected from the Labor Fund. The intention
of the Ministry was to use the BISE for channeling funds to the unemployed,
both the complement and strengthen lending practices of the local labor
offices by introducing professional standards, However, it &:as later agreed
that banks are not the best instruments to serve the unemployed, or more
broadly, start-up operations for several reasons: (a) start-up opqrations
typically require flexible financing which is not best provided by banks; and
(b) the high risk nature of lending to the unemployed may compromise cripple
the financial viability of a bank. Consequently the World Bank has
recommended the establishment of Enterprise Development Funds (EDFs) which
would provide capital resources, through selected local institutions, to local
entrepreneurs who are currently unemployed.
Business Training. Support and Advisory Services
5.       Initiatives are being undertaken by several non-governmental
organizations. Economic and Industrial Societies were formed in Poland before
1988 as clubs where private business people, academics and other professionals
meet to discuss reforms and exchange views on enterprise development
strategies. Foundations generally concerned with the promotion of civic
responsibilities and local democracy, including support for private sector
development. Chambers of Commerce, trade and industry, including a National
Federation of Chambers of Commerce was developed in 1989 and combines some 30
separate local chambers. Crafts associations, which were for many years the
only significant organizations of private manufacturing and services firms now
number about 400. Universities, specialized academic institutes and
professional associations provide some support for small and medium scale
enterprises in terms of studies, training and consulting.



- 105-                                Alachment G
Enterprise Development Loans to Address Unemployment
(as of December 31, 1990)
Vohdodshlp              Prsons         % Lab Fotl  No. d Loanc  No. of Lo4ns           No. of Lon    a
IUnc*pl          ¶p lUA olvs d   lo Unelns  d to EnwPrlss      % of Uns9Ifd
I Wanawkl                         2a,6U6           2.27            36                 661              0.13
2 hkMopodluleI                      9,310           6,66           102                176               1.10
3 Udahoslckls                      20,216           S.42           440                292               1.61
4 Bl5ikb                           17.4t4           3.63           301               1,044              2.24
6 Syd4ogkis                        39,4e1           7.76         1,39                1.94a             0.00
a CItlmekis                         7,922           63             113                308               1.43
7 Clch nowskls          19,644                      9.6              I                3tt              2061
e Cmlwclhowskhs                    21,462           6.42         1*648               1,181             O.00
* ElbIaskis                        17,337           6.24           293                264               1.40
13OdalnskI.                        31,636          4.92           663               1,10               2.10
11 Gorzowklt                       21,248          @.29           636                 041              3.93
I2J*IsniopgOekI                    24,377          9.71           611                 612              2.61
13KWI5kle                          25.748           7.68          264                 604              0.99
14 Katowlvkl                       63,434          3.49           744               1.999              1.17
15 KI slckls                       39.4e3          6.64           339                 473              0.66
lOKoninskIe                        20.638           9.02         1.602                S06              0.00
I7Kotllnskl                        22.974           0.72           28                 e92              2.73
18 Krakowskhs                      21.163          3.60           622                  67              2.46
19 Kroaninskl.                    16.941           7.23           632                621              Z81
20 Lsgnickl                        19,107           6.13           660                470               2.02
21 Lsz  nskls                      90,407           6.30          474                 675              6.04
22 Lubelsk                         32.376           6.41           284                443              0.88
23 LornuynskI                      16,364           9.27           280                366               1.76
24 LWo Wkl                         47.648           6.66           464               1.629             0.97
25 Nowoui4dsekI                    20.8M            6.79           323                428               1.66
26 Olsztlykns                      34,912          10.68           609                629              2.32
27 Opoiski                         19,211           3.60          363                 344               1.09
26 OstrotckleI                     16,564           7.85            63                106              0.34
20 Pihkbe                          16226            7.63           768               1,048             4.66
30 Piotrkowskls                    27,325           8.28           235                477              0.66
31 Pbcklh                          22.20            8.90          3S2                 486               1.71
32 Po2nannklh                      21.207           3.67           e7                 662              2.77
33 Przszyskls                      17,306           6.38           16e                306               1.07
34 Radomskl*                       23,172           591          2,104                607              0.00
36 Rzszwskle                       2s.723           6.62         1,268               1,'               0.00
38 Sbedbckbe                       16.609           4.69           676                499              4.36
37 6braftddk                       14,028           6.69            66                449              0.47
30 SkiemIwbckl@                    13.354           6.20           117                196               0.64
OOOtup,kle                          16l36           9.00           113                3e4               0.67
40 Suwalskle                       25,120          11.62           916                631               a.65
41 StCZIclnskls                    20,914           4.62           414                G6M               1.96
42TaunobrzeskIs                     10,676          6.02           262                403               1.26
43 Tarnowski                        16,067          6.26           234                447               1.30
441ToruflJS                        26,064           9.37           623                e94               2.93
44 Walbrzyskbs                     28,044           64             672                425               2.40
48  octawtbki                      16,766           7.70           678                444               6.67
47 Wrdcawskb                       23,474           4.32           687                 29               2.93
46 ZAtbSkIs                        t6,218           6.82           234                161               1.64
4i8 blogor41is                     24.320           7.96           733                6e3               3.01
TOTAL                 1.126,140          6.11         19,660             20,666              1.76
8ouror: Minlay of Laor and Soala) Pollcy.



-106-                     Attachmel H
Expenditures on Public Employment Services
In OECD Countries, 1987
I2Denditures (USS) Per Unemoloved Person    Percent
Country        Proactive a/    Reactive b/  Total  |    Proactive
Australia                 693           2,651     3,344          20.72
Austria                  2,482          6,544     9,026          27.50
Belgium                  1,582          7,041     8.623          18.35
Canada                   1,358          4,031     5,389          25.20
Denmark                  4,813         16,448    21,261          22.64
Finland                  3,488          7,396    10,884          32.05
France                   1,633          5,122     6,755          24.17
Germany                  3,380          4,568     7,948          42.53
Greece                    611            409      1,020          59.90
Ireland                  1,163          2,922     4,085          28.47
Italy                     826           1,456     2,282          36.20
Japan                    1,539          3,833     5,372          28.65
Luxembourg               6,839         14,157    20,996          32.57
Netherlands              2,702          7,213     9,915          27.25
New Zealand              1,820          3,019     4,839          37.61
Norway                   4,998          4,433     9,431          53.00
Portugal                  437            300       737           59.29
Spain                     498           1,651     2,149          23.17
Sweden                  24,599         10,593    35,192          69.90
Switzerland              7,590         10,781    18,371          41.32
United Kingdom           1,380          2,615     3,995          34.54
USA                       985           2,337     3,322          29.65
Poland (1990)             140            261       401            34.9
a/ Employment services, traininglretraining, and small business assistance.
bl Income support.
Source: OECD, Ministry of Labor and Social Policy.



-107 -                                         AttghmOt I
Poland: Resources to Address Unemolovment in 1990
(as of December 31, 1990)
|Rclawrtd   |       Lab Face |  Lbo |   No. of    |           t
Voilvdp                          Uw.apkwpd    U_ompyed           Ofice      U      _.pIwr    U  _.pi
saff       Petaif         Oa ZI)
I Wamawakie                               26,618           2.27          132         204            3.65
2 Blswopodiale                             9,310           S.9"           70          133           2.61
3 Bibtodockie                             29,218            3.42         103         254            2.96
4 BielIe                                  17.454           3.83          107          163           3.75
5 Bydgoekie                               39.481           7.76          151         261            3.78
6 Cielmaie                                 7.922           6.35           52          152           2.91
7 Clechawkde                              19,544           9.55           84         233            2.29
S Cutocibowoe                             21.452           5.42          110          195           5.6
9 Elbledkil                               17,337           8.24          101          172           2.90
10 Odanki                                 31.636           4.92          133         238            4.12
11 Oorzowmke                              21.248           9.29          109         195            3.19
12 Ieleniogonkle                          24.377           9.71          93          262            2.92
13 Kallukid                               25,748           7.58          100         257            2.66
14 Katowickic                             63,434           3.49          224         283            2.77
15 KUeleckie                              39.483           6.64          162         244            2.66
16 Kocinskti                              20,636           9.02           S1         255            4.13
17 Koazalinake                            22.974           9.72          90          255            3.23
18 Krakowdkic                             21,183           3.50          104         2C4            5.10
19 Krosalne e                             18,941           7.23          110         172            3.52
20 Lagnoicki                              19.197           3.13           79         243            3.31
21 Leuczyfnkle                             9.407           5.39           54         174            6.01
22 Lubelskic                              32,376           6.41          109         297            2.48
23 Lozynac                                16,384           9.27           54         303            2.24
24 LodAie                                 47,646           6.66          133         358            2.62
25 Nowoudeckle                            20.788           5.79           99         210            2.95
26 Olukie                                 34.912           10.66         103         339            3.45
27 Opolakic                               19,211           3.80          150         128            4.27
28S Oroleckie                             15.548           7.85           63         247            1.76
29 Pitki"                                 16,225           7.63           99         164            4.S8
30 Piotkow.kie                            27,325           6.28           92         297            1.94
31 Plocklc                                22,929           8.90           72        S31             2.73
32 Pozoanakis                             21,207           3.57          115         184            3.37
33 Prnmyakie                              17,385           8.38S          61         285            2.28
34 Radomnake                              23.172           5.91           69         336            3.65
35 RzeomwAke                              25,723           6.82          136         139            3.50
36 Siedleckie                             15.569           4.59           64         243            2.69
37 8ienadzkic                             14,028           6.59           65         216            2.67
38 Skefniewickie                          13,354           6.20           68         196            2.38
39 81ue                                   16,836           9.00           36          196           2.8D
40 Suwa1rat                               25,129           11.52          94         267            2.36
41 Szczecinakie                           20,914           4.62          116          IS0           4.93
42 Tamobraec                              19,676           6.02           66         298            2.52
43 Tamoklc                                18.057           5.25           U4         215            3.12
44 Tonimae                                28,054           9.37           91         308            7.10
45 Wlbrzysie                              28,044            8.46         101         278            2.46
46 Wloclawal                              15,766           7.70           84         I1S            3.90
47 Wroclawaie                             23,474           4.32          131          179           2.78
48 Zamojsklc                              15,218           5.82           78          195           2.13
49 Zielogonrkle                           24.320           7.96          104          234           3.10
TOTAL                            1,126,140           6.11        4,836         233               3
a/ Excludes agrcultur
Source: Mialiy of LAbof and Social Policy.



- 108 -                    tachment l
OECD EXPERIENCE
IN RETRAINING DISPLACED WORKERS
OECD country experience in providing retraining assistance to workers
displaced or at risk of unemployment by structural change reveals the
following:
(a) Displaced workers often lack knowledge of their eligibllity for
retraining or of types of retraining available.
(b) Participation in retraining has generally been leas than anticipated.
Certain groups tend not to enroll, including older, less educated,
and female workers. In short, programs tend to retrain those workers
with the most likelihood of reemployment.
(c) Participation has generally been higher in small isolated towns.
(d) Participation has generally been higher when enhanced by income
subsidy programs in addition to unemployment, and when subsicies have
been provided to firms to conduct retraining programs for their
workers (if the firms are knowledgeable and experienced in providing
training).
(e) Retraining programs should be flexible and accessible and should be
complemented by counseling.
(f) Workers tend to prefer industrial or on-the-job training to classroom
training.
(g) Singling out segments of the unemployed population and declaring them
eligible for special retraining assistance has created problems of
equity. Retrained workers may obtain reemployment at the expense of
other unemployed workers in the community who were ineligible to
partiripate in the program.          a
Source: "Positive Adjustment in Manpower and Social Policies", OECD, Paris,
1984.



- 109 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 6
Criteria for Selectlon of Sub-projects
I. Criteria and Priority for Selection of about 500
Local Social Welfare Offices
to be Developed Through the Proiect
1.    Size of the office, minimum 10 employees.
2.    Size of the social welfare client population, including potential
clients from the ranks of the unemployed.
3.    Location of office, on ground floor level, or those offices that
will make reasonable accommodations for the physically disabled
and the elderly.
4.    Offices to be selected in both urban and rural settings.
5.    Offices cooperating with MOLSP LLO facilities.



- 110-
Page 2 of 6
II. Criteria and Priority for Selection of
Training Sub-nrojects
A.    Vocational Training (about 30 new & 12 uparaded programs. 10 sites
mauhl,
Voivod/Regional Criteria: to be used at the Voivod level to evaluate and
prioritize sub-project proposals prior to submission to MOLSP. To be
eligible all proposals must: (a) use modular instruction techniques, (b)
allow flexible entry exit of participants and (c) be designed to develop
specific occupational job skills. Proposals will be accepted from any
local agency licensed by the MONE to provide training services in Poland
(i.e. Non-Government Organizations (NGOs), enterprises, public training
organizations).
1.    Regional importance: the ability of the proposal to assist regions
with high and structural unemployment.
2.   Skills: relevance of skills to the job market and structural
change.
3.    Cost: development and recurrent costs of training.
4.    Staff: training and experience.
5.   Placement: willingness to contract with the local labor office to
place a predetermined proportion of trainees in jobs
6.    ProRosal: overall quality and level of response of the proposal.
National Criteria: to be used by MOLSP, following evaluation of
vocational training sub-projects at the Voivod level, to assure
equitable distribution of sub-project funds between Voivods and Regions.
1.    Level and composition of the Unemnloyed.  MOLSP would assign a
greater weight to proposals from areas of high unemployment, where
there are large numbers of unemployed unskilled youth, rural or
village unemployment, a demand for agricultural services and an
overall need for training based on the occupational structure of
the unemployed and changes in the economy.
2.   TJae of Economic Restucturing in a Hegion.  Regions undergoing
major economic structural change and requiring a major change in
skills the labor force would be given priority.
Note:  Because of the number of vocational training programs
(approximately 420) to be developed, a two level (Voivod/National)
screening and selection process has been designed. The remaining
mobile, management, language and foundation training sub-projects will
utilize a simple single stage screening process implemented by hOLSP in
cooperation with Voivods.



- 111 -
&NEX 2
Page 3 of 6
3.    SuRogrt Institutions Regions with limited and/or outdated
institutional capacity to provide training would be given
priority.
B.    Mobile Training (about 30 sites)
1.    Level of current and anticipated unemployment.
2.    Characteristics of the unemployed (e.g. significant numbers of
individuals who have difficulty commuting to other retraining
sites, low levels of skills, skills not needed in the labor
market).
3.    Lack of existing skill training infrastructure.
4.    Lack of transportation to other alternate training sites.
5.    Availability of organizations which can support operation of the
training, including local infrastructure and financial support.
6.    Willingness and capability of support organizations to deliver
flexible training (e.g. modular based, open entry exit programs).
7.   Willingness of support organizations to dissemination information
on the training and assist other sites to initiate similar
programs.
C.    Mmnafement Training (about 10 sites)
1.    Number of enterprises requesting middle-junior management
upgrading and undergoing restructuring.
2.    Characteristics of individuals in middle-junior management
positions (e.g. levels of general education, receptivity to being
retrained).
3.    Potential of the unemployed to use the training in future
employment.
4.    Lack of existing junior-middle management training.
5.    Availability of organizations which can support operation of the
training, including local infrastructure and financial support.
6.    Willingness and capability of support organizations to deliver
flexible training (e.g. modular based, open entry exit programs).
7.    Willingness of support organizations to disseminatiorn information
on the training and assist other sites to initiate similar
programs.
D.    Lanmiaae Training (about 10 sites)
1.    Number of enterprises requiring language training to support
restructuring or expansion.
2.    Characteristics of the potential clientele, both within
enterprises and the unemployed population (e.g. levels of general
education, receptivity to language training).
3.    Potential of the unemployed to use the training in future
employment.
4.    Lack of existing language training in the area.



- 112 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 6
5.    Availability of organizations which can support operation of the
training, including local infrastructure and financial support.
6.    Willingness and capability of support organizations to deliver
flexible training (e.g. modular based, open entry exit programs).
7.    Willingness of support organizations to dissemination information
on the training and assist other sites to initiate similar
programs.
F.    Foundation Training (about 20 sites)
1.    Level of current and anticipated unemployment.
2.    Characteristics of the unemployed (e.g. numbers of
individuals who have low general education,
occupational skills, poor social skills, weak job
search skills).
3.    Lack of foundation training programs in the area.
4.    Availability of organizations which can support operation of the
training, including local infrastructure and financial support.
5.    Willingness and capability of support organizations to deliver
flexible training (e.g. modular based, open entry exit programs).
6.    Willingness of support organizations to dissemination information
on the training and assist other sites to initiate similar
programs.



- 113 -
NNEX 2
Page 5 of 6
III. Criteria and Priority for SelectioQn of
Micro Enterprise DeveloRment Sub-projects&I
Voivod-Regional Criteria: to be used at the Voivod level to
evaluate/prioritize sub-project proposals prior to submission to MOLSP. To be
eligible all proposals must: (a) be from non-government agencies based in the
locality of its proposed activities, (b) identify core staff, and (c) plan to
assist the unemployed through provision on non-subsidized credit.
A.    Small Business Assistance Centers - SBACs (about 20 Centers)
1.    Staff: staffing and training plan, experience (including banking);
2.    Financial plan including initial investments, operating costs,
fees, and plans to obtain longer term support for their efforts
from sources other than the MOLSP;
3.    Cost-effectiveness, annual plan and methods to assess costs of
services, services fee structure(s), budget(s), monitoring,
evaluation, accounting methods for the continuation of the center;
4.    Linkages, coordination or integration among the various existing
or proposed sources of small business assistance as well as local
governing bodies or authorities and credit agencies;
5.    Micro-enternrise financing, plans to improve entrepreneurs' access
to financial resources - either through effective referral sources
to financial institutions (e.g. commercial banks) or by
establishing alternate financing mechanisms (e.g. EDFs);
6.   Tyves of entrepreneurs to be supRorted, based on an analysis of
local entrepreneurial and market potentials and capital needs, and
the possible uses of EDF funds by these entrepreneurs.
B.    Incubators - Development_Phase (about 10 sites)
1.    Staffing Dlan including relevant facility operating or management
experience or training, criteria for facility manager recruitment
and selection, and an approach to incubator manager training.
2.    Financial Rlan including commitments by sponsors to match MOLSP
commitments at least in part, preliminary analysis of working
capital problems likely to be encountered during the first few
years of facility operation and proposed solutions;
3.    Cost effectiveness of proposals with respect to the likely
financial and operating budget constraints faced by start-up
entrepreneurs and their early-stage enterprises.
4.    Mobilization of Resources: an identification of facility
development partners, what they have at stake in the development,
how their various risks and potential returns are to be
apportioned, how their various responsibilities are to be
exercised.
Note:  A two level (Voivod and National) screening and selection process
has been designed that is similar to the process for selecting
vocational training sub-projects.



- 114 -
Page 6 of 6
5.    Business Rla indicating types of services to be provided,
facility and programmatic operations and management plan, proposed
methods to conduct architectural plans for new buildings or
buildlng renovations within severe cost constraints.
6.    Types of entregreneurs to be supported, based on an analysis of
local entrepreneurial and market potentials and capital needs, and
the possible uses of EDF funds by these entrepreneurs.
C.    Enterprise Development Funds (about 12 fundt)
1.    Staffing lpl.  Relevant employment histories, character and
capabilities of proposed EDF staff, commercial banking experience.
2.    Financial Plan, including proposed terms upon which financing
would be provided (non-subsidized), and cash flow analyses and
projections demonstrating the financial viability of an EDF
proposal consistent with these terms and other operating
assumptions.
3.    EDE administrative arrangements and relationships, including
linkage with commercial banks for EDF accounts, ability to assist
EDF fund recipients establish relationships with commercial banks,
ability to obtain small business management assistance in the area
where the EDF may be located and composition of volunteer loan
review committee (to include at least one member from a commercial
bank).
4.    TyRes of entrepreneurs to be supDorted, based on an analysis of
local entrepreneurial/market potentials and capital needs, and the
possible uses of EDF funds by these entrepreneurs.
5.    Amount of funds requested to capitalize the EDF, and reasons why
the request is justified in light of local entrepreneurs capital
needs, the EDF's proposed lending terms (non-subsidized) and
availability of capital from other local commercial sources.
6.    Evaluation, provisions for EDF program monitoring, evaluation,
financial auditing, and program adaptation over time.
7.    Only non government/bank agencies are eligible for EDFs.
National Criteria: to be used by NOLSP, following evaluation of micro-
enterprise sub-projects at the Voivod level, to assure equitable distribution
of sub-project funds between Voivods and Regions.
1.    Level anLd composition of the UnemRloyed.  MOLSP would assign a
greater weight to proposals from areas of high unemployment, and
to areas where the unemployed express interest in starting micro-
business and have sufficient technical and professional skills to
enable them to be successful entreprencurs.
2.    Type of Economic Restructuring in a Region.  Regions undergoing
major economic structural change, lacking in small business
services and in demand for labor would be given preference.
3.    Su9g3ort Ingtitutions. Regions with some institutional capacity to
help micro-enterprises, to which project assistance could be added
may be given priority however this factor could be overshadowed by
factors (a) and (b) above. Evidence of commercial bank
representation on the EDF loan review committee.



- 115 -                                        ANNEX 3
Pase 1 of 11
Costs with ContinencoIe           TA
ESTIMTED OUANTITIES AND SCHEDULE FOP IPLENENTATION                                       ..  ...                          .
O0  ayM91    -----         -- --   * ---  - -  -  ----                              .....   Local  Foreign    Total  Ycchnical
16:13    Type        UnAit            *..- Olftrfbuifon of Ountitles *--- Total   Zsc.             Ise.      Zan.   AssIotane
-  --- -  ---- - -    of           of              .. ....   .. ... ..... ...    -oty of   Coats    Coats    Costs   Packae
"bJect        Dj.cttve         Irnut       Input            1991  1992  1993  1994  199f  1996  Irut  UStt'0 OUSt000  USSOOO   usber
............... .. ....                   .      AG....    ..     ...    .........    ...vw                           *UwU    wol"
Subjct       Objectwe          Input       Ingut            1991  1992  1993  1994  199   1996  Inut  US  roO  UIOOO  USSa         1000  Number
.............  .....  -.-...... *---- ...... ....  ...  ...  ...  ..._..
I    WNINISATION
AWinfatrations Guwral
PrZoet A1tCI)             Materias   X Spre d                 201   16X   16X   16X   14"   16X   100X           10          2        12
Post    Project             Software  X Sped                   20X        14a    I 16 " 14   163    1001                    36         36
Coordinatlon      Staff (PCUl) 4  enth               60    40    60    60    60    40    360            218                 215
Unit               Fetlowship  4 nonth NOL            6                                         6                  53         53
Cosrultent  a/menth NoL            1e    18                                 36       20.       448       652
iquipoant  % Spread              7n3x   2sx                                1004   84
...........  ...... ..... ... .... ... .... ... .... .. ....... ..... _os  sea
432       624    1.056
- ... .. .... .......... ......... ....... .....  ....... .....  ....... .....  .......___
rptcy- AZW) O              Naterfolt   X Spread               20X   163  1a   1"    143   143   1002            10         2         12         2
ant    NMget               Softwate   X Spread                201   1 4    163   16    14X   163   1001                    36         36
---d    Inftoitian         Staff         rnmonth
F*llowehip  4/cnth No               3     2                                  5                  45          5
Conaultant  s4mnth No               4      2                                 6        34        74        108
...... ...... ........ ..... ....... ..... ....... ..... .......  ... ........ ........  
43       15J       202
....  ... ........  ......  ... ..... ..... ......  ... ..... ..... ......  _   _ _ 
MSM)               FEllowship  4menth ML              2      2                                  4                  36        36          2
Eeploymnt         Consltant nt    moth NM              1     1                                  2        11                 36
Loo ltevfsion
.....  . ...... . ..... .. .... .. .... .. .... .. .... .. ....  ___..........2
11        61        72
.....  ....... ...... ........ ..... ....... ..... ....... .. ........... .. ...........   
Administrations Nongionit Inftroetion Sys _M
Pregra  SliCi) - CIII)  FWllowship  o/month Ma6 2                     2                                  *                  36         3          J
Nogew"                      Consultant  wcenth MWL              1      1                                 2        11        as         36
aunt aNd                    Pollsh Cone amonth M1             36    36    24                            96       550                  550
Pluming                     lquilma    X Spread              100%                                      1001                 90         90
Feclititl S Sprd                 100%                                      100X        1         0          a
Staff-N-M    4/menth               24    24    24    24    24              120        71                   71
Not.-MOL   Xlpre                   171   1?$   17    17X  171   172   1002            4          11 *5
MaInt.-Local Spread                 8%   17X    19X       19191   19X   100X          40         10        50
.....                     .............. ..... 6..... ..... ..... ..... ..... . .    .
nz7   17n           S



* 116 -                                     AMU 3
Page 2 of 11
Costs With Contingenies        TA
ESTIMATED  OUANTITIES AND SCHEDULE  FOR  IMLMNTATION                                ......   ......   ..        ......
07-May-91   -------   .....   ..   ... .                .     ..... ....  .      .     Local  Forefgn    Total  Technical
16:23    Type      unit            ---- Doftribufon of Quantities --- Total  Etc.            sc.      Ec.   Assittanc
............-............    of         of             ...... ....  .... ..... ....  -----Cty of   Costs    Costs    Costs   Package
SJect       Objoctive       Itrut       Input           1991  192  1993  199   1995  1996  Irsut USS'OOO  uSs'000  Uss#ooo  IhA er
Local   I2:Cf) - Civ)    Fellowship  n/month MCI         6.0                                      6                 53        53       4a
Labor                     Loc Fall t    /moonth MOL     41.6  46.2  11.0                         99       353                353
Office                    Consultant  rlmonth MOL           9           4     6      2           23       134      29        40
(Phs 1)                  Polftish Conm  /month ML        105   125    45      3      t          279    1,595               1,595
uipment X Spread                20X   6°X   112                       100l            10,375   10,375
Facilitie  X Spread             20x   692   11%                       1002      178       31       210
Staff-MI   rn/wmonth
Staff-Local r/month            450   966 1,026 1,026 1,026          4,494    2,700               2,700
Pat.-ML   X Spread               10    212X  232   232   23m          100       969      242    1,21Z
hrlnt.-LocaX Spread              10X   21X   232   232   232          1002   3,964       986    4,930
.....  ...... ...... ....... ..... ...... ..... ...... Oman" .... .. .... .. .... .. .  
9,874   11,984   21,857
M W P    3:tl)- Cv)       Felltowship  m/manth IOL         3      1     1                         S                 45        45       4b
Central                   Consultant  nlmonth MOL          5      3     3     1      1           13        75      166       241
Offfce                    Polish Cansm  nenth MOL          2      2     2                         6        35                 35
(Phas  it)               Equlpusnt  2 Spread              282   69X   23X                       1002             8,612    8,612
Facitftfes 2 Spread             282   49X   23X                       100X       90       16       106
Staff * M!OL  n/month           24    24    24    24    24            120        71                 71
Staff-Local n/month
Meterf al     Spre d              72   18X   25X   25X   252          100X       68       17        85
Maint.-MCI 2 Spread               72   1aX   252  252   252           1002   2,569       642    3,212
.....  ....... ...... ........ ..... ....... ..... ....... .....    Nown"... .... ..-- ........ 
2,908    9,498   12,407
... ..  ...... ........ ..... ....... ..... ....... ..... ........ .... ...........  
Social  84s6:-1v)         Loa  Fellow  /mlmnth  .OL        4   150   222                        416    1,524               1,524       4c
Welfare                   Polish Cansm n/onth MOL           2     2     2                         6        35                 35
Offfce                    Consultant   snsth hOL            1     5     2     2     2             12       71      157       228
(Phase 11)              Equip=snt  2 Spread               7X   28X  65X                        1002            10,010   10,010
Facititfes 2 Spread              7n   282   685                       100X      243       43      286
Staf f - .  s/mlnth                    12    12    12    12            6         29                 29
Staff-Locat w/month            180   7o 1,200 1,200 1,200           4,500    2,729              2,729
Materias  X Spread               3X   10X   292   29X   Z9X           100X   2,786       697    3,463
Maint.-MOI X Spread              32   10X   292   292   292           1002   2,942       735    3,677
..... ...... ..... ..... ..... ..... -..... ..... ....... .....
10,359   11,642   22,001
.....  ...... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... 



* 117  -                                         ANNEX 
Page 3 of 11
Costs With Contignwfle         TA
ESTIHATED OUANTITIES AND SCHEDULE FOR IMPLEMENTATION
07-ay- 91L--a-----    -..   ... -         .. ...   ... --. ..... ----          .....  Local  forelon    Toctl  Tedhnicat
16:23    Type      unfit            *... Oistrfbwtion of aantitlas ---- Total   Esc.        am.       gm.   Assistano
--- - ---    --- -.--- -    et         of              ...... ..... ... .. ..  . . -aty       costs    Costs    Cots   P g
StbJact     Objective        Ir'put     Irput            1991  1992  1993  19    1995  199   InPut USS'000  UUS'000  US 000  lulr
................. ....                  .     AG       ...    ..   ..   ..   ..   .. ..
Ac*.nistrotion: Labor Market InfornAtion
Labor   CI:i)            Ptllowship  rVnmth GUS            1                                      1                 9         9        5
Market Housahold          Consultant r/month GU5                  I                                1        6        13       is
Oata    Swu*y             Super.MIni X Spread                   '00S                             100S       6       2U       293i
Coltect-                  materisls  X Spread              10X   0ox   202   202 202   20X   1002          29         7       37
Ion.                      Staff GUS  OVMnth                12    12    12    12    12    12      72        44 
C1:tii)          FetIowship  a/month                                                                                            5
Enterprise       Consubtant  r/month                1                                     1         6       12       18
Registration.    Equipment  S Spread              502   502                             1002
Cl:(iIi)         Pelltowshp  W/mnth                             3                         3                 29       29         5
Living stwtdards Consultant m/month                1      1                               2        11       25       36
me*sureut Survey Per Diem   2 Spread             1007                                   1002       11                11
Equipment  2 Spread                    5t%   5ol                      1002
,_,...... ........ .....  ....... .....   ....... .....    .............. ..
113      322      494
.....  ...... ..... ... .. ..... ..... ..... .....
Labor   M2CI)             FelLowship  r/month GUS                                                                                       5
Market  Claslification   Consultant  r/month GUS            1                                      1        6        12       18
Oats    Systa:            Staff GUS   r/month
Anatysis
C2:di1           Fellowship  mJ/menth GUS                                                                                       5
EpLoymwnt        Consult nt   /0month GUS          1      1                               2        11       25       36
Survey           Materials  2 Spread              1tX   102   202   202 202   20    1002          29         7       3
Stef fJS Gm1month               12    12    12    12    12    12       72        44                4
C2:CiiI)         Fellowship  n/month GUS           I                                      a *  2            1Z       18         5
O= pation/      Consultant o1month GUS            1      1     1                         3        1        38       55
Sector Table     Equipmnt X Spread                       502   50X                      1002        2        9       12
Staf fGUS   rsmonth              6      6     6     A    6       6     36        22                22
CZMOOv)          Fellowship  r/month GUS                  I                               1                  9        9         5
Fotlow-up        Consultant  rnmonth WUS                  1                               1        6        13       18
Training         Equipent  X Spread                      502   5CS                      1002        1       12       13
Nateries  X Sprad                            25S   25X   252   252   1002         5         1        6
Software   X Spread                          2SS   25X   252   252   1002                  6        6
CZ:tv)           Fetlowship  m/month CUS           2                                      2                 1i       18         5
Ow petional      Cons-ltant  nm/onth GUS           2      2     1                         5        29       63       91
Anelysa.         Equip3et S Sproed                50S   502                             1002        7        r        14
Staff GUS  rnmonth               12    24    24    24    24    24    120         67                or
...... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... .....             ...    ...... ....
POL      2p1       S



* 118                                         ANNEX   3
Page 4 of 11
Costs UIth Contingencies         TA
ESTnMTED  OU           IIES AnD  s          Dn        -    --                          ......   ......   ...A        ......
OT Nay-°91     -----   .......   .--  ...... .....  .... ..... ..... ..... .....   Loal  Foreign    Totat  Technical
16t23    Type        Unit            *... ofstributimn of Gt it       s  T---  otatl  BM.        Bsc.    Bg.   A*slstw
....................*    of                otf                        .O .... ....  ....  ..... ......ty of   Cota    costs    Cas    packs"
"uaet        objective         Irput      Irwut             1991 92  199I   1996  1995  1996  Inimt  UISS'OO  USS OOO  WS000  luer
.............................   .......AG                ...... ..... ..... ...  -..... ....  ...*-----.--.- - -*---------
it   INCO    SDPORT PIOOANS
Incm   Alsil)              Fltouehip  amamth NO6
Gaintrs Establish          Consultant  e/snth NM.            1.5                                        2         a        la       27
S4ore Nears Test           Equipment  X Sprd
A1l( f)            Fellowhip  m/monthaG.                                  2                    2                  20        20        6
Preparo            Cosultant   oJanth bML           1.0                                        1         6        12        18
Guidel(ne         Equipment  X Spead
A1:(il/)           Fellowship  Wmnnth bOL                                                                                             6
Staff training   Consulttant  nCmnth HOM            3.0                                        3        17       37         53
.....    ....... ...... ........ .....  ....... .....  ....... .. ... .. ........... ..
31       67       116
Staff   A2: Ct)            Fellowship  semcnth HO            4.5                                        5                 40        40         6
TrafningStudy              Consultant  Voonth NOL
Abroad             Staff        *Cmonth
AZ: (II)           Fellowship  nw.cnth HOL                                                                                            6
Nedb AsaaJSmnt Consultant s/month HaL                 6                                        6        33        74      107.
£2: (lif)         fPllot  hip  u/month HoL                                                                                            6
Speecil Coures  Consultant r.onth  O.L                3                                        3        17       37        53
Delivery of        StaffCO OL) G)m/nth                6    12    12    12    12    12        66         40                  40
Traininqg         bt.OL   X SpWood                   17Y   172   172   175   17X   17X   1002          175       44       21i
A2: Ctv)           Fellowehip  rsmonth NOL                                                                                            6
nnaialul          Consultant  oC enth MOM            3                                        3        17        37        53
Trainfng                                  .....  ........... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... __
a2       231       513
. ....  .....,. ...... ..... ...... ..... ..... ............__
6
Equip   A3: (1)             Fellowship  *)eonth MOL            2      4                                 6                  55        55
LUrs     IeaIgn             Consultant  m/sonth  OG.           3                                        3        17        37       53
Hodel 1WS
A3z (Ci)           ftlltoehip  *otenth hOL                                                                                            6
Equip LSN0         Conrultant  ornonth HOL
Equipent  S Spread                      32J   302   402                   1002      239    5,967   6o205
Nt.-tlocl X Spread                17X   17X   172   17X   17X   17%   1OX          233        50      291
... ... ........ .. ......... ....... ..... ...... .....  ....... .....  ....... .....
468    6,116    6,604
..... ..                           ...    ......  .....  .....  .....  .....   .....  .....



- 119                                      AEX 3
Page 5 of 11
C-ts With ContIngencI         TA
ESTMTED OUANTITIES ANr SCHEDULE FOR I&MENTATION                                   ..
07-MaW-91 .......   .......         *         - .........................          -ocal s   orefln    Toual  Technicsl
16s23    Type      Unit            ..-- Dfstributfon of  uantlti" --- Total  Esc.    Esw.    tec.  Aslsfanc
* --.-..--..-..-..---.    of            of            ...... ..... ..  .aty of  Cts    Costs    Costa  Package
S&Jest    ObJective         Input      Irput           199   199  1993  1994  1995  1996  IWpt US'000  USS'000  US'O000  Ui6r
................. ....                 .     AG....   ..  ..   ............   smu                          asme   ann. mu
UK      A4: (f)          Fellowshp  r/month Mt          4.0                                     4                36       36        6
tlenfit UE Benoeft       Caonsultant  Vn/mth W.         2.0     2                               4       23       50       n
Sytu Sntm                Staff        n/month             6     6     6     6     6      6     36       22                22
.......... .......... .......  ... ...... .....  ....... .....  ....... .....  . ...... ....
44.     . 83    .. 130
.....    ......    ...... .....   .....    .....    .....    ..... .....................__
III     EWLOYNIENT SERVICES
Mgo"    A1:(f)           tellowship  mlmonth MOL          5 Retro                               5                45       45        7
Lay-   Oawlop            Consultant r/month NOM           2                                     2       11       25       36
offs.  materiats         Trg. Mater X Spread             803   20X                            1003      13        3       17
Tramlste   n/month              2                                     2        4                 4
Software   S Spread            803   20%                            100l               17        17
Staff-MOL   nVmonth            12    12   12    12    12    12       n        44                44
Al:,if)          Fellrowship  m/month 1OL                                                                                   7
Field testing    Consultant m/month NOL                 2                              2        ll       25       37
Local Trafni Spread                 1C00                            100%       5        1        6
Software   X Spread                 100l                            100l                6        6
Staff-NOt  m/month                   12                              12        7                  7
A1 liI)          Fellowship  mi'nth NOL               1.2   1.2                        2                 22       22        7
Train Cadre      Consultant  m/month peaL             1.5   1.5                        3        1J       39       56
Doli ver         EqJfpnt  X Spread                     50X   503                      100S                4        4
Progr_           Trg Meter X Spread                    503   50%                      1003    351        88      438
Tramslate   wmonth                  1.5   1.5                         3        7                 r
Software   S Spread                  503   SOX                      100X              210      210
Staff-MOL  rn/mlonth                120   120   120  .120   120   600        370               370
A1:Civ)          Fellowship  m/month hOL                      2     2                  4                 39       39        7
Evaluate         Consultant rn/month hOL                    0.5   0.5                   1        6       13       19
Trg Mater % Spread                         50%   502                1003      10        2        12
Staff-MOL    rnmonth                        3     3                   6        4                 4
..... m. ...... ..... ..... ...... ..... .....           - . gnomon
860      53u    1,398
... ....  ----. ..... -.... .....  ..........   .....  ,         _



- 120  -ANEX  3
Page 6 of 11
Costs Wfth Contfr4wicfss       TA
ESTIMATED OUANTITIES AND SCHEDULE FOR  IMPLEMENTATXON                             ......   ......   ... 
07-May-91 .                *                * *                    --- .....   -- - Local Forefgn  Total Technical
16:23    Type      UnIt            .... DIstributIfn of CuantItfes ---- Total   asg.    Ebs.        Ec.   Ast stanc
--- --- ---- ---------- of             of            ---- -.-- -  -                        -- - --- *--- Oty of  Costs    Costs    costs   Package
SubJect     Ibjective        Inrut     Irput            1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  trput USS'OOO USSOOO  USSWOOO  UMbor
....  AG  ...... ..... .                                            .... ..... ..... ..... .... .  mu _ u m_
Cowa-   A2:(I)            Fellowship  m/month MO           3                                     3                 27       27        a
sellng  Aptitude         ConsuLtant ne /month MOL          3     6     3                        12       69       152      221
Mater-  Asasa"nt          Equipment  X Spread             502   502                            1002                57       57
Iaels                    Staf f-ML   m/month              12    12    12    12    12    12      72       44                 4
Translate   m/month              3     6     3                        12       28                 28
A2(fII)          Feltowship  m/month MOL          4      4     4                        12                110      110        8
Occupational     Consultant  rnmonth COL           1     2                               3       17       38        55
Information &    Equipment  2 Spread                         1002                      1002               12        12
Standards        Staff-M.L  n/month               12    12    12    12    12    12      72       44                 44
A2:(ff)         FeLLowship  m/month NOL                 4     2                         6                56        56        8
Ed"-ctionat      Consuttant  rnmonth MOL                       2     1                   3       1a       40        5J
information      Equipmant  2 Spread                   402   602                       10On               23       23
Staff-MCL   mVmonth
A2:(fv)          Fettowship  m/month MCI          3      3                               6                54        54        8
Integr. Info     Consuttant  r/month MOL          2     2      2                      6.0        35       76       110
Equipment  2 Spread                  1002                            100X               115      115
Staff-MOL   n/month             12    12    12    12    12    12      72       44                 44
A2:(v)           Fetlowship  m/month MOL          3      3                               6                54        54        8
Job Oevelopment  Consultant  n/month MOL                 3                               3       17       38        55
Equipment  2 Spread                  1002                            100X                57       57
Staff-Me L   n/month             6     6     6     6     6      6     36       22                 22
A2:Cvi)          Fellowship  n/month MCL         2      1                               3                27        27        8
Job Search       Consultant  n/month MCQ                 3                               3       17       38        55
Transtate  mr/mnth                     3                               3         7                 7
Equipment  S Spread                  10                              100                 57       57
Staff-MOL   m/month              6     6     6     6      6     6     36       22                 22
.....  ...... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... .....  -n....  ..... 
382    1,031    1.413
..... ...... .....     ....... .....    ....... .....   ......... ... .......,,....,,._____
A3:Li)           FeLLowship  m/month MQL           3                                     3                27        27        8
Model office     Consultant m/month MC             1     2                               3       17       38        55
Plant and        Equlpnpnt  2 Spread                   1002                            1002              953       953
Factlities       Facilities 2 Spread                    30S   502   202                1002     356                356
A4:(f)           Fellowship  m/month MOL           2     2                               4                 36       36        8
Short Teom       Consultant  rVmonth MCL                 2     2                         4       23       51        75
Staff            Equipment  2 Spread                    50X   504                      100l               23        23
Training         Met.-MO.  Z Spread               15X   17X    72   17S   17S   17%   1002        4         1        5
Translate   m/month                    2     2                         4        9                  9



- 121  -                                    ANL    3
Page 7 of 11
Costs With Continganiecs       TA
ESTIMATED  OUANTITIES AND SCHEDULE  FOR  IMPLEMENTATION                            .....    ......   .....   .
07Mty.91          *        -- ... ..... ----- --- -         ... . . .    .   ...  Local Foreign  Total Technical
16:23    Type      Unit            *--- Oistribitfon of  uantties. *-- Total   Esc.         Usc.      Ise.  Assistanc
*... .f of               of               *. .....  *. --- ..... *...ty of  Costs    Costs    Cots   Pecakag
SubJect     Objective        input      trwt             1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  Input USS'000  USS'OOO USsioo0  uWbw
......................     .......    ....... A40      ....       ....     .....  ....     .....  .....  ...e__.. _ aln
A4M:1)            Fellowship  s/month NOL          4    10    10                         24                 m       223         a
Long Torm        Consultant  n/month NOL           3    12      9                        24       139      306      44S
Staff            Equipnt  X Spreod                       501   50                       1001       12       #        70
Training         Staff        s/month             12    12    12    12    12    12       72       44                 44
Focltfes X SpeaWd                      301   501   20S                100S        9        2        12
Mat.-MOL   X Spread             151   17X   171   171   17X   17X   100X         52        9        61
...............  .......... ........... ..... ........ .... ..... ........ ......=_"_,,
665    1,728    2,393
.....  ..... ..... ...... ..... ...... .....  ...... ..... ....... ... .. ... ..._,_
IV ADULT TRAINING
MationstlA:(i)            Fellowship  s/month NOL           3                                      3                 27       27        9
Fr o -  Contracting       Consultant  s/month NO.         0.5   0.5                                1        6        12       18
work    Procedures        Equipment  1 spread                    so0   501                       100X
,Tech. Unit      Staff (N.) ox/month              24    24    24    24    24    24    144         87                 87
Translate   2Jmonth            0.5   0.5                                1         2                  2
AI:(fI)          Fellowship  omt/nth NOL4 4                                                                 36       36         9
C-ustasied       Consultant  s/month oL          1.5   1.5                                3        17       37       54
Training         Transtlte  msmonth              1.5   1.5                                3         7                 7
(25 regions)     Staff        s/month            150   300   300   300   300   300  1,650    1,007                1,007
.....  ....... ...... ..... ..... ..... ..... ... ..   sal       a*
1,126      112    1,239
Local   A2:CI)            Fellowship  m/mith NOt           20    80    20    35    35           300               1.805    1,805        9
Progran  Iem Program      Consultant  ot/month NL          12    15    12    18                   90      335       73    1,072
(30 progrom    Trauslate   mlmonth               12    15    12    18                   90      134                134
10 regfons)     Equipoent  X Spread                    101   401.  101   401           1001            30,569   30.569
Haterfals  1 Spread                    101   401   101   401          1001      489      122       611
Software   1 Spread                    101   401   101   401          1001                58        58
Staff (Not) s/month             12    24    24    24    24    24    132          81                81
Facilities 1 Spread                    101   40s   101   40X          1001   3,950       697    4,67
A2:Cif)           Fellowshfp  m/month MOt         12    48    12    48                  120              1,135    1,135         9
Upgraded         Consultant  m/month NOL           7    10      7    12                  60       212      466      678
Programs         Transtate   m/month               7    10      7    12                  60        as                a5
t12 10 Regions)  EquJpint  S Spread                      10t   401   101   40X          1               11,616   11,616
Materalis  X Spread                    101   401   101   401          100X      489       122      611
Sottware   X Spread                    101   401   101   401          1001                5S        5a
Facilities X Spread                    10X   20    30    40X          100X      628      111       739
Subtotal A2 (ifii)                                                           6,402   47,497   53,899
.....  ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... .....  ..... .-               _



- 122  -                                    ANEX  3
Page 8 of 11
Costs Uith Contingencies       TA
ESfTIXTEI OUANTITIES AND  SCHEDULE FOR  IMPLEMENTATION                              .....    .... -              ......
071 eY-91   .----------          *---- .....   ----- ..... ..... .... -.. . . . .....  Local  Foreign    Total  Technical
16:23    Type       unit            ---- Distribution of QUantfties .-.  Total   Usc.       Usc.      esc.  A"sstano
..........              .  eOf           of             ...... ....  ..... ... . . .... ....ty of   Costs    Costs    Costs  Package
abject    Objective          Irput      Irput            1991  1992  19    1994  199   196  Input US#0000 USS'000  USS'000   u.ber
........................  ......    .......-* AG       ....  ....  ...  ....  ...-..   ..                      MR~mc~ w
A2:(Ifi)         Fetllowship  m/month lOL          6                                      6                 53        53        9
Mobblo Trofinng  Cornultant  u/onth M.             2                                    2.0        11       23        36
Program          Translate    winth                2                                      2         4                  4
(30 Units)       Equint  X Sprad                        1002                            100X             3,446    3,446
Materfals  X Sp"ad                    1002                            1002       69        17       86
Software   X Spread                   1002                            1002                 11       11
Focilfties 2 Spreoad                   502   502                      1002      149       26       175
. .......  ........ ..... ........ ..... ........... ..... ..... ........ ...... animu"
234.   3,579    3,812
.  .....  ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... .....  ..... .... .. .  ... ma _ __
A2:(lv)          Feltowship  /month MM                    5     5                        10                 93        93        9
Nnagmemnt        Consultant  rn/month MO                        2     2                 3.0        18       40        58
Training         Traloate   u/month                             2     2                   3         7                  7
Proerm           Equipant  X Spred                       202   502   302                100X                14        14
(10 b. ts)       Materiats  X Spread                    202   502   302                 100%      24         6       30
Softwar    2 Spread                    20X   502   30%                1002                 6         6
.-...-.....  ...... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... 
49      160       209
_,,,._...........  ..... ..... ...... ..... ..... .....  soe _   _ Nu
A2:tv)           Fellowship  Vm=nth IOL            S    10      5                        20                184       184        9
Foreign          Consultant  u/month HO.                  2     2                       3.0        18       39       56
Langue           Trwalate   n/month                       2     2                         3         7                  7
(10 Units)       Equipment X Spred                      252   75%                       1002               589      589
Materfits  X Spread                    202   2M    202 202   202   1002          47        12       59
. ....... ........ . ... . ..... ....... ....... ..... ......   n_    _    ____
72      824      896
...-   . ..... ...... ..... ..... ..... .....  ..... ...mu  ..,,,,, .O 
A2:t(v)          F*ltowship  r/month MO.           10    10                              20                186       186        9
Foundation       Conaultant  u/month NO.           3      3                             6.0        34      7n        109
Training         Translate  rn/month               3      3                               6        14                 14
(20 Untts)       Equpment  X Spread               202 202   202   202   202             1002               119       119
Materials  2 Spread                    202   202 202   202   202   1002
.....  ...... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... .....
48      38 0     427
..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... .....  .....    mm.. . ..              . m



- 123  -                                    ANNEX  3
Page 9 of 11
ESTIMATED  OUANTITIES  AND  SCHEDULE  FO14 IMPLEMENTATION                           .. .ith Contin.encis     TA
07-May-91    - -                 ..... -  --- -             ... . . .....Local Foreign  Total Technical
16:23    Type       Unit             ...- Oistribution of Quantfties ---- Total Esc.         Esc      Esc.   Aaistanc
of        of             .....  ..... ...  ..... ..... .....Cty of   Coats    Coasts    Costs  Pacage
Subiject    Objective        Irput      rnput            1991  1992  1993  1994  199f  1996  irout  USS000  USSO000  USS'000   ubeer
.                                      -    -AG.- ---- 
V    MICRO ENTERPRISE DEVELOPNENT
Smtl   AI(i)             Fellowship  m1rmanth NOL          1                                      1                  9        9        10
Busi-   LLO               Consultant  m/rmonth NOL          I     I     I      1                  4        23        52       75
ness                      Transate   m/month                1     1     1      1                   4        9                  9
Capa-
city    A1:(ii)           Fellowship  m/month NOL           5                                      5                 45       45        10
Buil-   Materials &       Consuttant  m/month NOL
ding    Suppi  es         Materiaels  % Spread                   501   50X                       1001       9         2       11
Software   X Spread                    501   50X                      100l                 12       12
Equipment  X Spread              501   50S                             1001                19       19
Lease SLdg XSpread               201   201   201   201   201             1      243        43      286
Staff-NOL   mn/month             10    24    24    24    24           106        64                 64
A1:(iii)         Fellowship  m/month MOL           6      1     1                         8                 72        72       10
Training         Consultant  m/month NO.          10      1     1                        12        67      148       216
Translate   m/month              10     1     1                        12        27                 27
Staff      mrmonth                8                                     a         4                  4
Materials  1 Spread                    501   50%                      1001        9         2       11
Software   X Spread                    501   501                      100%                 12       12
Equipment  X Spread              501   501                            1001       11        12       22
AI:1iv)          Fellowship  m/month NOL                                                                                       10
Data             Consultant  mt/month MOL           1     1     1                         3        1T       38        55
Translate   m/month               1     1     1                         3         7                  r
AI:(v)           Fellowship  m/month MIOL                                                                                      10
Apprenticeships  Consulttant  n/month hOL
Materials  X Spread                    50C    501%                    loi         9         2       11
Software   % Spread                    50X   501                      1001                 12       12
Staff       m/month               4                                     4         2                  t
. ................. .                 .-. ...   ft
501      479      981
.....  ......       e        -



- 124                                       ANNEX  3
Page 10 of 11
Costs With Contfngencies       TA
ESTIMATED  OUANTITIES AND  SCHEDULE  FOR  IMPLEMENTATION                            ......   -----     - .----
07*Mey-91   -------    ----                        --- -.          - --  --- ....      Local  Foreign    Total  Techn cal
16:23    Type       Unit             ---- Ofstribution of Quantities ---- Total   Esc.       Esc.     isc.   Assistanc
------             .   -      --of   of                         ----- ---- -.  --- .    . .Qty of   Costs    Costs    Costs   Package
Subject     Objective        Irput      Irput            1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  Irput  USS#000  USSOOO  USWOOO  Number
.~~~~~~~~~-- AG.-- --
EDF     A2: 1)            Fetlowship  m/month MOL           3     1     1                         5                  45       45        10
(Enterp.DesIgn           Consultant  rmmonth MOL            3     1     1                         5        26       62        91
Develop..                 Translate   r/month               3     1     1                          5       11                 11
Funds)
A2:(ii)          Equipment  X Spread              25%   35%   40%                       100%       11       72        82       10
Establishment    Lease ULdg X Spread              20%   20%   20%   20%   20%           100%      229       57      2S6
Funds      S Spread              251   35%   40%                      100%   1,248        180    1,428
A2:cfii)         Fellowship  rn/month MOL                                                                                      10
Evaluation       Consultant  m/month MOL         0.5      1     1                         3        14       32       46
Translate   m/month             0.5     1     1                         3         6                  6
.....  ...... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... .....   ,,,,
1547      449     1996
.....  ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... .....  .....
SA      A3L)              Fellowship  m/month MC.           2                                     2                  18       18       10
(Smell  Design           Consultant  m/month  .OL           1     2     1                         4        23       51        74
lusin                     Translate   m/month                     2     2                         4         9                  9
Assist)
A3:(0I)          Fellowship  m/month MCIL                 3                               3                 28       28        10
Establish        Con ultant  m/month MOL                  3                               3        17       36       55
Translate   m/month                     3                               3         r                  r
Materials  X Spread                          50%   50X                l00       48       12        60
Software   % Spread                          50%   50%                100S                60        60
Equipment  X Spread                          50X   50S                100%               121       121
Lea sJldg % Spread                     50%   50%                      1CM       298       53      351
A3:(ifi)         Fellowship  rn/month  OL         3      1     1                         5                 45       45        10
Training         Consultant rnmonth JOL            3      1     1                         5       23        62       91
Translte   aVmonth                3     1     1                         S        11                 11
AS:3fv)          Ftellowship  n/month MOL          3      1     1                         5                 45       45        10
Evaluation       Consultant  rnmonth MCL           3      1     1                         S       23        62       91
Trasnlte   zJmonth               3      1     1                         5        11                 11
.....  ...... ..... ..... ..... .....                             -        -..... ..... .....   _  _
482      596      1073
.....  ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... .....  .....wurn



- 125  -                                     ANEX  3
Page 11 of 11
Costs With Conting fncie        TA
ESTIMATED OUANTITIES AND SCHEDULE FOR IMPLEMENTATION                                 -
O7-may-91         .... -------   ----- .....    ----- ----- ..... ..... *- -            Local  Foreign    Total Technical
16:23    Type       Unit            .--- Oistribution of Quantitifs ---- Total   esc.         Esc.     Usc.      aistanc
------------------ -             - of   of                         .- ..... ..... ..... --- --- ty of   Costs    cots    costs   Pacag
Sbject      Objective         Input     Input             1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  196  Input USS'000  USS#000  USS'000  UIwr
~~~~~,,,, ,.AG...-  --  A
Inc.b-  A4:0i)            Fellowship  m/month 1o                   2                                2                  18       10        10
stor    Design             Conoultant  r/month MOL                 2      2     2     2             a        48       107      155
Trwlate   rn/month                      2      2     2     2             8        19                 19
A4:CII)           Fellowhip  rc/month hOL                                                                                        10
Foailities        Consultant  mlmmonth MOL                       2     2      2            6        37        81       118
Traslate   rm/mnth                             2     2     2             6        15                 15
Facilities X Spread              25X   351   401                       1001   3,931       694    4.624
Equipmnt  I Spread                            502   50S                100X                121      121
M4:Cifi)          Fellowship  mrmonth NOL                        3     4      3            10                 98        96       10
Training          Consultant  mrn/month MOL                      2     3      2             7       43        95       138
Traste   aronth                                2     3     2             7        17                 17
A:(fv)            Fellowship  rnmnth hO.L                                                                                        10
operation         Caroultant  n/month NOL                        1     1      1             3       18        41        59
Translate   r/month                            1     1     1             3         7                  7
A:Cv)             Fellowship  r/month IOL                        2     2     2             6                  59       59        10
veluation         Consultant  m/month NOL                        2     2      2            6        37        81      116
Tralate    a/month                             2     2     2             6        1S                 15
.....  ........ ...... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..     .. . .. ... ... .. ... .._  
.-~~~~~i  1-   -R
.....                                                  ....... .. ....... ....... ... ... , ...4188 1395 5383



- 126 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of I
POLAND
Employment Promotion and Services Project
Schedule of Disbursements
Disbursements      Disbursement Profile
IBRD           --                    -   - - - - - - - - -
Fiscal Year    Semester Cumulative      This      Poland
and Semester   --- US$ Millions---    Project    Average
FY92
First           5         5            5%    not
Second          3         8            8%   avail.
FY93
First          10        18           18%
Second         10        28           28%
FY94
First          17        45           45%
Second         16        61           61%
FY95
First           5        66           66%
Second          5        71           71%
FY96
First          10        81           81%
Second         10        91           91%
FY97
First           9       100          100%



127 -
Page 1 of 1
Bibliography of Materials in the Project File
1.    Poland: Employment Promotion and Services Project. Project
ORerational Manual [Washington: World Bank, May 3, 1991].
2.    EmDloyment Dimensions of Economic Restructuring: A Review of
Related Labor Policies and Programs in Industrialized
Countries [Washington: World Bank, Working Paper, EMTPH,
April 30, 1991]



POLAND
U. S. S. R.           REGISTERED UNEMPLOYED
Ga"K                                ~~~~~~AS PERCENTAGE OF
LABOR FORCE
(AS OF DECEMBER 31,1990)
__ ~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0-            - 6.0%W}
CZECHOSLOVAKIA   -W O-BIA &,-<-<x/~~~~~~~~~~~~UNM~LYMNT
MORE THAN 60%
z® NATIONAL CAPITAL
POZWN                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VOIVODSHIP BOUNDARIES
POI)LAS   ~     ~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Amow                ~~~U. S.S. R.
TAMOW~~~~~~~~~
10



