Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7097-ME
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MEXICO
HOUSING FINANCE PROJECT
May 6, 1988
Trade, Finance and Industry Division
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Pesos (Mex$)
An exchange rate of US$1 -   Mex.$1,500, representing the anticipated
average exchange rate for 1987 was used for the project analysis.
The average free market rate for 1987 was:
US$1 - Hex $1,404.
The exchange rate as of May 3, 1988, was:
US$1  =   Mex.$2,291
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACF             Average Cost of Funds to the Banking System
BANOBRAS        Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.N.C.
(National Bank for Works and Public Services)
FOVIMI/ISSFAM   Social Security Institute of the Armed Forces
FONHAPO         Fondo de Habitaciones Populares (Low Income Housing Fund)
FOVI            Fondo de Operacion y Financiamiento Bancario a la Vivienda
(Housing Fund for Commercial Banks)
FOVISSSTE       Housing Fund for State Service Workers
GDP             Gross Domestic Product
GIRA            General Interest Rate Agreement
GOM             Government of Mexico
INFONAVIT       Fondo Nacional de la Vivienda para los Trabajadores
(Housing Fund for Workers)
SEDUE           Secretaria de Desarrollo Urbano y Ecologia
(Ministry of Urban;sm and Ecology)



FOR OMCIUL USE ONLY
MEXICO
HOUSING FINANCE PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY             .     .      . ......................  iii-iv
I. SECTORAL CONTEXT..                                                                1
A. Introduction..                                                               1
B. Housing Conditions .                       .                                 2
C. The Housing Finance System of Mexico....                                     3
(a) Introduction               ..                                          3
(b)  Institutional Sources of Housing Finance.                             4
Role of the Commercial Banks .                  .                  4
Role of the Central Bank .                    .                    6
The Payroll Contribution Funds .                 .                 7
The Public Housing Agencies. .                                     8
(c)  The Mortgage Instrument Used by the Commercial Banks                  8
(d)  The Impact of Mandatory Housing Finance on Banks .10
D.  Experience with Past World Bank Lending              ...10
E. Govermnent Strategy                      ...11
F.  Bank Strategy and Rationale for Involvement             . . .             12
II.  THE PROJECT ....................................................   13
A. Background                       . . . ............. 13
B.  Project Objectives .         . ............................               13
(a) Cost Recovery                  .         .        ............... 14
(b)  Stabilization of Housing Finance Flows                .     .       16
(c)  Savings Mobilization .. .................................   16
(d) Lower Income Group Targeting                    . . .    17
(e) Housing Policy Dialogue                      . . .    17
C. Project Description                          .         ....  18
D. Project Cost and Financing                        ....   18
E. Borrowing and Onlending Arrangements                    ....   19
F.  Disbursements .         .       .............................................   19
G.  Procurement .         .       ...............................................   20
H.  Accounting and A4diting           ....................................    20
I. Monitoring and Supervision                       .....  20
J.  Poverty Aspects .         .      ...........................................   21
K.  Project Benefits .         .      ..........................................   21
L.  Project Risks .         .       ............................................... 21
This report has been based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Mexico in May 1987. The mission comprised Messrs. S. Alber-Glanstaetten (Sr.
Operations Officer), U. Pfeiffer and P. Doty. (Cons.). Messrs. H. Jones (LA2TF),
B. Renaud (INU) and T. Zearley (LA2IE) contributed to the preparation of the
report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -l
Page No.
III. RECOM MENDATIONS .....  20
Annexes
Annex 1   Public Sector Sources of Housing Finance
Annex 2   Central Bank Regulatory Requirements
Annex 3   Lending by Commercial Banks for Housing
Annex 4   Ratio Analysis of Historical Financial Data of FOVI
Annex 5   Detailed Debt Service Schedules and Assumptions for Type A House
Annex 6   Detailed Debt Service Schedules and Assumptions for Type B Houses
Annex 7  Actual and Projected Commercial Banks Operating Income Related to
Mortgage Portfolio
Annex 8   Cost Recovery Analysis
Annex 9   Si -aas, Content of Housing Policy Statement of February 1987
Annex 10  Government Letter on Housing Sector Policies
Annex 11 Disbursement Schedule
Annex 12 Documents in the Project File



-Lit 
MF-XICO
HOUSING FINANCE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                     Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos,
S.N.C. (BANOBRAS)
Guarantor:                    United Mexican States
Executing Agency:             Banco de Mexico as trustee of Fondo de
Operacion y Financimiento Bancario a la
Vivienda (FOVI)
Amount'                       US$300.0 million equivalexnt
Terms:                        Repayable over 15 years, including 5 years of
grace, with interest at the Bank's standard
variable rate.
On-lending Terms:             The Borrower would on-lend the proceeds of the
Bank Loan to FOVI in Pesos at 1.5Z below
FOVI's relending rates to the commercial
banks.  FOVI would relend the funds to the
commercial banking system on FOVI's terms and
conditions applicable to loans for the lower
priced Type A house less a maximum spread of
32.  The Guarantor will bear the foreign
exchange and interest rate risks.
Project Obiectives:           The proposed loan would (i) support the
achievement of full cost recovery on mandatory
lending for housing by the commercial banks,
thereby facilitating the resumption of
voluntary bank lending and the mobilization of
savings for housing finance; (ii) stimulate
the introduction of savings schemes for
housing, taking advantage of the Rpecial
housing-related savinga/investment motivation
of households and investors; (iii) increase
the supply of affordable housing to the lower
income segments of the population; and (iv)
widen the sector dialogue to include the role
of the public sector, the coordination of
public housing finance programs, and rental
issues.



- iv -
ProJect Description:           Financing of construction and individual
mortgage loans by commercial banks during 1988
to 1993. Bank funds would be used only for
the lower priced house type (Type A),
contributing about 19Z of the funds required
during the period. The loan would be disbursed
only for subloans which extend terms that
ensure achievement of full cost recovery as
per the March 1988 Central Bank regulations.
The project also includes two studies (savings
mobilization and rental investments) and a
test marketing for a new lower priced housing
product.
Benefits and Risks:            The major benefits are to support
implementation of a housing finance system
based on full cost recovery regardless of
inflation and to help improve resource
mobilization. Since Central Bank regulations
permitting full cost recovery have been
issued, there is no major risk.
Estimated Costs:               Local           Foreign             Total
Market Prices of Type A
Houses                      1,276              300               1,576
Percentage Distribution           81              19                 100
Financing Plan:
Banking System                   717                                 717
FOVI                             402                                 402
IBRD                                             300                 300
Down payments by buyers          157                                 157
Total                  1,276             300               1,576
Estimated Disbursements:                    Bank Fiscal Year
1989    1990   1991    1992    1993
(US$ millions)
Annual                         33.0   67.0      67.0    67.0    66.0
Cumulative                     33.0  100.0    167.0   234.0   300.0
Economic Rate of Return:      Not applicable.



MEXICO
HOUSING FINANCE PROJECT
I. SECTORAL CONTEXT
A. INTRODUCTION
1.01     The population of Mexico is young and has been growing rapidly,
particularly in the main cities, exercising strong pressures to expand the
housing stock. High levels of inflation during the 1980s have seriously
disrupted the housing finance mechanisms that had been put in place in
previous decades. The present Mexican administration has given high
priority to promoting the housing sector since taking office in 1983. The
Government of Mexico (GOM) increased the amount of resources available for
housing and bcgan to introduce substantial sector reforms. In parallel,
the present Mexican administration has been requesting technical and
financial support for housing from the Bank. Bank analysis of the Mexican
housing sector in 1984 showed that it was large and fragmented, involving
several programs operating under widely divergent conditions. Under the
expectation that the Bank would support the sector consolidation and
rationalization efforts of the GOM through a series of loans, a first loan
of US$150.0 million to an emerging low cost Housing Agency (Fondo de
Habitaciones Populares-FONHAPO) was approved in mid-1985 (Loan 2612-ME).
FONHAPO was chosen as a starting point for Bank assistance since FONHAPO's
programs were consistent with Bank objectives of targeting resources to the
poorer segments of the population. As agreed under Loan 2612-ME, a housing
finance study (see para. 1.32) was carried out by the Central Bank in 1986
in close consultation with the Bank to serve as the main vehicle for a
thorough dialogue on housing finance.
1.02     The main focus of the proposed US$300 million loan is to support
improvementt  in the housing finance system by achieving full cost recovery
under the mandatory commercial bank lending for housing.  This key
objective had been pursued in the policy dialogue with the GOM since mid-
1986. Finally, Central Bank regulations allowing full cost recovery were
issued in March 1988. Full implementation of these regulations will be
supported under the proposed loan. The housing finance program involving
the commercial banking sector provides considerably larger amounts of
finance to the housing sector than FONHAPO. In addition, the quality and
conditions of mortgage lending by commercial banks have important
implications for the performance of the banking system. Full cost recovery
on housing loans sharply reduces housing finance subsidies provided by the
commercial banks, and helps stimulate greater resource mobilization for
housing and reduce the pressure on interest rates on other commercial bank
lending. Full cost recovery on the mandatory lending of the commercial
banks for housing virtually eliminates the banks's losses on account of
subsidies for mandatory lending. The pursuit of such cost recovery
improvements and related subsidy reduction is in accordance with the Bank's
interest rate and credit subsidy strategy under the General Interest Rate
Agreement (GIRA).



-2-
B. HOUSING CONDITIONS
1.03     Housing is an important sector of the Mexican economy.  In 1985
new privately and publicly supported investments in housing amounted to
US$5.5 billion or 3.12 of GDP which is comparable to other countries at a
similar level of development. However, th's level of investment 'has not
been sufficient to prevent the housing deficit from reaching an estimated 5
million units or 41? of the existing housing stock of 12.2 million units.
Given current production of about 600,000 private and public units per
year, as compared with the annual incremental and replacement needs of
about 800,000 units, this deficit continues to grow rapidly. Mexico's
housing problem is intensified by a high rate of population growth, a rapid
pace of urbanization, the spatial polarization of urban growth and demand
for housing in the three main metropolitan areas (Mexico City, Guadalajara
and Monterrey) and the uneven capacity of the population to finance their
housing needs. Concerning the latter, about 70? of households earn less
than twice the minimum wage (the likely lowest income household reached
under the proposed project) or less than about US$200 per month.
1.04     The predominant form of tenure is ownership, accounting for about
67? of all housing units in 1980, up from 54? in 1960. This trend reflects
the reluctance by the private sector to invest in rental properties as a
result of a long history of rent control and onerous fiscal measures which
have tended to reduce investment yields on housing investments and sharply
reduce investors' confidence. Much of the low income rentals in
overcrowded quarters takes the form of room rental and doubling up in small
units.
1.05     As a result of the 1982 economic crisis in Mexico, there was a
sudden and severe drop in housing production, &ud over half of the 1.9
million workers employed in the construction industry were laid off. The
construction sector has remained weak ever since, in spite of the
reconstruction needs created by the severe earthquake that hit Mexico City
in 1985. The present slow economic growth heightens the importance of
employment generation as a policy concern and explains, in part, the
increasing emphasis placed by the GOM on the housing sector as a
potentially important provider of employment and economic growth.
1.06     Past Mexican administrations have been consistently optimistic in
preparing public housing plans. Implementation of the 1978-1982 housing
plan, covering the Lopez Portillo administration, reached only three
quarters of its target of about 740,000 units. The present administration
set as its target the construction of 1.6 million units oc more than double
the number of the previous administration. The housing plan for 1983-1988
was not only based on plans to channel more resources into the housing
sector, but also on providing more lower standard housing to improve
affordability, and on improved cost recovery. By the end of 1987 about
1,260,000 units had been constructed. For 1988, the last year of the
administration's six year term (sexenio), another 50,000 housing units will
be completed. This would bring the total to some 1.3 million. While this
would be about 20? short of the 1.6 million target for the sexenio it would
still exceed by 75? the total number of units con-itructed under the
previous administration. Reflecting the priority given to housing by the



present administration and a drop it privately financed housing, the share
of public investment in housing has increased from 1.2Z in 1982 to an
estimated 1.5Z in 1988.
C. THE HOUSING FINANCE SYSTEM OF MEXICO
(a) Introduction
1.07     Traditionally, the private sector has provided the overwhelming
share of financing for housing in Mexico. From the mid-70s to the mid-80s
an estimated 81X of all housing was financed from private sources. The
remaining 191 of housing finance had been provided through a variety of
public sector programs (see para. 1.08 and Annex 1). As in other developing
countries, most private housing construction in Mexico is carried out in
the informal market by homeowners themselves or by unlicensed builders
operating at the margin of building codes and without the benefit of access
to formal financial markets. The formal financial system has contributed a
minor proportion (about 201) of private sector resources. Since 1982, the
share of private sector financed construction activities has fallen sharply
to an estimated 501 of total housing construction. Falling real wages and
increased inflation have substantially decreased the role of the informal
market and have caused a contraction of long term lending by financial
institutions. Adequate levels of housing finance has become the key
constraint of the sector and as indicated in para. 1.06 the public sector
has stepped in to compensate temporarily for the lagging private sector
initiative.
1.08     Public participation in the financing of housing is characterized
by significant fragmentation. Programs are placed under different
authorities operating under different rules, including different mortgage
instruments. The two most important programs are financed by (i) the
commercial banking system under mandatory investment requirements (see
para. 1.16) and (ii) the three major payroll contribution funds (see para.
1.23). In 1985 these two main sources provided US$2.4 billion equivalent
or 862 of all publicly supported housing finance. The payroll funds are
quasi public institutions and are administered by a tri-partite council
with representatives of the Government, the employers' associations and the
workers' unions. A third public system of housing finance consists of a
large number of minor and diverse public housing agencies supported by
Federal and State budget transfers such as the local State Housing
Tistitutes and the Regional Development Funds. FONHAPO is emerging as the
maost important of the housing agencies.
1.09     Public programs support primarily housing construction for first
time ownership rather than rental. Public sector housing activities are
coordinated by the Ministry of Urban Development and Ecology (Secretaria de
Desarrollo Urbano y Ecologia - SEDUE) which has been emporered by the 1983
Federal Housing Law to (i) develop and administer housing policies;
(ii) coordinate the housing programs of the public agencies, other than the
payroll funds; and (iii) participate in the formulation of investment
programs.



-4-
(b) Institutional Sources of Housing Finance
1.10     The key features of the three main groups of institutions
providing housing finance are highlighted in the summary table belows
PRINCIPAL INSTITUTIONS
Commercial      Payroll Contri-
Banks           bution Funds       FONHAPO
Key Fea*4res
Lending in 1985 (US$M)  1,190               1,170              110
1985-Market-share (Z)       43                 43                4
Principal Source        Own Resource        Payroll Tax        Budgetary
of Funds                Mobilization                           Funding
Annual Lending Rates    ACF I/                 4Z              About Inflation
Rate
Cost Recovery (I)          100                 62 2/           60 3/
Targeting (Minimum
Wage Multiples)         Up to 12 4/         Up to 5 4/         Up to 2.5 5/
1/ ACF - Average cost of funds for the commercial banks which represents the
weighted average cost of funds of certificates of deposits, bankers'
acceptances and promissory notes and represents some 80Z of bank
liabilities. It excludes lower cost checking and savings deposits which
account for the remaining 20I.
2/ Loan payment is defined in minimum salary equi3.alents including a discount.
3/ Upfront subsidy is about 402.
4/ Income per household.
5/ Head of household income.
Role of the Commercial Banks
1.11     The present configuration of the commercial banking system is t}.e
result of drastic changes in structure and ownership of the banking sector
in recent years. In 1978 some 130 private and mixed ownership banks were
operating. In late 1982, the GOM nationalized all commercial banks and
began the consolidation of banking institutions and branches. In 1987 the
GOM, following up on a promise made in 1983, initiated the process of
selling 34Z of its share ownership back to the private sector.
1.12     Mexico's banking system now comprises about 20 multibanks (i.e.,
general purpose commercial banks), some with nation-wide branch networks.
The commercial banking sector is highly concentrated with three banks
(Bancomer, Banamex, and Bancaserfin) accounting for about 62Z of the
system's total assets of some US$35 billion equivalent at the end of 1986.



-5-
The GOM has embarked on a comprehensive review of the Mexican financial
sector with a view towards identifying possible areas for improvement.
1.13     The rise of inflation over the last several years to heights
unprecedented in Mexico has required the adaptation of lending and deposit
instruments to a high inflation environment. Concerned that indexing
mechanisms would perpetuate inflation, Mexico has opted to fight inflation
at the macro level and to compensate for high and widely fluctuating levels
of inflation through high nominal interest rates. Since 1980 both
inflation and real interest rates have been fluctuating widely as shown in
the table below. As a result, the structure of both assets and liabilities
of the banking system has become almost exclusively short term, and long-
term loans are virtually non-existent. It is too early to gauge the long
term impact on inflation of the Government's December 1987 Economic Pact
which has resulted in a sharply declining inflationary trend during the
first three months of 1988. Monthly inflation rates have declined from
15.52 in January 1988 to 5.1? in March. At the same time real interest
rates rose from -2.0Z to 2.8Z.
Calendar Year        1980   1981   1982   1983   1984       1985     1986    1987
---------------------z2--____________________
(1) Nominal ACF1/   23.0  33.0    49.0   74.0   65.0       73.0      119.0   144.0
(2) Inflation2/     30.0  29.0    99.0   81.0   59.0       64.0      106.0   160.0
(3) Real ACF         -5.0   3.0   -25.0   -4.0    4.0        5.0       6.0    -6.0
1/   Calculated as the yearly average compounded monthly.
2/   Calculated as the yearly average January to December.
1.14     Rapid changes in the economic environment, especially the levels
of inflation and interest rates, contributed heavily to an erratic pattern
of resource mobilization and financial intermediation by the commercial
banks. Bank resources in real terms grew 161 and 5? in 1981 and 1984 but
fell between 11? and 14X annually in 1982, 1983, 1985, and 1986. The
commercial banks' ability to mobilize resources has also been affected by
the recent growth of a parallel financial system, particularly the private
brokerage houses, which are absorbing a large share of corporate financial
intermediation.
1.15     Both the liquidity and levels of voluntary lending of the banking
system are constrained by reserve and mandatory investments requirements.
Only 25Z of the commercial banks' resources can be lent without being
subject to either mandatory reserve, lending or interest rate regulations.
1.16     Since the 1960s, regulations of the Central Bank (Banco de Mexico)
require commercial banks to ti) lend for housing construction from their
own resources a percentage of the banks' liabilities (now 6Z); (ii) follow
prescribed terms and conditions for construction and individual mortgage
loans (or.ginally for five and now for two types of housing, A and B);



(iii) lending only for housing that meets minimum design standards and
limit sale price; and (iv) target households with incomes of up to 12.0
multiples of the minimum wage. Any bank that fails to lend the mandatory
amounts, must deposit the equivalent with the Central Bank at a penalty
interest rate.
1._7     Up to the March 1988 reform of the Central Bank housing
regulations (see para. 1.02) the 62 mandatory lending for housing accounted
for most of the subsidized lending the commercial banks were required to
make. The revenue losses to the banks which resulted from subsidized
lending have been a major cause of distortions in lending rates in that
they had to be offset as far as possible by higher rates on the 442 of bank
lending for which rates were not regulated (see para. 1.28). Besulting
free (unregulated) market interest rates charged by commercial banks were
undoubtedly higher than they would have been without this distortion. With
interest rates on new housing loans now allowed at ACF, housing credit
subsidies provided by the commercial banks will be reduced, and unregulated
lending rates can be expected to become lower relative to the commercial
banks' costs of funds. This is an important contribution to interest rate
and financial sector rationalization.
1.18     The mandatory housing finance system supports primarily new
construction although regulations permit also financing of home improvement
and urban renewal within the 62 requirement.   New housing projects are
initiated by mostly private developers who construct and sell houses in the
market at their own risk. The construction is typically carried out by the
developers or subcontracted. The commercial banks are partners in this
process by providing at their risk construction financing and, upon housing
completion and sale, by refinancing the construction loan, thus providing
mortgages to individual buyers. The construction and selling cycle
typically lasts about 16 months. Over the years a core of about 50
developers have specialized in this market. Some 2.5 million people living
in about 400,000 units have so far benefitted from this system with
projects typically located in the principal urban centers of the country.
In recent years beneficiaries have been overwhelmingly young couples with
two children or less.
Role of the Central Bsank
1.19     In addition to its regulatory role (para. 1.16) the Central Bank
provides financial support for housing by extending loans (for terms and
conditions see para. 1.22) to its trust fund, the Fondo de Operacion y
Financiamiento Bancario a la Vivienda (FOVI) for further onlending to the
banks. In 1987 FOVI funded about 13? of the banks' lending for housing.
In recent years, the Central Bank's financial support was increased
significantly to compensate for the reduced availability of Government
budgetary resources and the erratic resource mobilization level experienced
by the commercial banks.
1.20     FOVI, which was created in the sixties, is the entity responsible
for supervising compliance by commercial banks with the Central Bank's
regulations on the mandatory lending requirements for housing. FOVI
performs this function by (i) reviewing and approving all project proposals



- 7 -
put forward by developers and banks and (ii) monitoring compliance with all
other conditions such as loan terms and eligible sales prices for houses.
Through its lending operations FOVI influences significantly the regional
distribution of housing funds by providing additional resources to
supplement the commercial baiks' lending for housing once they have met
their 6O mandatory sector lending requirement. FOVI's policy is to (i)
direct its resources away from the major metropolitan areas to medium sized
cities and (ii) fund primarily the lowest priced house type (Type A) with
sales prices ranging at present from US$7,500-10,000 equivalent. FOVI's
operations include lending for investor owned rental housing which
increased sharply in recent years and represented about 552 of FOVI's loan
portfolio as of December 1987. For details on housing financing provided
by the banks and FOVI's portfolio in recent years, see Annex 3.
1.21     FOVI is an effective, well regarded and efficient organization
with a small staff of about 100 based in its head office in Mexico City.
Management and staff are well qualified, remunerated and motivated. Most
FOVI staff are involved in the technical review of the developers' housing
project proposals, and the monitoring of their execution. In recent years
FOVI reviewed annually as many as 450 projects for a total of 180,000
houses.  All lending orerations need the final approval of its Board which
includes representatives from the Ministries of Planning and Budget,
Finance, and Urban Development as well as the Central Bank.
1.22     FOVI's financial structure is simple and its operations have been
designed to avoid any credit, interest rate, maturity or foreign exchange
risks. As of December 31, 1987, about 9221 of its total assets of Mex$448
billion (US$203 million equivalent) represented loans to the commercial
banks and 702 of its financing had been obtained from the Central Bank.
Its outstanding debt to the Central Bank amounted to Mex$321 billion
(US$146 million). The remainder of FOVI's funding came from federal
budgetary contributions and a small amount of retained earnings. FOVI's
lending rates are governed by the mandatory rates for homebuyers (see
Annex 8, page 7) which allow intermediaries a 2-3Z p.a. margin. FOVI
itself retains a spread of 1.52 p.a. designed to cover its administrative
costs. FOVI's debt service payments to the Central Bank are fully covered
by the repayments it receives from the commercial banks. FOVI's loan
portfolio of about 1,000 loans is 1002 current because all payments due
from the banks are automatically deducted from their deposits with the
Central Bank. For FOVI's full historical financial statements, see
Annex 4.
The Payroll Contribution Funds
1.23     Three separate payroll contribution funds for wage workers in the
private (INFONAVIT) and public sectors (FOVISSSTE)2 and the military
(FOVIMI/ISSFAM)3 constitute the second major system providing housing
1/The rest were financial investments.
2/Housing Fund for State Service Workers.
3/Social Security Institute for the Armed Forces.



- 8 -
finance. These funds are financed primarily by compulsory contributions
paid by the employers equivalent to 5? of their wage bill. The funds
primarily support new housing units, targeting exclusively contributors
earning less than 5 minimum wages. The contracting and supervision of
housing projects is typically carried out by the funds themselves. The
dominant housing fund is the Fondo Nacional de la Vivienda para los
Trabajadores (INFONAVIT) which receives contributions from about
5.2 million accredited workers and has made some 615,000 housing loans
since its inception in 1972. Because of a highly subsidized 4Z fixed
interest rate on its loans, until recently cost recovery had been extremely
low (about 14? under an assumed 1002 average inflation rate during the life
of these long term loans). However, as this low cost recovery had become
clearly unsustainable, a new system of INFONAVIT mortgage loan terms was
implemented in 1987, essentially linking loan repayments to a predetermined
number of multiples of the minimum wage. Cost recovery thus rose to about
62Z. The Government intention to introduce similar changes in the other
major payroll contribution fund, FOVISSSTE, during 1988 are laid out in the
Housing Policies letter (para. 2.09).
The Public Housing Agencies
1.24     The third and by far the smallest housing finance system consists
of a large number of relatively small housing agencies at the federal and
local levels funded by budgetary contributions or managed autonomously as
part of larger programs providing housing for the employees of the
petroleum and electricity corporations. The most important agency is
FONHAPO, which is a trust fund of Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios
Publicos, S.N.C. (BANOBRAS), the National Bank for Works and Public
Services.   FONHAPO operations have been expanding rapidly in recent years,
inter alia assisted by Bank financing under Loan 2612-ME. FONHAPO deals
with the largest and poorest segment of the market and channels credits
through intermediary federal and local public institutions; it has no
direct contractual relationship with the ultimate beneficiaries of its
lines of credit. FONHAPO loans which are made to non-wage earning heads of
household earning less than 2.5 times the minimum wage, reach a low income
segment of the population. FONHAPO emphasizes shelter solutions in the
form of sites and services projects and housing built by progressive
construction methods.
(c) Mortgage Instrument Used by the Commercial Banks
1.25     As long as inflation and interest rates are low, fixed rate
mortgages (FRM) are the preferred lending instrument for housing. In
Mexico a FRM system operated during many years with relatively modest
subsidies. For example, during 1968 to 1972 interest rates on housing of
about 62 were slightly positive in real terms on average (inflation hovered
around 5Z) although market interest rates were somewhat higher. This
traditional financial environment changed completely when rapidly rising
higher inflation early in the 1980's caused the ACF to climb sharply and
eventually to reach a level of 74? p.a. in 1983. Despite these
historically high inflation and nominal interest levels, rates on the



- 9 -
commercial banks' mandatory housing loans remained fixed and did not exceed
14? in 1983. This lag in adjusting the mortgage lending rates can be
explained, in part, by the country's inexperience in dealing with high
levels of inflation and the widely held expectation that inflation would be
brought down rapidly. The contrast of the fixed low rates and the
persistently much higher market rates provided huge uncontrolled subsidies
to housing loan recipients and caused substantial decapitalization to the
banking system. This problem could not be solved by merely raising the
fixed interest rates, as high interest rates cause loan repayments to
accelerate in real terms, raising sharply debt service payments during the
early years and making housing finance unaffordable.
1.26     To overcome the problems of unaffordable loan repayments and
uncontrolled housing finance subsidies provided by FRM under conditions of
high inflation, the Mexican authorities introduced a new system of variable
mortgage loans in 1984 that is (1) based on ACF as the market reference
rate and (ii) designed to remain affordable. This new loan instrument
allocates obligations and risks between lenders and borrowers more
rationally because it recognized each party's constraints. On the one
hand, households must be able to make loan payments out of their cash flow.
To ensure affordability, the new variable mortgage system therefore
provides that the borrower's monthly loan payment is initially set in line
with household income and is subsequently adjusted in direct proportion to
changes in the minimum wage. On the other hand, if housing lending is to
become financially viable, commercial banks must be able to recover their
costs. Therefore, any interest not covered by the monthly loan payments is
added to the unpaid loan balance. Under this system, interest financing
does not increase the outstanding loan balance in real terms and the
achievement of full cost recovery is entirely consistent with
affordability.
1.27     After further adjustments in 1986, 1987 and finally in March 1988,
the mortgage instrument has the following features:
(a) the basic obligation of the Borrower is the initial monthly loan
payment set as a percentage of the loan;
(b) the monthly loan payment is adjusted by the percentage increase
in the minimum wage;
(c) interest rates are set at ACF;
(d) if the monthly loan payment does not cover all interest due, such
interest can be added to the loan amount; and
(e) the loan maturity is flexible but cannot exceed 20 years. (In
the unlikely event that an outstanding balance exists after 20
years, the banks would have to write off the loss - see para.
2.03).
The most recent adjustments in the mortgage instrument are fully in line
with the central objectives of the proposed loan, i.e., to support the
achievement of full cost recovery in housing finance provided by the
commercial banks. A detailed evaluation of the current mortgage system is
provided in paras. 2.03 and 2.04. Supporting month-by-month mathematical
calculations illustrating the special features of this type of mortgage are
provided in Annex 5 and 6.



- 10 -
(d) The Impact of Mandatory Housing Finance on Banks
1.28     The commercial banks' profitability had been seriously affected by
low mandatory interest rates on housing loans. Ever since the variable
mortgage system was put in place in 1984, interest rates tended to remain
well below ACF. In addition, mandatory lending volumes for housing were
raised from the equivalent of 3Z to 6Z of commercial banks' total
resources. As a result, the commercial banks experienced very substantial
foregone revenues4 ranging from US$365 million to US$669 million per year
during 1984 to 1986. In 1985 such foregone revenues were equivalent to 722
of their combined pretax income. Due to competition, commercial banks
could only compensate an estimated one third of these revenue losses by
raising interest and other charges in their other lending operations. On
account of the 1987 adjustments in loan conditions (see Annex 8, page 7),
banks have been able to reduce their foregone revenues on the mandatory
housing loan portfolio substantially, to an estimated US$215 million in
1987. Further substantial reductions are expected on account of the March
1988 adjustments.
1.29     Operationally, the banks' mandatory housing portfolio is
performing very well. Overdue loans have remained in recent years at only
about 12 of total outstanding loan amounts. Given the current high
inflation rates investment in housing has become an important inflation
hedge for homeowners and foreclosures occur very infrequently.
1.30     The erratic levels of resource mobilization by the commercial
banking system in recent years, coupled with the uncertain inflation
outlook, has made it difficult for banks to plan and execute their housing
finance commitments which, once begun, are difficult to interrupt as
completion of construction needs to proceed speedily. Planning of
construction and mortgage lending has to be as precise as possible for two
reasons: (i) if banks are too cautious in projecting available resources,
they run the risk of not fulfilling the mandatory requirements and thus of
suffering interest rate penalties; and (ii) if they are too optimistic by
over-estimating the growth of their resources, they are at risk of over-
investing in housing and thereby of increasing foregone revenues, beyond
the level determined by the housing investment requirements.
D. EXPERIENCE WITH PAST WORLD BANK LENDING
1.31     World Bank lending specifically directed to the housing sector
began in 1985 with Loan 2612-ME designed to increase public housing
investment for the poorest and largest segment of the housing market and to
strengthen FONHAPO during a critical expansion phase. Experience under
Loan 2612-ME has been good. FONHAPO has efficiently managed a rapidly
growing loan portfolio while ensuring allocation of its lending to low-
income families. The FONHAPO program enjoys popular recognition and the
strong support of central and local governments as reflected by
4/Measured by the difference between ACF and the actual yield on housing
loans.



- 11 -
satisfactory project execution and a large pipeline of subloan requests.
FONHAPO has also substantially revised its mortgage lending instrument to
ensure the achievement of the covenanted 50Z level of cost recovery
regardless of the level of inflation. FONHAPO's lending terms now provide
for Mi) the level of mortgage payments to be maintained in a fixed
proportion of the income of beneficiaries (expressed in multiples of the
minimum wage); (ii) interest rates equal to the annualized percentage
adjustment in the minimum wage; and (iii) an explicit fiscal subsidy in the
form of an up-front grant.
1.32     An important component of Loan 2612-ME was the housing finance
study which was carried out by Banco de Mexico during 1986 and provides an
analysis of the entire housing finance system and the performance of its
various components. The execution of the study which achieved a high
professional standard was closely monitored by Bank staff. The study
focussed on a review of housing finance through the commercial banks, the
payroll funds, FONHAPO and the informal sector. The study's analysis and
findings contributed to the 1986, 1987 and 1988 changes in the lending
terms of the mandatory system of housing finance through the commercial
banks to increase cost recovery. The analysis of the mortgage system
influenced the design of the new financing instruments implemented by
FONHAPO and those now being considered by the payroll funds. These new
instruments have had a significant impact on improving cost recovery.
Finally, the study provided an important input to the Government's
formulation of the Housing Policy Statement issued in February 1987 (see
Annex 9).
1.33     The Bank is also assisting the Mexican housing sector through
Loan 2665-ME (US$400 million Earthquake Rehabilitation and Reconstruction
Loan, approved March 1986) which contains a US$263.8 million housing
component that is being executed by FOVI (US$50 million) and FONHAPO
(US$132 million and US$81.8 million reallocated from Loan 1990-ME). Both
'OVI and FONHAPO have demonstrated their capacity to execute satisfactorily
their respective parts of the project. This loan was formulated in
response to a natural disaster; it was thus not considered to be a suitable
vehicle to institute any policy reforms in the housing sector.
Nevertheless, the loan has had a significant impact by helping to
(i) develop improved urban designs for low-income housing in a dense urban
context; (ii) maximize the utilization of existing urban infrastructure;
(iii) introduce seismic-resistant structural design for low-income housing;
and (iv) regularize land tenure in areas that had been under rent control
for decades. These important contributions may be replicated in future
housing operations in Mexico.
E. GOVERNMENT STRATEGY
1.34     Starting in 1983, GOM began reforming public housing policies to
reach a larger segment of the needy population by: (i) lowering minimum
housing standards; (ii) allocating more resources to, and improving cost
recovery on, housing finance; and (iii) creating and promoting FONHAPO with
the specific mandate to finance construction of non-conventional housing
types for low-income households. In order to demonstrate the GOM's high
social priority of facilitating access to housing for all Mexican families,



- 12 -
the right to housing was incorporated in the Mexican Constitution in 1983.
The same year, a Federal Housing Law was passed, clarifying the GOM
strategic role in the sector. GOM continued to introduce system
improvements principally related to institutional strengthen4ng and cost
recovery. In its Housing Policy Statement of February 1987 (for details
see Annex 9) the GOM reformulated and published its housing policies,
setting out principally a strategy of (i) further improving cost recovery
on housing finance, (ii) promoting savings from households and
institutions, (iii) providing incentives to investors for rental solutions,
and (iv) simplifying administrative procedures. The statement covers the
main areas of housing policy; certain policy improvements and
clarifications on future policy directions will be sought in the context of
the proposed loan (para. 2.09).
F. BANK STRATEGY AND RATIONALE FOR INVOLVEMENT
1.35     The overall strategy of the Bank in the sector is to support,
through a series of lending operations, the GOM's policies and reforms
aimed at expanding the efficient supply of low and middle income housing
through improvements in cost recovery and further streamlining of
regulations. The key objective of the proposed project is to support the
full cost recovery for mandatory commercial bank lending for housing, even
under conditions of high inflation. Full cost recovery is seen as a key
step toward the ultimate objective of allowing banks to earn a sufficient
return on housing loans. thereby (i) providing an incentive to resume
voluntary lending for housing and (ii) facilitating mobilization of
savings. The preparation of the project has provided a good opportunity
for widening and deepening the Bank's dialogue with GOM on housing and
housing finance. A fo'llow-up operation to the first FONHAPO project is
being contemplated which would aim at (i) improving the entity's cost
recovery, thereby further lowering fiscal subsidies, and (ii) reaching
beneficiaries further down the income scale by lowering housing
construction costa. Another important area to be addressed relates to the
revision of housing codes, at the State and Municipal levels, to ensure a
better consideration of seismic risks (studies to provide the adequate
technical groundwork have been carried out under Loan 2665-ME) and to
support the use of lower construction standards, where technically
feasible. Sector work to be initiated this year would examine the planning
methodologies used at the Municipal level and the respective standards for
providing housing infrastructure (i.e. roads, lighting, water, sewerage,
etc.) as well as costs and financing mechanisms. These are promising areas
for important policy improvements.
1.36     Continued Bank support, through the provision of financial
resources, technical analyses and policy support would be critical to
further progress in and deepening of housing sector reforms. The
objectives of the proposed project correspond closely to the Government's
and the Bank's overall country and sector strategies. Reducing credit
subsidies is consistent with the goals of the General Interest Rate
Agreement (GIRA) which is governing lending rates for agricultural,
industrial, mining and urban infrastructure lending.



- 13 -
II. THE PROJECT
A. BACKGROUND
2.01     The proposed project was identified in May 1986 and appraised in
May 1987. Follow-up discussions with the Mexican authorities have taken
place since then focussing mostly on the cost recovery issue. Negotiations
took place in Washington during April 25-29, 1988 with the Mexican team
headed by Mr. G. Sandoval of BANOBRAS.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.02     In addition to expanding the supply of finance for lower income
housing, the project would have the following objectives:
(a) Full Cost Recovery: support the implementation of mortgage design
reforms aimed at achieving full cost recovery for housing
currently provided through the mandatory lending programs of the
commercial banks;
(b) Stabilization of Housing Finance Flows: Bank funding would
complement the erratic flow of funds for housing finance provided
by the commercial banks;
(c) Savings Mobilization: review the policies and incentives required
to attract more household and institutional savings for housing
and facilitate implementation of appropriate action;
(d) Targeting: direct Bank resources for lending by the commercial
banking system to benefit borrowers qualifying for the existing
lower priced house type (Type A), and test-market housing products
at 202 lower bales prices. If successful, the provision of lower
priced housing would allow the banking system to reach
beneficiaries further down the income distribution scale; and
(e) Policy Dialogue: widen and supplement the housing policy dialogue
in the areas of housing program coordination and housing
financeharmonization, savings mobilization and cost recovery in
line with the GOM's intentions expressed in its 1987 Housing
Policy Statement and letter on Housing Sector Policies letter
(Annex 10).
The following sections describe how these objectives would be addressed
under the proposed loan.
(a) Cost Recovery
2.03     The mortgage instrument introduced in 1984 (para. 1.26) represents
an imaginative solution for making housing loans both affordable and fully
recoverable in real terms5 even under high inflation rates. Prior to its
introduction, there was, however, considerable opposition to implementing
the new mortgage loan system for three reasons: i) starting interest
rates, a politically highly sensitive and visible issue, were considered to
be high (15-35Z p.a.); (ii) commercial banks were concerned that interest
capitalization would cause the nominal amount of the outstanding loans to
5/Full cost recovery is achieved when the present value of all loan
payments equals the loan amount. The discount rate is the inflation



- 14 -
get out of control; and (iii) borrowers feared that minimum wage changes
would cause the share of their income dedicated to loan payments to rise
too rapidly. These concerns were addressed initially by several negotiated
compromises. First, starting interest rates were set well below going ACF
rates and gradually adjusted to the ACF level in line with the minimum wage
increases. Second, the amount of interest which could be financed through
capitalization (the interest capitalization limit) was limited to 70Z of
the original loan amount. Third, monthly loan payments were to be adjusted
only to 702 of minimum wage changes. When it became clear that (i)
inflation in Mexico was not falling as had been generally anticipated, but
was steadily increasing, and (ii) market participants were increasingly
accepting the new system, the Government moved ahead with revisions of the
loan conditions (see page 7 of Annex 8) in order to improve cost recovery.
In line with this objective, (i) initial interest rates were increased from
a 15-352 range to 30-60Z p.a. in 1986; (ii) initial interest rates were
directly linked to and set at, 70-100Z of ACF in 1987; (iii) interest rates
were finally set equal to ACF in 1988 for all types of housing; (iv) the
adjustment on monthly loan payments was increased from 702 of the change in
the minimum wage to 10O2 of such change in 1986; and (iv) the interest
capitalization limit was increased from 70Z of the initial loan amount to
2002 in 1986 and to 500Z in 1987, and it was lifted entirely in 1988.
2.04     In terms of anticipated cost recovery the progressive system
reforms yielded the following results:
1984   1986   1987   1988
Weighted
Average Cost
Recovery (2)               47      74     90      100
These dramatic and courageous changes and the ultimate goal of 10O2 cost
recovery were in line with the findings of the Housing Finance Study (para.
1.32) and the dialogue with the Bank carried out since 1986 in the context
of project preparation work. With the 1988 reform, loans would have
maturities of about 6 to 9 years assuming ACF parallels inflation in the
long term (equivalent to a zero real rate). The 20-year limit would only
be reached if minimum wage adjustments lag 1OZ behind inflation and if ACF
yields a continuous 4Z real rate. Such long term circumstances of real
rates and mia,mum wage lags are considered very unlikely, thereby allowing
the conclusion that the mortgage instrument is robust. For a full
sensitivity analysis see section A of Annex 8. In comparison, the FONHAPO
system which serves the lowest income group, achieves a cost recovery of
about 602.
2.05     The 1988 reform, aimed at achieving full cost recovery, is
embodied in the Central Bank telex circular 28/88 of March 15, 1988. This
Central Bank regulatory provision needs to be accompanied by a reform in
each of the 32 states of the Mexican Federation to allow the establishment
of mortgage liens in the respective states taking into account unlimited
capitalization of interest. In three states such reforms have been put in
place, in some 15 states steps towards implementation are at an advanced
stage, and in the other states steps of a legal or administrative nature
are being taken. To provide states with an additional incentive to proceed
speedily with these ancillary reforms it was agreed during negotiations
that the proposed Bank loan, in its entirety, would only be disbursed for
housing loans to eligible beneficiaries which incorporate loan terms
designed to achieve full cost recovery.



- 15 -
(b) Stabilization of Housing Finance Flows
2.06     Increases in interest capitalization allow banks to meet the 6X
mandatory requirement just by letting loan bilances rise by capitalization
of such unpaid interest thereby effectively reducing the provision of fresh
funds for new housing. This phenomenon combined with the erratic resource
mobilization of the commercial banks, causes housing lending by banks to be
subject to sharp fluctuations. By providing additional resources to FOVI
for housing lending, the proposed Bank loan would add stability to the
financial flows to the sector.
(c) Savings Mobilization
2.07     It is part of the Government's policy to stimulate savings of
households and institutions in general both for housing finance and other
purposes. Up to now the commercial banks were not exploiting the
motivation to save on the part of potential house buyers because of the
revenue losses on mandated mortgage lending and the high costs of managing
a large number of small savings accounts. Institutional savers (investors)
are also not tapped, although mortgage backed securities are normally
attractive long term financial instruments. The Government plans to
support the work of a task force of the Mexican Association of Banks to
study the existing disincentives to savings and to identify saving schemes
which build upon the special motivation of households to save for housing,
including the expectation of obtaining a mortgage loan. It will also
review the potential attractiveness to institutional investors of
purchasing appropriate mortgage backed securities. It is important to
recognize that the achievement of full cost recovery will make it viable
for commercial banks to mobilize savings, starting with buyers of the more
expensive house type. During negotiations it was confirmed that (i) the
Government would cause the savings mobilization study to be carried out and
completed by March 31, 1989, with the assistance of the Mexican Association
of Banks and based on terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii)
the study's findings would be discussed with the Bank by June 30, 1989,
with the objective of arriving at an appropriate action plan.
(d) Lower Income Group Targeting
2.08     The mandatory housing programs of the banking system provide
developers and commercial banks with incentives for efficient management,
as their own capital is at risk. However, with the exception of FONHAPO,
public programs are designed for beneficiaries of the five highest deciles
of the income distribution, leaving to the informal market the task of
catering to the lower income segment of the population. To encourage the
banking system to reach income segments of the population presently closer
to the poverty line (two minimum wages), new housing products would be test
marketed under the proposed project with selling prices 202 below market
prices of the cheaper housing type category (Type A). Selling prices are
thus expected to range from US$6,000 to US$8,000 equivalent. Preliminary



- 16 -
indications are that developers believe that lot and living areas can be
downsized and still be acceptable to potential buyers and as collateral to
banks. During negotiations it was confirmed that a test marketing program
involving about 2,500 houses will be completed by March 31, 1989 and that
its results will be reviewed jointly with the Bank no later than June 30,
1989. Should the experience be positive (taking into account any overlaps
with the FONHAPO programs), the program would be expected to be extended.
(e) Housing Policy Dialogue
2.09     Loan 2612-ME which was made in 1985 to BANOBRAS acting as trustee
for FONHAPO, provided a first opportunity to exchange views on broader
housing issues, especially during the execution of the housing finance
study. The February 1987 Housing Policy Statement expresses the GOM's
basic housing policy direction (Annex 9) which the Bank can support.
However, several broader aspects of public sector involvement and
coordination of public programs need greater specificity. The GOM is aware
that public sector support to housing programs has assumed a relatively
much more important role in recent years because of the reduction in
private resources available to households and resources supplied by
commercial financial institutions. The GOM intends to promote a better
balance between the commercial and public sectors in this regard. The GOM
will also study incentives for private investors to increase the
availability of rental housing, keeping in mind its current limited
attractiveness to the landlords. Finally, the GOM plans to monitor closely
the large number and varying terms of public housing programs with a view
to eliminating any unnecessary overlapping and to assure the consistency of
mortgage loan terms and subsidies. The broader aspects of housing policy
such as the role of the public sector, the coordination of public sector
programs including payroll fund cost recovery issues, cost recovery
objectives and limitations on the increase in subsidies, savings
mobilization intentions and increased promotion of investor owned rental
properties, was covered more specifically in GOM's Housing Sector Policies
letter (see Annex 10) agreed during negotiations. During negotiations it
was agreed that (i) adoption of cost recovery policies contrary to the
letter would constitute an event for suspension of disbursements; (ii) a
study on the rental market and the incentives to investors to make
investment in such properties sufficiently attractive would be completed by
December 31, 1989, and (iii) the study's findings would be discussed
between GOM and the Bank by March 31, 1990 and appropriate actions be
adopted thereafter.
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
2.10     The proposed US$300 million loan would finance a time slice of the
1988-1993 lending of the commercial banks targeted at households with
incomes of up to 4.0 minimum wage multiples (Type A housing). To
facilitate the test marketing of a new lower price house the proposed loan
would provide financing for such a test. Project beneficiaries would
generally be above the poverty line (above two minimum wages). If the test
marketing of new housing products is successful, beneficiaries closer to
the poverty line would be reached. It is estimated that about 300,000
Type A houses would be constructed during this period, with 192 of the
program's financing provided under the proposed loan.  Included in the



- 17 -
project are also studies related to savings mobilization and investment in
rental properties.
D. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
2.11     The estimated investment costs for all the Type A houses expected
to be built over the period 1988-93 are shown below:
Projected                         Total
1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993         1988-1993
------------------US$ Millions-------------------Z-
Total Investment       362    149  232   387   316   130           1,576
Financed by:
Banking system       259      0   75   214   150    19           717  45
FOVI                  67     67   67    67    67    67           402  26
IBRD                   0     67   67    67    67    32           300  19
Down payments
by housebuyers       36     15   23    39    32    12           157  10
TOTAL FINANCING        362    149  232   387   316   130          1576 100
The total investment costs associated with the proposed project have been
calculated taking into consideration the estimated level of funds available
from the commercial banks and FOVI. The erratic investment flow of the
commercial banks is explained by the fact that capitalized interest is
counted towards the meeting of the commercial banks' 6Z mandatory
requirement. Thus, the more interest is capitalized, the less new
construction financing will be made available by the commercial bankc. The
project therefore has an important role in facilitating the achievement of
full cost recovery and in smoothing out available levels of new housing
finance especially in periods of high inflation when more ard more finance
is directed to interest capitalization on existing mortgages rather than
for new housing loans. The Bank's contribution of 192 of total investment
financing under the project is about equivalent to the project's foreign
exchange cost (in line with foreign exchange content staff estimates for
Loans 2612-ME and 2665-ME). The total investment requirements for all house
types during 1988-1993 are estimated at about US$4.7 billion of which the
Bank would contribute 6.4Z. By 1993 the proposed US$300 million loan will
have financed about 19Z of FOVI's outstanding loan balances.
E. BORROWING AND ONLENDING ARRANGEMENT
2.12     As requested by the GOM, BANOBRAS, the public  development bank
for urban development and housing, would be the Borrower. It would onlend
funds in pesos to the Central Bank as trustee of FOVI, the executing
agency, which in turn would relend the funds to the commercial banks. The
commercial banks would repay FOVI on the same terms as its mandatory loan
terms to beneficiaries except that banks would retain up to a 32 spread.
Interest rates and amortization periods on subloans for housing
construction and purchase of housing will be in accordance with Banco de



- 18 -
Mexico's mandatory housing lending regulations.  As explained in
para. 1.22, the repayments by the commercial banks to FOVI are automatic as
would be repayments by FOVI to BANOBRAS. Accordingly, neither FOVI nor
BANOBRAS would bear a credit risk and FOVI would merely earn a 1.52 spread
as housing credit channel and housing program manager dealing with
BANOBRAS, the supplier of funds, and the commercial banks, the ultimate
lenders. Given the mandatory housing loan terms that cannot be altered by
the commercial banks in line with their own loss of funds, the Government
will take the foreign exchange and all interest rate risks associated with
the loan. This was confirmed during negotiations.
F. DISBURSEMENTS
2.13     The proposed US$300 million loan would finance exclusively housing
of Type A and would only be available for drawdown for loans which extend
loan terms in accordance with the March 1988 reforms. FOVI will not lend
more than 802 of the selling price of houses for construction subloans and
not more than 90? of the selling price for purchase subloans. Bank funds
would be disbursed for up to 1002 of the loan amounts lent by FOVI to the
banks either for housing construction or for individual mortgage loans for
regular Type A houses. All disbursements would be made against statements
of expenditure which would be subject to external audit. A special account
would be set up at the Central Bank to speed up disbursements funded
initially with US$20 million which represents about four months
reimbursement requirements. The Closing Date would be June 30, 1994. The
five-year loan disbursement profile (see Annex 11) corresponds broadly to
actual experiences with financial intermediation loans in Mexico.
G. PROCUREMENT
2.14     For housing construction, FOVI prescribes minimum design standards
and limits the selling price for eligible houses. The recipients of the
construction loans, the developers, construct the houses within these
limits in accordance with established commercial practices. A comparison
of prices under mandatory lending for housing with bid prices in the market
showed that the FOVI products had competitive prices and were equal or
better in quality. Procurement procedures are efficient and consistent
with normal commercial practices under financial intermediation loans and
are acceptable to the Bank. To ensure that FOVI selling prices remain in
line with changing housing market conditions, it was agreed during
negotiations that twelve months after loan effectiveness or, at any other
time if so requested by the Bank, such selling prices will be reviewed. If
it is determined that corrective actions are required, they will be
implemented.
H. ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING
2.15     Since the 1960's, when FOVI received loans from USAID and the
Inter-American Development Bank, FOVI has been subjected to accounting and
auditing practices of an international standard. FOVI is now audited
internally by the Central Bank and by independent external auditors. The
auditors' opinions have been unqualified in recent years. Aided by the
simplicity of its operations, FOVI's information system is functioning very



- 19 -
well with financial reports available on a timely basis. Existing auditing
and financial reporting arrangements are satisfactory. During negotiations
it was agreed that (i) annual audits of FOVI's accounts and of the Special
Account would be prepared by independent auditors within six months of the
end of each calendar year and (ii) the auditors would be required to give a
separate opinion on statements of expenditures.
I. MONITORING AND SUPERVISION
2.16     To monitor project performance, during negotiations it was agreed
that FOVI would establish a separate project account to allow a clear
identification of all items financed with the Bank loan. FOVI's external
auditors would provide a separate opinion on this project account.
J. POVERTY ASPECTS
2.17     The project would principally benefit groups above the poverty
threshold. However, if the testmarketing of new houses is successful, the
project would significantly expand the range of FOVI supported
beneficiaries by reaching for the first time population segments close the
poverty line.
K. PROJECT BENEFITS
2.18     The principal benefit of the project is its support of a housing
finance system designed to achieve full cost recovery, a goal pursued by
the Bank's housing policy dialogue since 1986, and continuing a series of
significant reform actions already undertaken during project preparation.
This is the key major step toward the ultimate objective of making it
feasible for commercial banks to resume voluntary lending for housing.
Further important steps in this strategy would be to analyze and implement
ways to mobilize more savings for housing finance both from households and
institutions. The savings mobilization incentive study carried out in the
context of the proposed loan would provide a sound basis for further
actions in this important area. Other benefits of the project include
(i) the additional housing units financed; (ii) compensating the erratic
financial flows for new construction following the achievement of full cost
recovery; (iii) the targeting of resources to reach lower income groups;
and (iv) the widening of the housing sector dialogue with the Mexican
authorities to include rental market issues. From a housing sector
viewpoint the proposed loan considerably expands the benefit of housing
finance reform to one of the two largest segments of the system. As noted,
reforms are having important spillover effects on the other segment, the
payroll funds.
L. PROJECT RISKS
2.19     With the regulatory basis for full cost recovery already in place
upfront, there are no major risks involved. However, each Mexican State
needs to complement the March 1988 reforms by reforming speedily mortgage
registration procedures. This risk of any slowdown in disbursements,
however, is considered minor, especially since the proposed loan provides a
strong incentive for action.



- 20 -
II1. RECOMMENDATIONS
3.01     During negotiations, agreement was reached that:
(a) As condition of effectiveness, BANOBRAS would arrange for
contractual arrangements with the Central Bank providing for the
transfer of loan funds to FOVI (para. 2.12);
(b) Bank funds would be onlent to Banco de Mexico as trustee for FOVI
in pesos exclusively to finance Type A housing at the commercial
banks' mandatory lending rates for housing construction and
purchase sub'Loans less a spread of up 1.52 p.a. for FOVI and up to
3? p.a. for the commercial banks. The Government would transfer
to BANOBRAS such funds as shall be required by BANOBRAS to make
payments of principal, interest and other charges to the Bank
after receipt of payment from Banco de Mexico the trustee for FOVI
(para. 2.12);
(c) FOVI will finance up to 80X of the selling price of houses for
construction subloans and up to 902 for purchase subloans. Bank
subloans would finance up to 10OZ of such FOVI subloans. Bank
funds would be made available for the test marketing of a lower
priced housing product (para. 2.13);
(d)  By March 31. 1989, the Government will cause a study to be
completed on the incentives and instruments rec--ired to mobilize
savings from households and institutions. The study results
including a proposed plan for implementation will be discussed
with the Bank by June 30, 1989 and subsequently appropriate
actions will be implemented (para. 2.07);
(e) FOVI will complete the test-marketing of 2,500 housing units with
a sales prlce 202 below going market prices for type A housing by
March 31, 1989. By June 30, 1989, the result of this pilot
project will be evaluated and, if considered fully accepted by the
market, the prog-am, would be continued (para. 2.08);
l
(f) The Bank loan would be disbursed only for housing subloans which
incorporate loan terms allowing full cost recovery as per the
March 1988 reform (para. 2.13);
(g) By December 31, 1989, a study will be completed to review the
range of measures required to make investment in rental properties
sufficiently attractive. By March 31, 1990, this study including
a proposal for implementation would be reviewed with the Bank and
appropriate action implemented thereafter (para. 2.09);
(h) Twelve months after loan effectiveness a review of FOVI selling
prices will be carried out and if corrective actions are required,
these will be implemented (para. 2.14);
Ci)  Annual audits satisfactory to the Bank will be carried out (para.
2.15);
(j) A separate project account will be established (para. 2.16)



ANNEX I
MEXICO
HOMSING FINANCE PROJECT
Public Sector Sources of Housing Finance
--------------Actual----------------    ----Estimted -----
1977-82                  1986                 1987
I  (USSi IllIon   (X)   (USSu mllion)  (X)   (USI Umillion)  (X)
(1)  Payroll Funds          6.792       68        1.172       43          670        82
(2)  Banks - FOVI           2.60e       24        112;/       48        1,181        57
(3)  Public Atencies
- FONHAPO              (600)       (6)       (110)       (4)        (99)       (5)
- Others               (787)       (7)       (278)      (10)       (182)       (6)
Sub Total                   1 337        is         388        14         231        11
Grand Total                10.734       100       2.767       100       2.092       100
Source:  IBRD report 6871 - ME (Public Sector Investmnt Review) and mission estimates for 1987.
May 4, 1989



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
HOUSING FINANCE PROJECT
Regulatory Requirements
1. Introduction
The principles guiding commercia-. banks are laid out in the
Central Bank circular 1935/85 as amended by Telex Circular 28/88 of March
15, 1988. The obligations of Fondo de Operacion y Financiamiento Bancario
a la Vivienda (FOVI) are laid down in the Trust Contract of May 21, 1985.
A. Mandatory Requirements
The equivalent of 6Z of liabilities subject to reserve
requirements, must be lent for two types of housing (types A and B). Of
the 6Z. one-third or 2? must be allocated to the lower priced house (Type
A). The system promotes primarily owner-occupied housing. However,
investor-owned rental solutions are suitable substitutes for both types A
and B.
(1) Sales Prices
House prices for both types A and B cannot exceed maximum limits
expressed in minimum salary equivalents at the time of sale. The
parameters are as follows:
Type A              Up to 100 multiples of minimum salaries
(as of February 1988 this is equivalent
to about US$10,C00).
Type B              From 100.1 to 216 multiples of minimum
salaries (as of February 1988 the range
is equivalent from US$10,001 - 22,000).
(2) Income Targeting
Eligible households are determined on the basis of household
income in terms of minimum wage multiples. The income ranges are as
follows:
Type of Housing                 Minimum Wage Multiples
Minimum     Maximum
A                            _            4.0
B                            4.01        12.0
Household income is further defined to include the income of the
head of household plus income from any other household member.



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
(3) Housing Standards
Housing Standards
Housing standards provide for a progressive design and are defined
as minima. The features are as follows:
Type A                Type B
(1) Living space configuration    Bath                   Bath
Multipurpose Room    Kitchen
Utility               Living room
Dining room
Bedroom
Utility area
(2)  Minimum living area           33 m2                 49 m2
(3)  Lot size                      60 m2                 60 m2
(4) Major Loan Conditions
Housetype                   A                     B
1. Construction Loans
- Interest Rate                ACF                   ACF
2. Individual Mortgage Loans
- Interest Rate                ACF                   ACF
- Interest Financing               - Unlimited -
- Upfront Loan Fee (Z)          2                     4
- Maximum Monthly
Loan Payment               1Z of                 1.5? of
Loan Amount           Loan Amount
- Maximum Loan
Maturity (months)          240                   240
B. FOVI Trust Contract
FOVI is charged with three main tasks:
(1) Managing and supervising the banks' adherence to the mandatory
investment requirements;
(2) Providing additional financing to the banks once the mandatory
limits have been achieved; and
(3) Assuming prorate financial responsibility for banks' loan balances
outstanding after 20 years.



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2
MMNO FTKNCE MRWJET
idin. by Commercial Ibnks for Flusinc
lel              lee               19tt             leSl    _         19                19et   e
cUss oIl.) (s)   (USII oIl.) (I)   (1US Ell.) (O)   (US ,I oi.) (5)   (US$ all.) (U)   (USW  1l1.) (s)
A. s
a. Financed by Bank*'
own reaurces           4e5      64      an        86      649     82       999      a        56e     78      1.0l 0    67
b. Financed 6y FOVI       a6       16       6        14      191    is         196     17       171      22       161     1S
TOTAL                       I                Ainl  Z          I       1IE9      IN        I      1QQ 7    I12 1
S. APPLIE  TO TYPE OF
Type I                    189      2S       124      20      56l     54        451   J8         855      48       313     26
2                   218       89      4;2      70       26S     26        156    1S         68      a        420     86
S                      -       -        -        -       92      9       8s6    80         175     28        164     14
4                    15?      2E       80       5        77      7       12S    11          51      7        106      9
5                      -       -        -        -        -      -        26      2          -      -         aS      8
R*ntal                 -       -        -        -       80      8         17     2        100      1s       116     10
Other                      41      a        S1        S       44      4         s0     4         22       S        29      2
TOTAL               sso                               L1       1 1QQ            J          71     Z         A I   1
Date: May 4, 1966



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2
MEXICO
HOUSING FINANCE PROJECT
BREAKDOWN OF FOVI LOAN PORTFOLIO BY HOUSING TYPE
As of Dec. 31             1984         1985         1986            1987
------------------MEX$ Billions--------------------
House Type
I                29.5         52.3         90.7            151.0
II                13.9         16.9         19.8             27.3
III                   -            -           1.9             2.3
IV                                -            -              0.2
V                  _             -           0.5             0.5
Rental                  6.3         26.9         90.9           231.5
TOTAL                  49.7         96.1         203.8          412.8
May 4, 1988



ANNEX 4
MEXICO                      Pass 1 of 4
HOUSING 7tUWCZ PROJCT
TONDO DE OPEACION Y FINANCIAKENTO 3ANCAarO A LA VIVIENDA (FOVI)
RATIO ANALYSIS OF HISTORICAL FINANCIAL DATA
____a_a____.____am__m _m.,_m__ ..____________a _____a_ma 
(See condensed financial statements attached)
1367     1886     1986     1984
(1) Income statement
Expenses as a X of revenues           74.0%    75.0%    61.0   853.0
Income as a  X of revenues            26.0%    25.0X    19.01    17.0X
C2) Balance sheot
Kortgage loans to banks as a
I of total assets                   92.0%    83.0%    93.01    34.01
Debt to Central bank as a
1 of total assets                   72.n%    70.0X    64.0X    86.01
(3) Souroes and uses of funds
Borrowings from Central bank as
a X of loans sade                   R5.n7    61.01    89.0X    98.0X
ludgetary funding as a X of
loans sade                          13.0?    3S.OIS    1.0      6.01
* Increase reproents World Bank funding under the earthquake
rConstruction. Loans were passed on to FOVI as equItY.



ANNEX 4
HZitCO                                      Papge 2 of 4
NAINI FIlK  FOECT
FUDo K    RCN V FwINCllIEMT0   MIO A LA VIVIEODA (FOvI)
COWIEUD   LACt 311TC Al Of KCEIIKR 31
(expresoed In millions of Mexican pesos)
Nealcan pesos
Aintso~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ittnwe
1937   192      193    193
bersw   t *tcuritin                                                    310H3   15,2IS     ,340   3,34
Fled ilnto  ueuritile                                                     ml      223
Lenns puarateed by arthagus                                           412,347 20,I    4,71  49,711
hic!llenony  recetivables                                              2,727     7        294    171
other  isets                                                               0        9        3       3
_ .._ ....i. __.a.f.   ...   ....._.
447,    220445  102,723  53,236
LialittlHe  and Ot earth:
Liabilitin-
LoAl tere bank lmns                                                320,t91   153,07  34,421 45,493
Othn                                                                13,703   4,105    1,937  2,013
-00     .me..       -        m
34,427  157,912  U640  47,574
aet orth-
Capital contrlbutlmos                                               79,119  52,45    10,152   4,171
ses, Charles to coutrlbutions                                       (2,n71   (1"0)   (443   (211)
-woe   wwwww.. e.MNMbe.    m
749,"    ,97      %,904  3,0
Fusn   of incus oawr elusem-
trip yvets                                                        It,UO    4110    1,99        73
Cunmt year                                                        3s,101    7,11    2,l17   1,027
34,341  1t,2O     44214  1,tO7
dmmome    mm-Ow"  O-Oftmw    .
112,"9    ,2m    14,120  1l,0
-          -.m   mm....-
W7,3        145  102,35M 3,24
Cpital cRtrlbutiun
laus l beInning o er w,973   9,904   3,6    2,224
Federal  uant cmntrlbstles                                             24,444   429100   4,332   1,94?
uwgn hsr sWpWial itm                                                   (1,041)  (1,031)   (433)   (211)
76,39    109n    9,904  3,940
SInMS   sMsMNS    m e       oemi



ANNEX 4
mica                                      Page 3 of 4
WNAIe Fl Aa  PIIUECT
FNIW  I OPERC0IN ' FINAIANEtO llGI A LA VIVIEIIM  (FOVI
coUN   STATiSN CF WATId
FOI TH VI  511[MI  KWUC  St
(expressed In millions of Mexican pesos)
buIca ls pem
Satirinst  ioi                                                      94,92   3,05   12,914  5,471
other tncous principally
goa.tractioa sprwismon                                             1,49      30        93    227
9177    3,730   13,307  5398
=        m__   . .  .m
>Z.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IjQ S  WM
Colts ad spunsl
Satiwst law"                                                        49,0    3,67i1   1O0,B  4*,60
cost 9f wp    l                                                      1,922     713     nJ    2
Stki  dulistrativ                                                      494     214      115     a
1,47i  21,40    10em    4,371
bces f intc" owr uupm
for the yr                                                          3X 301   7,13    2,17   1,AM7
lens Of duAu  avr spas
of prTv fWS                                                         12,210   4,110   109    473
bla cei ad .9 VW                                                      21,o11   11,210   4,21M    1,7o
_- _-_



ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 4
ElICO
FSIDO K PIREIUM V FINANCIUWO  1mic   A LA VIVIADA ( IMt
CIKU    STATMMR  U  WM$CI AWED  OFI FWNI1
FeR TN1 VEM IRWS MCM 31
(expressed In *Illions of Meslcan peos)
193    13       1910    1914
Sources,
Free oeretione*
hteNe of incom over sipmu
fr the year                                                       25,301   7,130    2,517  1,027
Ites aot requiring ve of cash                                             5      123               1
25.304    7.21    2,11    1,0K
thkr surces-
laceae  in beak debt                                                574,715  14,944   41,120 10,10
Feoral eonrnut cstrlbutles                                           24,44   42,500    M,U   1,9?
Other                                                                          2,02 11  2,23
,4h   t119,161  00,091  3,742
Liam ~ ~ ~    ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      moomm.                m mo.
Loaw  guarsteW  by wrtggps                                             211,979  107,79    44,340  31,211
Other                                                                    3,96    2,400      715    313
212,477  I1,215  47093  1,34
wet Intree  w th w r VW1                                                               13   014   3990
:;:r=2:eIn)   ilSq
Cash lSpommt  corities   MS
of year                                                                1s3,      Isom      643, 34 544
momem      -         _1 _11



ANNEX 6
Pago 1 of 4
MEXICO
HOUSING FINANCE PROJECT
DETAILED wEBT SERVICE SCHEDULES AND ASSUMPTIONS
1WE A HOUSE
A. SUMMARY SHEET
End reult indiceli                                                      Aeortation profil.i
Cost recovery S                            102.04
Netwity in nonth                             113                        Interet capitalizatlon                       9
4"ba1 effective interest IIRRI             100.0                       POsitive  ortlzation                          17
Inflation and  ioiue wagma                                              Nothe outstndin  (9 years 5 antha)          113
Real eartgap rate (inflation +)              0.01                       Balin            Am. I
CPs  rate                                   71.41                                        change          Aunt      NIlt
AInnl inflation rate                       100.0                                          --2=
Billy  l in Fed. District (N I.           7533 railmus                                                 743110      31.
Amnuat incrse of NIDF                                          -a m                                                a
ai I of Iflation rate                   100.0Ta                                          78.11         4,321      1.0
*uber of adjustents per year                   4                             Tear 2        71.02        AM,          3.1
I edjustent of eoathly payent                                                Tear 3        72.32       110,474      5.4
to ll chnge                              100.0                            Year 4        U1.52       1til,7       9.2
Year 5        M2.         302,572     I4,9
Lan lnteret ratmi                                                            Tur 4         54.02       41,320      22.9
Tear 7        40.22        52,93      32.1
tartinj nrual interot rate                  71.42                            Tear I        14.n        743,40        37
Annual !ncraue 11 1F change)                0.02                             VW  9        -4.9          =02114       19
eloamu  lterest rat                            P                            Year 10      -10.01              0        0
Affordability and Jun lisits,                            Yeah It           A              0        0
If ferdability and loan halots                                              Tear 12          NA              0        0
rear 13          NA              0        0
latio loaN  to aonthly payernt            100.00                            Ver 14           N               I 
loathly pa t as   of loan                    1.01                           TeV  1i          NA              0        0
Monthlv hmu.absld Inc. (tin "oes)           4.0                              ewr  11         NA              0        0
Ionthly  ayset as 2 o IIH Incom            22.52                            Vee 17           NA              0        0
Yeawi            NA              0        0
Finacing PlIn (0001                      Amt lla                             ew 19 19                       0        0
(0001  upg                       Year 29          I               0        0
yeou 21                          0        0
Sales price of IloBu                     22,100  100.0                      Tew a2           PA              0        0
u apvut             10.01                 2,20   10.0                       Tewr 2s                          0        0
-  -                               UYer 24   NA                     0   0
LOM mot                                  20,340   90.0                       WV25            IA              0         0
_ -
Upfrmt fee           2.02                    407    1.
_m 
lAitial ethl psyent (P0001                 203   0.90
6_   m



ANNEX S
Page 2 of 4
3. IIODIHY UUIN I NTU
t      bathly lsterst                Principal
UP          _      _                        P_ ef  Us,
ht.   ,1t.            so          top.       Paid        kilict    pg.  pot
(20,3401                                                     24,340
203  3.951          1,29        lo00           I         21,34       192    I
203  3."9           1,249       1,104          0         22,412      III   2
233  L.5            1s          1,129          0         23,541      171    3
242  1.952          1,400       1,f5           0          4,499      192   4
242  5.95%          1,449       1,2it          0         2,924       11   1
242   .M            1,54l       1,30           0         2722        171   4
2    5.95%          1,419       1,331          0         3,557      192   7
23   LI5U           1,9l3       1,410          0         2,945       131   I
2    5.951          1,732       1,4O           0         31,42       171   9
342  1.91           1,371       1,9            0          2,9"1      192  10
342  5.952          1,942       1,2g           3         34,410      itI 11
342  L."9           2,l5s       1,71           0         34,324      III  12
407  5.952          2,140       1,73           0          ,079      192  13
407   .51           2,244       1,ow           0         3,37       131  14
407  L.9             2,3"       1,94           0         41,9"      17   15
44  5.951           2,492       2,06           0         43,913     m    l
04   i.92%          2,U11       2,127          0         44,00      le   1?
464  1.951          2,73        2,254          0         4,294      171  13
Vs5  L.C            2,372       2,29           0         p,591       1n   19
37   5.52,          3,00        2,433          0         3,024      1II  10
in   I.'            1,113       2,17           0         g,oa        17i  21
d44  5..93          3,10        2,4            0         1,223       192  22
64  L.              3,442       2,77           0         41,001     III  23
4    L.             3j,7        2,"3           0         43,941     171  24
114  5L             3,52        t2"9           0         4493       19*  25
314  15             3,90        $j,1"          0           o,100    1to   i
314  1.             4,14        3,351          0         %4,41     I7   2
9o  51.952          4,34        8,40           0         1f,il       t9   a
94   L9             4,570       3,02           I         n,4         it1  2
la   1152           4,94        3,317          0         56,274     17I  30
1,151   1.9          5,0ll        3,341          0         ",1        192  31
1,151  5.91           3,241       4,00           0         92,25      III  32
1,11    1.5           61464      4ism            0         945        171  3
1,13"    "I           5,742       4,7 *,                     ,932     192  3
1,03*    1.12         4,32        4,43           S        1,so5       "1   a
,4    5               4,21        4,99           6        1Mo,m       171  34
1,427  1.9            4,          41,2           S        511,414     192  v
t,2    L9              ,13        Bo,23i                  12,42       l31  a
1,427   1             1,174       1,547          0        1,11"         1  v
Is3     .9            ,1w         5,4            0        131,7e      592  40
1,93    1.95          1,W         5,90           0         31,44      11   41
Ism    L,             Ton        se"o                     l t,        at lT1U
19in   5.95           5,164       4,31                    143,919     275  42
2,341   19            l,o         4,37           0        13,17       19   43
2,301   3.91          3,930       4,49                    134,304     131  44
2,301  5.11           9,324       1,023          01       54,027      III  45
2,737  1.9            9,742       im,1           0        173,"32     192  44
2,737   .9           fi,ls        7,422          0        176,34      131  47
2,737  5.951         10,0         I,3            I         3t4,ll7    lit 
3,254  5.5           11,347       7,313          0        1"39        192 



ANNEX
Page I of 4
S      U.sthlr Iatuut               dPrincpal
'U,       e      m -          -     ~.                   -     -- of lb.
hut.  Int.             he         CaC.        Pai        Iklmen      pd. Oft
3,24   1.95           1,132       3,m0 o                    2O 7        131  10
S,2     5951,        15,024       ,l4             0        2101.76      17   if
3,370   5.911         12,141      6,171           I        219t,51      192  52
3,30   L.M1           1,041       9,191           0          1,342      111  5
3,370   3.951         06         9,73J           0        2=,0         171  54
4,40   L3.5           14,167      9,3             0          6,1I64     192 
4,102   1.95          14,757      10,154          0        23M,j3       IIU  14
4,10.2 5.             15,20       10,73           0        29,76        17J 3
5,473  5.2             1,000     107              0        m2,03        192I 
1,473   L.n           1,2         1,15n           *        29011       lO1  19
1,473   1.95          17,39       I,1            0         02,17       171  10
,109   1.9            17,992     1l,46            0        314,         1n   41
,10"   1.9             1,171      12,1            0        16,2n2       131  6
1090   L.9            l9st" 1      2,33           6        339110       171  63
,140   I.9m          20,14       12,424           0        311,5)4      II9  14
7,740   1.95          20,903      13,113          0        24,647       131  is
7,740   L9"           21,66       13,944          0        m1,443       171  M
9,205   1.f5          22,515      3,310          O        "31,9        192 
9,205   S.9           13,307       4,02           0        404,0        31I 
9,35   L             24,445      14,90            0        4,9          171    9
10.947  1.95          23,034       14,637          0        431,00       M     t
10,47  L5f1             3,371     14,925           0        e0,l        11  7t
109947  U1            he,l         11.Ol1          0        44,2         17i  72
3,011   L"91           27,49       14,1 10                  0,52         1912 is
13,0s1   1.           23,571       15,loo          4        49,6         e1  74
13,011  L5            39,49       11,479           0        112,13      171  75
11,4U    L.           3,477       14,016           0        323         59 
1,461   3."           31,19       loom             0        54,4         lo1 t
51,461   LM95        32,313      film3            I        566,23      71t
18,41 1 L3 ,314                   4,9"0                    55,17        3  7
16,410    .5          34,11        5,7l            0         9,9         "l  60
13,410     5           2,140      14,730           o         ,43n       171  3I
1t,9    L9             36,134      4,141          0        U2,919       192  In
31,69    L.            37,3        f,il            0        m29           71I  U
1,63    1.93           3,33        2,74           0        66,75       m    U
36,035   5 1           Vo,n        1,oo            I        mo,m         1I 
34o05   5L3            s0ilo       40             0S       493,71       1 n
3,94    L.             41,23       10,UO                    W il,        192 
3,91    5.95           41,31       10,930          0        14,39        65  6
30,91    L             4,0        1,3w             0        m,"          7 
S,n    5.3            43,11            7           I        Mo,t        11 
34,32    LIN5         43,575       6,73?           6         MO,50M      61
u    sn L             4,           lots            0        14o,H72     171  9a
43,736  LM9            44,40         6?           0        1747,36     19 9
43,756  5L9           44,43          4as           I        747,99      NJ  9
43,73    L.9M          44,473         420                   73,69       11i 96
52,071   LI9           44,519          0       7,os1        74,13       t9   97
52,671   L            4,A-0             e, lm               7,13        5I1  II
32,071   L.           43,56                                 114,643     17  9



ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 4
I      flanth1iy ifteroit          Prnlclpal
fl      ___         _  ee.e                                     I
tot.  IAt.           Sv         top.        Pid        klce        W.  at
oo  "mw                 .-.   _    m.        Cv.e                  e._. 
1,923  3.951         43,0"           0      16,f32       "5.630      192 100
41,923  1.951        41,971          0       9,92        w,6         III 101
R1,2   5.95          40,784          0      21,1N        64,740      171 102
no,3   5.1           39,527          0      34,112       430,421     192 103
73,43   I.9"1        37,499          0      34,140       194,4111    let 104
73,39t  S."%         35,350          0      36,59        4,1t9       171 105
7,572  5.951         35,073          0      14,49        51,701      II2  10
P.572  1."%          "9,33           0      57,739       443,91       III 107
67,572  1951:        24,399          0      4,173        362,7"6     171 lt
104,141  5.95)        22,72           0      l1,60          l,40      1   109
104,141  5.1x95       17923           0      64,219       216,1"9     II  I0
104,141  5.951        12,794          0      91,345       13,65       171 III
123,644  1.95)         7,44           0    114,481          7,34      192 112
7,601   5.951          436          0       7,344            0           11



ANNEX t
Paco 1 of a
MEXICO
HOUSING FINANCE PROJECT
DETAILED DEBT SERVICE SCHEDULES AND ASSUMPTIONS
TYPE S HOUSE
A. SUMMARY SHEET
Ind reult indicltl                                                      kotitatlon profil#1
nam.afn~~~~~Nm
Cost recovery I                            104.0                                                                   ....
Natwity In nonths                             5                         Interest cupitalizatlon                       57
AnMual effctivn interest (IRR)             100.0                       Peitive aortization                           Is
Jnflatlon am  miniso  fage                                              Nmth outstanding (6 years 3   nths)          75
Real mort4gee rate (inflation 0)             0.01                        al AC#          Ann. I
Cn, rate                                   71.41                                         chang          Amnt    Molt
Annul inflation rate                       100.01                                        -
Daily NV1 in Fed. District (NWDF),        7,533                             MIONta                     249,509       6.4
Anna  increau of NSDF                                                                                      RV"      338
as 7 of Inflation rate                  100.01                             Year I        47.9:        a5,5         1.7
Numb. of adjustments per year                  4                             Yoa 2         61.51        106,035      2.7
: adjmitmt of  onthly paymnt                                                 Year 3        52.71        161,5       4.1
to U  change                            iOO.OX                             Year 4        31.21       223,593      5.7
Leru 5        10.32       24*,561      4.3
Loan interest rate,                                                          YnYr i       42,7n         91,612       2.4
Year I      -100.01             0      0.0
Starting mnual Interest rate                7.41                             Year I           Il              0        0
;Anul Increae tS NW  thinge)                 O.OS                            YW   I          NA              0         0
a.ui aa  nterest rate                        CnP                            Yea 10           NA               0        0
YV aII           NA              0        0
A forability ed loan limits:                                                Yer 12           I                0        0
Yur 13           NA              0        0
Ratio loa  to montbly payunt              61.67                             Yar 14           NA              0         0
onthly payent u  S of loan                   1.51                           Yea 15           11N                       0
lmontbly bomnhold inc.in (  agol            13.0                             e   14          NA                   0 I
monthil paywt is I of N  incom             21.42                            Yoer 17          NA              0         0
YVWto            NA              0        0
Financing Plea 5000)1                    llot MNo.n                         yew 19           NA              0         0
('001  sanot                     erv 20           NA              0         0
-few 21          N               0        0
an pri:  of hobun                       4316  216.0                        yoru  2          NA               0        0
1o01ay1ent           0.02                 9,763   43.2                      Yew 23           NA               0        0
Q-04-                             yeu 24           M                0        0
toa   aount                               3o03  172.3                       Yew 25           NA              0         0
Uglliet fe           4.01                  1, 62  .9
Initial mthly paymt (PM)                   -136   2.59
_l  f
I t yea ceb flo   et mmd Sof loan          ,2K   23.3
_m m



ANEX 6
Pag. 2 of a
S. Y!l!:Y LOAN HIStIIaY
2 N ty lstWrut              Prinelpal
Pet.  1st.            ha            .lh                      e    0t. pt
nt.~~~~~102    lot-t"                              us bNle   wt w
(59,053)                                                   59,o51
34   5..5%          t,o         1,?           0           O,73        3  I
13   3.911          2,42       1,34           4         4241       52    2
34   5.91           21,5        ,94           0         44,113     495   3
47  5.951           2,451      1,54                     44,12 ,       S    4
All  5.95I          2,477      2,370          0         46,2       5      5
49   L.951          2,3"       2,119                    10,1       495 
t2o  5       ss,02o             2,29          0           a2,99    1      7
26  5.911           3,151      1,22           0         3,39       322   3
23n    9            3239       2,440          0          17,       493   9
5      "I           3,435      21,40          0          0,521     m    14
93   L.95%          351        2,5"9                    u2,01      1    11
95   5.97           3,7        2,70           0          5,1"      49   12
2,173  $."k          3,39        2,127          0          ,294      3    13
,1172  L.            4,041       2,33           0 *1,13                   14
1,272  5.95          4,233       3,041          04,244 4O5  25
t,oo    5."I         4,415       l,ow           0          7,2        3   16
I,5   1."51          4,194       3,201                   No4         122  17
1,933 L "5           4,713       3,             6 *,                 495  It
2,45   5.L"I         4,94        3,530          0        6la         U    19
1,457  5.9"           5,134      ,10            01                   52   20
1,41    5.1          SI9          ,77                    91,413      49  21
1,970  55             3,41       So"&                    .s,"        in   22
3,970  5.951         5,65        3,             0        361,942     5     3
1,910  S.95          6,04        4,03           0        M M         49   24
2,o3   1,5            4,"3       3,94           I        21t,013      5   3
2,534   5.951         4,342      4,1"                     14,217     32   2*
2,543  L9             &,72       4,44           *        16,45         3  2n
2,1    GM             7t,4       4,76          1*,93                 5    S
2,737  5.91           T,1O        4,34          6        140         3    2
2,737  5.5            To7        4,19m          0        MOM         49    0
3*,14  LM            T,M         44,0           0        13al             32
3,514  L.M5           i1o         4,1           4        1 M,4            3 
3,214  SLS            3l421      lo,            I        24,3        49   35
g94l  3.99             ,7m       4,1                     111,524     554
3,9111 L9,0                       ,4 Soon,SO                         3 2
I,9I 4U              flat   NM                  I    w=    49 31
4,34  L1             low         4,44           0        u6I7        3    3
4X    1.1             9,924       ,231          4        mom,1         12
4,46  5. 51          104          S ,I                   m,ue        493 
5s5    1.95:         10,1       4,199 5                  W 0 ,
5,i    5.95         120345       low            a           o,9        2  41
5,n75  L"I           15,177      5,0            0        113,30      495  4
4,427  5.911         1i,110      4,5            0        mo          0 
4,427  5.LS 1,00l             5,275          6        33,4u        2  *
4,4    1.951         li,st       5,462          0        239,107     495  45
7,3I  1.9            1,434       4ls            0        214         3    44
7,32   5."1          22,705      4,      0                0,43      1    a
7,oo    1.11%        12,992      1,1O           0          o,m      n    4
9,3S    5.951        13,24       ,92s           0         7,14            4



ANNEX 6
Pago a of I
I       Nthiy lstwest               Ptrincipa
"                                "                           of-  s .
Pat.  ljt,           on         Ca.         Pfait      ban.    Pat. pat
9,373  S            13,52t      4,11           0        231,472     522  50
9,375  5.11         J3,7        4,403                    34,07      493  51
11,144  1."%         a4,03       i,m            0 o367               553  52
I,1U44  I.9          14,210       ,04               2   242,031      522  a
11,14   5.9S         14, 12      3,244          *        245,277     43  54
13,255  5."1          4          1,330          0        244,07      553  5
13,    5.            14,U4       1,40           0        246,01      522  54
13U,    5."95        14,741      1,43           0        249,10      493  S5
I,743   5."%         14,6            0        96         24,3          3  N
1,7M    5.9          14,73           0        "I         247,40      52   5
15,73  S.5           14,723          0       i,t"        244,1       493  40
13,745  5.911        14,441          0      CM          242,477      in   41
13,745  1.95         14,41           0      4,327        26,1o       i22  4
13,741  5."t         143,141         0      4,34         23,5        43  43
a2,m    S.95         13,61           0 o      ,404       3514         53   4
22,292  5.91         13,3            0       3,903       314,9       522  4
22,29m    9          32,65           0       9,4         3,7         49 
24,510  5.9 512",9                   0      34,211       19,1s5       5    7
24,5so  5.95         31,454          0      l,04          77,19      522  u
3,s5t   5."9         10,55           0       5,9         143,407     493   9
31,524  5.91          9,410          0      21,4         3I,t91      55   it
33,52   5."I           ,304          0      23,219       11,472      i22  7
31,524  1."s           ,924          o      24,400        9,2        493  72
374t1  S.5            5,43           0      n2,           o,36       m5   n
37,491  5.951         3,559          0        o,9         5,912      62   74
21745   51            1,54           0      2,1               0      34    5



-=   m=    gm              I
(jjg    of,    16Tt    40 lUL    1W    9L1  fix   lOW)  45W)n)1191)   1KV       a   w    IT o at g   ushmu qg
lintsKa  mU-t   119w:'91 Ig1W'&I1 tIM':, auirt imim    taml on)    tooa              v66 8 i'su 8~ PM i_s 
IIINSMI~~ ~ ~ ~                      nuNlo  NIINI  40III  o.IS    w"     ,,u
m.  _at   _s'   _s   _              _a      _      .   _    _    _
otz     me.    t    Ut    Sn  aS          a *a  fl    5:   91       9                gtg' Ia fl w      IN*h-  ml
_    _    -   -    -   _                                                            - _ 
,,,.-,1  S&      t    tos gl        a>* I c*             1   61=  1 1| x1"                      It I 91" mmw
* to), IuD1[m         wi i" mu I-Il _, *ma
__ _-  - -                                   -  -                                                       _-
w6tof  w'.O&   aSOIV  11V5)  &W&~ votes  vli  310  aUl  (W         is)                 IaWini
-- - .   - -- - -- -
J~~~~~~olll        ololl'ot  4INI100  II10  ISSMO  ouloPoN  41NI  A Gtlbt   .0'00,1-
- .- - - - r -    - -  m
us'    o w;l   93    m        U     "      t    9      a    I       t                &S  t :  u  *ilaa .
te's   11*Z    Sb    Ue       W     Mt   *       a     n    *          *r 5'a  I 3S1In         i J
ruE'            W' S UU             an U''t      on   oU    a       a                      It a) ef 0 
1:9'P   W19    am   WIStt  U'tL   wIt    tt  9 U              1 1                         It ''ll      Ml4f L
t151I  -w       W'U1t 0,'61   Mott Mt  ta1      L    I*  1o1    si                            uhSt " '
tt1 *t,_ l_twi 1kh    l"_lt
-- - - - - -                                                       -
9,!S   M'U   Ut'tt t5' nU'S  Sbt  U'   WI'   00   9 1  -  1                                  tiILUV
Ulu    Ulu      lti"la   son  soon  Isis  sai                                      s                       Iun  uss s
1,1111   bl'ot   "V'IN  VW   Ulm  Wm  3t O1 nO           w O-35 111  U11                                d  I
up    Ulm    b6        r      Wu   Blot W9a.  111',_ wit U*1 ut                                    &* II0If
* ~~~ ^ llnm g"  M1 
tuli tq   wit  t l  tt 040 Swli 94t   W&I                                                         i r t   tt t  - n -  .W
s615l l wU     tgs'IS   'u  Oor'n  P'a.  WIN  to'   M's  go'   wi'S                 O"InaM atimst dsu"s
uOI'I*'z S05 a3t' ui'IW  11L1 0w'3  11011 965'S  mW'a  sio'P is s? SIIt!1W nows
tts    r m  U*"   t*s   ra   Ss1   Ys   "s   rst  IS'   U'01     nits s nsitvia itaM   n
Moln  Men    wig   wou   no',  msft  Ow'l  m             t          at               a t  mu dps dma
"Va%Stt  Ntov    %woe   wa   full I"    wt"  tal   go   to          m                    "P     gAN
ALI'tE   5'Nt   39'S   i'S   Z     * 9349  5?s  auW l  -'  13  .                          t1ts Ut 
159    Wiv    Not   UN    WI   DI   Nos  111                                             So". 4~P    t
1519    v.*    not   Sol    34   In    394   U's                                       spjla   4."mp
tell    v,     If's   SPl    0*   not  20    NIO                               u   w t WM 0 44 1          p
U-      -       -                                                                        isoIMi 55 tU* t1 
WI    1001    100?   500?   61M    4I   Ww 3    WI   .                           I--
u6i    n-l            out   &*I '1   Ual  OR Is? US o   OM          at
.     lll   ~~~~~~~llf



ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 7
MEXICO
HOUSING FINANCE PROJECT
COST RECOVERY ANALYSIS
I. INTRODUCTION
Cost Recovery (CR) is defined as the present value of all loans
payments as a percentage of the original loan amount. The Internal Rate of
Return (IRR) is defined as the effective annual interest rate charged. The
discount rate is the inflation rate. This annex has three sections:
SECTION A Presents the sensitivity of the mortgage instruments to
levels of inflation; levels of real interest rates and
lags in minimum wage adjustments;
SECTION B Presents the sequence of cost recovery improvements
since 1984;
SECTION C Presents the itemized changes in mortgage loan
conditions since 1984.



ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 7
SECTION A
(i) SENSITIVITY OF THE MATURITY TO INFLATION
TYPE A HOUSING
I INFL            CR             IRR                Maturity (Month)
160.0Z          102.02        160.02                      118
140.0Z          102.0?        140.0                      116
120.0          102.02         120.02                     114
100.0Z          102.0         100.0                     113
80.0Z          102.0?         80.0?                      111
60.0Z         102.0?          60.0?                      109
40.0Z         102.0          40.0?                      106
20.0Z          102.OZ         20.0Z                      104
10.0Z         102.0           10.0?                     102
TYPE B HOUSING
' INFL            CR             IRR                Maturity (Month)
160.0Z          104.0?         160.0?                      79
140.0          104.0?         140.0                      77
120.0Z          104.0?        120.0?                       76
100.0?          104.0?        100.0?                       75
80.0?          104.02         80.0Z                       74
60.0?         104.0?          60.0?                       73
40.0?         104.0?          40.0?                       71
20.0?         104.0?          20.0?                       69
10.0Z         104.0          10.0?                       68



ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 7
(ii) SENSITIVITY OF THE MATURITY TO VARYING
LEVELS OF REAL INTEREST RATES AT 10OZ INFLATION
TYPE A HOUSING
Real
Rate              CR             IRR                Maturity (Month)
0.01          102.0Z         100.01                      113
2.0Z          107.0Z         102.0Z                      118
4.01          112.7Z         104.0Z                      125
6.0          119.2Z         106.02                      132
8.0Z          126.8Z         108.0Z                      140
10.0?          135.8Z         110.OZ                      151
16.02          179.6Z         116.0S                      200
18.0Z          206.9Z         118.01                      230
18.5Z          216.0Z         118.5Z                      240
- TYPE B HOUSING
Real
Rate              CR             IRR                Maturity (Month)
O.O          104.0Z         100.OZ                       75
2.O          107.31         102.0Z                       78
4.01          110.82         104.01                       80
6.01          114.7Z         106.0Z                       83
8.01          118.9Z         108.01                       86
10.01          123.5Z         110.01                       90
25.0?          156.6Z         125.01                      115
30.OZ          243.11         130.0Z                      179
32.5?          323.9Z         132.5Z                      240



ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 7
(iii) SENSITIVITY OF THE MATURITY TO LAGS IN
MINIMUM WAGE ADJUSTMENTS AT 100o INFLATION RATE
TYPE A HOUSING
Wage/
INF.             CR             IRR               Maturity (Month)
100.02         102.0S         100.02                     113
95.0S         102.01         100.0Z                     133
90.02         102.02         100.02                     169
88.02         102.02         100.02                     195
87.02         102.02         100.02                     213
86.0Z         102.02         100.0X                     238
85.92         102.02         100.OZ                     241
85.82         102.02         100.02                     245
85.02         102.02         100.02                     277
TYPE B HOUSING
Wage/
INF.             CR             IRR               Maturity (Month)
100.02         104.02         100.02                      75
95.02         104.02         100.02                      83
90.02         104.02         100.02                      95
85.02         104.0Z         100.O                     113
80.02         104.02         100.02                     147
78.02         104.02         100.02                     174
76.0Z         104.02         100.02                     233
75.92         104.02         100.02                     239



ANNEX 8
Page 5 of 7
(iv) SENSITIVITY OF THE MATURITY TO A COMBINATION
OF VAPYING REAL INTEREST RATES AND MINIMUM
WAGE ADJUSTMENTS AT 1002 INFLATION RATE
TYPE A HOUSING
Wage/
INF.           22         42         62         82         102         122
100.02        118        125        132        140         151         163
95.02        142        153        166        184         208         245
90.02        189        216        261   25+ yrs    25+ yrs    25+ yrs
88.02        226        283   25+ yrs   25+ yrs    25+ yrs    25+ yrs
86.02   25+ yrs   25+ yrs   25+ yrs   25+ yrs    25+ yrs    25+ yrs
TYPE B HOUSING
Wage/
INF.           22         42         62         82         102         12Z
100.02         78         80         83         86          90          94
95.0Z         87         90         94         99         104         110
90.02        100        105        112        119         128         140
88.02        107        113        121        131         144         161
86.02        115        124        135        149         169         201
84.02        127        138        154        177         218    25+ yrs
82.02        142        160        187        241    25+ yrs    25+ yrs
80.0Z        166        199        280   25+ yrs    25+ yrs    25+ yrs
t8.02        214   25+ yrs   25+ yr.   25+ yrs    25+ yrs    25+ yrs
76.02   25+ yrs   25+ yrs   25+ yrs   25+ yr.    25+ yrs    25+ yrs



ANNEX 8
Page 6 of 7
SECTION B
Comparative cost Recovery Improvements by Type of Housing
Assuming 100I and no lags
1984      1985       1987       1988
- -------------Cost Recovery------------
Owner-occupied Housing---2-
House Type:        I                   37         57         67       100 1/
1I                  38         61         70)
)
III                  54         84         98)
)      100 2/
IV                  63        100        119)
)
V                  63        100        119)
Weighted Average Composite             47         74        90        100
1/ The previous Type I House is Equivalent to the new Type A House
2/ Type B Housing now includes all previous Housetypes II - V.



Pp 7 of 1 
ficTiom c
1. ~ ~ ~     ~      ~    ~    ~    '1 ContrutIo  Lo)anu                ."s,
Interest ratO                             401                 101 of ACP           me chenp        Nt  chds.ei
2 Mort8r o Los"
Initlal Interest rat
Housetypeo                                                     am                   103 at Act      Ij.e A.A'It
11            s12                    403                 50  oet AU'
IV             s0oll                soo  et Lct                          IJFge b.Aft
V                                   a3 m0               100 of ACP
Housetyp I                 I                                    gas l01              o cbhap        Ips  A. J'A
II             101                   153                                 rJ    i   3II
III              011                  313
IV             201                   253
V              50                   803
4. Upfront Loeanom
Housetypom                 1               2S                 No chanp              No.oheap        Type Ai Yt
II              83                                                       Type 5; 43
III              4S
IV              as
V               5e
5. Monthly Loan Pay"nt
AdJustment                               703 of 11            1002 of MW           M  cheanp       No Change
P.rc.,eO             Pereaoteop
chonea               changp
6. Loon Payment a* X of
Loon Amount                              Not defIned          No cheane            No cheane        Type A: 13
TypeS: 1.81
7. Maxlium Interest
Flnencine as X of
Loan                                      7OS                 20O0                 5003            N. li-;t
8. Eligibility -
MW Multiple.
Housetype:                 I             2.0-4.1              No cheapg             Ne chnge       Type A:up t  4 :
II            S.2-5.7              No Ceonp              No change       Type b:4.',;-:2 
III            4.8-7.4              4.0-12.0              No chaop
IV            6.8-10.0             4.0-12.0              No chanea
V            6.d-10.0              4.0-12.0             Ne chean



Annex 9
Page I of 3
mi~xco
Sacar, Content of lousLna Pollcy Statement of Feb. 19i7
(Vlviend DecLsiones Inatitutionales-Proarama 1967)
Introduction
During the first four years of the  4uintistration of President
Miguel de la MadrLd 3., the following key decisions were taken to
streogthen social policies related to housing#
(1)  The right to housing was raised to a constitutional right in
February 1983;
(2)  The Ministry of Urban Development end tcology was created in
1962 charged with the conduct of national housing policies;
(3)  The Federal Sousing Law was passed in 1985 amplifying on the
-now constitutional provislonsi
(4)  The mandatory investment of the public banking system vas
increased from 3 to  Z;
CS)  The Tondo Racional de labitaciones Populares was given
increased resources to sorve low incme  population groups;
(6)  Investor-owned rental housing was promoted by offerings of new
lines of credit and fiscal Incentives such as accelerated
depreciation and tax credits;
(7)  Increased efforts were made to decentralise by directing housing
program in areas other than the three main metropolitan areas;
CS)  Landbanks were created for use by the local authoritLes:
Polic, Decisions
In order to lcncres  the effectivemse  of Public Sector souslig the
following policy direction shall apply:
Cost &ecoverv
It is recopgied that prevent mortgap inetmts  date back to periods
when Inflation was low. Gradua aEjultMOts need to be mde to recover
greater amnts In order to expand the reach of the public programs. The
main vehicle for Inflation adjustment should be loan instrmuents based on
minimum wage multiples. The banking system shall gradually adjust initial
interest rates and the interest capitalisation limit.



A!NIX 9
Page 2 of 3
Resource Mobilization
In order to add resources for social housing the tapping of the reserves
of the Lnsurance copanies Is to be promoted *ad other specific saving
programs for bo9ing shal be establUstd.
Rural ousina
Loan lnstruheuts for rural housing will have to tako into account
peculiarities such *a the cyclical Income and the Inappr-orlate
relationship to the reference standard of the tnimum wage. In order
to reach Increasingly rural groups it ts the ltention to servo first
cooperative organizations. lousing for very low income groups will be
provided with budgetary funding.
Rental Housini
Further fiscal incentives shall be provlded related to general tax
credits and tax breaks on Income. Lines of credlt will be promoted to
allow the purchase of the housing unit by rentors thereby freeing capital
for ndv rental investmnts. Finally administrative barriers will be
gradually decreased.
Urban Reneval
Special lines of credit shall be *stablished to facilitate the
rehabilitation of housing in dense urban areas wbich otherwise would
require *etensive demolition.
Land Acauisition
The scarcity of land shall be reduced by the creation of landbanks. award
of proper titles to illegal landholders, and the upgrading of
Infrastructure. fiscal and loan Incentives shall bo given to encourage the
building of housing In areas closest to existing infrastructure.
Norms and Techbolomy
given tbh disperson of moma. related to buildfig materials and components,
technologies to reduce  costruction cots ha"e been slow to devlop.
Therefore a progrm  to staarsol  mos    shall be *stablished.
Slalilfication of Administrative Procedures
Complicated a*4initrative procedures are a maJor cause for overly long
construction periods.  Threfore at te muicipal loel efforts will be
made to desipate a single office where all the requLred permits and
designs shall be procssed. Aloo efforts will be made to standrdize the
required application forms. finally the ortgage registration procedures
will be simplified and be based oan ainimu salary multiples with a view to
reduce applicable fees.



Aef 
bousLa. Proarm  for 19?1
It is the intention of the @ovenmat to sattsfy housiUg dmand as a
consequence of population &rak setimate  at abot 300,000 units per
yea:. It is *timted that - Saves_t. by 4a1 %usn$g authorities
of 1 2.4 billion duIg 196? vill _ente &a_t 350.000 loans. Only 152
of the resources will be directe  to the the min mtropolitan areas
Obligations of ote  PorPatcist
To help in the achlevmsat of the hoetss   Prepen, the Gouzuinnt ezpects
that$
Producers of builditg materals will offer penfereatial pricesg
lousLng developers will offer discomtoase house prices
Notary Publics will offer preferetial feess
Professional Associations wil offer apropriate advLce;
Rural groups will prowto mrs effective organisationsa
The organizations of workers will promato weasures to Increase
the financial capacity of the payroll fuds.



ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 3
Mr. Barber Conable
President
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
Washington, D.C. 20433
Re: Housina Sector Policies
Dear Sir:
Because of the large housing deficit, the Government of Mexico
(GOM) has given increased importance to the housing sector in recent years.
Consequently, important legal, administrative and financial measures were
taken to expand both the housing output and housing finance which
contracted because of high inflation and decreases in real wages. To
demonstrate the high social priority GOM gives to the improvement of access
to appropriate housing for all Mexican families, the right to housing was
incorporated into the Mexican Constitution in February 1983. In addition,
a Federal Housing Law was passed in December 1983, defining the objectives
and strategies and the Government's role in policy guidance and norm-
setting.  Subsequently, to further clarify the Government's role in
housing, in February 1987, additional principles of housing policies were
published.  The Government is committed to carrying out the policies stated
in its February 1987 statement as further documented in the February 1988
publication of the 1988 housing program (both publications are annexed
hereto).1 Within this overall housing sector policy framework, the Federal
Government has strengthened housing finance institutions such as the Fondo
de Habitaciones Populares (FONHAPO) and the Fondo de Operacion y
Financiamiento Bancario a la Vivienda (FOVI), allocated more resources for
owner occupied as well as rental housing and fostered the decentralization
of housing investments.
The implementation of these housing policies has been taking place
at a time when the GOM has been carrying out a stabilization program. At
the same time, inflation has fluctuated widely and reached relatively high
levels during the entire period. The economic environment during these
years has been therefore a difficult one for housing.
To compensate for reduced housing finance, the GOM has taken a
number of measures in the financial sector to support housing investments.
First, it has introduced a new mortgage loan instrument better suited to
family cash flow and to cost recovery needs even under high inflation.
Second, it has supplemented the housing finance to FONHAPO and FOVI. In
the immediate future, the Government proposed to take, and in some case is
in the process of taking, a number of further initiatives in the housing
sector including those spelled out below:
1/ Available in project file.



-2-
ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 3
1.       The Role of the Public Sector
As already noted, housing programs supported by the public sector
have assumed a large share of the formal market in recent years because of
the lack of resources supplied by households themselves and commercial
financial institutions. The GOM is aware of the need to maintain a balance
between the initiatives of the commercial and the publicly supported parts
of the housing sector. To this effect GOM will further support
decentralization actions in order to increase the role of different parts
of the public and private sectors.
Initiatives to attract additional investors in rental properties
will remain crucial as publicly-owned rental housing projects have in
general not proved to be efficient solutions. It is the intention of GOM
to carry out a study on (i) current status of the rental housing market;
and (ii) the investors' capacity to increase total supply including rental
properties with smaller units. Such study would be completed by December
31, 1989 and its conclusions would be discussed with the Bank within three
months thereafter. Based on the result of the tudy. it is the intention
of GOM to adopt appropriate actions.
Vis-a-vis the payroll funds, GOM has begun major reforms to
promote improvements in cost recovery and access of contributors. In fact,
in 1987. cost recovery levels were raised in the case of the largest
payroll funds, INFONAVIT, from previously 14Z to over 60Z. In 1988 similar
efforts are envisaged for the other major fund, FOVISSSTE.
2.       Coordination of Public Proaram
The Government will further improve the coordination of the
different housing programs which were initiated during the last decades
under different conditions. Specifically, the GOM will monitor any
overlapping of programs and the consistency of subsidies and mortgage loan
terms. Of particular importance is the ability of programs to recycle
resources and to serve the most pressing needs.
3.       Mobilization of Savings
The GOM is aware that there is considerable potential to tap
savings from households and institutions. It therefore intends to support a
task force of the Mexican Association of Banks in their study of the
following matters:
(1) The existing disincentives which prevent the mobilization of
small savings from households and potential house buyers; and
(2) Alternative long-term savings instruments issued by banks
which recognize the special motivation of households to save
for housing and the special attraction of mortgage backed
securities to institutional investors.



ANNEX 10
Page 3 of 3
The above review by the Mexican Association of Banks is expected to be
completed by March 31, 1989. Within three months of the completion of the
study, the results would be reviewed by GOM and discussed with the Bank.
If as a result of the study, the 0OM determines that actions are advisable,
including the possible role of FOVI in supporting secondary markets, then
it is the intention of the GOM to implement such actions.
4.       Cost Recovery
As mentioned above, in 1984 the Government introduced for the
mandatory lending by the banks a now mortgage loan instrument with monthly
loan repayments set in terms of a portion of family income with subsequent
adjustments in terms of the percentage change in the minimum wage. This
feature ensures that the capacity to pay by borrowers is maintained
throughout the life of the mortgage loan. At the same time, the
authorities increased loan recovery in real terms by allowing the financing
of unpaid interest up to a limit called the interest capitalization limit.
In view of the high level of inflation, interest rates and capitalization
limits were progressively raised in 1986 and 1987. Finally in March 1988,
the Central Bank issued new regulations allowing commercial banks to charge
interest rates equal to the reference rate (Costo Porcentual Promedio de
Captacion or CPP) and to lift the interest capitalization limit entirely.
With these reforms cost recovery will b: brought to 1002 an-d becoe
independent of inflation. To support the financing by the commercial banks
for housing under the new regulations, it is the intention of GOM to
continue to actively promote the necessary actions at the state level,
which may include a variety of instruments such as legal reforms,
administrative changes or executive orders.
The improvements in cost recovery from about 402 in 1984 to 10OO
in 1988 have shown that the CON has not only developed a new mortgage
instrument adapted to Inflation but also has acted consistently with actual
measures to assure that inflation does not erode desired cost recovery
levels and has already achieved full cost recovery.
Finally the GO0 intends to maintain the cost recovery levels
achieved so far and to continue its efforts to raise cost recovery levels
of other public housing program.s
Sincerely,
UNXTED MMEICAN STATES
Represented by:
Undersecretaries of Rousing of SEDUE
and Hacienda y Credito Publico.



ANNEX 11
MEXICO
HOUSING FINANCE PROJECT
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
Disbursement         Disbursement
Fiscal          Semester      During               Cumulative
Year          EndinR         Semester- US$M       USSM                 Z
1989           31 December          0                    0              0
1990           30 June             33                   33             11
31 December        33                   66             22
1991           30 June             34                  100             33
31 December        33                  133             44
1992           30 June             34                  167             56
31 December         33                 200             67
1993           30 June             33                  233             77
31 December        34                  267             89
1994           30 June             33                  300            100



ANNEX 12
MEXICO
HOUSING FINANCE PROJECT
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
(1)      Banco de Mexico, Estudio sobre al Financiamiento al Sector
Vivienda, Volumes I to VI, Septiembre de 1986;
(2)      Banco de Mexico, FOVI - Informe Programa 1982 y 1983;
(3)      Banco de Mexico, Report on the Examination of the Financial
Statements as of December 1985;
(4)      Banco de Mexico, FOVI - Estado de Contabilidad de Octubre de 1986;
(5)      Banco de Mexico, FOVI - Estado de Contabilidad al 31 de Diciembre
de 1986;
(6)      Banco de Mexico, FOVI - Estado de Contabilidad al 30 de Avril de
1987;
(7)      FOVI, Informes de Auditoria al 31 de Diciembre de 1985 y de 1986,
Horacio Ojeda Paullada y Asociados;
(8)      Banco de Mexico, Series of R6gulatory Instructions on Mandatory
Housing Lending;
(9)      SEDUE, Vivienda - Decisiones Institucionales - Programa 1987,
Febrero de 1987;
(10)     SEDUE, Sintesis del Estudio sobre la Rentabilidad del la Inversion
en Vivienda para Arrendamiento para las Personas Morales, Mayo de
1987;
(11)     SEDUE, Programa Especial de Vivienda, Septiembre de 1986;
(12)     FONHAPO, Reglas de Operacion y Politicas de Administracion
Crediticia, Enero de 1987;
(13)     FOVISSSTE, Respuesta del FOVISSSTE a las Politicas de Recuperaci6n
Crediticia, Mayo de 1987;
(14)     INFONAVIT, Analisis del Sistema Crediticio del INFONAVIT y
Propuesta para su Modificacion, Mayo de 1987;
(15)     Banco Nacional de Mexico, Perfil del Sujeto de Credito, Mayo de
1987;
(16)     Banco Nacional de Mexico, Vivienda de Interes Social, Noviembre de
1986;
(17)     Mission folder containing key single documents on different
subjects.



