Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USIE ONLY
Report No. 13142
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
HOUSING FINANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2947-ME)
JUNE 13, 1994
Infrastructure and Energy Division
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of November 1, 1993)
Current Unit              =     Mexican Pesos Nuevos (NP$)
US$1.00                   =     3.15 Mexican Pesos Nuevos
Monthly Minimum Wage
(Federal District)        =     428.1 Mexican Pesos Nuevos (as of
1/1/93)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BANOBRAS           Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Pblicos S.N.C.
(National Development Bank for Public Works and
Services)
CETES              Certificados de la Tesorerfa de la Federaci6n (Treasury
Bills)
CPP                Costo Promedio Porcentual de Captaci6n (Average Cost
of Funds to the Banking System)
FONHAPO            Fondo Nacional de Habitaciones Populares (Govemment
Low-Income Housing Fund)
FOVI               Fondo de Operaci6n y Financiamiento Bancario a la
Vivienda (Housing Fund for Commercial Banks)
FOVISSSTE          Fondo de la Vivienda del Instituto de Seguridad y
Servicios Sociales de los Trabajadores del Estado (Housing
Fund of the Social Security System for State Service
Worker
FSAL               Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
INFONAVIT          Instituto del Fondo Nacional de la Vivienda para los
Trabajadores (Institute of the National Housing Fund for
Workers)
SEDUE              Formerly the Secretarfa de Desarrollo Urbano y Ecologfa
(Ministry of Urban Development and Ecology), the
Secretarfa de Desarrollo Social (SEDESOL), the Ministry
of Social Development
SHCP               Secretarfa de Hacienda y Cr6dito Publico (Ministry of
Finance and Public Credit)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluarion
June 13, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Mexico
Housing Finance Project (Loan 2947-ME)
Attached is the 'Project Completion Report on Mexico - Housing Finance Project
(Loan 2947-ME)" prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Region. Part n was
prepared by the executing agency of the Borrower.
This was the first Bank assistance to the housing finance sector in Mexico. The
US$300.0 million loan was to support housing finance reforms and to increase the supply of
affordable housing for the low-income urban population. The entire loan was disbursed 26
months before the original closing date despite a one-year delay before effectiveness.
The project was successfully implemented because "ownership" was ensured
through local preparation, enabling regulatory environment, and ability to seek and find practical
solutions to problems. The least favorable outcome was the sliding of the targeting from low- to
higher-income groups endorsed by the Bank which waived eligibility ceilings. The most
encouraging outcomes were the participation of the commercial banks in financing housing, and
the deregulation (notably of the steep notary fees on real estate transfers) decided by the
goverment in 1992. Sector studies led to measures to mobilize savings for housing and to
promote rental housing investment.
The PCR gives a satisfactory account of the project and the reasons for its success.
Overall, the project is rated as satisfactory, its sustainability as likely, and its institutional impact as
substantial.
The project may be audited together with other large housing projects in Latin
America.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
HOUSING FINANCE PROJECT (LOAN 2947-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE   .            .....................................    i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY   ..........                     ..        ...............   ii
PART 1: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ... I
Project Identity ....................................  1
Background .          ...................................... 1
Project Objectives and Description ........................  3
Project Preparation, Design and Organization  .................  4
Project Implementation  ...............................  6
Project Results .................................... 12
Project Sustainability ................................ 14
Bank Performance .................................. 15
FOVI Performance ................................. 16
Project Relationship ................................. 16
Consulting Services ................................. 16
Project Documentation and Data ......................... 16
Findings and Lessons Learned .......................... 17
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE EXECUTING
AGENCY'S (FOVI'S) PERSPECTIVE  ................ 19
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION ................. 23
Table I   Related Bank Loans   ..23
Table 2   Project Timetable    ..23
Table 3         Cumulative Estimated and Actual Loan Disbursements . .. 24
Table 4    Status of Major Loan Covenants  .                       .24
Table 5   Use of Bank Resources   .                          .26
Ths document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






i
MEXICO
HOUSING FINANCE PROJECT (LOAN 2947-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
1.    This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Housing Finance
Project for which Loan 2947-ME in the amount of US$300.0 million was
approved in June 1988. The loan was closed in April 1992 approximately 26
months ahead of the appraisal estimate. It was fully disbursed and the last
disbursement was in April 1992.
2.    The PCR was jointly prepared by the Infrastructure and Energy
Operations Division on the Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
(Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and the executing agency
(FOVI), which prepared its own extensive project completion report that the
Bank reviewed when preparing the PCR. The FOVI report is summarized as
Part II of the PCR, and the full text is available in LAC files.
3.    Preparation of this PCR was started in August 1993, and is based,
inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan, Project and Guarantee
Agreements; supervision reports; studies carried out under the project;
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; interviews with Bank
staff and with Mexican government officials; and internal Bank memoranda.






ii
MEXICO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HOUSING FINANCE PROJECT (LOAN 2947-ME)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.    The primary project objectives were to: (i) support housing finance
reforms allowing commercial banks to achieve full cost recovery on
mandatory housing loans; (ii) stimulate the introduction of savings schemes
geared to households and institutions; (iii) increase the supply of affordable
housing to the lower income segments of the population, especially through
the testing of a new lower price housing product; (iv) provide a strong
incentive to state governments to reform speedily mortgage registration
procedures necessary to register mortgage liens which fully cover interest
capitalization; and (v) widen the sector dialogue to include the role of the
public sector, coordination of public housing programs, and policies related
to investment in rental housing and mobilization of savings by households
and institutions (para. 3.01).
Implementation Experience
2.    The loan was approved in June and signed in September 1988.
However, the loan was not made effective for more than a year until
November 1989. This long delay occurred because the Government
introduced a new system for transferring foreign loan funds to project
implementing agencies. Accordingly, the proposal had to be examined
carefully by Bank staff. The Loan, Guarantee and Project Agreements had to
be formally amended and, as the amendments were intended to serve as a
model for modifying the legal documents of other previously approved Bank
loans, Board approval was sought. Despite this long delay, the loan was
fully disbursed in April 1992, some 26 months earlier than expected as FOVI
made up for the significant drop in commercial bank lending for lower cost
housing when the mandatory lending requirement was removed (paras. 5.01
and 5.02).
3.    Due to a shorter disbursement period than expected and a steady
increase in housing costs during the project implementation period, fewer
lower income houses were financed than expected during appraisal.
Moreover, the commercial banks, which were expected to finance a



iii
significant number of lower income houses with their own resources,
significantly reduced their lending for such housing, preferring to lend for
higher priced housing. This was the direct result of Government action in
March 1989, as part of a plan to restructure and liberalize the financial
system, to eliminate interest rate controls and mandatory lending
requirements (paras. 5.02 and 5.03).
4.    During project implementation, limitations on the capitalization of
interest on housing loans (which prevented full cost recovery) were
eliminated and the costs of registering mortgages were significantly reduced
by defining housing credits in multiples of the minimum wage. In May
1989, FOVI introduced an auction system for allocating its funds. The
auctions have been highly successful, and permits builders to plan their
construction and directs funds to the most efficient builders (paras. 5.04 and
5.05).
5.    Two waivers were made to loan covenants during project
implementation. Due to an increase in the cost of houses FOVI financed, the
Bank authorized on an exceptional basis the financing of a somewhat higher
priced unit. It also approved a waiver to allow for increases in the maximum
sales price of the FOVI-financed houses (in terms of minimum wages)
throughout the year, in line with the anticipated inflation rate for that year, to
compensate for the lag between inflation and the adjustment in the minimum
wage. The policy dialogue was advanced during project implementation by
discussions between the Government and the Bank on the rental and savings
mobilization studies and on the findings of the pilot program for marketing
lower cost houses (paras. 5.06 to 5. 11).
Results
6.    Although the amounts of housing finance going to the lowest housing
solutions financed by FOVI declined from the mid-1980s level, when the
commercial banks were forced to lend for this type of housing, overall
housing finance increased as credit subsidies were eliminated and the banks
adopted financing mechanisms similar to FOVI's and charged market interest
rates on such lending with their own resources. As a result, commercial
bank lending for housing with their own resources increased from US$450
million in 1989 to some US$5.2 billion in 1992, compared with an average
of US$880 million between 1983 and 1987 (para. 6.01).
7.    The auctions of FOVI funds facilitated the entrance of new promoters
and gave an advantage to the more efficient promoters and builders. They
also provided an incentive for the states to reduce administrative burdens and
costs on housing in order that promoters could develop projects which could



iv
obtain FOVI financing. Accordingly, this resulted in a much stronger FOVI
as it enhlanced its reputation by taking a leading role in achieving agreemenits
with the states to simplify regulatory procedures in housing. Moreover, the
achievements of FOVI in designing tlhe new financing instrument for housing
and refining it to produce positive market returns were not only important for
financing by commercial banks but also for the programs of the payroll
contribution funds which were also important in housing finance in Mexico
(paras. 6.03 to 6.05).
8.    The studies carried out under the loan identified measures needed to
mobilize savings and promote investment in rental housing, and steps have
been taken in both these areas. The pilot program for lower cost housing
was instrumental in identifying needed reforms in local regulatory rules for
housing. Experience under the loan was also instrumental in identifying the
need for finding another more suitable index for adjusting mortgages than the
minimum wage and a more effective index is being sought. Finally, the loan
was important for advancing the sectoral dialogue and in identifying the
policies needed to be addressed in the follow-up loan to FOVI, the Housing
Market Development Project (Loan 3497-ME) (paras. 6.06 to 6.08).
Sustainability
9.    Two Bank loans have been made subsequent to the Housing Finance
Loan, the Second Low-Income Housing Loan (3140-ME) to FONHAPO in
1989 and a Housing Market Development Loan (3497-ME) to FOVI in 1992.
Both projects have extended and cemented the reforms initiated under the
Housing Finance Loan. In October 1992, the federal and state governments
undertook a program to deregulate the housing sector and to reduce the cost
of building permits, service rights, title registration and taxes. Notaries have
agreed to limit notary fees for title registration. In order to implement the
sweeping land reform made in 1992, the Government has initiated land
certification and titling programs in each state which are expected to
eventually relieve a significant constraint to housing development. In late
1992 and early 1993, the housing funds for private and public sector
employees respectively introduced new policies and mechanisms to improve
their efficiency, financial self-sufficiency and the transparency of their
operations. Finally, the Government is carrying out a study to develop a
secondary market for mortgages to broaden the housing finance market and
mak-e it more liquid (paras. 7.01 to 7.05).
Finding and Lessons Learned
10.   As spelled out in Part 11, the objectives of the project were achieved
and exceeded in several areas. The project was well designed and timely and



v
was supported by a sound and comprehensive set of sectoral policy
objectives. Despite a significant delay in the making the loan effective it was
rapidly and successfully implemented. When problems emerged, creative
solutions were developed, for example, to adjust financing terms to make
housing more affordable when housing costs increased in real terms relative
to the minimum wage. Also, the FOVI auction system became a useful
device to assist promoters to plan their home building projects, to channlel
resources to the more efficient builders, and to provide state and local
governments with an incentive to simplify and make more efficient their
regulatory frameworks for housing and to reduce housing costs, as home
builders could construct and sell houses at lower cost in those states. These
achievements can be attributed in large part to entrusting project
implementation to a highly competent trust fund which had a long record of
achievement and which had the full support of its trustee, the Bank of
Mexico, which provided it with intellectual leadership and support in
achieving its objectives (para. 13.01).
11.   Another important factor in project success was that the project was
designed in Mexico, based on studies carried out by the government and
reflected sector policies supported by the government. Bank staff played a
supportive role in extending and defining more clearly the policy framework
and widened the housing policy dialogue in the areas of housing program
coordination and housing finance harmonization. This contributed to project
success and the achievement of significant policy reforms in housing finance
and in the operations of key sector institutions such as INFONAVIT,
FOVISSSTE and FONHAPO (para. 13.02).
12.   Key project objectives to reduce housing credit subsidies, stabilize
housing finance flows and increase savings mobilization were fully consistent
with the government's objectives to reform the financial sector. These
reforms were fully supported by the Bank under the Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan. Bank resources under the Housing Finance Project eased
the impact on lending for low cost housing caused by the elimination of
mandatory lending requirements. Interest rate liberalization increased lending
to the housing sector. The harmonization of project objectives in Bank loans
to the same or related sectors was important in achieving success of
individual projects and in addressing broader sectoral issues (para. 13.03).



MEXICO
HOUSING FINANCE PROJECT (LOAN 2947-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity
Name                       Housing Finance Project
Loan Number                2947-ME
RVP Unit                   Latin America and the Caribbean
Country                    Mexico
Sector                     Infrastructure/Finance
Subsector                  Housing
2.    Background
2.01        Mexico's Housing and Housing Finance System. Mexico
has suffered from chronic housing shortages for many years. In 1988, at the
time the project was being prepared, the country's housing deficit was
estinated at 5 million units, and was expected to grow over time. Statistical
data is imprecise, but it appears that recent efforts, including Bank projects in
the housing sector, have slowed growth in the housing deficit. The housing
problem was compounded by the population's uneven and generally low
capacity to generate savings for housing financing and the scarcity of long-
term housing finance. Mexico had a highly segmented structure of housing
supply. During the decade prior to 1988, about two thirds of new housing
was supplied by the informal sector, i.e. the households themselves (self-help
construction), and the remainder had been financed equally by public
programs and commercial banks. Starting around 1985, the informal sector
and commercial banks began to reduce their voluntary participation in the
sector while the relative importance of public programs increased in response
to adverse economic developments. High inflation, which reached a peak of
170% in 1987, and declining real wages had a negative effect on the
availability and affordability of housing finance, and on availability of
savings for down-payments on homes. Also, at that time, Central Bank
(Banco de Mexico) regulations required commercial banks to lend 6% of
their total resources for "social interest" housing loans, directed at families
earning between 2 and 12 minimum wages. Because of the large differential
between mortgage portfolio yields and the average cost of funds to the



2
commercial banks (known as "CPP", Costo Promedio Porcentual de
Captaci6n, a key reference rate in Mexico's financial system) foregone
revenues of the commercial banks amounted to US$670 million equivalent in
1986. These revenue losses forced commercial banks to increase interest
rates on their unregulated loan portfolio to offset, at least partially, these
losses. The "Fondo de Operacion y Financiamiento Bancario a la Vivienda
(FOVI), a trust fund of the Central Bank, was also providing finanicing for
housing through the commercial banks but the banks were allowed to make a
financial spread on such lending.
2.02         In order to address the severe credit subsidy problem resulting
from higih and increasing levels of inflation and low fixed interest mortgage
rates under the mandatory lending system, the Central Bank had authorized
commercial banks to use a new variable rate mortgage in 1984. Because of
expected resistance from borrowers, Central Bank regulations initially set
interest rates on mortgages well below market rates, and commercial banks
were unable to fully recovery their costs on such loans. As inflation
continued to climb, the Central Bank made significant modifications to its
regulations governing the variable rate mortgage in 1986 aiid 1987 to reduce
subsidies, before issuinig in March 1988 new rules that would allow
commercial banks to achieve full cost recovery on the variable rate mortgage
loans (this was a Board condition of the Housing Finanice Project). The key
features of the mortgage instrument approved in 1988 were: (a) interest rates
were equal to CPP; (b) monthly loan payment defined as a percentage of the
loan amount and adjusted in parallel with the minimum wage to ensure
affordability; (c) no limit on capitalization of interest, in case the loan
payment is insufficient to cover the interest due; and (d) a flexible loan
maturity subject to a 20 year maximum. The achievement of full cost
recovery was seen as a key step in sustaining housing finance flows after
mandatory lending requirements were eliminated. Thlese were also seen as
an important contribution to interest rate and financial sector rationalization.
2.03         The Bank's Prior Involvement and Strategy for Mexico's
Housing Sector. The Bank began its direct involvement with Mexico's
housing sector in 1985 when it approved Loan 2612-ME, the Low Income
Housing Project. This loan was to be the first in a series of lending
operations in the housing sector with the aim of opening a policy dialogue
that would address issues such as capital recovery and the measurement,
control and reduction of housing finance subsidies, while improving
distributional equity in the allocation of housing credit. As agreed under this
loan, a very comprehensive housing finance study was carried out by the
Central Bank in 1986 in close consultation with the Bank to serve as the main
vehicle for a thorough dialogue on housing finance. The study's analysis and
findinigs contributed to the changes made in 1986 through 1988 in the lending



3
terms of the mandatory system of housing finance through the commercial
banks to increase cost recovery (para. 2.02), and provided important input to
the Government's formulation of its Housing Policy Statement issued in
February 1987.
2.04         The Bank's overall strategy in the housing sector was to
support the Government's policies and reforms aimed at expanding the
efficient supply of low and middle income housing through improvements in
cost recovery and further streamlining of regulations related to housing
financing. Continued Bank assistance, through the provision of financial
resources, technical analyses and policy support was considered to be critical
to achieving further progress in, and the deepening of, housing sector
reforms in Mexico.
3.    Project Objectives and Description
3.01        The primary project objectives were to: (i) support housing
finance reforms allowing commercial banks to achieve full cost recovery on
their mandatory housing loans; (ii) stimulate the introduction of savings
schemes for housing geared to households and institutions; (iii) increase the
supply of affordable housing to the lower income segments of the population,
especially through the testing of a new lower price housing product; (iv)
provide a strong incentive to state governments to reform speedily mortgage
registration procedures necessary to register mortgage liens which fully cover
interest capitalization; and (v) widen the sector dialogue to include the role of
the public sector, coordination of public housing programs, and policies
related to investment in rental housing and mobilization of savings by
households and institutions.
3.02        The project was to help finance construction and individual
mortgage loans' made by commercial banks during 1988 to 1993, targeted to
households with incomes up to 4.0 minimum wages (about US$5,250 p.a. in
March 1988 prices), defined as Type A housing. The loan would fund only
those housing loans which incorporated the March 1988 Central Bank
regulations that allow full cost recovery. It was estimated that 300,000 Type
A houses would be constructed during the period with about 19% being
financed by the loan. Bank financing was limited to 80% of the selling price
of houses for construction subloans and to 90% for purchase subloans. Also,
1 Although the report states that mortgages were financed with Bank resources, they were
financed only in those cases where the housing would not have been built absent a prior
mortgage financing commitment to assure that the "productive purposes" requirement of the
Bank's Articles of Agreement are respected.



4
to facilitate the test marketing of a new lower priced house the loan provided
financing for such a pilot test. The project also included studies related to
savings mobilization and investment in rental properties.
4.    Project Preparation, Design and Organization
4.01         Project identification was closely related to the review in
November 1985 of the preliminary findings of the Housing Finance Study
carried out by the Central Bank under the Low Income Housing Project,
Loan 2612-ME. A project brief was prepared by the Bank in March 1986
for a second low income housing project which identified the need to
improve cost recovery and introduce new resource mobilization schemes such
as contractual savings schemes and housing bonds to be sold to long term
investors to generate increased resources for housing finance.
4.02         During project preparation, the Bank and Mexican authorities
agreed on the need for the government to develop a housing policy statement
outlining its objectives with respect to strategies for institutional
development, cost recovery, mobilization of funds, public/private sector
roles, spatial distribution and the coordination of housing sector activities.
The government hesitated to give a specific timetable for policy reforms and
strategy implementation during the 1987/88 political transition period, but
issued a sectoral policy statement in February 1987 which formed the basis
for longer term measures. The Bank concluded that it still needed a policy
letter in support of the project to cover additional measures such as
liberalizing the housing market, underlining the importance of improving cost
recovery, expanding family and institutional savings for housing, addressing
the issue of rent control and the development of clearer policies to stimulate
investment in rental properties and providing a clearer statement of
government policy on the payroll funds to assure that they would not be used
to increase housing subsidies as those provided through the banking system
were reduced. The additional policy measures identified areas in which the
government has subsequently taken important actions (e.g. beginning to
eliminate rent controls, reforming the payroll funds, establishing mechanisms
to augment savings, etc.)
4.03         During project preparation, Bank staff initially recommended
that the loan be tranched to assure progress in achieving full cost recovery by
requiring that housing loans on average bear the average cost of funds of the
commercial banks (CPP). At the same time, Mexican authorities requested,
and the Bank agreed, that the loan amount be increased from $200 million to
$300 million to increase Bank support for sectoral reform. Bank staff also
proposed measures to mobilize savings for housing through the introduction



5
of a system for allocating mortgages according to individual's savings
performance.
4.04         Prior to appraisal, the Central Bank revised its regulations to
increase interest rates on mortgage loans and then increased them again after
appraisal to CPP to reduce the interest rate subsidy even further. At the
same time, it revised other regulations to eliminate any limitation on the
amount of interest that could be capitalized on mortgage loans (para. 2.02).
During negotiations, it was agreed that the entire loan would only be
disbursed for housing loans which incorporated loan terms designed to
achieve full cost recovery. Accordingly, Bank management decided not to
tranche the loan to achieve the elimination of interest rate subsidies. Full
cost recovery was defined as lending at the CPP interest rate with unlimited
interest capitalization, although full cost recovery would in fact require that
housing loans be made at market interest rates (i.e. CPP plus a spread to
cover the commercial banks risks, costs and investment return). The Bank
also decided that the feasibility of allocating mortgage loans according to
savings performance would be taken up in a savings mobilization study
included as part of the project (see para. 4.06).
4.05         Bank loan proceeds were to be provided to FOVI by
BANOBRAS (Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.N.C., the
borrower) in pesos at 1.5% below FOVI's relending rates to the commercial
banks. The commercial banks would onlend the funds to project
beneficiaries (private developers for construction loans and individual home
buyers for longer term housing loans) at interest rates and amortization
periods in accordance with Bank of Mexico's mandatory housing lending
regulations which provided that the banks would repay FOVI on the same
terms except that they would retain up to a 3 % spread. The terms on which
loan funds were provided to FOVI were changed by the introduction of a
new system for transferring foreign loan funds to project implementing
agencies, as explained in para 5.01. However, FOVI's relending rates were
not affected by the new system. The financial spreads allowed under FOVI
lending to the commercial banks were marginally attractive and were
supplemented by commissions allowed by FOVI beginning in 1990 (para
5.12).
4.06        There was a clear conceptual framework for the project with a
primary focus on improving and extending the use of a new lending
instrument to reduce subsidies within the 6% investment requirements, since
without it banks might not have lent for housing. This was expected to pave
the way for expanded commercial bank lending for housing on market terms.
Other project objectives were closely related and were directed to increasing
the mobilization of resources for housing and seeking less expensive housing



6
solutions to reach poorer segments of society. These were Government
objectives as spelled out in its statement of housing sector policies provided
to the Bank under the loan (para. 4.02). The project also included studies on
savings mobilization and rental policy to assist in extending the dialogue on
housing policy. An extension of the housing policy dialogue was being
carried out in the framework not only of the Housing Finance Project but
also of Bank lending through the government low-income housing agency,
FONHAPO, through the Low Income Housing Project which was followed
up by a second Low Income Housing Project in 1989.
4.07        Project objectives were well understood and supported by all
the parties including: SEDUE (Secretaria de Desarrollo Urbano y Ecologia)
which was responsible for developing and administering overall housing
policies in Mexico; the Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico, which was
responsible for implementing government public investment policy, of which
housing investment was an important component because of its social and
employment creating aspects; project beneficiaries, especially promoters,
builders and prospective home owners who were interested in a more stable
source of housing finance; and the Central Bank which was interested in
perfecting FOVI's new housing finance instrument to make housing
affordable and to reduce housing credit subsidies which were a burden on
commercial banks and affected their profitability and financial condition
negatively and were an obstacle to financial sector liberalization.
4.08        The project was well prepared by the government, principally
by FOVI, a trust fund with some 25 years of experience in housing finance
when the loan was made. The roles and responsibilities of the parties (the
government, FOVI, promoters, commercial banks) responsible for each
aspect of the project were clearly defined and well understood as were the
risks which were mainly of a financial loss to promotors. The timing of the
project was also fortuitous for commercial banks. World Bank funds became
available to sustain housing finance just when new financing by the
commercial banks was declining precipitously, because of concerns about
providing long-term mortgage finance in a highly unstable inflationary
environment. New commercial bank financing for housing was falling first
as amounts of interest capitalization were increased (thereby increasing the
nominal value of housing loans and fulfilling the mandatory requirement for
lending for housing) and second when the mandatory requirements were
eliminated entirely as a result of financial sector liberalization.
5.    Project Implementation
5.01        The loan was approved by the Board on June 2, 1988 and
signed on September 28, 1988. However, the loan was not made effective



7
for more than a year until November 16, 1989. This long delay occurred
because the government used this project to introduce a new system for
transferring foreign loan funds to project implementing agencies (spelled out
in the "Normatividad") aimed at establishing a transparent system of
transferring resources to trust funds and development banks and controlling
their administrative expenses and credit subsidies. The Housing Finance
Project was the first Bank loan to be affected by these new arrangements and
it took some months for the Bank to agree on their use and to reflect them in
the transfer of funds agreement required under the loan. Moreover, the new
arrangement for transferring funds through BANOBRAS, the borrower, to
the Central Bank, trustee for FOVI, the project implementing agency,
required a change in the terms for onlending resources under the loan.
Instead of onlending the proceeds of the loan to FOVI at 1.5 % below FOVI's
relending rate to the commercial banks as originally specified, BANOBRAS
would relend the funds to FOVI at the government's Treasury bill rate
(CETES). FOVI's relending rates to commercial banks were unaffected by
the new procedures. The government agreed to provide FOVI with resources
equivalent to any subsidy it provided and FOVI's administrative costs were
budgeted, monitored and adjusted if required by the government. It took
some months before the new arrangements could be satisfactorily reflected in
a subsidiary loan agreement between BANOBRAS and the Central Bank.
Moreover, the Loan, Guarantee and Project Agreements had to be formally
amended and, as the amendments were intended to serve as a model for
modifying the legal documents of other previously approved Bank loans,
Board approval was sought. Approval was obtained in September 1989.
5.02        Despite the more than one year delay in making it effective,
the loan was fully disbursed by the end of April 1992, some 26 months faster
than estimated at appraisal. Loan funds financed housing construction carried
out during the years 1989 through 1991 rather than the longer 1988 through
1993 period forecast during project appraisal. To a large extent, as discussed
below (para 5.03), FOVI made up for the significant drop in commercial
bank lending for lower cost housing after the 6% mandatory requirement was
removed in the context of the Financial Adjustment Loan (FSAL, Loan 3085-
ME) approved in 1989. The significant increase in the average selling price
of houses financed also increased the rate of loan disbursements. It was
estimated at appraisal that 300,000 Type A houses would be financed
between 1988 and 1993, involving total financing of US$1,419 million, of
which about 146,000, involving financing of US$691 million would be
financed during the 1989 through 1991 period. Average financing was
expected to amount to US$4,730 per housing unit. However, prior to the
initiation of disbursements, and during the project implementation period,
there was a steady increase in housing costs in real terms (see para 5.06) and
the average value of the mortgages financed by FOVI in the period 1989-



8
1991 was US$10,043, more than double the expected amount. FOVI
financed 78,815 mortgage loans during the period 1989-1991 mainly for
Type A housing with a total value of US$791.6 million. Some 31,411 of
these mortgages were financed with Bank resources, with an average
mortgage value of US$9,550 (Type A houses alone had a mortgage value of
US$9,470). Bank funds were estimated to have benefitted some 170,000
people (see Part II).
5.03        The commercial banks, which were expected to finance with
their own resources about 59,000 of the 146,000 Type A houses during the
1989-91 period, virtually withdrew from this segment of the market,
preferring to lend for higher cost housing. This was the direct result of
government action in March 1989, to restructure and liberalize the financial
system (and with the support of the FSAL), to eliminate interest rate controls
and mandatory commercial bank lending requirements. In the years 1989-
1991, commercial banks made 167,530 mortgage loans with their own
resources totalling some US$4,717.5 million representing an average
mortgage loan of US$28,160 equivalent. While FOVI provided financing
with Bank loan proceeds and with other resources provided to it, mainly by
Central Bank loans and from mortgage loan repayments, the number of Type
A houses financed fell well short of estimates made at appraisal due to the
steady increase of housing costs. While FOVI responded by eliminating the
minimum size of houses financed and by financing less expensive housing
solutions such as improved lots, partial housing solutions and home
improvements, the challenge still remains to find lower cost housing solutions
(see para 5.09 on the results of the pilot program for marketing lower-cost
houses) and ways to reduce the cost of housing finance and increase
affordability. Despite the smaller number of Type A houses financed,
overall housing finance provided increased dramatically during the period as
the commercial banks increased the amount of housing finance provided with
their own resources from an average of US$880 million a year in the years
1984 through 1987 to an average of US$1,570 million in the years 1989-
1991, and reaching some US$5.2 billion in 1992.
5.04        In March 1988, the Central Bank had eliminated any limitation
on the capitalization of interest to assure full cost recovery on housing
credits. However, there was still an obstacle at the local level as the cost of
mortgage registration was very high as it was related to the total registered
amount of the credit guarantee including any capitalization of interest. This
problem was eventually resolved throughout the country by defining housing
credits in multiples of the minimum of wage, thereby limiting registration
costs to the current value of the housing loan. However, this required
agreements amongst the Federal Government, State governments, and
associations of notaries which were somewhat more difficult and time



9
consuming than expected to achieve. These changes were largely achieved
through FOVI's promotional efforts at the state level.
5.05        In May 1989, the Central Bank introduced an auction system
for assigning FOVI funds to make the allocation of its funds more equitable
and transparent by allocating its long-term financing to the highest bidder.
The auctions have allowed the government to capture in the bid prices
received by FOVI the premium that home builders and borrowers are willing
to pay for long-term mortgage finance. The auctions also reward the most
efficient home builders, who can bid more for FOVI funds (para. 6.03).
5.06        Two waivers were granted to loan covenants during project
implementation. On June 15, 1990, the Bank authorized on an exceptional
basis financing of all "Type A" houses that participated successfully in
FOVI's auctions during 1989 and January 1990 which had a final selling
price of up to 130 minimum monthly salaries and were acquired by
beneficiaries with a household income up to 4.5 minimum wages. The
request was made on the basis of the requirement that within a year of loan
effectiveness the Central Bank would review with the Bank the selling price
of eligible housing taking into consideration changes in market conditions.
The cost of the houses FOVI financed had increased principally due to: (i)
FOVI's decision no longer to finance construction subloans which were made
by commercial banks at market rates which were higher than FOVI rates; (ii)
the additional costs of the auctioned funds; (iii) the large increase in housing
lots; and (iv) contractor's costs of entering new markets as housing finance
for the three major metropolitan markets (Mexico City, Monterrey and
Guadalajara) was reduced.
5.07        On October 30, 1991, the Bank approved another waiver to
allow the use of "valores sustitutos" as the basis for establishing the
maximum sale price of FOVI "Type A" houses eligible for Bank financing
for which contractors made successful bids on or after November 1, 1991.
Under the concept of "valores sustitutos", FOVI was able to increase
gradually throughout the year the maximum sales price of the Type A houses
it finances (in terms of multiples of the minimum wage), to compensate for
the lag between inflation and the adjustment in the minimum wage, which
after 1990 was being increased only once annually. On December 4, 1991,
the waiver was extended to make it retroactive to May 1, 1991.
5.08        During project implementation, at the request of the Mexican
authorities, the Bank agreed to postpone the deadline for completing the
savings mobilization study from March 31, 1989 to March 31, 1990 and the
test marketing program for lower-cost houses from March 31, 1989 to June
30, 1989. Initially the savings mobilization study was to be carried out by a



10
task force of the Mexican Association of Banks (as indicated in the SAR).
However, there were several delays in starting the study and the Bank of
Mexico undertook responsibility for it in February 1990, completed it and
submitted it to the Bank in early April 1990. The rental housing study was
completed and submitted to the Bank close to the target date of December
31, 1989. The quality and coverage of both studies was fully satisfactory,
and the studies recommendations have been or are being implemented (see
paras 5.10 and 5.11).
5.09         The policy dialogue was advanced during project
implementation by discussions between the government and the Bank on the
rental and savings mobilization studies and on the findings of the pilot
program for marketing lower-cost houses. As a result of the efforts to
reform mortgage registration at the local level, FOVI learned more about the
high costs of such local regulations generally. While FOVI concluded that
the pilot program for lower-cost housing was not generally replicable because
of the special arrangements required between key parties such as the federal
government, municipalities and home builders to simplify technical and
administrative procedures, reduce financial costs and achieve economies of
scale, it did demonstrate that there was a market for progressive housing
solutions and, more importantly, that to reduce housing costs generally,
efforts would need to be made at the local level to simplify building codes
and approval procedures, reduce mortgage registration costs and the costs of
introducing water, electricity and drainage services and to provide an
adequate supply of land. Since 1990, FOVI has been active in identifying
key regulatory bottlenecks at the state and local level. To encourage states to
reform standards and regulations, FOVI began signing agreements with states
which set out specific targets for reasonable building standards, time limits
for approving permits and licenses and a schedule to lower overall
bureaucratic costs. A follow on Bank-finance project with FOVI, the
Housing Market Development Project, is supporting these types of regulatory
reforms in a well focussed and systematic way.
5.10        The savings mobilization study led to a discussion of ways to
mobilize resources to meet the growing needs of the lowest income groups,
to reduce the over-reliance on standard housing solutions and the need to
extend financing beyond new construction to purchases of existing homes.
The government has taken steps to increase financial savings by removing
interest rate controls on commercial banks, which led to an increase in
deposits held by banks of some 35% in real terms between April 1989 and
the end of 1992. In February 1992, the government set up a new retirement
saving system that will substantially increase the volume of long-term finance
available to banks for mortgage and other lending and will bring low-income
savers in contact with the financial system. Under this system, private



11
employers are required to deposit 2 percent of a worker's wages into pension
funds administered by commercial banks. At start up in late 1992,
employers deposited more than US$1 billion equivalent in new individual
workers' accounts opened in commercial banks. Also in 1992 the
government passed legislation allowing the creation of savings banks (Cajas
de Ahorro) which are expected to finance housing and support phased
housing solutions (progressive construction and starter homes) and
improvements to existing homes. In response to the recommendations of the
savings mobilization study, FOVI started to finance improved lots and partial
housing solutions and is now financing housing resales through lines of credit
to commercial banks.
5.11         The rental study identified the need to eliminate rent controls
and to simplify legal procedures for evicting non-paying tenants.
Subsequently, in the housing policy statement formulated as part of the
Housing Market Development Project, the government reconfirmed its
intention to address these issues. In mid-1993, public officials in both
Mexico City's Federal District and the State of Nuevo Leon, whose capital is
Monterrey, the country's third largest city, passed legislation that will
gradually abolish all rent controls and facilitate evictions of non-paying
occupants.
5.12         In general, project objectives were achieved and the policy
dialogue steadily advanced. There were some minor delays in carrying out
project studies but the studies proved to be useful vehicles for continuing the
policy dialogue on housing and housing finance. The SAR indicates that
there were no major project risks other than the risk of slow disbursements
due to delays in reforming registration procedures at the state level.
However, the states moved quickly to allow mortgage liens permitting the
full capitalization of interest. The major risks turned out to be the reduction
in the minimum wage in real terms and the increase in housing costs in real
terms making housing financed under the loan more costly and less
affordable to lower income groups. It would have been difficult to foresee
the further reduction in minimum wages in real terms. Real wages had
already fallen significantly and steadily between 1982 and 1988 and were
expected to recover. At the same time, debt service was made easier by the
sharp drop in nominal and real interest rates. Nevertheless, FOVI was
forced to increase its eligibility limits to meet changing market conditions and
to seek ways of increasing affordability by reducing monthly payments,
increasing the maximum repayment period of loans and reducing income
requirements. Also the commercial banks completely withdrew, for a while,
from financing low cost housing with their own resources after mandatory
investments in housing was abolished. While they resumed lending for
housing with their own resources in 1990 it was exclusively for higher priced



12
housing. Moreover, FOVI permitted banks to charge commissions on FOVI
financed housing loans to increase their yield to market levels thereby
increasing the overall cost of housing. This basically provided for full cost
recovery on housing loans made with FOVI resources.
6.    Project Results
6.01        Although the amounts of housing finance going to the lowest
housing solutions financed by FOVI declined from an average of about
US$450 million in the mid-1980s when the commercial banks were forced to
lend for this kind of housing, to US$320 million average in 1990/1991,
overall housing finance increased dramatically as subsidies were eliminated,
banks adopted financing mechanisms similar to FOVI's and charged market
rates on such lending with their own resources. As a result, commercial
bank lending for housing with their own resources increased from US$450
million in 1989 to US$ 5.2 billion in 1992, compared with an average of
about US$800 million between 1983 and 1987.
6.02         The reduction of housing subsidies was an important step in
getting commercial banks to lend voluntarily for housing. The elimination of
mandatory requirements and the removal of interest rate controls and
financial sector reform was eventually followed by the government's 1990
decision to reprivatize the commercial banks. Interest rate liberalization led
to a significant increase in deposits in real terms and an increase in resources
available for housing finance which was an attractive vehicle for bank
lending.
6.03         FOVI's introduction of a public funds auction in 1989, to
replace the direct placement of financing to developers and eventually to
home buyers, has had several advantages. The auctions allow the
government to capture in the bid prices received by FOVI, the premium that
home builders and borrowers are willing to pay for long-term mortgage
finance. They also reward the most efficient home builders who can bid
more for FOVI funds. In addition, the FOVI auctions which awards funds to
the highest bidders tend to reward those states and municipalities with the
lowest regulatory burdens by allowing developers and mortgage lenders to
compete better for FOVI funds to finance and build housing.
6.04        The project has resulted in a much stronger FOVI as it
enhanced its reputation by taking a leading role in promoting the agreements
with state governments to simplify regulatory procedures and reduce the
administrative burden and costs of housing. These agreements have resulted
in significantly lower additional costs to housing in those states which have
pushed reform. In the face of a fall in affordability due to higher real



13
housing costs and lower real wages, smaller housing units and partial housing
solutions were promoted and eligibility requirements were lowered by
reducing income requirements and lengthening the repayment periods of
mortgages.
6.05        The achievements of FOVI in designing the new financing
instrument for housing and refining it to the point where it produced positive
market returns were not only important for financing by commercial banks
but aspects of the FOVI financing instrument were adopted by the other
agencies and payroll contribution funds important in housing finance in
Mexico including FONHAPO and INFONAVIT.
6.06        The studies carried out under the loan identified measures
needed to mobilize savings and to promote investment in rental housing.
Steps have been taken in both these areas. FOVI concluded that the pilot
program for lower cost housing is not replicable because it was a laboratory
type experiment requiring special arrangements with financial institutions and
local government authorities to carry out successfully. However, it was
instrumental in identifying needed reforms in local regulatory rules for
housing, land requirements, etc. These findings were important in
motivating FOVI to push for local regulatory forms through its agreements
with the states.
6.07        Experience under the loan was also instrumental in identifying
the need for finding another more suitable index for adjusting mortgage
payments and balances which better reflect changes in real earnings to
replace the minimum wage. The minimum wage is an administered wage,
set by government decree, and not determined by labor market developments.
Currently, it is adjusted once a year and because it does not reflect changes
in real wages, it is being applied in fewer and fewer labor contracts. FOVI,
together with other governient agencies, is developing a suitable
replacement, in accordance with a commitment made under the Housing
Market Development Project.
6.08        The loan was important for advancing the sectoral dialogue and
in identifying the policies needed to be addressed in the follow-up loan with
FOVI, the Housing Market Development Project. In addition to increasing
the focus on reducing overregulation in housing, this loan focuses on the
need for dealing with the shortages of urbanized land, dealing with the
segmentation and inefficiencies of housing finance programs, improving
FOVI's mortgage instrument and its onlending mechanism so as to stimulate
commercial bank interest in low-cost housing and improving information on
the housing market. Many of these issues were identified as important



14
constraints to future sector development during the implementation of the
Housing Finance Project.
7.    Project Sustainability
7.01         Two Bank loans have been made subsequent to the Housing
Finance Loan, the Second Low-Income Housing Loan to FONHAPO in 1989
and a Housing Market Development Loan to FOVI in 1992. Both projects
have extended and cemented the reforms made under the Housing Finance
Loan.
7.02         In October 1992, President Salinas convened a meeting of all
31 state governors, the mayor of the Federal District and representatives of
FOVI, and virtually all state institutions dealing with housing, to sign
agreements that deregulate the housing sector nationwide. In these
agreements the states have pledged to reduce to less than 10% of the cost of
a house total charges for building permits, service rights, title registration
and taxes (surveys indicated that regulatory costs have added as much as 25 %
to the cost of a house). Also the National Association of Notaries agreed to
limit notary fees for title registration to I % of home value (they had in the
past increased house costs by up to 10%) The government is closely
monitoring these deregulation efforts. Moreover, FOVI completed its third
survey of regulatory costs in early 1993 and published them in the Mexican
Homebuilder's Association trade magazine. In order to reduce housing costs,
in November 1992 the government exempted the commissions earned by
commercial banks (initially for the period 1992 to 1994) on housing finance
from value added tax and reduced the transfer tax on property sales from 6%
to 4 % in January 1993.
7.03         The government, on the basis of a constitutional amendment
passed primarily to modernize the agricultural sector, has initiated land
certification and titling programs in each state. These reforms would free
landholders, known as "ejidatarios", to associate with builders or sell their
land to investors for housing development. As many of Mexico's cities are
currently surrounded by "ejido" land, this constitutional reform is expected
eventually to relieve one of the major constraints to housing development, a
shortage of reasonably priced, well-located land.
7.04         An important objective of the project was to widen and
supplement the housing policy dialogue in the areas of housing program
coordination and housing finance harmonization. In October 1992,
INFONAVIT introduced new policies and mechanisms to improve the
efficiency, financial self-sufficiency and transparency of its operations.
Under these new policies, INFONAVIT allows borrowers to decide on the



15
type of house they want to acquire (i.e. new, used or self-built) and awards
mortgage loans, which are wage-indexed, and charge a positive real rate of
interest on the basis of a borrower's age, salary, contributions to the fund
and savings level. INFONAVIT has also begun to assign housing
construction contracts through public bidding. In January 1993,
FOVISSSTE, the smaller public sector employees housing fund, implemented
similar reforms. Finally, the government is contemplating a reorganization
of FONHAPO to address better the housing needs of the poor.
7.05        The government is also carrying out a study to develop a
secondary market for mortgages to broaden the housing finance market and
make it more liquid. It is also searching for a mechanism to replace the
minimum wage to adjust mortgage payments which better reflects changes in
earnings. The overall government commitment to strengthening housing
finance and extend the benefits of housing continues to be quite strong as
reflected in government actions and policy reform measures in the last few
years.
8.    Bank Performance
8.01        The Bank acted with imagination and foresight in identifying
and supporting a key government program which had important implications
for housing and financial sector reform. It engaged in a prolonged and
fruitful dialogue with government to define and strengthen sector objectives.
It supported a key institution, FOVI, in housing finance and its efforts to
improve an important new financial instrument which it had developed to
sustain housing finance in a period of high inflation. The comparatively
small Bank team, the continuity of task managers (two from project
identification to completion), and their close cooperation with the FOVI
team, helped to resolve project issues quickly and to heighten the Bank's
effectiveness. The relatively small number of Bank supervision missions
(Part III, Table 5) is somewhat misleading, as supervision of the project took
place during the preparation of the Housing Market Development Project
(Loan 3497-ME). It also reflects the project's relatively short disbursement
period.
8.02         Bank support to FOVI was important to assist in sustaining
finance for housing during a period of considerable economic uncertainty,
marked by high and volatile inflation, and while substantial financial sector
reform was being defined and carried out. Bank participation in the project
led to the clarification and extension of housing sector policies during project
preparation and as a result of studies included in the project to resolve sector
issues identified in the dialogue between the government and the Bank.



16
9.    FOVI Performance
9.01        FOVI, with a staff of fewer than 100, is a well managed
institution with some 25 years of experience in housing finance when the loan
was made. It, together with senior staff of the Bank of Mexico, FOVI's
trustee, who provided important intellectual leadership in the development of
the project and in policy design, were sophisticated interlocutors during
project preparation and responded quickly and effectively to problems during
project execution. It was effective too as a trust fund in the Central Bank in
obtaining government support for the project, in assuring that project
objectives were clearly defined and supported and were consistent with
government sector policies. When the savings mobilization study was
delayed due to changing priorities of the banking association, FOVI and the
Bank of Mexico responded effectively to make sound alternative
arrangements to carry it out.
10.   Project Relationship
10.01       The relationship between the Bank and the Mexican housing
sector authorities remained strong throughout project preparation and
implementation and the sector dialogue, initiated under the Low Income
Housing Project (Loan 2612-ME), approved in 1985, and extended under the
Earthquake Reconstruction Loan, approved in 1986, was expanded further
under the Housing Finance Loan. Working with the highly experienced and
well managed project implementation agency FOVI was probably crucial, not
only in resolving project issues, but also in extending the policy dialogue,
especially in the mortgage finance and subsidy rationalization areas.
11.   Consulting Services
11.01       Outside consultants played no role in project preparation or
implementation. FOVI staff, with Bank support, was responsible for project
development and execution. Studies included in the project were also carried
out by government agencies--the Central Bank (savings mobilization), FOVI
(test marketing) and SEDESOL (rental housing).
12.   Project Documentation and Data
12.01       The legal agreements for the project were adequate.
Covenants were met on a timely basis, except for the timetable for studies
which needed to be extended briefly. Required amendments were made
without any problems or delays after a brief review of the issues between
FOVI and Bank staff.



17
12.02       The SAR provided a useful framework for the Bank during
project execution. Data required for preparation of the PCR were readily
available from project files or from the study of the project prepared by
FOVI, although reliable data on housing demand, housing stocks and changes
in affordability (i.e. real income data) are not available. However, FOVI is
working closely with the commercial banks to get data on housing and
housing finance and with the states to get reliable data on housing regulatory
costs. SEDESOL is also working with state governments to get data on
housing registrations, etc. and plans to strengthen the overall data base on
housing.
13.   Findings and Lessons Learned
13.01       As spelled out in Part 1', the objectives of the project were
achieved and exceeded in several areas. The project was well designed,
timely and supported by a sound and comprehensive set of sectoral policy
objectives. Despite a significant delay in the making the loan effective, once
done it was rapidly and successfully implemented. When problems emerged,
creative solutions were developed, for example, to adjust financing terms to
make housing more affordable as housing costs increased in real terms
relative to the minimum wage. Also, the FOVI auction system became a
useful device to assist promoters to plan their home building projects, to
channel resources to the more efficient builders, and to provide state and
local governments with an incentive to simplify and make more efficient their
regulatory frameworks for housing and to reduce housing costs, as home
builders could construct and sell houses at a lower cost in those states.
These achievements can be attributed in large part to entrusting project
implementation to a highly competent trust fund which had a long record of
achievement and which had the full support of its trustee, the Bank of
Mexico, which provided it with intellectual leadership and support in
achieving project objectives.
13.02       Another important factor in project success was that the project
was developed and designed in Mexico, based on studies carried out by the
government and reflected sectoral policies fully supported by the government.
Bank staff played a supportive role in extending and defining more clearly
the policy framework for the loan, including the need for further studies to
develop less expensive housing solutions, mobilize savings, and review the
need for rental housing reforms, and widen and supplement the housing
policy dialogue in the areas of housing program coordination and housing
finance harmonization. These were fully in accordance with government
policy for the sector and contributed to project success and the achievement
of policy reform in housing finance and the housing sector such as the



18
reforms in the lending policies of INFONAVIT, FOVISSSTE and
FONHAPO.
13.03       Key project objectives, to reduce housing credit subsidies,
stabilize housing finance flows and increase savings mobilization were fully
consistent with the government's objectives to reform the financial sector.
These reforms were fully supported by the Bank under the Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan. Bank resources under the Housing Finance Project clearly
eased the impact on lending for low cost housing caused by the elimination of
mandatory lending requirements. Interest rate liberalization has clearly
increased lending to the sector. The harmonization of project objectives in
Bank loans to the same or related sectors can be important in achieving
success of individual projects and in addressing broader sector issues.



19
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE EXECUTING
AGENCY'S (FOVI'S) PERSPECTIVE2
The Government of Mexico and the institutions that participated in the
FOVI Housing Finance Project have complied with their undertakings in
accordance with the respective legal agreements.
The Loan
The loan resources, three hundred million dollars, were disbursed and
used for the financing of the construction and acquisition of housing, as
follows:
(a) Type A housing, with a value up to 100 minimum monthly salaries
of the Federal District (SMMDF);
(b) Housing with values no greater than 130 SMMDF for purchasers
with income up to 4.5 SMMDF, in those housing projects which
obtained financing rights obtained in auctions which took place in
1989 and January 1990;
(c) and Type A housing for which the mechanism of "valores
sustitutos" had been used from May 1, 1991, to determine their
market value.
The first category above refers to values set out in the loan
agreements, and the latter two to arrangements approved by the World Bank
during project implementation.
The flow of resources from the loan was important:
it permitted the financing of the purchase of 31,411 houses
with an average value of 30,766,683 pesos, equivalent to
US$10,855;
it benefitted a population estimated at more than 170,000;
2 A detailed report on the project was prepared by FOVI and is in project files. This
section is a translation from the Spanish of the conclusions from that report.



20
it supported the plans of the Government to promote the
construction of housing and to assist the population with
limited resources.
The Pilot Program
It was carried out by FOVI, which obtained valuable experience that
has aided in the taking of new decisions and the modification of the
regulations of FOVI.
The Studies
1.    Study of the Situation of the Rental Housing Subsector
A detailed diagnosis of the conditions of the rental housing market
analyzing cities that together account for more than 40% of the total
population was carried out.
The study analyzed not only the economic conditions and Government
incentives which permit and favor this type of investment but also
Government policies which limit rental housing investments in order to
identify possible measures.
Recommendations of an indicative character were derived from the
study, as well as specific Government measures which would favor greater
investment in the field of rental housing.
2.    Study of the Mobilization of Savings by Families and Institutions
The study was carried out focusing the analysis on the problem of
housing and the factors which affect the scarcity of long term finance and the
lack of adequate savings instruments, especially in the case of families with
low incomes which constitute the majority of the population of the country.
It was concluded that financial deregulation, which began in 1989 and
bank competition which is expected to increase once bank privatization has
been completed, will induce banks to participate even more in small scale
operations and designing new strategies for that part of the population which
still does not participate in formal savings systems.
The Government has taken measures tending to stabilize the economic
situation of the country such as the above mentioned deregulation and
privatization of the banks and other measures to strengthen the participation



21
of development banks, concentrating their operations on "second tier"
banking and promoting their role in promoting private sector development.
Measures have also been taken to attend to small savers through the
system of savings banks integrating them into the formal financial system, in
addition to new efforts of the commercial banks in the field of savings for
housing which are still in the incipient stage.
Objectives
The objectives of the project were achieved and exceeded. The
actions taken by the Government of the Republic of Mexico go further than
the undertakings set out in the agreements with the World Bank.
Objective: (a) increase the availability of economic housing.
Actions: In addition to what was achieved with resources from the World
Bank loan and the programs of FOVI, the commercial banks have penetrated
the market with their own programs and resources in the housing market with
type B-2 housing. It is expected that when economic reforms have been
consolidated, participation in the housing market of strata of the population
with lower incomes will increase.
Objective: (b) increase the participation of the private sector in housing
plans.
Actions: Between 1989 and 1992, the commercial banks increased their
financing for housing more than five times, surpassing the financing of the
public institutions. The reforms of INFONAVIT in February 1992 open the
possibility that private promoters will build housing for the members of that
institute with rights to housing.
Objective: (c) improve the coordination of the housing programs of official
institutions.
Actions: This has been achieved. FOVISSSTE established a system of
repayment based on salaries, stopped direct construction, and agreed to
finance a part of its program with FOVI. With the reforms of INFONAVIT,
a large share of housing originated through the auctions of FOVI is sold to
members of INFONAVIT who have rights to purchase homes.



22
Objective: (d) Review measures which promote investment in rental housing.
Actions: These were reviewed and in accordance with the results of the
Rental Housing Study specific recommendations were formulated for the
respective Governmental bodies.
Objective: (e) Achieve full cost recovery.
Actions: This was achieved with the system of payment established by the
housing regulations applicable to credits in the Financial Program for
Housing beginning March 17, 1988. Full recovery was also achieved in
INFONAVIT with its reforms.
Objective: (f) Increase family and institutional savings.
Actions: The liberalization of interest rates on bank deposits in April 1989
increased by 35% such deposits in real terms by December 1992. The
modifications in February 1992 in the housing programs of the contractual
savings plans of the workers (INFONAVIT and FOVISSSTE) and the
establishment of the Retirement Savings System open the savings market in
Mexico in an important way. For each worker an individual bank account is
opened for periodic obligatory deposits which may be increased by voluntary
deposits by the member which will bear positive real interest rates.



23
PART IH: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.    Related Bank Loans
Number          Year of Approval         Purpose of             Status             Comments
Proper Title                                Project
Loan 2612-ME               1985           Foster Investment    Completed            Successfully
Low Income                                in Low Income                             finished two years
Hlousing                                  Hlousing                                  ahead of schedule
(PCR-9984)
Loan 2665-ME               1986           Infrastructure and   Completed            Successfully
Earthquake                                Ilousing                                  finished o*n
Reconstruction                            Reconstructioni for                       sclhedule (PCR-
Mexico City                               10392)
Loan 3140-ME               1989           Finance part of      Progressing
Second Low                                FONHAPO's            satisfactorily on
Income hIousilig                          1990-94 lending      schedule
program
Loan 3497-ME               1992           Increase supply of    Progressing
Hlousing Market                           mortgage finance     satisfactorily on
Development                               for low-cost         schedule
Project                                   housing and
support deregu-
lationi of the
housing sector
2.    Project Timetable
Item                         Date-Planned                        Date-Actual
First Mention  in Files                                               October 1985
Identification                    October 1985                        November 1985
Preparation                        May 1986                           May 1986
Preappraisal                       October 1986                       November 1986
Appraisal Mission                  December 1986                      May 1987
Loan Negotiations                 July 1987                           April 1988
Board Approval                     September 1987                     June 1988
Loan Signing                      September 1987                      September 1988
Loan Effectiveness                 November 1987                      November 1989
Loan Closing                      June 1994                           April 1992
Loan Completion                    December 1993                      April 1992



24
3.    Cumulative Estimated and Actual Loan Disbursements (US$
millions)
Bank FY                         1990   1991   1992    1993    1994
Appraisal Estimate                              33.0   100.0   167.0    233.0    300.0
Actual                                        121.9  275.2   300.0
Actual as % of Estimate                          369          275          180           129           100
Date of Final Disbursement                                             April
1992
4.    Status of Major Loan Covenants
G.A.         3.04 (a)          The Government shall cause         The study was
the study to identify methods to   satisfactorily completed by
mobilize savings by households    Banco de Mexico
and institutions by March 31,     (Banxico) in May 1990.
1989.
G.A.         3.04 (b)         'T'he Government would discuss    Bank sent comments to
the results of the study with the    government in August
Bank by June 30. 1989.            1990 and discussed thlem
with government in
November 1990.
Government has taken
action to expand savings
through the creation of
new worker pension
savings system.
G.A.         3.05 (a)          The Govemment would carry         Satisfactorily completed in
out a study of the rental         March 1990.
housing subsector by December
31, 1989.
G.A.         3.05 (b)          The Government would discuss    Bank sent comments to
the results of the study with the    Government in August
Bank by march 31, 1990.           1 990 and discussed them
with Government in
November 1990.
Subsequent action was
taken to abolisti rent
controls in some states
and the Federal District.



25
G A.        3.06 (a)         The Borrower shall, on a        In compliance.
twice-yearly basis exchange
views with the Bank on the
progress achieved in carrying
out the Project and the
Program; and prior to eachi
such exchange of views, thcl
Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank. a report in such detail as
the Bank may reasonably
request.
P.A.        2.06 (a)         FOVI shall carry out and        Completed in June 1989.
complete the test-marketing
program and provide financing
for about 2,500 houses by
March 31, 1989.
P.A.        2.06 (b)         FOVI shall review the results   Completed in December
of the program with the         1989. Final report sent to
Government and the Bank by      Bank in January 1991.
June 30, 1989.                  Lessons learned in this
expenment were
incorporated in the follow-
on Housing Market
Development Project.
P.A.        2.06 (c)         FOVI shall promptly thereafter    See above.
take all measures necessary or
appropriate to finance Test
Houses consistent with the
results of such program.
P.A.        2.08 (a)         FOVI shall with 12 months of    In compliance.
thc effective date of the loan
review with the Bank the
selling prices for Eligible
Hlouses in relation to market
conditions.
P.A.        2.08 (b)         If, as a result of such review it   In compliance. As a
is determined that additional   result eligibility limits
measures are necessary or       were adjusted in
appropriate to ensure that such    agreement with the Bank.
selling pfices reflect market
conditions, then Banxico will
take such measures.
P.A.        3.01             IOVI shall have the FOVI's      In compliance; audits
accounts audited annually by    were prepared and
independent qualified auditors.    submitted in a timely
manner.



26
5.    Use of Bank Resources
A.   Staff Input by Stage of project Cycle
(Staff weeks at Headquarters and in Field)
Project Cycle                  Total Staff Weeks
Preparation                                    64.4
Appraisal through Board Approval               29.3
Supervision                                     39.0
TOTAL                                        132.7



27
B.    Missions
Stage Project Cycle   Month/Year         Number        Staff
of Persons a/  Weeks
Identification             11/85            2                    4
Preparation               05/86             4                    8
Preappraisal               11/86            6                   12
Appraisal                 05/87              3                   9
Post-Appraisal            04/88              1                 0.5
Subtotal                                                   33.5
Supervision
Supervision 1             01/89              2                   3
Supervision 2             02/89              1                   1
Supervision 3             02/90              1                   2
Supervision 4              11/90             2                   2
Supervision 5             07/91              2                   2
Subtotal                                                     10
TOTAL                                                      43.5
a/     Specialties:
Identification - urban specialist, economist.
Preparation - urban specialist, economist, two specialists on
contractual savings.
Preappraisal - three urban specialists, financial analyst, financial
modeller, country officer.
Appraisal - two urban specialists, financial modeller.
Post-appraisal - urban specialist.
Supervision 1 - urban specialist, financial analyst.
Supervision 2 - financial analyst.
Supervision 3 - financial analyst.
Supervision 4 - urban specialist, financial analyst.
Supervision 5 - urban specialist, financial analyst.



