Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2947 ME
                     (Housing Finance Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
       BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C.
                     Dated September 28, 1988
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  September  28,  1988  between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  (the  Bank)  and BANCO
NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C. (the Borrower).
     WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated May 10, 1988
from  the  UNITED  MEXICAN  STATES  (the  Guarantor)  describing a
program of actions,  objectives  and  policies designed to improve
the efficient  provision  of  shelter  in  the Guarantor's housing
sector (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Guarantor's
commitment to the execution of  the Program, and the Guarantor and
Borrower having been satisfied as  to the feasibility and priority
of the Project described  in  Schedule  2  to this Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist  in  the  financing of the Project as
part of such Program;
     (B)  by an agreement (the  Guarantee  Agreement) of even date
herewith between the  Guarantor  and  the  Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations  of the Borrower in respect of
Page  2
the Loan and to undertake  other  obligations  as are set forth in
the Guarantee Agreement;
     (C)  Parts A and B.2 of  the  Project  will be carried out by
BANCO de MEXICO (Banxico),  as  trustee  for  Fondo de Operacián y
Financiamiento Bancario a la Vivienda, and the Borrower, will make
available to Banxico the  proceeds  of  the Loan required to carry
out Parts A and B.2 of  the  Project as provided in this Agreement
and in a subsidiary loan agreement  to be entered into between the
Borrower and Banxico; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed,  in  support of such Program and
on the basis, inter alia, of  the foregoing, to extend the Loan to
the Borrower to finance the  Project  the terms and conditions set
forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the  Bank,  dated  January  1, 1985 (the
General  Conditions),  with  the  modifications  set  forth below,
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
     (b)  Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
          "(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or
          such later date as may  be  agreed upon for this purpose
          between the Guarantor and  the  Bank, the Guarantor, the
          Borrower and Banxico  shall  prepare  and furnish to the
          Bank, a report, of such scope  and in such detail as the
          Bank shall reasonably request,  on  the execution of the
          Program  referred  to  in   the  Preamble  to  the  Loan
          Agreement,  the  carrying   out   of  the  Project,  the
          performance by the Guarantor,  the Borrower, Banxico and
          the  Bank  of  their  respective  obligations  under the
          Guarantee, Loan  and  FOVI  Project  Agreements, and the
          accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (b)  "Project  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.01 (c) of the FOVI Project Agreement;
     (c)  "Banxico" means Banco de  Måxico,  acting as trustee for
FOVI (as hereinafter defined);
     (d)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement"  means  the  agreement to be
entered  into  between  the   Borrower  and  Banxico  pursuant  to
Section 3.01 of this Agreement,  as  the  same may be amended from
time  to  time,  and  such  term  includes  all  schedules  to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
     (e)  "Subsidiary Loan" means the loan made by the Borrower to
Banxico pursuant to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
     (f)  "FOVI,  means  Fondo   de   Operacián  y  Financiamiento
Bancario a la Vivienda,  a  housing  trust fund established by the
Guarantor and operating in  accordance  with the agreement between
the Guarantor and Banxico  as  trustee,  dated  April 10, 1963, as
Page  3
amended on May 21, 1985  (hereinafter called the FOVI Trust Agree-
ment), and such  term  includes  the  technical and administrative
organization, resources, staff and  facilities  used or to be used
by the trustee to operate FOVI;
     (g)  "FOVI Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and Banxico of even  date  herewith, as such agreement may be
amended from time to  time,  and  such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the FOVI Project Agreement;
     (h)  "Financial  Intermediary"  means  a  credit  institution
determined to be eligible  by  Banxico  for  the purpose of making
FOVI Subloans (as hereinafter defined);
     (i)  "Construction Subloan" means a loan made, or proposed to
be made, by a Financial  Intermediary to an Eligible Developer (as
hereinafter defined) for the construction  of an Eligible House or
Eligible Houses (as hereinafter defined),  to be financed from the
proceeds of the Loan;
     (j)  "Purchase Subloan" means a loan  made, or proposed to be
made, by a  Financial  Intermediary  to  an Eligible Purchaser (as
hereinafter defined) for the acquisition  of an Eligible House (as
hereinafter defined), to  be  financed  from  the  proceeds of the
Loan;
     (k)  "FOVI  Subloan"  means   any   Construction  Subloan  or
Purchase Subloan; "FOVI  Subloans"  means Construction Subloans or
Purchaser Subloans, and any combination thereof;
     (l)  "Eligible Developer"  means  any  person  or  entity, or
groups of persons or entities, with juridical capacity to contract
under  the  laws  of  the  Guarantor,  qualified  by  a  Financial
Intermediary, who or which  constructs,  or proposes to construct,
an Eligible House or Eligible Houses;
     (m)  "Eligible Purchaser" means a head of household who has a
household income level of not more than 4.0 times the minimum wage
for the Distrito Federal  as  defined  by the Comisián Nacional de
Salarios Mónimos, the National Commission on Minimum Wages, of the
Guarantor, or  such  other  household  income  level  as  shall be
acceptable to the Bank, and  who purchases or proposes to purchase
an Eligible House;
     (n)  "Eligible Beneficiary" means  any  Eligible Developer or
Eligible   Purchaser;   Eligible   Beneficiaries   means  Eligible
Developers or Eligible Purchasers and any combination thereof;
     (o)  "Mandatory Housing Lending  Regulations"  means the rule
and procedures for mandatory housing lending operations, including
FOVI, established by Banxico's Circular No. 1935/85, as amended by
telex circulars, through Telex Circular  No. 28/88 dated March 15,
1988 (hereinafter "Telex Circular No. 28/88");
     (p)  "Eligible House" means a Type A house to be purchased by
an Eligible Purchaser or a  Type  A  house to be constructed by an
Eligible Developer under  the  Project,  as  such  Type A House is
defined in the Mandatory  Housing  Lending Regulations, and a Test
House (as hereinafter defined);
     (q)  "Test House"  means  a  house  which  meets  the minimum
specifications for a Type 1 House  as such house is defined in the
Mandatory Housing  Lending  Regulations  and  which  has a selling
price of approximately 80% of the average market prices prevailing
for such Type 1 House during February 1988, adjusted in real terms
utilizing the Inflation Index, Indice  de Costos de Edificacián de
la Vivienda  de  Interås  Social  (INCEVIS),  published monthly by
Banxico;
     (r)  "Reference Rate" means the index  of the average cost of
funds, Costo Porcentual Promedio  de  Captacián, as defined in the
Diario Oficial de la Federacián, dated October 16, 1981, published
Page  4
by the Guarantor or  such  other  reference rate acceptable to the
Guarantor and the Bank;
     (s)  "FOVI  Subloan  Interest   Rate"   means  at  least  the
Reference Rate;
     (t)  "Interest   Capitalization    Limitation"    means   any
prohibition against adjusting the  principal amount outstanding of
a FOVI Subloan to permit capitalization of interest; and
     (u)  "peso" means the currency unit of the Guarantor.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  the Loan
Agreement, an amount  in  various  currencies  equivalent to three
hundred million dollars ($300,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement  between  the Bank and the Borrower, for
expenditures made or, if the Bank  shall  so agree, to be made, in
respect of the reasonable  cost  of  goods  and works required for
Parts A and B.2 of  the  Project  described  in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and  maintain  in  dollars  a  Special  Account  on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the  Bank.  Deposits into, and payments
out of, the Special Account  shall  be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994 or such
later date as the  Bank  shall  establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-
half  of  one  percent  per  annum  above  the  Cost  of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the  Guarantor  and the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
Page  5
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the Amortization Schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
            Transfer of Loan Proceeds; Other Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower  shall enter into a subsidiary
loan agreement, satisfactory to the  Bank, with Banxico as trustee
for FOVI, for the on-lending of  the proceeds of the Loan required
to carry out Parts A and B.2 of the Project, including inter alia,
the following terms and conditions:
       (i)  the interest  rate  to  be  charged  on  funds lent to
            Banxico shall be equal  to the applicable FOVI Subloan
            Interest Rate, minus a financial intermediation fee of
            up to 4.5% percentage points per annum;
      (ii)  such funds lent  to  Banxico  shall  be denominated in
            pesos and repayable in pesos;
     (iii)  such funds shall  in  turn  be  on-lent by Banxico, as
            trustee  for  FOVI,  to  Financial  Intermediaries for
            purposes  of  making  Fovi  Subloans,  such  Financial
            Intermediaries to pay  an  interest  rate equal to the
            applicable  FOVI   Subloan   Interest   Rate  minus  a
            financial intermediation fee of  up to 3.0% percentage
            points per annum; and
      (iv)  Banxico  shall  repay  to  the  Borrower  all  amounts
            received by Banxico  from  Financial Intermediaries as
            repayments of principal and  interest of FOVI Subloans
            financed from the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  Except as the Bank  shall  otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall  not  change  or  fail  to  enforce  any  provision  of such
contractual arrangements or of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     Section 3.02.  The  Bank  and  the  Borrower  agree  that the
obligations set forth  in  Sections  9.04,  9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08
and 9.09  of  the  General  Conditions  (relating  respectively to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports,  maintenance  and  land  acquisition)  in  respect of
Part A and B.2  of  the  Project  shall  be carried out by Banxico
pursuant to Section 2.04 of the FOVI Project Agreement, and by the
Guarantor in respect of Parts B.1  and B.3 of the Project pursuant
to Section 3.02 of the Guarantee Agreement.
     Section 3.03.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and works required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds  of  the Loan shall be governed by
the provisions of paragraph  2  (d)  of  the  Schedule to the FOVI
Project Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section  4.01.  (a)  The  Borrower  shall  maintain  separate
records  for  the  Special   Account,   adequate  to  reflect,  in
accordance with  sound  accounting  practices,  the  resources and
expenditures in connection with the execution of the Project.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have such separate records and the Special Account,
               for each  fiscal  year  audited  in accordance with
               generally accepted auditing standards and practices
               consistently applied, by  independent and qualified
Page  6
               auditors;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year  the  report  of  such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have reasonably requested;
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank each month certified statements
               of the Special Account; and
         (iv)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning  the  Special  Account,  and  the  audit
               thereof, and said  records  as  the Bank shall from
               time to time reasonably request.
                             ARTICLE V
                  Additional Events of Suspension
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  that  a  situation  has   arisen  which  shall  make  it
improbable that the Program,  or  a significant part thereof, will
be carried out;
     (b)  that  the  Guarantor  shall  have  adopted cost-recovery
policies contrary to the Program;
     (c)  that Banxico shall  have  failed  to  perform any of its
obligations under the FOVI Project Agreement;
     (d)  that, as a result  of  events  which have occurred after
the date of  the  Loan  Agreement,  a  situation shall have arisen
which shall  make  it  improbable  that  Banxico  will  be able to
perform its obligations under the FOVI Project Agreement;
     (e)  that a change shall have  been made in the provisions of
the Mandatory Housing Lending regulations related to the making of
FOVI Subloans, or the FOVI  Trust Agreement, which, in the opinion
of the Bank could materially and adversely affect the carrying out
of the Project; and
     (f)  that the  Guarantor,  Banxico,  or  any  other authority
having  jurisdiction  shall   have   taken   any  action  for  the
dissolution or disestablishment of  FOVI  or for the suspension of
its operations.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The  following   event  is  specified  as  an
additional condition to  the  effectiveness  of the Loan Agreement
within  the  meaning  of   Section   12.01   (c)  of  the  General
Conditions, namely,  that  the  Borrower  and  Banxico  shall have
entered into the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     Section  6.02.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
     (a)  that the FOVI  Project  Agreement  has been executed and
duly authorized or  ratified  by  Banxico,  and is legally binding
upon Banxico in accordance with its terms; and
     (b)  that the Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement   has been executed
and duly authorized or  ratified  and  is legally binding upon the
parties thereto in accordance with its terms.
Page  7
     Section  6.03.  The  date  of  December  28,  1988  is hereby
specified  for  the  purposes  of  Section  12.04  of  the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section  7.01.  The  Director  General  of  the  Borrower  is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
          Fax:  (202) 477-6391
     For the Borrower:
          Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios
               PŒblicos, S.N.C.
          Insurgentes Norte 423
          06900 Måxico D.F.
          Måxico
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               BANTECARIO                        BNDSME
               Mexico City, D.F.                 01772619
               Mexico                            Mexico City
          Fax:  583-5139
                583-5282
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective  names  in  Berlin, Federal Republic of
Germany, as of the day and year first above written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                    BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS
                      PUBLICOS, S.N.C.
                    By /s/ Gustavo Petricioli
                                         Authorized Representative
Page  8
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
     FOVI Subloans           300,000,000       up to 100% of
                                               amounts disbursed
                                               by Banxico under
                                               each FOVI Sub-
                                               loan
                             ___________
          TOTAL              300,000,000
2.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above  no
withdrawals  shall  be  made  in  respect  of  payments  made  for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to:
     (a)  increase the availability of affordable housing;
     (b)  increase the  role  of  the  private  sector in housing,
improve the coordination  of  public  housing  programs and review
measures to promote investments in rental housing;
     (c)  achieve full cost recovery; and
     (d)  increase savings from households and institutions.
     The Project consists of  the  following parts subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank  and the Borrower may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Housing Finance and Construction
1.   Financing the construction of Eligible Houses.
2.   Financing the acquisition of Eligible Houses.
Part B:   Studies and Test-Marketing
1.   Carrying out a study to  identify methods to mobilize savings
by households and  institutions,  including  identification of any
disincentives to savings.
2.   Carrying out a program  to  test-market and provide financing
for about 2,500 Test Houses.
3.   Carrying out a  study  of:    (a)  the  current status of the
rental housing subsector; and  (b) investors' capacity to increase
the total supply of housing.
                           * * * * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1993.
                            SCHEDULE 3
Page  9
                       Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
     beginning February 15, 1994
     through   August 15, 2003                       15,000,000
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                            Premium
                                           The interest  rate (ex-
                                           pressed as a percentage
                                           per  annum)  applicable
                                           to  the   balance  out-
                                           standing on the Loan on
                                           the  day  of prepayment
                                           multiplied by:
Not more than three years                            0.20
     before maturity
More than three years but                            0.40
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                              0.73
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                       0.87
     more than thirteen years
     before maturity
More than thirteen years before                      1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)   the term  "Eligible  Category"  means  the Category set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)   the term "Eligible  Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the Eligible Category in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)   the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"  means  an  amount
equivalent to twenty million dollars ($20,000,000) to be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposited  in  the  Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the
Special Account shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible expendi-
Page  10
tures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)   the Borrower shall  make  withdrawals  from the Special
Account for payments of Eligible  Expenditures on the basis of the
evidence that the Bank shall have reasonably determined, and shall
debit the Special Account with  the amount in dollars so withdrawn
or with the dollar equivalent  of  the currency other than dollars
in which the payment was made, determined on the basis of the rate
of exchange between the dollar and such currency in effect: (i) on
the date each payment  shall  have  been  made, if the payment has
taken place within 90 days  before  the  date of the withdrawal in
question has been requested; or  (ii)  on the date each withdrawal
shall have been made.
     (b)   On the basis of a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized  Allocation,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of the
Borrower, withdraw from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit into the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (c)   The Borrower shall  furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
shall specify. On  the  basis  of  such  requests,  the Bank shall
withdraw from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  into  the Special
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special
Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out
of  the  Special  Account  for  eligible  expenditures.  All  such
deposits shall be  withdrawn  by  the  Bank  from the Loan Account
under the  respective  eligible  Category,  and  in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall  have  been justified by the evidence
supporting the  request  for  such  deposit  furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (c) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, prior to or at  the time of such request, such documents
and other evidence as  the  Bank shall reasonably request, showing
that such payment was made for Eligible Expenditures.
5.   (a)   Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Bank  when  either  of  the following situations first
arises:
          (i)  the Bank  shall  have  determined  that all further
               withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
               from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the
               provisions of Article  V  of the General Conditions
               and  paragraph  (a)   of   Section   2.02  of  this
               Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount  of the Loan allocated
               to the Eligible Category,  minus  the amount of any
               outstanding special commitment  entered into by the
               Bank  pursuant  to  Section  5.02  of  the  General
               Conditions with respect  to  the  Project, shall be
               equal to the equivalent of  twice the amount of the
               Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible
Category shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by
notice to the  Borrower.  Such  further  withdrawals shall be made
only after  and  to  the  extent  that  the  Bank  shall have been
satisfied that  all  such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit  in the
Page  11
Special Account as the  date  of  such  notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment  out  of  the  Special  Account:  (i)  was  made  for  any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule,  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished to the Bank,  the  Borrower  shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, deposit into  the  Special Account (or, if the Bank
shall so request,  refund  to  the  Bank)  an  amount equal to the
amount of such payment or  the  portion thereof not so eligible or
justified. No further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account and immediate
cancellation.
