Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2947 ME
                     (Housing Finance Project)
                              between
                       UNITED MEXICAN STATES
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                     Dated September 28, 1988
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2947 ME
                        GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated September  28,  1988, between UNITED MEXICAN
STATES (the Guarantor)  and  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated May 10, 1988
from the Guarantor describing a program of actions, objectives and
policies designed to improve the efficient provision of shelter in
the Guarantor's housing  sector  (hereinafter called the Program),
declaring the  Guarantor's  commitment  to  the  execution  of the
Program, and the Guarantor and BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS
PUBLICOS, S.N.C. (the Borrower)  having  been  satisfied as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
the  Loan  Agreement,  have  requested  the  Bank's  assistance in
financing the Project as part of such Program;
     (B)  by the Loan Agreement of  even date herewith between the
Bank and the  Borrower,  the  Bank  has  agreed  to  extend to the
Borrower a loan in various  currencies equivalent to three hundred
Page  2
million dollars ($300,000,000),  on  the  terms and conditions set
forth in  the  Loan  Agreement,  but  only  on  condition that the
Guarantor agree to guarantee  the  obligations  of the Borrower in
respect of such loan as provided in this Agreement;
     (C)  by an agreement  (the  Project  Agreement)  of even date
herewith between the Bank  and  Banco de Mexico (Banxico), Banxico
has agreed, as  trustee  for  Fondo  de Operacián y Financiamiento
Bancario a la  Vivienda,  to  carry  out  Parts  A  and B.2 of the
Project;
     (D)  by   a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be entered into
between  the  Borrower  and  Banxico,  the  proceeds  of  the Loan
provided under  the  Loan  Agreement  will  be  made  available to
Banxico on the terms and  conditions  set forth in said subsidiary
loan agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Guarantor, in  consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement  with  the  Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of  the  Bank,  dated  January  1, 1985 (the
General Conditions), with the  modifications  set forth in Section
1.01 of the Loan  Agreement,  constitute  an integral part of this
Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to, and  Section  1.02  of,  the  Loan Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                   Guarantee; Provision of Funds
     Section 2.01. The  Guarantor  declares  its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set  forth  in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement and, to this end, without limitation or restriction upon
any of its other  obligations  under  the Guarantee Agreement, the
Guarantor hereby  unconditionally  guarantees,  as primary obligor
and not merely as  surety,  the  due  and  punctual payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the
premium, if any, on the  prepayment  of the Loan, and the punctual
performance of  all  the  other  obligations  of  the Borrower and
Banxico, as set forth in  the  Loan Agreement and the FOVI Project
Agreement, respectively.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. Without any limitation to, or restriction upon,
any of its obligations under  this Agreement, the Guarantor shall:
(i) take all measures required  to  assist Banxico in carrying out
its obligations under  the  FOVI  Project  Agreement; and (ii) not
take or permit to  be  taken,  any  action  which would prevent or
interfere with the performance by Banxico of its obligations under
the FOVI Project Agreement.
     Section 3.02.  The  Bank  and  the  Guarantor  agree that the
obligations set forth  in  Sections  9.04,  9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08
and 9.09  of  the  General  Conditions  (relating  respectively to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of Parts
A and B.2 of the Project shall be carried out by Banxico, pursuant
Page  3
to  Section  2.04  of  the  FOVI  Project  Agreement,  and  by the
Guarantor in respect of Parts B.1 and B.3 of the Project.
     Section 3.03.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of goods and works required  for the Project and to be
financed from the proceeds of  the  Loan, shall be governed by the
provisions of paragraph 2 (d) of  the Schedule to the FOVI Project
Agreement.
     Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall:
     (a)  cause the study described in  Part B.1 of the Project to
be carried  out  by  March  31,  1989,  under  terms  of reference
satisfactory to the Bank; and
     (b)  by June 30, 1989, discuss  the results of the study with
the Bank.
     Section 3.05. The Guarantor shall:
     (a)  carry out by December 31, 1989, the study referred to in
Part B.3 of the Project,  under terms of reference satisfactory to
the Bank; and
     (b)  by March 31, 1990, discuss the results of the study with
the Bank.
     Section 3.06. Without limitation to, or restriction upon, its
other reporting obligations set forth in this Agreement and in the
General Conditions:
     (a) the Guarantor shall, on  a  twice-yearly basis and at the
request of any party, exchange views with the Bank on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Project and the Program; and
     (b)  prior to  each  such  exchange  of  views, the Guarantor
shall furnish to the Bank, a report in such detail as the Bank may
reasonably request, on such progress achieved.
                            ARTICLE IV
            Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
     Section 4.01.  The  Director  General  de  Crådito PŒblico of
the Secretaróa de  Hacienda  y  Crådito  PŒblico  is designated as
representative of the Guarantor for  the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
     Section 4.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Guarantor:
          Direccián General de Crådito PŒblico
          Secretaróa de Hacienda y Crådito PŒblico
          Palacio Nacional
          Edificio 10, P.B.
          06066 Mexico, D.F.
          Mexico
          FAX:                              Telex:
          477-8451                              1777313-SHDCME
          477-8164
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
Page  4
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                       440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
               FAX:
               (202) 477-6391
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective  names  in  Berlin, Federal Republic of
Germany, as of the day and year first above written.
                     UNITED MEXICAN STATES
                     By /s/ Gustavo Petricioli
                                         Authorized Representative
                     INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                     By /s/ Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
