Document of                          :  E
The World Bank
FOR OFMFCIAL USE ONLY
Repr No. P-2480-RO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
BANK FOR AGRICULTURE AND FOOD INDUSTRY
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF ROMANIA
FOR A
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
March 6, 1979
This documt h  a retIeted dW%titon *d my be md by redplbualy In the peufonmee of
their  clal dutes&. Bs eotemb my mg iadbere be dibskoi wtheu Wod Bak auorizadIon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit : Leu (plural Lei)
1. Official Rate
Lei 4.47 = US$1.00
Leu 1.00 = US$0.22
2. Tourist Rate
Lei 12.00 = US$1.00
Leu 1.00 = us$0.08
3. Conversion Rate for Traded Goods
Lei 18.oo = us$1.oo
Leu 1.00 = us$o.o6
The Official Exchange Rate of lei 4.47 per US$1 is used only for accounting
purposes. The rate used for tourist transactions is lei 12 per US$1, having
been revalued from a rate of lei 14.38 per US$1 in October 1974. Beginning
in March 1978, a trading rate of lei 18 per US$l has been used to convert
the prices of all traded goods; this rate is considered representative of the
average cost of convertible foreign exchange.
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BAFI    -    Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry
CAP     -    Agricultural Production Cooperative
ICA     -    Intercooperative Association
Romagrimex   Romanian Foreign Trade Company for Agriculture.



ROMANIA                FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LIVESTOCK II PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry (BAFI)
Guarantor:           Socialist Republic of Romania
Beneficiaries:       State enterprises and Cooperative complexes
Loan Amount:         US$75 million equivalent
Terms:               Repayable in 15 years, including a 3-year grace period,
through semi-annual installments. Interest at 7%
percent per annum.
Relending Terms:    Relending to State enterprises at 2 percent per annum
during construction and 4 percent after construction.
Relending to cooperatives at 3 percent per annum.
State enterprise subloan maturities would be for up to
10 years but would take into consideration the capacity
of respective subprojects to repay from incremental
income generated therefrom. Relending to individual
producers for 5 years at 3 percent per annum. For
cooperatives, subloan terms would not exceed 18 years
including three years of grace (see para. 52). The
Government would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:       Agricultural credit subprojects to be financed under
the proposed loan are estimated to include investments
to be undertaken in 1979 and 1980 for 27 new fattening
farms, 25 new crossbred gilt 1/ production farms, moderni-
zation of 37 pig breeding and fattening units, a line
of credit to agricultural cooperative members and private
individuals, provision of facilities to augment existing
pig nutrition research, and construction of slaughter-
house, cold storage and processing facilities; this
would include modernization of existing facilities to
improve health and hygiene standards as well as provi-
sion of new facilities. Annual incremental pork pro-
duction resulting from project investments is expected
to reach 200,000 tons (carcass weight) at full develop-
ment. In addition, slaughtering and processing through-
put capacities would be increased by 275,000 tons (carcass
weight). The project is expected to reach full production
in 1984 and face no special risks.
1/   Young sows.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance   |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Cost Estimates:                                       Foreign                  %
Local       Exchange      Total      F.E.
… __________--…(US$ 000)        …
Pig breeding/fattening units            100,271       23,972      124,243    19.3
Crossbred gilt production units          32,629        7,739       40,368    19.2
Slaughterhouses                           4,445       24,667       99,112    24.9
Sausage processing facilities            13,170        4,297       17,467    24.6
Cold stores                              11,242        3,668       14,910    24.6
Credit to individual producers           27,200        6,800       34,000    20.0
Applied nutrition research                1,125          264        1,389    10.0
Physical Contingencies                   12,004        3,210       15,214    21.1
Price Contingencies                       4,248        7,651       11,899    64.3
Incremental working capital              64,209       12,732       76,941    16.5
Total Project Cost                      340,543       95,000      435,543 /1 21.4
Cofinanciers       Sub-
Financing:                            IBRD    and MAFI/BAFI   Borrowers    Total
---------------(US$ '000)…______________
Pig breeding/fattening units         28,337       63,555         43,630      135,522
Cross bred gilt production units   9,120          21,074         13,425       43,619
Slaughterhouses                      22,577       51,923         33,475      107,975
Sausage processing facilities         4,032        9,080          6,170       19,282
Cold stores                           3,423        7,708          5,238       16,369
Credit to individual producers        7,181       27,162            -   /2   34,343
Applied nutrition research              330        1,162            -          1,492
Incremental working capital             -        53,297          23,644       76,941
TOTAL:                                75,000    234,961         125,582      435,543
Percentage of Total Cost               17.2       54.0            28.8         100
Estimated                                              US$ Million
Disbursement:                       FY   1980       1981    1982    1983
Annual                 13.5     27.5    25.4       8.6
Cumulative            13.5      41.0    66.4    75.0
Economic Rate of Return:        About 30 percent
Appraisal Report:               Number 2279-RO; dated February 27, 1979
EMENA Projects Department
/1   Total costs include about $0.7 million as taxes and duties.
/2   Contribution of family labor.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE BANK FOR AGRICULTURE AND FOOD
INDUSTRY OF ROMANIA FOR A SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Bank for Agricultural and Food Industry of Romania, with
the guarantee of the Socialist Republic of Romania, for the equivalent
of $75 million to help finance a Second Livestock Project. The loan
would have a term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace, with interest
at 7 percent per annum. Cofinancing of up to $100 million is being sought
from commercial lending institutions.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The first basic report on Romania (Report no. 1601-RO, "The Indus-
trialization of an Agrarian Economy under Socialist Planning") was circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 20, 1978. An economic mission visited
Romania in mid-May to collect information on economic performance in 1977 and
to discuss the 1978 Annual Plan and the new economic measures announced in
February 1978. This part incorporates its findings. Country social and
economic data are given in Annex I.
3.        Over the past 25 years the Romanian economy has undergone a radical
transformation and has sustained one of the highest growth rates in the world.
The average growth rate of national income during the period has been 9.7
percent per annum. The level and diversification of industrial production
has increased rapidly, providing the basis for the modernization and expansion
of other economic sectors and a general increase in labor productivity and
national income. With the transfer of labor from agriculture to industry,
the population has become increasingly urbanized. Standards of living have
increased substantially, not only because of the growth of personal incomes
but also because of the provision through the state budget of expanded and
improved education, medical services, housing and social expenditures of other
kinds. Furthermore, Romanian participation in the world economy has changed
significantly as the level of trade has risen and its composition altered.
4.        The changes in the level and structure of economic activities be-
tween 1950 and 1975 represent the outcome of a development strategy designed
to accelerate the rate of growth and to catch up, as quickly as possible,
with the level and structure of development in the developed countries. The
main features of, the strategy can be summarized as: high and increasing rates
of saving and investment; the creation of a broad industrial base; the devel-
opment of local natural resources; the reorganization and modernization of
1/   This Part I is identical to that contained in the President's Report for
a Mostistea and Calmatui Irrigation and Drainage Project to be considered
by the Executive Directors on the same date as the proposed project, and
is also identical to that contained in the President's Report for the
Roman Seamless Pipe and Second Turceni Thermal Power Projects, approved
by the Executive Directors on January 11, 1979.



- 2 -
agriculture; the balanced regional distribution of production and income; the
expansion of foreign trade and international economic relations; and the
development of human resources.
5.        The main instrument for carrying out the strategy has been the
system of comprehensive central planning and management. Economic management
is organized along socialist principles which include state and cooperative
ownership of almost all productive resources. Economic activity is directed
by means of obligatory development planning coordinated by the central party
and government authorities. The national plan, drawn up on a five-year time
frame and elaborated each year in an Annual Plan, sets out for the economy as
a whole, by sector and branch and on a regional basis, specific tasks for
economic and social units. The plan is drawn up through a combination of
central directives and aggregation of individual enterprise plans, any dif-
ferences being reconciled through discussions between the entities involved.
During the late 1960s and throughout the present decade, Romania has under-
taken measures to improve the planning and management system, to increase the
responsibility of enterprises in preparing and implementing the plan and to
orient the economy to a more efficient use of resources (see para 20 for the
latest changes).
6.        The technical and functional Ministries are the State's chief agents
for the administration of economic activity. They are assisted by subordinate
units known as Centrals, which coordinate and supervise activities within a
common branch or industry without being directly engaged in production. Enter-
prises subordinate to the Centrals are responsible for production which is
controlled through a system of financial and physical production targets. In
agriculture, large State farms and cooperatives are the predominant units of
production.
7.        To achieve the objectives of rapid growth and structural change, the
Romanian authorities have made great efforts to mobilize domestic resources
for development and to maintain a high rate of capital formation. Over the
past 25 years, investment has grown at 13 percent per annum, and by the 1971-
75 Five-Year Plan, the proportion of national income utilized for accumulation
had risen to 34.1 percent (equivalent to 27-28 percent of GNP). The sectoral
allocation of investment throughout the period 'reflected the priority of
industrialization and the creation of a broad industrial base oriented towards
self-sufficiency; approximately 50 percent of investment has been allocated to
industry and, of this, by far the largest part has been directed to the
producer goods sector. This has resulted in rapid growth of the industrial
sector, over 13 percent per annum during the last decade, with the producer
goods sector growing more rapidly than consumer goods. In 1976 industry was
the leading sector of the economy, accounting for almost 60 percent of national
income, and employing approximately 32 percent of the labor force (and almost
33 percent in 1977) compared with 14 percent in 1950. Heavy industry, led by
chemicals, ferrous metallurgy, engineering and machine building, comprised 62
percent of gross industrial production.
8.        This industrialization strategy has greatly increased the demand for
raw materials and energy. Romania has concentrated on exploiting local



resources of fuels, metals and minerals to be as self-sufficient as possible
in these items. However, in spite of the rapid growth in production of the
wide range of raw materials found in Romania and recent efforts to conserve
and economize in the use of raw materials and energy, Romania has become a net
importer of many important items, particularly coal, iron ore and oil. The
rapid growth of energy consumption, 8.6 percent per annum since 1950, has
outpaced the growth of domestic production. Romania started to import oil
in 1968 and became a net importer of energy in 1972.
9.        Notwithstanding the emphasis on industrialization, agriculture
remains a key sector of the economy, still employing 34 percent of the labor
force in 1977 (compared with 74 percent in 1950). Apart from supplying foods
and other agricultural products as inputs for agro-industries, the sector also
supplies about 30 percent of the nation's convertible foreign exchange earn-
ings. Though agricultural output almost tripled in the last 25 years, the
faster growth of non-agricultural sectors has reduced the share of agriculture
in national income to about 18 percent by 1976. Over the past decade, agricul-
tural performance has improved with the increased emphasis on agricultural
development and the increased investment funds made available. However, the
level and growth of production have remained below the sector's potential.
10.       Romania's population growth is about 1 percent per annum.  The
rapid growth of industrial employment has therefore drawn labor from the rural
areas. The average GNP growth of 9 percent per annum implies a percentage
growth in output per head of about 8 percent per annum, up to an estimated GNP
per capita of US$1,580 in 1977, bas-d upon official national income information
using the World Bank Atlas methodology.
11.       The organization of the economy is such that all labor is employed
(indeed, required to work). There is, however, some seasonal labor surplus
in agriculture. Income distribution is also relatively equal, through govern-
ment psIicy controls over tte level, growth and structure of wages. By law
the maximum wage is limited to five and a half to six times the minimum.
Monthly wages were increased by 8.3 percent in 1976 to an average of 1,964
lei. The Government also promotes its income distribution policies through
regional allocation of industrial investment.
12.       The Government aims to give the population a basic needs package,
partly by providing services such as education, health and housing. From this
basic level, the Ccveraiment has planned annual increases in living standards.
Real incomes nave risen at an annual rate of 6.6 percent since 1950, with the
growth rate accelerating particularly in the last decade as more benefits of
a rapidly expanding national income were channelled to consumption. Prices
of essential consumer goods and services such as foodstuffs, rents and urban
transport remain low and most social services, notably education and health
care, are provided free of charge.
13.       The value of Romania's trade grew at an average annual rate of 13
percent in the past 25 years, with a gradual acceleration in the last decade,
reflecting not only the effects of international inflation but also an increase
in the importance of trade, particularly industrial imports, to the economy.



The level of imports rose in response to the need for capital goods and raw
materials, reaching US$7.02 billion in 1977. Exports also grew rapidly,
reaching a level of US$6.88 billion in 1977, and the share of manufactured
goods increased to 50 percent, reflecting the progress of Romania's indus-
trialization. Trade with LDCs and developed market economies has also been
increasing rapidly in response to policies of diversifying sources of raw
material supply and as a consequence of exports of more manufactured goods.
In recent years, there has also been a tendency to move away from trade on
a bilateral basis towards trade involving multilateral payments, within the
framework of the general trade cooperation agreements signed with almost all
of the country's trading partners. These agreements also covered cooperation
in production, technical assistance and economic relations. In 1977, the
convertible balance of payments deteriorated, reversing the trend of the
previous three years. After a surplus of US$76 million in 1976, the trade
balance had a deficit of US$81 million in 1977, as a result of additional
imports made necessary by the earthquake, the diversion of export goods
to the domestic economy for reconstruction and continued weak demand in the
developed countries for some Romanian exports. With an increased deficit on
the invisibles account (US$192 million compared with US$137 million in 1976),
there was a current account deficit in 1977 of US$273 million compared with
the 1976 deficit of US$61 million.
14.       In spite of these developments, the structure of Romania's trade
with the developed market economies is still characterized by exports of
natural resources and imports of capital goods. Because of the present low
level of reserves, any instability in export earnings, as frequently arises
from shortfalls in agricultural output or softening in prices tends to place
the import program, largely sophisticated machinery and components, in imme-
diate jeopardy.
Recent Economic Developments
15.       The Five-Year Plan under implementation covers the period 1976-80.
The high growth rates experienced during 1971-75 are planned to continue. The
pattern of growth planned for this period suggests that the present decade has
been viewed as a decisive period in the achievement of long-term objectives,
during which Romania will overcome the major constraints on its transformation
from a developing country into a developed and technologically advanced coun-
try. There have been substantial and comprehensive revisions to the Five-Year
Plan targets during 1977 to help accomplish this. In July, increased targets
for standards of living were announced and in December, following the Eleventh
Conference of the Romanian Communist Party (RCP), revised targets for all other
areas of the Plan were announced. Also, in January 1978 important decisions
were taken to increase work incentives substantially by allowing workers to
participate in sharing the profits of enterprises (see para 20).
16.       According to the revised plan, national income is to grow at 11
percent per annum between 1976-80, practically the same rate as was achieved
between 1971 and 1975. Gross industrial production will increase at 11.5
percent, compared with the original target of 10.2-11.2 percent, while gross
agricultural production is expected to grow at a rate of 6.9-9.0 percent per



-5-
annum, which would require a significant improvement over previous results
in that sector. In addition, investment is to increase by 12.7 percent per
annum, approximately the same rate of growth as in the original plan. However,
the revised plan contains a larger number of investment projects, as new
projects were added following a reexamination of existing projects which led
to a reduction in investment costs of about 10 percent on average. This
reexamination, which took place in 1976 and 1977 was part of the general
campaign to increase utilization of existing capacity and to economize on the
consumption of raw materials and intermediate goods. The volume of foreign
trade is to increase by 109.1 percent in real terms over the five years, a
much faster rate of growth than in 1971-75 when trade merely doubled in
current prices. Furthermore, the Government plans to encourage the growth of
exports so that it exceeds that of imports, so as to pursue its long-term
objective of reducing external debt and allowing for the accumulation of
reserves. While the rate of growth of consumption will remain below that of
production, it will nevertheless be increased under the revised plan. Real
wages are now to increase by 32.3 percent over the five years compared with
the previous target of 22 percent. As a result, targets for socialist retail
trade and services for the population have been increased.
17.       The economy was dealt a severe blow on March 4, 1977 when a violent
earthquake occurred in the east of the country, causing severe damage in the
vicinity of Bucharest   The Government estimated that 1,570 people were killed,
11,300 injured and that it caused damage valued at US$2 billion. US$1.4 billion
of the total damage was to buildings and associated utilities, of which US$1
billion was in housing. Of the remaining 30 percent of damage, almost all was
in inventories and production. The earthquake also had a substantial detri-
mental effect on the country's balance of payments' prospects; the net balance
of payments cost is estimated to be approximately US$630 million during 1977
and 1978.
18.       The Government organized immediately an intensive reconstruction
effort with the stated aim of avoiding any impact upon the implementation of
five-year plan targets.  This required additional efforts from the population
in the form of labor, e.g. work on one Sunday per month, and money. While
these efforts enabled the economy to continue its growth, 1977 plan targets
were only partially fulfilled. National income increased by 8.6 percent com-
pared to a plan target of 11.3 percent and an increase in the previous year
of 10.5 percent. Industrial production increased substantially more than the
plan target (12.5 versus 10.5 percent). In net production or value added
terms, however, growth was significantly lower, since reductions in production
costs were less than planned and because of the need to make repairs after
the earthquake. For reasons other than the earthquake, chiefly climatic and
management problems, gross agricultural production fell 1.3 percent short
of the 1976 level, and was far below the plan target of 2-4 percent growth.
The gross output of the construction sector rose rapidly; much of the addi-
tional output constituted repairs and the sector provided a relatively large
share of growth in national income. The impact of the earthquake showed up
clearly in the growth rates of investment and trade. The volume of investment
increased by 11.5 percent rather than the 16.7 percent planned, reflecting the
diversion of construction resources and manpower to repair work. The volume



- 6 -
of trade increased in current prices close to that planned (14.8 versus 15.5
percent) but with imports increasing more rapidly and exports less rapidly
than planned.
19.       The 1978 Annual Plan indicated growth rates similar to those planned
in 1978. National income was planned to increase by 11-11.5 percent, gross
industrial production by 10.6 percent and gross agricultural production by
between 6.9 and 16.1 percent, with the respective net production growth
rates being somewhat higher as a result of planned decreases in material
expenditures per unit of final product. Investment was planned to increase
by 16.8 percent and foreign trade by 19.1 percent. Real incomes of the
population were projected to increase by 7.9 percent. Mid-year reports
suggested that the growth of production during 1978 was likely to approxi-
mate targets, although there have been indications of delays in carrying
out investments. The recently published Annual Plan for 1979 signals no
significant deviation from the previous path, although the target for national
income (8.8 percent) does suggest a slight deceleration in growth. Net indus-
trial production is planned to grow at 11.5 percent (in keeping with the new
economic measures, the 1979 Plan specifies industrial growth in net rather than
gross terms), with particularly high rates of growth planned for such indus-
trial branches as machine tools, engineering and electrical goods. Gross
agricultural production is planned to increase at 5.1-5.6 percent, foreign
trade at 16.6 percent and investment at 9.1 percent, substantially below the
1978 target. Real incomes of the population are expected to increase by
7.5 percent.
20.       In February, 1978 the Government announced changes in economic
and financial mechanisms designed to improve the planning and management of
the economy, to stimulate improvements in labor productivity, in cost reduc-
tion and efficiency of production and also to make existing provisions for
enterprise self-management more effective. The major change announced was
the introduction of net production as a major plan target, both for inducing
enterprises to fulfill plan objectives, particularly in the areas of increased
efficiency and reduction of costs and as the basis upon which worker's wages
and bonuses are paid. In future enterprises are also to retain a higher pro-
portion of profits, have increased responsibility for socio-cultural expendi-
tures, be more concerned in the final stages of the annual plan preparation,
be permitted to enter into longer term contracts to ensure a closer correla-
tion between the plan and actual contract provisions and will have more direct
responsibilities for the achievement of foreign trade targets. These measures
are now under detailed discussion within Romania and are expected to become
law in 1979. It is too early to make a definite judgment, but it does appear
that they are designed to make the existing management and planning system
operate more efficiently rather than to cause radical changes. However, they
are a step in the direction that the basic economic report suggested was
desirable if the economy was to meet its objectives. Furthermore, they will
set up new pressures between the various levels of the economy which may lead
to more substantial changes in the future.
External Assistance
21.       The expansion of Romania's trade with the non-socialist industrial
countries has led to an increased need to obtain convertible currencies to



- 7 -
pay for imports from those countries. Romania has met this need both by
borrowing abroad and by mounting a major effort to expand exports and tourism
earnings   Tn 1977, new commitments of convertible medium and long-term
loans totalled US$843 million and consisted mainly of supplier and financial
credits with relatively short repayment periods. The gross inflow of conver-
tible medium and long-term loans during the year was US$890 million (not
counting US$38 million from the IMF). This represented a net inflow of US$329
million after accounting for the country's repayment obligations. There was
also a net inflow of US$156 million on short-term during 1977; this was the
result of the Government's temporary reversal, because of additional financing
needs generated by the earthquake, of its policy to reduce reliance on short-
term credits.
22.       As part of its effort to expand its foreign trade and cooperation
relationships, Romania has also taken active steps to attract long-term
private capital. A regulation passed in 1972 defines the conditions under
which foreign firms can establish joint ventures with domestic enterprises,
preferably in foreign exchange earning or saving industries. As of November
1978, eight joint venture agreements had been signed and a number of others
announced. In contrast with the earlier ventures, which involved total direct
foreign investments of only US$10-15 million, the seventh and eighth involve
far larger sums. The seventh agreement, signed in early 1977 with Citroen,
involves a contract of FF 2.5 billion (about US$500 million) and will lead to
a total capital inflow of aproximately US$250 million. Even larger inflows,
appproximately $500 million, are expected as a result of the eighth agreement,
with Kuwait, for the construction of a petrochemical complex costing US$1.25
billion. In the past twelve months, several more ventures have been announced;
a joint shipping company in cooperation with Libya, a joint production company
with British Aircraft, a joint production enterprise with Data Products Cor-
poration of USA and a joint venture for passenger aircraft with VFW-Fokker.
Many other joint venture proposals are at various stages of negotiations.
23.       Romania also receives medium-term trade credits from the U.S. Exim-
bank and trades under Government guaranteed supplier credit schemes, ECGD,
COFACE, and HERMES with the United Kingdom, France and the Federal Republic
of Germany, respectively. During 1977, Romania became the first East European
recipient of a Japanese Eximbank loan, receiving US$80 million for the expan-
sion of the port of Constanta. In 1975 Romania succeeded in securing a US$100
million, eight-year loan from Kuwait as part of a general cooperation agree-
ment and also a US$420 million loan from Iran on concessionary terms. How-
ever, it is in its Eurocurrency borrowings that the Government has made most
progress in improving its access to capital markets and in raising substantial
sums at good and improving terms. During 1977, it negotiated two Euro-
dollar loans totalling US$125 million. In January 1978, Romania negotiated
a further US$100 million on the Eurocurrency market, and it was recently
announced that the Government has negotiated a new Eurocurrency borrowing of
US$200-300 million. The terms for this eight-year loan, with four years grace
are 0.625 percent above LIBOR for the first three years and 0.750 percent for
the remaining years. As part of its strategy to secure long-term energy
supplies, Romania has concluded a long-term contract with Occidental Petroleum
for the purchase of coal from the U.S.; a banking consortium raised a US$53
million loan in April 1978 to finance Romanian participation in the Island



-8-
Creek Coal Mine in West Virginia. In addition, Romania has access to non-
convertible currency investment credits from the International Investment
Bank, Moscow.
24.       Nonetheless, Romania's access to long-term finance in convertible
currencies is still very restricted. The IBRD is the major source of long-
term development finance, though, as shown above, Romania is making efforts
to improve its access to financial markets. The Bank's presence on a signi-
ficant scale, and its effort to associate Bank financed projects with co-
financing through supplier or financial credits, has a positive influence
in this regard and serves to build outside confidence in the country,
thereby enhancing in the long-term Romania's independent access to the
world's financial markets.
Prospects
25.       Romania has good potential for further economic growth.  Endowed
with important natural resources (fuels, some minerals, timber, rich soils
and sources of irrigation water for agriculture, and a favorable climate for
agriculture and tourism) and located conveniently with respect to its major
international markets in the East and West, the country has built a broad
industrial infrastructure (power, metallurgy, chemicals) which will serve as
a base for the expansion of secondary manufacturing sectors such as machine
building and consumer durables. Above all, Romania has a hard-working and
increasingly skilled population. To attain its growth objectives, however,
Romania will have to rely on a major expansion of exports of manufactured
goods in order to finance modern foreign technology and an increasing depen-
dence on imported raw materials and fuel.
26.       Economic growth and structural change call for the introduction of
new technologies, improvements in the quality of products, more efficient
use of materials and factor inputs and reductions in production costs. The
achievement of export targets requires improvements in the quality of products
and responsiveness to customer demands, areas in which the economy appears
to have lagged in past years. To keep up with these changes and requirements,
large programs of education and manpower training have been mounted, invest-
ments in scientific and technological research have been emphasized, and
efforts are being made to strengthen technical cooperation with industrialized
countries and international organizations. The increasing diversity and com-
plex4ty of Romania's economic structure also require continuing improvements
in the efficiency of economic planning and coordination and further refine-
ments in economic management.
27.       The growth rate is expected to remain quite high by international
standards and if its present momentum is maintained, Romania will be among
the more developed of the high-income, developing countries in the 1980s.
The Government plans to achieve this high growth rate by emphasizing, first,
the utilization of the country's own resources and a large local investment
effort, and second, more effective use of human, capital and natural resources.
However, in order for Romania to attain its growth targets and its long term



-9-
plans for creating a competitive industrial economy, it will have to attract
foreign resources and technology and secure loans to support its development
efforts.
Creditworthiness
28.       As of December 1977, Romania's total medium and long-term external
debt amounted to US$3,491 million. Most of these debts (US$3,402 million)
were denominated in convertible currencies, the major creditor countries being
the Federal Republic of Germany, France, the United Kingdom (UK) and Italy.
While the total debt does not appear excessive in relation to the volume and
growth of external trade, average maturities are relatively short and con-
vertible debt service payments are estimated to be in the order of US$900
million a year in 1978 and 1979. The convertible debt service ratio was 19
percent in 1977 and is expected to be 18 percent in 1978.
29.       The organization of economic activity in Romania, the pursuit of a
development strategy involving high investment and saving rates, and rapid
income growth ensure the effective use of foreign credits. Moreover, the
country's major efforts to expand exports (particularly to convertible cur-
rency areas) are increasing the foreign exchange available for debt service.
Convertible export earnings rose from US$830 million in 1971 to US$3,403
million (not counting US$580 million in non-factor services) in 1977. The
preferential trade status accorded to Romania by the European Community in
June 1973 is facilitating the expansion of such exports as is the granting of
most favored nation status by the U.S. Since the early 1970s, the Government
has restricted the use of short-term credit from Western suppliers in an
effort to improve the structure of the country's external debt. In view of
the earthquake's impact upon the balance of payments, the Government indicated
that there would be a temporary reversal of this trend and short-term debt
increased again in 1977. Assuming a continuation of present export and debt
management policies, we estimate that the debt service ratio will be about 20
percent at the end of the 1976-80 plan period, after which it will remain
fairly stable. The country's present outward-looking posture, the success of
both its domestic growth and foreign trade policies, and its potential for
continued development, all support the judgment that Romania is creditworthy
for substantial Bank lending.
30.       When Romania joined the Bank, most pre-war foreign debts of the
country had been settled. Settlements which were still under discussion at
that time concerned claims in the U.K. and in the U.S. With regard to
the settlement of these claims, the final payments of U.S. claims began in
September 1975 And were completed in October 1976 based upon agreements
reached in May 1975. Settlement of the U.K. claims proved more difficult, but
a final agreement was signed in January 1976. The Bank was also informed in
late 1976 of certain Swedish claims concerning public loans from the pre-war
period, nationalized Swedish property and other interests, such as concessions
granted to Swedish companies before the Second World War. The eleventh
meeting to discuss settlement of these claims was held in Bucharest in October
1976 and further discussions were planned at a date to be established through



- 10 -
diplomatic channels. The Bank has been unable to obtain a consistent picture
from the two Governments of the present status of this matter and has, there-
fore, urged the Romanian and Swedish authorities to clarify their respective
positions directly with each other.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ROMANIA
31.       The proposed loan and the proposed loan for a Mostistea and Calmatui
Irrigation and Drainage Project ($70 million) would bring total Bank commit-
ments to Romania to US$1177.8 million for twenty-two loans in agriculture,
industry and power. Disbursements under the Bank's initial loans were slow
during 1975, but this situation improved considerably during 1976 and 1977.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans to Romania and notes on
the execution of ongoing projects as of January 31, 1979.
32.       Foreign exchange, especially in convertible currencies, continues
to be a major constraint and one of the major objectives of Bank lending
continues to be to help alleviate the country's shortage of foreign exchange
by providing long-term external capital and by financing projects which will
expand foreign exchange earnings or savings. The Bank is assisting the Gov-
ernment by helping to mobilize cofinancing for appropriate projects. The Bank
has helped to attract foreign commercial banks to provide cofinancing for this
project by supplying them with information on the project, and assisting BAFI
in its initial contacts with various commercial lending institutions. Through
these contacts and subsequent negotiations, the Romanian authorities now
appear convinced of positive value of cofinancing in the form of financial
credits, and have indicated their intention to seek similar arrangements for
future projects. Bank lending also aims at supporting the Government's
efforts to introduce new industrial technologies, to improve the quality of
products and production efficiency, to reduce production costs and to provide
for necessary electric power development. Market aspects and marketing, espe-
cially for export goods, are also emphasized. Special attention is given to
agriculture which is heavily dependent upon favorable weather and where
productivity levels are still comparatively low.
33.       A number of further loans are under consideration.  Projects for
poultry production, horticulture, and a number of further irrigation and
industrial projects, have been proposed. The Government has also requested
that the Bank consider lending for a major navigation canal linking the Danube
and Black Sea.
34.       In addition to lending, the Bank (through EDI) has assisted Romania
by conducting industrial and transportation project appraisal training courses
for 163 Romanian officials in Belgrade in 1973 and in Bucharest in 1975, 1976
and 1977. Additional courses, including one in agricultural project appraisal,
are planned. The methodology taught in these courses is becoming more widely
known in Romania and is expected to begin to supplement the methodology
normally used by the Romanian planning authorities.



- 11 -
35.       The projects, for which assistance has been committed or is being
considered, represent only a small portion of Romania's total need for external
financing and of its total disbursed convertible debt. However, they will
provide a substantial net addition to the inflow of convertible currency
finance, and may set a pattern for obtaining longer-term convertible finance
from other sources.   The disbursed debt outstanding to the Bank is expected
to constitute about 13 percent of Romania's total projected convertible
currency debt in 1980; the Bank's share in Romania's debt service payments
in 1980 would be about 4.5 percent.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR IN ROMANIA
Agriculture
36.       Agriculture continues to be a key sector in the Romanian economy,
providing both convertible foreign exchange earnings and industrial raw
materials which contribute to progress in other sectors, especially in indus-
try. In 1977, agriculture accounted for 16 percent of national income and 34
percent of the labor force (compared with 74 percent in 1950). About 14.9
million hectares, or almost two-thirds of the land area, are used for agricul-
ture. Of this area, 65 percent is arable, 30 percent is under pasture and the
remaining 5 percent is used for orchards and vineyards. About 8.5 million
hectares of all agricultural land is in Wallachia, the region composed of the
southern plains in the Danube valley. Approximately 64 percent of all arable
land is used for grain production (mainly maize and wheat), while industrial
crops (mainly sunflower and sugar beet) are the next most important. Vege-
tables are also produced for domestic consumption and export, predominantly
by private farmers and individual members of cooperatives, but also often in
large-scale commercial greenhouses operated by State farms and cooperatives.
Livestock accounts for a relatively high 43 percent of agricultural production
in 1977.
37.       The major problems of Romanian agriculture are the instability of
its output and low productivity. Growth achieved in agricultural production
has been slower than in other sectors and has been characterized by year-to-
year variations. The Government has taken account of these problems in its
five year plans. Investment in agriculture accounted for 12.7 percent of
actual total investment in the 1966-70 plan period and 14.1 percent in the
1971 plan period. Investment in agriculture in the 1976-80 plan period is
expected to be 116 billion lei (US$6.4 billion), about 50 percent more than
during 1971-75 plan period. Included in these plans are major programs of
irrigation investment to address the problems, in particular the problem of
the instability of production. In addition to investment, the Government has
also taken other measures, including institutional reforms, price incentives,
and production targets and delivery schedules to stimulate agricultural pro-
duction. It has also taken a number of other specific measures to increase



- 12 -
agricultural productivity including increases in the supply and utilization
of fertilizers, investments in livestock production and the promotion of agro-
industrial enterprises to provide processing and marketing facilities. The
Bank has also identified the production instability and the low productivity
as the two major problems in the Romanian agricultural sector as stated in the
Agricultural Sector Survey (953a-RO) and the recent basic economic report
(1601-RO). Through the process of preparing these documents and the Bank
financed projects, the Bank has maintained a close dialogue with the Govern-
ment and contributed to improving designing agricultural development projects.
The Bank has assisted the Government efforts by providing so far seven loans
totalling $371.5 million since 1975 when the first Bank loan for agriculture
was made to Romania.
Agricultural Productivity
38.       In addition to improving its irrigation infrastructure, Romania is
also taking measures to improve productivity through upgrading the quality of
farm mechanization, increases in the supply and utilization of fertilizers,
and the promotion of agro-industrial enterprises to provide processing and
marketing outlets for increased farm production. Steps are also being taken
to reduce inequality between State farms and cooperatives in access to farm
inputs. State farms, which own 30 percent and cultivate 14 percent of agri-
cultural land, received about 42 percent of on-farm investment in the 1971-75
Plan period. Productivity on State farms is correspondingly higher than that
on cooperatives, but the Government is now moving toward elimination of the
disparities between the two types of farm organization in order to stimulate
general improvement in agricultural productivity. The development of large-
scale livestock complexes incorporating significant scale economies and the
best managerial staff is contributing to the improvement in productivity.
Sector Organization
39.       State agricultural units and cooperatives account for the major
portion of agricultural production; individual farmers play a much less sig-
nificant role, except in the production of a few selected commodities. The
current sector organization is primarily a result of collectivization and
increased government participation from 1949 to 1962, when small-scale,
peasant-oriented agriculture was replaced by large, state-owned or state-
controlled production units. The dominant form of state-owned agricultural
unit is the state enterprise. There are 392 such state farms averaging about
5,300 hectares and about 650 workers each. These large scale, capital inten-
sive farms have been considered a pilot sector in Romania and, as such have
been favored in terms of land allocation, fertilizer distribution and invest-
ments in irrigation and mechanization. About 2.1 million hectares of agricul-
tural land are cultivated by these farms, which also own substantial grazing
and pasture lands. Workers on the farms are employed on salaries which are
fixed by law but vary according to skill levels. The state farms are general-
ly well managed by directors (usually agricultural engineers) who are appointed
by the Director General for State Farms of the Ministry of Agriculture and



- 13 -
are responsible to workers' councils. The Ministry of Agriculture determines
the production plans for individual State farms; it also has a role in deter-
mining the use of their net income, a portion of which is remitted to the
State treasury.
40.       There are about 4,400 agricultural production cooperatives with
about 3.4 million member families and cultivating about 9.0 million hectares.
Workers in cooperatives are entitled to a minimum salary, which is lower than
the salaries of their counterparts on state farms by about 20 percent. Sala-
ries of cooperators may be supplemented with the cooperator's shares of pro-
fits in excess of plan targets, as bonus programmed to be about 2 percent of
the planned benefits. More than one member of a family frequently works (on
a full- or part-time basis) in the cooperative, and some family members are
employed outside of the cooperatives. Cooperators are also allowed to farm
about 0.15 hectares each in and around their villages for their personal use,
and they are allowed to own livestock. They are expected to be subborrowers
under the project, for small scale investments on their individual plots.
Production on personal plots is always intensive, and produce is either
self-consumed or sold to consumption cooperatives to supplement other income
of the cooperators. A cooperative is managed by a General Assembly of co-
operators and its elected President; it reports to the District Director
General for Agriculture, the local representative of the Ministry of Agri-
culture. Some cooperatives have begun to pool their resources for large-
scale investments in agroindustries and livestock production. These inter-
cooperative associations (ICA) are operated by state employees paid from ICA
revenues. Part of the net income from ICA sales is retained for further ICA
development; the balance is divided among member cooperatives in proportion
to their contribution to shares in the ICA.
41.       Individual producers number only about 150,000 families and own
about 10 percent of total agricultural land. Their lands are often located
in mountainous regions, and include 19 percent of pasture lands and 21 per-
cent of orchards. Individual producers own 16 percent of all cattle, 14
percent of sheep, and 6 percent of pigs. The individual farming subsector has
not received strong government support but is significant in production of
potatoes (16 percent of production), meat (13 percent), milk (20 percent),
eggs (14 percent) and wool (12 percent). However, under the proposed project
weaners produced on State and Cooperative farms would be transferred to the
individual producers for fattening. The project provides a line of credit to
small farmers for small scale on-farm investments to facilitate this, the
first time the Bank would be associated with lending to individual producers
in Romania.
42.       At the national level, the State institution in the agricultural sec-
tor is the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry. It plays a major role
in preparing the Five-Year Plan for the sector and is the supervisory institu-
tion for plan implementation. In each district, the Ministry is represented
by a general directorate, which is responsible for all agricultural activity
in the district including both cooperatives and State farms. Marketing is
organized nationally under 13 centrals accountable to the Ministry and respon-
sible for processing and marketing specified commodities. Each central



- 14 -
obtains produce at the district level and allocates it among domestic retail,
processing, storage and export channels. A foreign trade company is respon-
sible for the exports of each central.
Agricultural Investment Financing
43.       The Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry (BAFI) is the Government's
specialized agency for financing projects in agriculture, irrigation and food
processing. As such, BAFI has been the Borrower for all Bank loans in support
of agriculture and would be the Borrower for the proposed loan. BAFI was
established in 1968 as a channel for, and administrator of, all investment
funds provided under the State plan for the agricultural sector. Financing
in agriculture had previously been done by a department of the National Bank
of Romania. BAFI is involved in all phases of project appraisal, execution
and supervision, and it has a large technical and economic staff located
in Bucharest, in 39 district (judet) branch offices and in 92 sub-branches
throughout the country. One of BAFI's more important functions is that of
fiscal agent administering for the account of the national budget, all govern-
ment investment in State farms and enterprises. BAFI also receives interest-
free funds from the State budget for investment lending to cooperatives (and
in some cases State Farms) and repays the Government as it receives repayments
of the sub-loans. BAFI has thorough review and approval procedures for all
investment projects. In addition to BAFI's review, all agricultural invest-
ments for more than lei 10,000,000 (US$500,000) are reviewed and approved
by the Ministry of Agriculture and those greater than lei 70,000,000 (US$3.5
million) must be approved by the Council of Ministers. BAFI also provides
short-term credit to, and maintains settlement accounts for all cooperative
and state agricultural enterprises; it also acts as fiscal agent for the
Government for collection of state revenues from these enterprises. As
the Government's channel for investment financing in agriculture, BAFI's
primary source of funds is the State Budget; the Guarantee Agreement therefore
includes a provision that the Guarantor shall provide all necessary funds
for the implementation and operation of the project (Section 2.03, Guarantee
Agreement). The Guarantor will ensure that BAFI can meet the debt service
on the Bank loan (Section 2.02, Guarantee Agreement).
The Livestock Subsector
44.       Livestock accounted for 43 percent of gross agricultural production
in 1977, and its contribution to overall agricultural production has been
increasing relatively more rapidly than crop production with a 5.8 percent
average annual growth for 1965-75, compared with about 3 percent per annum for
crops. The livestock population at the beginning of 1977 consisted of 6.3
million cattle, 10.2 million pigs, 14.5 million sheep and about 90 million
poultry. Nearly 10 million hectares, or about two-thirds of all agricultural
land, are used for livestock production. Of these, about 4.5 million hectares,
of pasture and meadow lands not suitable for cultivation are used for grazing,
about 1.6 million hectares are used for fodder crops, and about 3.8 million
hectares for feedgrains. Other important crops such as wheat, barley, soy
beans, sunflower and sugarbeets provided by-products used for feeding live-



- 15 -
stock. In general the performance of the subsector is satisfactory, appro-
priate technologies are available and technical production coefficients are
adequate.
45.       Romanian plans for the livestock subsector have emphasized pork
which accounted for a half of all meat consumption during the past decade
(1965-75). Pork, the preferred meat of the Romanian consumer, is the major
source of meat in the Romanian diet (45%). Per capita meat consumption
in Romania lags well behind that of the EEC and Eastern European countries,
and stands at 59 percent and 64 percent respectively, of the average per
capita consumption in these areas. Meat is allocated, through the central
planning process, between domestic and export markets. This has resulted in a
shortfall in domestic consumption of pig meat to about 85 percent of estimated
demand under unrestricted conditions.  The Government has undertaken, as part
of the 1976-80 Five Year Plan, a major investment program in agro-industrial
pig production facilities which are expected to increase the pig population to
14 million by 1983 (8.6 million at the beginning of 1976) and would support
increased consumption of pork from 21 kilograms in 1975 to 29 kilograms per
capita in 1980, and 36.0 kilograms per capita in 1985. The Bank has assisted
the Government in the program by providing a loan of $71 million in July 1977
for the Pig Production and Processing Project. Progress under the project has
been satisfactory (Annex II, page 4). The proposed project is a continuation
of the Bank's involvement in the program. Overall meat consumption in the
same period is expected to increase from 47 kilograms in 1975 to 60 kilograms
per capita in 1980. By 1985 overall meat consumption could increase to 74.0
kilograms per capita or about 10 percent less than the average for EEC in
1975, and it is projected that pork will continue to account for half of
Romanian meat consumption. The pigmeat industry also has considerable export
potential, and to the extent that scarce convertible foreign exchange is
required to support the development plan, some of the incremental production
during the next several years will be expected to be exported. Despite the
planning increases in production and domestic meat consumption, domestic
demand is such that having met projected export demand, the present gap
between domestic consumption and demand will be only slightly reduced. Better
feed conversion efficiency and carcass yield and a shorter biological cycle
all make pigs far more efficient meat producers than cattle. Together with
the Romanian consumers substantial preference for pig meat this makes a strong
case for allocating investment to pig meat production. In addition, support
for such a project would be in line with Romanian policy of transforming
Romanian agriculture from an exporter of basic grains to an exporter of higher
valued items, in this case pigmeat. The Bank shares the Romanian view on this
matter. It will be observed from the economic analysis that the incremental
return to the economy of exporting pig meat rather than maize is quite high.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
46.       The project was proposed to the Bank for financing in November 1977.
A preparation report was submitted to the Bank in March 1978 and the project
was appraised in May June 1978. Negotiations were held in Washington in



- 16 -
January 1979. The Romanian delegation was headed by Mr. Ion Rusinaru,
President of BAFI, and included representatives from the Ministry of Agri-
culture and Food Industry and BAFI. A report entitled "Staff Appraisal
Report Livestock II Project" (No. 2279-RO) dated February 27, 1979, is being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors. The main features of the
project are mentioned in the Loan and Project Summary and in Annex III.
Project Description
47.       The project represents the final two year time slice for the pig
production and processing portion of the Romanian 1976-80 National Development
Program and the 1976-80 Supplementary Program (see map). As such it would be
a major input in realizing the planned pigmeat production necessary to meet
domestic demand and generate further export earnings. It follows the project
which was approved in July 1977 and which financed the 1977 and 1978 pig pro-
duction and processing portions of the current 5-year Program. But, it has
the important additional features of a line of credit to individual producers,
and substantial cofinancing with foreign private commercial lending institu-
tions. These features are significant in our work with Romania since they are
included for the first time in a Bank financed project in the country. The
project would also contribute to increasing labor and livestock productivity
which while at an acceptable level in Romania, has scope for improvement. The
major project objectives are:
(a) continued expansion of large-scale pig production units to
achieve managerial and technical scale economies;
(b) additional production of hybrid gilts 1/ for breeding to
expand use of animals of high genetic quality;
(c) provision of new and modernized slaughtering and processing
facilities capable of providing access to export markets;
(d) assistance in expanding investment in small-scale individual
agriculture, particularly in pig production, so as to make
use of underutilized resources; and
(e) improvements in nutrition-related pig production coefficients 2/
through applied research.
48.       Investments planned and their average outputs are (i)  27 new
fattening farms each averaging 45,500 fat pigs and 2,000 weaners 3/ annually;
(ii) 25 new crossbred gilt production farms 12 averaging 17,000 gilts
annually and 13 averaging 3,885 gilts annually; (iii) modernization of
1/   Young sows.
2/   Feed conversion efficiency and number of pigs sold per sow per annum.
3/   Weaned pigs not yet fattened.



- 17 -
37 pig breeding and fattening units to increase capacity, each averaging an
incremental 17,333 fat pigs and 783 weaners annually; (iv) a line of credit
of about $34 million to CAP members and individual producers for investment
on their own holdings in smallholder agricultural or horticultural activities,
particularly pig fattening; (v) provision of facilities to augment existing
pig nutrition research; and (vi) construction of slaughterhouses for 3.5
million pigs annually at full development, cold storage facilities totalling
70,000 cubic meters for producing and packaging beef and pork cuts from
carcasses and processing facilities for 4,500 tons of salami annually, to meet
the incremental needs of the industry; this would include modernization of
existing facilities to improve health and hygiene standards as well as provi-
sion of new facilities. Construction is expected to be completed by the end
of 1982 and full production reached by 1983. Additional pigmeat canning
capacity would be excluded as existing capacity and that financed under the
first Pig Production and Processing Project financed by the Bank are adequate
for the needs of the industry.
Project Execution and Operation
49.       The project would be carried out by cooperatives and state enter-
prises under agricultural credit subprojects administered by BAFI, and BAFI's
branch offices would be responsible for direct supervision of the implementa-
tion of subprojects. BAFI maintains detailed records by borrowers of finan-
cial and production results relative to subproject appraisal expectations,
and would submit to the Bank quarterly reports including the above information
(Section 6.01(c), Loan Agreement). Since necessary information is available
from BAFI's branch offices and other government implementing agencies, the
incremental cost of monitoring the project implementation would be negli-
gible. All subprojects estimated to cost US$3 million equivalent or more,
and other representative subprojects, would be subject to Bank review before
disbursements would be made on account of such subprojects (para. 2(d),
Schedule 1, Loan Agreement). Technical assistance to the cooperatives and
state enterprises carrying out subprojects would be provided by units of the
Ministry of Agriculture under a well developed program of assistance to such
entities. The Ministry would have responsibility for all necessary arrange-
ments for international procurement. With growing managerial capacity under
the project, feeding systems, housing and ration formulae are expected to be
improved, of which housing is the most expensive and long lasting consequently
requiring more prudence. Unless otherwise agreed with the Bank, only single
level cages would be used in all project financed pig growing houses. BAFI
would submit to the Bank for its agreement the technical and economic assess-
ments of any investment to which new technologies or major modifications to
existing technologies including double level cages are applied, before BAFI
requests reimbursements for such investment. This would provide guidance in
selection of new technologies and modifications of existing technologies for
investment so as to ensure that the results are a relative improvement.



- 18 -
Market Outlook
50.       Incremental demand for pig meat products by 1985 over the 1978 level
is projected approximately as 894,000 tons liveweight, about 15 percent of
which would be for export. The incremental pig production from previous and
current investment and from this project would be about 580,000 tons live-
weight from 1983 onwards, that is about 65 percent of the estimated incremental
demand. Production allocated to the domestic market will assist Romania in
meeting its relatively modest targeted increases in per capita consumption,
which will still leave per capita consumption below comparable countries and
well short of desired consumption. There is no rationing of pigmeat products
in Romania. In the light of the FAO trade projections, Romanian exports of
pig meat products are expected to continue to expand at the rate of 6-7
percent p.a. for canned and processed meats and 3 percent p.a. for chilled and
frozen carcass meats. It is expected that exports would be almost exclusively
for the expanding traditional European (including USSR) and North American
markets. In the absence of long-term agreements, trade with individual
countries may vary considerably from year to year due to the pig production
cycle phenomenon. However, due to the long run projected expansion as indi-
cated above, the project is not expected to face export market demand con-
straints in the aggregate.
Pro-ject Cost and Financing
51.       The estimated total cost of the project is US$435.5 million, with an
estimated foreign exchange component of US$95 million, including duties and
taxes. The cost estimates are based on unit rates of work under the Romanian
system of administered prices. The cost of equipment and materials which are
likely to be procured from foreign suppliers, has been estimated at the
international prices prevailing in 1978. Physical contingencies have been
provided at an average of 5.0 percent which will be adequate because the
proposed project is basically a repeater project in well developed industry
with proven design standards. Price contingencies on foreign exchange cost
are based on annual increase of 6.5 percent for 1979, 6.0 percent for 1980-82.
Due to near-zero inflation under the Romanian system of administered prices,
annual price contingencies on local costs are one percent.
52.       The proposed Bank loan of US$75 million would finance 79% of the
foreign costs of the project. The remaining project costs would be financed
by a loan from a syndicate of private foreign commercial banks 1/ (US$100
million), subborrowers' contributions (US$125.6 million), a research grant
from the Ministry of Agriculture (US$1.5 million) and the remainder as loans
from BAFI (US$135 million). The Government of Romania would bear the foreign
exchange risk. The proposed loan would be made to BAFI with the guarantee
1/   BAFI is at an advanced stage of negotiations with a few private commer-
cial banks on the cofinancing arrangement of $100 million and is aiming
at the end of March for the final selection of the lead bank. Offers
so far made by these banks indicate that the cofinancing terms and con-
ditions will be acceptable.



- 19 -
of the Socialist Republic of Romania, and would be for a term of 15 years,
including three years grace, at an interest rate of 7 percent per annum.
BAFI would onlend these funds, together with its own funds, for terms of up
to 18 years to cooperatives at 3 percent per annum and to State enterprises at
2 percent per annum during the construction period and 4 percent thereafter.
Loans to private individuals would be for 5 years at 3 percent and would be
made directly by BAFI or through the BAFI controlled and monitored Credit
Cooperatives. $7.2 million would be allocated for this category out of the
proceeds of the proposed loan. As in earlier projects, these rates result in
a positive spread over BAFI's financial and administrative costs in providing
the loans. As a result of Government controls on domestic prices, Romania
maintains a domestic inflation rate of around 1 percent per annum, and no
significant further increase is expected in the future. Thus BAFI loans under
the project would be made at positive real interest rates, on the same terms
and conditions as are extended to other borrowers in the agricultural sector.
Audit
53.       BAFI would keep separate accounts for all project expenditures and
its transactions are subject to continuous control by internal auditors from
the Ministry of Finance and to an annual audit by inspectors from the Court
of Superior Control which report directly to the Council of Ministers and
the President. BAFI's accounting system and the audit of its transactions
are satisfactory and BAFI's audited overall and project operating and finan-
cing results would be sent to the Bank not later than six months after the end
of BAFI's fiscal year (Section 6.01(e), Loan Agreement).
Procurement
54.       In Romania all civil works are constructed by Romanian State-owned
construction enterprises who are experienced and familiar with local condi-
tions, methods and regulations. Installations similar to those proposed under
the project have in the past generally proved well designed and constructed.
Construction of project facilities would be carried out by the Romanian con-
struction enterprises. An agreed list of items estimated to cost US$75 mil-
lion would be procured by Romagrimex (Romanian Foreign Trade Company for
Agriculture) under international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
guidelines. These items include reinforcing steel for concrete (US$12.7 mil-
lion), structural steel (US$9.5 million), steel piping (US$2.2 million), elec-
tric cables (US$14.8 million), asbestos sheets (US$4.5 million), slaughter-
house and meat processing equipment (US$31.3 million). Cost estimates are
based on the conversion rate of US$1 = lei 18. Romanian manufacturers would
be allowed a 15 percent preference margin, or the applicable customs duty,
whichever is lower. Romanian manufacturers are highly competitive and it is
anticipated that foreign suppliers would be awarded contracts for about
US$7.8 million, mainly for slaughterhouse and meat processing equipment not
manufactured in Romania.



- 20 -
Disbursement
55.       The Bank loan would be disbursed for 31 percent of amounts disbursed
by BAFI for approved projects for pig breeding/fattening units, slaughter-
houses, new cold stores and new sausage processing facilities, and 21 percent
of amounts disbursed by BAFI for approved projects for individual producers
and applied nutrition research. Prior approval by the Bank would be required
for subprojects of over lei 60 million total investment cost and representa-
tive subprojects of categories of subprojects costing less than lei 60 million,
on the basis of technical and economic analysis of these subprojects made by
BAFI according to the methodology agreeable to the Bank (para 2(d), Schedule
1, Loan Agreement). Prior approval by the Bank of details of proposed invest-
ments in research facilities together with the associated work program would
also be required as a disbursement condition for these investments (para 2(e),
Schedule 1, Loan Agreement).
Environment
56.       Romania maintains a comprehensive system of standards and controls
to ensure satisfactory waste water treatment. Facilities financed under the
project would be constructed and operated in conformity with this environ-
mental protection code. During construction, each pig production complex
would be required by law to install suitable waste water treatment works as
well as separate well and water pumping facilities. In the manure and waste
disposal system, combined solid and liquid manure would be pumped to concrete
holding tanks for sedimentation and drying. The solid material would be
transported to farms for use as fertilizer. Similarly, slaughtering and meat
processing facilities would be required to construct pre-treatment plants to
bring waste water to a purity level equal to that of local municipal waste
water. Only then could a facility discharge into the municipal sewerage
system. Caution would even be taken to ensure that surface rain water is
removed through a separate system from that handling plant waste. Slaughter-
houses and meat processing plants must pay to discharge pre-treated waste
water into municipal systems for final processing. If a slaughterhouse com-
plex is constructed in a community where it represents the dominant industry,
the slaughterhouse enterprise would build a sewerage treatment unit for the
entire town and thereafter not be charged for its use. A strict system of
penalties is maintained to ensure compliance with water purity requirements.
Benefits
57.       The project would contribute to increased production and even more
importantly to increased production efficiency under the livestock development
program included in the current Five-Year Plan (and Supplementary Program).
Annual incremental pork production resulting from project investments is
expected to reach about 200,000 tons at full development in 1983. Slaughter-
ing and processing capacities would be increased by 270,000 tons of pork.
Additional employment in slaughtering and processing plants financed under
the project would create about 4,800 new jobs while project pig production
would employ about 5,000 persons. A detailed education program during the
investment period would provide the necessary upgrading of skills. Almost



- 21 -
50,000 CAP members and individual producers would benefit through credits
enabling them to invest on their private holdings. The benefits of the proj-
ect would accrue to the state, since the incomes of project participants are
regulated to correspond with those workers with similar skills elsewhere in
the economy. Benefits flow back to the population at large over a period of
time through increases in public services and general compensation packages.
The economic rate of return to the project is about 30 percent. Sensitivity
to changes in capital costs is low but the economic rate of return is more
sensitive to variations in both operating costs and revenues, particularly
the latter. The international price of pork is mainly a function of the price
of feed grains. In the absence of an international commodity price projection
for pork, both pork and feedgrain prices were assumed to remain constant for
the base return calculation. If feed concentrate prices increased by 35 per-
cent as derived from the Bank projections without any corresponding increase
in pigmeat prices, the economic rate of return would be 24 percent. If both
pigmeat and feed concentrate prices increased by 35 percent, the return would
be 36 percent. The financial rates of return to the various component enter-
prises are satisfactory, ranging from a low of 5 percent for pig breeding/
fattening units to 40 percent for the very large slaughterhouses. The
administered price system in Romania, based as it is on domestic costs of
production, ensures that the enterprise is free of risks from price fluctua-
tions.
Risks
58.       Project risks would be minimal.  Designs of the project components
have been prepared in detail, and the Government has well organized and
coordinated plans to supply necessary manpower, materials, and technical
expertise to complete project works on schedule. The project represents a
two-year investment program from the 1976-80 national development plan for
which implementation procedures are prescribed by law. The Government (i) has
allocated sufficient grain to support the project, (ii) stands ready to
forego grain exports, if necessary, to support livestock activities, (iii) is
actively pursuing programs to expand domestic production of high grade protein
for feed manufacture, and (iv) supports the importation of protein materials
to supplement domestic supplies. The technology to be employed in project
facilities is well established in Romania, and levels of efficiency observed,
while there is some room for improvement, are acceptable. Project construction
is usually completed within the time schedule specified by Government, and
cost overruns are rare.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Bank for Agri-
culture and Food Industry of Romania, the draft Guarantee Agreement between
the Socialist Republic of Romania and the Bank, and the report of the Com-
mittee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.



- 22 -
60.       Features of the project of special interest are listed in
Section III of Annex III.
61.       The disbursement conditions under the proposed loan are as follows:
(i) prior approval by the Bank would be required for sub-
projects of over lei 60 million total investment cost
and representative subprojects of categories of sub-
projects costing less than lei 60 million, on the
basis of technical and economic analysis of these
subprojects made by BAFI according to the methodology
agreeable to the Bank (para 2(d), Schedule 1, Loan
Agreement).
(ii) prior approval by the Bank of details of proposed
investments in research stations under the project
together with the associated work program would be
required as a condition of disbursement for these
investments (para 2(e), Schedule I, Loan Agreement).
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
63.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve this proposed Loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 6, 1979
Washington, D.C.



-23-                                                  ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5 pages
TABLE 3A
ROKANIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTEM AVERAGES
ROIMIIA                                                   /4
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                     - HOST RECENT ESTLHATE)
TOTAL             237.5                                                      SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL      149.0                                  HOST RECENT       CEOGRAPRIC    INCOME        INCOME
1960  Lk    1970 h ZSTIHATE L          REGION  c  GROUP  d    GROUP Le
GNP PER CAPITA (US$1                   190.0        530.0    1580.0            1898.6      1796.4       2839.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PCR CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COIAL FUIVALENT)    1342.0         3013.0    3803.0           169.3       1525.0       2376.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR                                                 4
(MILLIONS)                          18.4         20.3       21.7
URMAN POPULATION (PZRCENT OP TOTAL) 32.0           40.8       43.0             43.0        52.2.
POPULATION DENSITY
PEr SQ. ttM.                        77.0         85.0      91.0              81.4        27.6         55.8
PER SQ. RH. AGRICULTURAL LAND    126.0          136.0      146.0            135.2       116.4        83.6
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           27.9 /f      25.9       25.4             26.2        34.8         40.0
15-64 YRS.                           64.9 LI      65.5      64.8              63.4       56.0          55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     7.2 Lj       8.6        9.8              9.9         5.7          3.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATt (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                1.2          1.0        1.0              0.8         1.6          2.9
URBAN                                3.8          3.4        2.1              2.2         3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       23.9         19.0       19.7             19.2        27.0         31.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       10.9          8.9        9.3              9.0         9.9          7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTIGN RATE                1.2          1.3        1.3              1.3         1.9          1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL. (THOUSANDS)        ..           ..         ..
USERS (PERCENT OF HARRIED WOMEN)    ..             ..         ..             38.0        19.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)               96.2        100.0      146.1 .          113.7       103..        114.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    105.0        118.0      118.0 /1         127.4       110.4        113.4
PROTEINS (GRAHS PER DAY)            81.0         92.0       90.0             92.8        77.7         89.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         24.0         28.0         ..             39.3        22.2         48.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        4.9 .f       2.4        2.1              1.6         1.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    65.9           67.7       69.1             68.9        63.0         60.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             75.7         49.4       34.7             34.5        38.2         22.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..         ..             68.3        67.7         83.0
URBAN                                                                       674.3        83.5        100.0
RURAL                                 ...                      .64.4                     41.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOIAL                                 ..           ..         ..             94.0        70.3         57.8
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..             94.0        90.7         99.3
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..             93.0        38.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             740.0        680.0      620.0            686.5      1310.8        976.9
POPULATION PER NLRSING PERSON        300.0        200.0      180.0            339.0       849.2        676.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              130.0 If    120.0       108.0            178.0       275.4        325.8
-RBAN                               50.0 If      50.0       60.0             70.0       129.9        250.0
RURAL                              620.0 Lf    770.0       730.0           1770.0       965.9        770.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..        23.0         ..             15.3        18.9         18.7
HOUS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..          3.2 /h      ...                         3.9
URBAN                                 ..          2.8 2b      **
RURAL                                 ..          3.4 7       ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..          1.4 /       .               0.9         0.9
URBAN                                             1.3 /b h                    0.8         0.8
RURAL                                 ..          1.4 /h      ..               1.0        1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELL INGS)
TOTAL                                 *'         8  
URBAN                                            49.0 /       .              57.5        59.2
URBAN                                1~~~~~~~~~6.0 L)h           99.0        78.0
RURAL                     ..        ~~~~~~~           ~~ ~~~27.0  h~  1.2.5



- 24 -
ANNEX I
TAILt SA                                      Page  2  of  5 paces
RIKANIA - SOCIAL INTICATORS DATA SRfUI
REFERENCE GROU1S (ADJUSTED AVERACB8
- N0ST RrCrN  rSTlIKAT)La
SAME        SAME     NLXT MICxU
HOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCONI
1960 /b     1970 lb ESTIMATE Lb       REGION  Gc CROUP /d    CItOUP 4
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLXENT R.ATOS
PRIMAjY:     TOTAL                 98.0        113.0     109.0            108.0       97.6       10441
FEKL.                95.0        114.0     109.0             99.5       87.4       120.3
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  24.0         4S.0      62.0            62.8        47.3        4.1
FOUUA                 22.0        36.0      59.0             63.6       62.6        46.S
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT Of SECONDAxY) 54.0          58.0      70.0             28.2       22.7        lh7
PUPIL-TEACH El RATIO
PRIMART                            25.0         21.0      21.0             24.9       25.4        3D.6
SECONDARY                          16.0         18.0      19.0             17.3       24.9        16.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)           ..          ..      98.0             8.3        96.3          *¢
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER TBOUSAN1
POPULATION                           ..           ..        ..            90.4        32.3        53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER TBDUSAJID
POPULATION                        109.0        152.0     145.0           199.0      201.9        193.5
TV XECEIVERS PER TIIOUSA3D
POPULATION                          3.0         73.0     127.0            132.5       97.7       108.4
NEWtSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PIt
THOUSAND POPULATION                 147.0        169.0     129.0            97.1        70.9       108.0
CINDEA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  9.0           9.8       8.9              6.6        4..
DIPLOhENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      9600.0       9900.0  10600.0                 *
FLMALE (PERCENT)                   44.9         44.5      44.6            32.4        17.4        26.5
A'-RICULTURE (PERCENT)             65.4         49.0      34.4            32.8        38. .       23.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 15.1        23.0       32.7              ..         ..
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                57.1         56.0      55.9             39.1       33.7        40.1
KALE                                 64.5         63.3      62.8             56.7       50.8        55.8
FEKALC                               50.1         49.0      49.1            29.7        12.6        24.7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY ILATIO              0.7          0.7       0.7             0.9         1.4         1.6
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
H;GHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..                      31.9       20.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                                          59.7       47.9
LOtWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS          4.      .                        40         3.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS             .               .             12.9       13.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INC.II
LEVEL (US$ PEI CAPITA)
RUtAL                                                                    194.9      157.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY ICUWN
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                .                                   295.1      448.9
RURAL                                 .                  325.0           309.2      313.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTI
INC(ME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URbAN                                           ..                        18.2       23 2
RURAL                                                     o0-20           24.2       54.5
Not avaolaoble
N.,t applicable.
/,   Tl,  .djui.  xr.up average, for eA.0  indicator are popu1ation-wveXhted geoEtrIc mtns, excluding the extrame
I.....,f1 IU. h.dI at-r .ld the w.,at pnpulated ..-Jntry In each group. Coverage of countries among the
I dI,,aI,,r, U. pends ,n. av.iiahlIity of data and J% not uniform.
/*,   U,,l ,,s )lrh.rvi,  n,,te.I, dato [or 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1960
.,nd 191/; m.d I.,r M.,,h, I'. .nt t wt *  be.ween 1973 and 1977.
/     Lur.p;.  /d   Upp.r Middle In-.mr (S1116-2500 per taplta. 1976); /e  Niagi Incom   (over $2500 per caplta.
lut^);  /t  IS62; LJA  Av. 1969-71;  /h  19661
Sobtetabe. 1978



Page 3 of 5 p
S=i:  The adjusted group averages for each indicatot are p-p1tion-soihted geOncohtr  moec                    -.clding the o.rmtccc   ic  of the indicator and the moot
populated country in each group.  Coverage of co...trta. ono,o thz indicators dapends on availability of data and if, Vtoo   J                  D,4Ife to lack of date,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters aao indicat-ors of accesg to water and excrela disposal, housing, income diot.ibution and poverty are
simple pcpulation-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. kam)                                                              Population Per hospital bad - total, urban, and rural - Population (tot&-,
Total - Total surface'&Tara comprising land area and inland waters,                        urban, end rural) divided by their respective nusber of hospital beds
Aeluturel - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                  available in public and privete general aLnd specialized hospital anLd v,_
or permaneatly for crops, pesturas, market and kitchen gardens or to                     habilitation ciniters.  foapitala are establishments permanently staffed I
lie fellow.                                                                              at least one pbysician.  Eatablishmmntra providing priqoipeily custcdW&
care are not iacladed. RuraLl hospitals. hwowvar, include health and
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                   cal cantata not permnanntly staffed by a physicia.n (but by a medical to
calculated by same conversion method           World Bank Atlas (197!-77 basis)t          isitant, nurse, midvife, ate.) width offer in-patient accossmodatrl:  -nd
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                               provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admision er hospital bed - Total number of admissionns to or dvo-o.rgm
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of cosmercial eceogy                     fro  hospItal  divided by the number of boed.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                    HOUSING
Average sire of houoehoId (persons oar household); -  totl  urvban.   -irral -
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                             A household consists of a group of individuaswo  hr  livins  carters
Total pouation, m~id-ear (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                      end their maimn -&al.  A boarder or lodger my OT may not be lui.ludsd in
averge o  twoend-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                          the household tsr statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of houses-
Urban population (paerent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                      hold vary.
tion; different dafinLitions of urban areas may affect comparability                  Average number of persons per room - total. urban. and rural -.' ti-zoRs om-
of date among countries.                                                                 bar of parsons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied Cc1-t,v>-tua
Population denisity                                                                        dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude moo-per"maet sttottitna gad
Per  sq. km. - Mid-year population par square kilmomtar (100 hacteras)                    umoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                        Access to el*ct:ricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per so. Ins, agriculture land - Computed as above f or agricultural land                  Convemtional dwellings with electricity in living quarters As percentage
only.                                                                                    of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population ase structure (percent) - Children (0-li years), working-age
(15-64 yeacre   and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-              EDUCATION
year population.'                                                                    Adjusted enrol  aet ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                    Primary school   total, aod female - Total and female enrollment of all ases
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations f or 1950-60,                       at the primary level as p.r.antages ot respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                   populAtions; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annuel live births per thousand of                       different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
mid-year population; ten-yeaLr arithmetic everages ending in 1960 sod                    catiom enrollmant may emceed 100 percent since some pupil. aer  below or
1970 end five-year average ending In 1975 for mAost recent estimate,                     above the official school age.
crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                     Secondary school - total, and female - Compu~ted as ebowe; sacondery educe-
year population; tAn-year arithmetic averages ending In 1960 and 1970                    tion requires at least four years of approved primAry Instruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for moat recent estimate.                          video general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Ghose reproduction rats - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                    usually of 12 to 17 years of age, correspondenice courses era generally
in her normal %eproductive period if she expetiencee present egs-                        excluded.
specific fertility rates; usually f ive-year averages ending in 1960,                 Vocatiomel enrollment (percenit of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                          cluds techuical, industrial, or other progrmam  which operate independeontly
Family plamnolu  - acceptors. annual (thousands) - Annual number of                        or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                 Pupil-teacher ra.tio - p.rYimaryj.-d secondary - Total students enrolled in
planningS program.                                                                      primary and scnaylvl  divide  by numbers of teachers in the corra-
Pamily Planning - usa.r& (percent of married wmomn) - Percentage of                        eponding levels.
married woman of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control               Adult literacy rate (Coecent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to all married women in sane. age group.                                         a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD ANDNURTO                                                                          CONSUMPTION
Index of food prdclprait  (1970-100) - Index number of per                             Passenger cecrs (pe' r thkousand population) - Passanger cars comprise motor cars
capita aninual production of all food coenadities.                                    seating loes  than eight parsons; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of rsquioements) - Computed from                 vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita               Radio roceivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports loes               broadcasts to gsneral public par thoussand of population; excludes unlicensed
exports, and changes in stock.  Not supplies exclude animal fsad, seeds,              receivers in countries and in years when registration  of radio sets wae in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                  effeCt; data for recent years my nor be conparable since moast countries
quirements were estimated by PAO based on physiological needs for nor-                abolished licensing.
nal activity and health considering envirconmental temperature, body                 TV receivers (Per thousand population) 7 TV roceiver- for broadcast to genarl
weights, age and sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                   public per thousand population; excludes unlicemsad TV receivers In noon-
cent for waste at household level,                                                       tries and ini years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply of proteain (rgrams; por day) - Proteim content of per               NIwapapsor circulation (per thousand _population) - Shows the average circula-
capita net supply of food pa ay.  Net supply of food is defined as                      tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for ell countries established by USDA provide for                  cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is considered to
a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                   be "daily" if it appears at least four ties, a weak.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.             Cinema annual aLttendance par capita por year - based on the niumber of tickets
These standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                 s-old -during the year. including admissions to drive-in cinemsa. and mobile
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the eorld, proposed by                     units.
PAl in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita protein supply from animal and puise - Protein supply of food              EMPLOYOMENTI
derived from  Animals and pulses in grama per day.                                   Total labor force (thousands) - Economically active persona, including armed
Child (aese 1-4) mortality rats (per thousand) - Annual deathm per thous-                  forces and unemployed but occluding hous.ew~ives, ardoa   tc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children ini this age group.                             tions ink various countries are not comparable.
Female ,ggr~eot - Female labor force as percentage of total labor force.
HEALTH                                                                                   A-ti              enth). - Labor force in (arming, forestry. hunting and fishing
Life expectancy at birth (years) - AvAkage number of years of life                        as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                 Industry (percent) - Labor forte in mining, construction, manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                               electricity, water and gas as paerentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate (per thor -,          Annual deaths of infants under             Facticipatio:n rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, maLle, and
onie year of age per thousand live oirhts.                                              .emle labr forts as percentages of their respective populations.
Access t.osafe water (percent of populatonu tt l.uben. and rural -                         Theee are T1.0's adjusted participation rates reflecting Age-sex
Number of pepe  ttl,uba,ad  ua) with rsoable access to                                  structure of the population, and long time trend.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                  Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under ii and 65 and over to
uncontaminated water such as that from protected borsholes, springs,                    the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
In an urban area a public fountain or standpost located not more                    INOS DSRBTON
than 200 meters from a house may be considered as being witbin rea-                  Percentageo1f priv_ate income (both in cash and kind) received by richest 
po-able access of that house.  In rural areas reasonable sccesa would                   paerat,t Iricheat 20 percent, poorest 20 percent. and poorest 40 percent
ioply that the house wife or members of the household do not have to                    of households.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                        POVERTY TARGET ORCOS
Ac,.zvs to excreta disposal (vercent of population) - total,~ urban, ad                Estimated absolute Poverty incmom  lvl(Oprcaia) - urban and rqral 
rural - Number of psople (total, urban, and rural) served by excrete                      Absolute poverty income lAvel. is that income level below which a minimal
dispossl as percentages of their respective populatiore.  Excrete                       nutritionally adequate dist plus essential non-food requirements is not
disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or without                       affordable.
Irano,of human axcreta and waste-water by water-borne systemsEsiterlaiepvtyncmlvl (US$ per capita) - urban and rural-
or rho uee of pit privies and similar installations.                                    Relative poverty income level is that income level less than one-third
Poultonpr physician - Population divided by number of prerticing                    per capita personal income of the country.
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.                     fEt=mted pfmulaton belmowpoerty income level (percent) - urban enaura 
Population per nursing person - Population divided by number o                             ecn of     popslaltion (urban aod rural) who are eite"asltpor  or
practicing male and female graduate nursea, practical nurses, and                       "relative poor' whichever is greater.
assistant nturses.
Economic and Social Data Division
Economic Analysis and Projections Department



- 26 -
ANNAJ
Page 1 of 5 pages
E010MIC INDICATOUS
NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1977                                          ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (7 constant Prices)
US$ Mlin.    %          1961-65        1966-70        1971-75        1975-77
GNP at Market Prices                        30,300        100.0         9.0X/          7.71/        11. 3i         9.61/
Gross Fixed Domestic Investmeab              8,463         27.9        11.3           11.2           11.2          9.9
Gross National Saving                        8,157         26.9         ..
Current Account Balance                      -306           1.0                                          2/3/
Expor; of Goods, NFS                        7,523          24.8        9.0o/         10923          23.6- -       1472/3/
imports of Goods, NFS                       7,537         24.9        10.7 2./       12.7_/-/       22. i/312     14. J2 1 7
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1977
National Income _J      Labor Force            N.I. Per Worker
US$ Bln.         %      Min         %.         US $           %
Agriculture                                   3.29        13.2      3.53    34.4             932         38.3
Industry                                     13.22        53.0      3.36    32.7          3,935        161.7
Constructiou                                  2.33         9.3      0.90      8.8          2,589        106.4
Other 5/                                      6.12       24.5       2.47    24.1           2,478        101.8
Total/Average                         24.96       100.0      10.26   100.0          2,433        100.0
GOVERNTMENT FINANCE IN 1977
Central Government
Lei Billions       % of GDP
Total Receipts                                 282.0             46.2
Total Expenditures                             280.4             45.9
Total Surplus                                    1.6              0.3.
MOXEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
(in billions of Lei, end of year)
1971      1972        1973        1974       1975        1976       1977
Money Supply                                  ..        ..         ..         160.1       176.4      201.4      207.5
Short-termi Fank Credit                        ,        .1 t31.3              155.3      170.2       194.0      194.5
Retail Prices (1970 = 100)                  101.6     101.6       102.4       103.7       103.9      104.4      105.0
Percentage Changes in Retail Prices           1.6       -           0.8         1.3         0.2        0.5        0.5
1/  Growth rate of national income.                                               EMENA CPID
2/ In current prices.
3!  Growth rates of exports and imports only.                                    December 13, 1978
'4/ System oi itiaLerial productioan methodology.
5/ Includes net output of the non-productive sector



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
- 27-
BALANCE OF PAYNENTS  (Convertible Currencies)                                     MERCHUNDlSE EXPORTS 1977
(All Currencies)
1971       1976          1977
(Millions US  )                                  US $ Mln       %
Expotts of Goods & NFS                  +9"4        +3,653       3,983   Capital goods              1,837       27
Imports of Goods & NFS                  -988        -3,592       4,080   Consumer goods             1,142       17
Rtsource Gap (deficit . -)               -44           +61          -97   Foodstuffs                  888 -   13
Intermediate goods          592        9
Interest Payments                        -40          -122        -195   Raw materials              2,422       35
Other Factor Payments (net)              -25           0            +19   -._ndustrial              2.016       29
Balance on Curreat Account              -109           -61         -273    Agricultural               406        6
Direct Foreign lnv7stment                                                       Total               6.881      too
Net tLT Borrowing-
Disbursements                      +312          +912         +928          EXTERNAL DEBT (Dec.31, 1977)
Amortization                        -190          -482         -561
Subtotal                           +122          4430         +367                                  US $ MHi
Export Credits Extendeda' (net)            21/        -274        -171
Short-term Credit (net)                  -20           -44        +156   Total M & LT                     3.91
Net Errors & Omission                      -            -            -      of which convertible
Increase in Reserves (+)                  -7          +52          +32      currencies                    3.402
Fuel & Related Materials
imports                               635.6       2,496 8     2,622.1          DEBT SERVICE RATIO 1977
of which  Oil and Oil Products       36.6         717.1       875.4
uxports                               425.5       1,477.5     1,463.0                                 _ x
of which  Oil and Oil Products    143.0           735.1       688.1
Convertible currencies only  19.0
iIHAN'GE RATES
1.  Official Rate
Before August 1971            :  6 lei:US$1
August 1971-February 1973   :  5.53 lei:US$l
February 1973-March 1978    : 4.97 lei:USSl
Since March 1978              : 4.47 lei:US$l
2.  Tourist Rate
Jefore August 1971               18 lei:US$1
August 1971-February 1973   :  16 lei:US$1
February 1973-October 1974  :  14.38 lei:US$l
Since October 1974            :  12 lei:US$1
3. Conversion Rate for Traded Coods
July 1973 - March 1978        :  20 lei:USSI
Since March 1978              :  18 lei:US$l
____A CP1D
If  Includes UsC of IMF credit.                                      Deseeber 13, 1978
2/ Included in M & LT Capital.
2/ Includes s, M &i LT credits extended.



ANNE( II
-   28   -                          Page l-of 5 pages
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ROMANIA
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (As of January 31, 1979).C/
US$ Million
Amount (less cancellations)
Loan Number           Year       Borrower            Purpose       Bank   TW  IDA    Undisbursed
One loan fully  disbursed                                          20.0                    -
Ln. 1020-RO           1974       Investment Bank    Fertilizer   60.0                    8.1
Ln. 1027-RO           1975       Investment Bank    Special        70.0                  5.2
Steel
Ln. 1028-Ro           1975       Investment Bank    Thermal        60.0                  0.0
Power
a/
Ln. 1082-RO           1975       BAFI                Irrigation   70.0                   0.3
Ln. 1083-RO           1975       BAFI                Agricultural 30.0                   7.2
Credit
Ln. 1169-RO           1976       BAFI                Flood Recov- 40.0                   2.9
ery
Ln. 1242-RO           1976       Investment Bank    Hydropower   50.0                   23.3
Ln. 1247-RO           1976       BAFI                Irrigation   60.0                  28.5
Ln. 1368-RO           1977       BAFI                Irrigation   60.o                  42.3
Lu. 1436-Ro           1977       Investment Bank    Bearings       38.0                 37.0
Ln. 1447-RO           1977       Investment Bank    Glass Fiber  18.3                    7.9
Ln. 1448-RO           1977       Investment Bank    Polyester    50.0                   25.4
Ln. 1479-RO           1978       BAFI                Agricultural 71.0                  56-7
Credit
Ln. 1509-RO           1978       BAFI                Irrigation   40.5                  40-5
Ln. 1536-RO           1978       Investment Bank    Tire           85.0                 85.0
Ln. 1581-RO           1978       Investment Bank    Post           60.0                 60.0
Earthquake
Ln. 1634-Ro           1979       Investment Bank    Chenicals    40.0                  40,0
Total                            922.8                470.3
Of which has been repaid          -
Total now outstanding
Amount sold        18.6           18.6
of which repaid     0.0 °
b/
Total now held by Bank           904.2
Total undisbursed                470.3               470-3
a! Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry
b/ Excluding exchange adjustments.
c/ Subsequent to the above date of this Statement, a loan of $40 million to
the Investment Bank for the Roman Seamless Pipe Project and a loan of US$70
million to the Investment Bank for the Second Turceni Thermal Power Project
have been signed.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5 pages
B.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
LN No. 1020    j3acau Fertilizer Project; US$60 Million Loan of June 28,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: December 31, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project is proceeding satisfactorily after initial delays due
to changes in site and project scope, and delays in design and construction.
About 85 percent of total procurement has been completed, and construction
is well advanced. The ammonia and the DAP plants are expected to be commis-
sioned by early 1979, and the urea plant by the second quarter of 1979, about
18 months later than expected. The final project cost is expected to be close
to the appraisal estimate.
Ln No. 1027    Otelinox Special Steel Project; US$70 Million Loan of
July 10, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: April 3, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Execution of the project was delayed about one year, primarily
because of the complexity of two large bid packages, the Romanians' lack
of familiarity with international competitive bidding procedures under
the Bank's Guidelines, and lack of interest and competition among suppliers.
The contracts for the two steel mills under the loan have been signed and
construction is progressing in accordance with contracted schedules. Total
project costs are expected to be essentially equal to appraisal estimates.
The Bank loan is expected to be fully disbursed in early 1979 and the project
is now expected to be completed in September 1979.
Ln No. 1028    Turceni Thermal Power Project; US$60 Million Loan of
July 10, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: November 6, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Delays in construction due to late delivery of equipment are
likely to result in a nine month delay in commissioning of generating units.
Project execution is otherwise according to plan and satisfactory. Training
of future operational staff is in hand.
Ln No. 1082    Giurgiu-Razmiresti Irrigation Project; US$70 Million Loan
of February 6, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: May 5, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Construction of project works is progressing satisfactorily and
about 99 percent of the project has been completed. Procurement is almost
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



-30-                        ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5 pages
completed. About 70 percent of the project area was irrigated during 1978.
All remaining works are expected to be completed by April 1979. Total
project costs are expected to be about US$33 million less than appraisal
estimates, and about US$4 million of the loan amount is expected to be can-
celled if not required for the project before the closing date.
Ln No. 1083    Sadova-Corabia Agricultural Credit Project; US$30 Million
Loan of February 6, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 29,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Progress continues to be satisfactory in implementing subprojects.
A contract for the pre-mix feed mill has been concluded and remaining project
procurement, for chemicals and fertilizers, is being carried out under bulk
contracts tendered internationally for 1978 Romanian requirements. Disburse-
ments amounted to US$22.8 million as of January 31, 1979 and are 3.5 percent
ahead of the appraisal estimate.
Ln No. 1169    Flood Recovery Project (Agricultural Component); US$40 Million
Loan of November 12, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: December 2,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Project execution is proceeding well and disbursements are on
schedule. Equipment procured under international competitive bidding has
been delivered and only small quantities of spare parts remain to be procured.
Bids were received in March 1977 for flood early warning system equipment.
The Romanians advised us that bid evaluation was delayed because of the tech-
nical complexity of the package, but the bid evaluation report has been sub-
mitted to the Bank, approved by the Bank, and the contract has been signed.
Disbursements as of January 31, 1979 totalled $37.1 million or 93 percent of
the loan amount.
Ln No. 1242    Riul Mare Retezat Hydropower Project; US$50 Million Loan of
April 28, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 26, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
Due to shortage of manpower, tunneling works have been delayed and
mechanized excavation methods are expected to be introduced in 1979. Project
execution is currently about one year behind schedule. Civil works for the
dam and underground power station are well underway, and about 75 percent of
the loan amount has been committed.
Ln No. 1247    Rasova-Vederoasa Irrigation and Agriculture Development Project;
US$60 Million Loan of April 28, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
November 3, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Construction of pumping stations, canals, and other project
works is well underway and progress on these facilities is satisfactory.
Facilities for four dairy farms are complete and contracts for purchase of
9,130 imported heifers (100 percent of total) valued at over US$8 million have
been awarded. Procurement contracts for all equipment have been awarded. The
feedmill and silo in Negruvoda is 62 percent completed. Work on soil erosion
control and the land levelling is behind schedule.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5 pages
Ln No. 1368    Ialomita-Calmatui Irrigation Project; US$60 Million Loan of
March 2, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 23, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
Procurement for this project has been consolidated with that for
the Rasova-Vederoasa Project (Ln. 1247) noted above, and all contracts have
already been awarded. Some construction equipment and about 35 percent of
pipe has been delivered. Construction of project works is underway, progress
is satisfactory, and about 25 percent completion has been achieved.
Ln No. 1436    Brasov Bearings Project; US$38 Million Loan of June 15, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: August 11, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Bids on most major bid packages have now been received and procure-
ment is proceeding satisfactorily. Overall project costs are expected to be
close to, or slightly over, appraisal estimates, according to the initial cost
data.
Ln No. 1447    Bucharest Glass Fiber Project; US$18.3 Million Loan of
June 15, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: August 11, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Procurement is being completed, and execution of the project is
proceeding satisfactorily with some minor cost overruns.
Ln No. 1448    Cimpulung-Muscel Polyester Project; US$50 Million Loan of
June 15, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: October 3, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1981
The main supply contract has been signed, and execution of the
project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln No. 1479    Pig Production and Processing Project; US$71 Million Loan of
July 15, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: September 28, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project represents the Bank's first participation in Romania
in a development plan on a nationwide basis. It provides for the develop-
ment of a large multiplier herd, establishment of testing and selection
centers, expansion of industrialized swine production, and provision of
slaughtering and processing facilities. Project implementation is pro-
ceeding satisfactorily. Disbursements are running ahead of appraisal esti-
mates. 1977 commitments are expected to generate an incremental output of
1.13 million pigs in 1979 and aobut 1.65 million pigs in 1980 and thereafter.
The 1978 project investment list has been finalized and commitments are over
80 percent of the total investment cost. ICB determined contracts of $43
million total over 60 percent of the loan amount and ICB tender documents for
another $30 million of slaughterhouse equipment are now issued. Supervision
missions have been uniformly favorable in their findings on detail of project
implementation leaving no doubt as to the eventual success of the project.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5 pages
Ln No. 1509    Viisoara Irrigation Project; Us$40.5 Million Loan of
January 27, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: May 15, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Contract documents for procurement have been cleared by the Bank
and bids invited for all project procurement. Construction of some of the
project works has been started.
Ln No. 1536    Tires Project; US$85.0 Million Loan of March 30, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: June 9, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
Procurement has been started, but difficulties are being encountered
in obtaining proposals for the main technology/equipment package for OTR
tires.
Ln No. 1581    Post Earthquake Construction Assistance Project; US$60.0
Million Loan of June 12, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
September 5, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Initial procurement is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1634   Craiova Chemical Project; US$40.0 Million Loan of January 15,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: Not yet effective; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Initial procurement is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1651   Roman Seamless Pipe Project; US$40.0 Million Loan of February
1979; Date of Effectiveness: Not yet effective; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Initial procurement is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1652   Second Turceni Thermal Power Project; US$70.0 Million Loan of
February   , 1979; Date of Effectiveness:  Not yet effective;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Initial procurement is proceeding satisfactorily.



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare
the project:                                6 months (October 1977 -
March 1978)
(b)  Agency which has prepared the
project:                                    Ministry of Agriculture and Food
Industry
(c)  Date of first presentation to the
Bank, and date of first Bank
mission to consider the project:            March 9, 1978
(d)  Date of departure of Appraisal
Mission:                                    May 18, 1978
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:   January 29, 1979
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:               July 1979
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
Special conditions of the loan would be as follows:
(i)  Disbursements for BAFI loans would be subject to prior
approval by the Bank of subprojects costing over lei 60
million and representative subprojects costing less than
lei 60 million, on the basis of the technical and economic
analysis of subprojects made by BAFI according to the
methodology agreeable to the Bank (para. 55).
(ii)  Disbursement for investments in research facilities would
be subject to prior approval by the Bank of details of
such investments and the associated work program (para.
55).
(iii)  BAFI would submit to the Bank for its agreement the
technical and economic assessments of any investment
to which new technologies or major modifications to
existing technologies including double level cages
are applied, before BAFI requests reimbursements for
such investment (para. 49).






i4'                                5                                  2'8'                                30
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF ROMANIA
0   20  40  60  80  100 120 140  160
. KILO'EER' .     .LIVESTOCKII PROJECT
MILESO          ,0    19                                          Planned under Project:                             o
ROMAN A                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A Pig breeding /fattening units
Crossbred gilt production units
Modernization of existing pig breeding /fattening units
*  Slaughterhouses
0  Modernization of existing slaughterhouses
X-f 1                                                                              12 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cold stores
CZECHOSLOVAKIA                      I®                                                                                                           Sassage processing (salami)
Agro-Climotic Zones:
U.    S.        ~~~~S.       R.                           77 Plciins
FFoothills
-4V ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~Transylvania mountains and tablelands                                                                                    W
HU          NGA  R  Y                                                                                                                       Zoneboundaries
~~~         '                                                              --District ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(Judet) boundaries
An--b     ,  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~    - ~~~-.-International boundaries
I'  ~ ~ ~ ~      <~~*'s~~~r                     ANttA,
A R A DAJ                                     A
ASNA~~~~~~S
T I M II                                               ORE~ 
R                          -       / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,UzA   Uk
CARA$-   ~ ~ ~ ~ Vl LCBRRO P    VAANCAL\QAtCT
B R Al LB  L                                  C
AAA~~~~~~S~
-44'                                                                                                                                                                                                44
B   U   L  G   A   R  I A 
22                                 2.4'                                26.A    0



