Document of           gm
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2279a-RO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ROMANIA
LIVESTOCK II PROJECT
February 27, 1979
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Agriculture III
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Lei 18     =          US$1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)           =         2.5 acres
1 kilogram (kg)          =         2.2 pounds
1 kilometer (km)         =         0.6 mile
1 cubic meter (m3)       =         1.3 cubic yards
1 sq meter (m2)          =         1.2 square yards
1 ton (t)                =         2,200 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
BAFI     = Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry
CAP      = Agricultural Production Cooperative
CC       = Consumption Cooperative
CRC      = Credit Cooperative
EEC      = European Economic Community
IAS      = State Agricultural Enterprise
ICA/ICAP = Intercooperative Association
ICB      = International Competitive Bidding
ICRA     = District Food Wholesale Enterprise (Subordinate
to MFIT)
LW       = Liveweight
MA/MAFI  = Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry
MFIT     = Ministry for Internal Trade
MIC      = Meat Industrialization Center
MIT      = Meat Industrialization Trust
NB       = National Bank of Romania
ROMANIAN FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK II PROJECT
ROMANIA
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    SECTOR ...............................................                     1
A.    Role of Agriculture in the Romanian Economy   1..... 
B.    Constraints to Agricultural Production ....              ......      1
C.    The Land Resource Base ..........................                    2
D.    National Planning and Investment in Agriculture  .                   3
E.    The Role of Women ........................                .          4
F.    Bank Experience in Agriculture  ....              ..............     5
G.    The Pig Subsector  ...............................                   7
H.    Price Formation and Marketing Margins  ....             .......     14
I.    Government Supporting Services  ....              ..............    17
II.    THE BANK FOR AGRICULTURE AND FOOD INDUSTRY  ....              .......     22
A.    Overview  ........................................                  22
B.    Fiscal Agency Operations  ........................                  22
C.    Financing Policies and Procedures  ....              ...........    23
D.    BAFI Lending through the Credit Cooperatives  ....                  23
E.    Sources of Funds  ................................                  24
F.    Financial Conditions  ............................                  24
III.    THE PROJECT  ..........................................                   25
IV.    PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ..........................                    26
A.    Project Cost  .                    .........I           ...         26
B.    Project Financing  ...............................                  28
V.    DEMAND AND MARKET ASPECTS  ............         ..     ..............     29
VI.    TECHNOLOGY, RESEARCH AND PLANT LOCATION  ....... .......                  36
VII.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ..............         ..     ...............      39
A.    Organization and Management  .....................                  39
B.    Lending Policies and Procedures  ....              .............    39
C.    On-Lending Terms  ................................                  40
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Romania in
May-June 1978 consisting of Mr. R. Hunt and Ms. M. Varkie (IBRD) and Messrs.
G. Butcher, P. Harrison and M. Walshe (Consultants).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)                                                  Page No.
D.   Procurement             ....................                     41
E.   Disbursements ...................................                42
F.   Accounts and Audit .............       ..     ...............    42
C.   Monitoring             .............................   .         43
H.   Environmental Impact ............................                43
I.   Risk ............................................                44
VIII.    PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICAIION ...................                 44
A.    Production, Markets and Prices  ....           ..............   44
B.    Financial Analysis  ....            .........................   46
C.    Economic Evaluation .............................               47
IX.   RECOMMENDATIONS ......................................                 49
ANNEXES
1.  Procurement
Table 1:  Estimated Project Procurement  ...................                51
2.  Phasing and Disbursement
Table 1:  Phasing of Project Investments  ....             ..............   52
Table 2:  Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements  ........                53
Table 3:  Phasing of Project Commitments ....              ..............   54
Table 4:  Phasing of Pig Production under the Project  .....                55
Table 5:  Phasing of Pig Numbers by Production, Slaughter
Capacity and Purchase  ...........................              56
3.  The Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry ....               ............   57
Chart 1:  Financial Institutions  ..........................                70
Chart 2:  Organization Chart ..............................                 71
Table l:  Head Office Staffing List .......................                 72
Table 2:  Financing of Pig Production and Processing through
BAFI and the State Budget .......................               73
Table 3:  Historical and Projected Balance Sheets ... ......                74
Table 4:  Comparative Balance Sheet Structure ....             .........    75
Table 5:  Historical and Projected Income Statements  ......                76
Table 6:  Structure of Income and Expenses  ....             ............   77
Table 7:  Selected Financial Ratios  .......................                78
4.  Economic Analysis
Table 1:  Prices for Economic Analysis  ....................                79
Table 2:  Economic Rate of Return   ........................                80
5.  Meat Consumption
Table 1: Total Meat and Pigmeat per Capita Consumption
for Selected Countries  ..........................             81
6.  Project Implementation File - Table of Contents  ...........                82
7.  Project Background File - Table of Contents                .      .         84
MAP S
IBRD No. 13794 - Socialist Republic of Romania
Location of Planned Project Investments



APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK II PROJECT
ROMANIA
I. SECTOR
A. Role of Agriculture in the Romanian Economy
1.01      Agriculture plays an important role within the Romanian economy,
even though the sector has traditionally ranked below industry in Government's
allocation of investment funds. In 1976, agriculture accounted for 14% of
social product 1/, 36% of the total labor force, 11% of the total fixed assets,
and 23% of total exports. By providing an expanding food base for the in-
creasingly urban population, raw materials for industrial production, a
reserve labor pool for eventual utilization of other growth sectors, funds for
capital investment, and convertible foreign exchange through exports, the
agricultural sector has been an important contributor to the high rates of
growth and capital formation recorded over the last decade. Over the 1965-76
period, social product in the agricultural sector increased by 78%, or by a
compound rate of 5.4% p.a. Actual gross agricultural production in 1976 was
more than three times that in 1950. Annual growth was 4.2% between 1965 and
1976 and 8.9% annually from 1970 to 1976. Expansion of agricultural produc-
tion has been achieved with reduced labor intensity, infusions of capital and
improved technology, and increased utilization of material inputs, e.g.
fertilizers and pesticides. The labor force in agriculture declined from 6.2
million in 1950 to 3.6 million in 1976, while the labor force in non-agricul-
tural sectors expanded from 2.2 to 6.6 million. Livestock production, growing
at about 6.3% p.a., compared to 4.6% for crop production, represented 37% of
gross total agricultural output in 1965 and 41% by 1976. Romanian agriculture
displayed a positive trade balance over the 1950-76 period; the trade balance
for agriculture rose from 371 million lei (US$18.5 million) in 1950 to 2,081
million lei (US$104.1 million) in 1976. These exports have provided substan-
tial assistance in financing industrial development. Exports of agricultural
products however declined as a percentage of total exports from 29% to 23%
over the 1950-76 period as production and exports of relatively high value
industrial commodities expanded.
B. Constraints to Agricultural Production
1.02      The agricultural sector is underdeveloped relative to other sectors
in terms of productivity and income levels. Agricultural productivity in
1/   Social product is a gross output indicator defined as the total output
of material production generated at all stages of production. The pro-
ductive sector comprises those branches of the economy in which materials
are produced, circulated and distributed for final use.



-2-
terms of value-added per worker is less than one third that of industry and
about half that of all sectors combined. While there has been some growth in
agricultural labor productivity which has provided sufficient resources to
improve incomes of agricultural workers and to supply capital for agriculture
and other sectors, incomes in the agricultural sector remain at least 10%
below those in other sectors. Among the types of production units, production
increases in State Agricultural Enterprises (IASs) over the period 1965-1975
have been more than twice those of the Agricultural Production Cooperatives
(CAPs). This has been the result of a policy of greater investments per ha,
a greater share of fertile land and farm machinery, more use of fertilizer and
other inputs, and better management practices in the IASs than in the CAPs.
It appears, nonetheless, that the marginal productivity of capital inputs has
been higher on CAPs, thus indicating the potential for production expansion on
CAPs. Furthermore, due to CAPs' larger share of production and employment,
Government has recognized that the growth of the agricultural sector depends
largely on the development of agriculture in cooperatives. Their potential
is to be developed in the future by allocating an increasing share of agricul-
tural investments to the cooperative sector.
1.03      The major constraint to the stabilization of crop production is the
wide variation in yearly rainfall, particularly in the southern and eastern
plains. Approximately 2.5 million ha in the flood plains of the numerous
rivers are subject to flood damage, and inadequate drainage limits crop pro-
duction on much of this area. Soil erosion is also a problem. Although long
experience exists in building minor flood control and drainage structures,
construction of large-scale irrigation and flood control works is relatively
recent: irrigated area increased from 199,700 ha or 2% of arable land in 1960
to 1.9 million ha or 19% of arable land in 1977. Crop yields are also less
than expected despite the adequacy of technology. Again this results from
low levels of inputs, particularly fertilizers and pesticides and a lack of
incentive for workers and managers. Fertilizer production continues to
increase but much is exported. Technology is well established in the live-
stock industry; nonetheless productivity is poor by comparison with Western
Europe due apparently to relatively inferior quality inputs and lack of
managerial and worker incentive. Thus such critical coefficients as feed
conversion ratios and output per animal attend to be lower than would normally
be expected of a country such as Romania.
C. The Land Resource Base
1.04      Romanian agriculture benefits from relatively good soils, a climate
seasonally suitable for production, and exploitable water resources. Out of
a national total of 23.8 million ha, 14.9 million are employed in agricultural
production. Of the agricultural total, arable land accounts for 65.2%, pas-
ture 20.3%, meadowland 9.5%, and vineyards 5.0%.
1.05      Romania can be divided into three agroclimatic zones based on
climatic factors, topography, soils, and other natural conditions influencing
land use and agricultural performance (see Map). The Plains Zone, located in



the western and southern parts of the country, is especially well endowed with
fertile soils and irrigation infrastructure; it contains approximately 53% of
total arable land but only 18% of land under pasture and meadows. Crop yields
tend to be highest in this region and grain-intensive livestock activities
such as pig and poultry production as well as lamb fattening have been concen-
trated in this major grain belt. In 1977, 58% of the national pig herd was
located in the 12 districts of the Plains Zone. The Foothills Zone, situated
mainly to the north of the Plains Zone, is characterized by shallow, less pro-
ductive soils. About 28% of the total arable land and 32% of total pasture
and meadowlands are situated in the Foothills. In 1977, 20% of the total
pigs were in this zone. The Mountain and Tableland Zone, including districts
in the northern and central parts of the country, accounts for 19% of total
arable area but 50% of all pasture and meadowlands, and in 1977, supported 22%
of the national pig herd.
D. National Planning and Investment in Agriculture
1.06      National planning in Romania encompasses all aspects of production,
marketing, investment, and finance. The State assumes the role of centralized
manager-planner-coordinator to ensure that production activities satisfy
centrally delineated requirements of society. The vehicles used for trans-
lating State priorities into detailed production targets are the 5-Year and
Annual Plans for socio-economic development. Directives in the plans are
obligatory and carry legal authority. Technology choices for the major com-
ponents of a national investment program are incorporated in standard designs
that are replicated country-wide on the basis of model developed at the
national level.
1.07      The 1976-80 Plan calls for an increase in gross agricultural produc-
tion of 28-44% over the average for the 1971-75 period or, an annual growth
rate of 5-7.5%. Based on past sectoral performance, growth equal to at least
the lower bound target is considered feasible. With the adoption of the
1976-80 Development Plan, Romania renewed its commitment to substantial
investment within the livestock subsector. Such an investment orientation
reflects Romania's agricultural development objective of industrialization of
the sector involving (a) production of high value agricultural commodities
such as industrial crops, meat, and dairy products; (b) adjustments in arable
land use to complement proposed changes to high value production; (c) substi-
tution of capital-intensive for labor-intensive technologies to release labor
for alternative, non-agricultural employment; and (d) substantial investment
in irrigation infrastructure to boost overall land productivity, to minimize
severe yield fluctuations caused by climatic vagaries, and to raise the
productivity of workers remaining in agriculture. Achievement of these
objectives will assist in achieving the concommitant objectives of increasing
per capita food consumption and agricultural export earnings. Within this
strategy, Romania proposes rapid development of the pig subsector through:
(a) investments in large, industrial-type complexes conducive to continuous
output flows, higher efficiency levels, faster turnovers, larger litter sizes,
low mortalities, improved technology absorption, and use of quality managerial



- 4 -
skills; (b) improvement of the performance of the national pig herd through a
breeding selection and multiplication of imported stock; (c) modernization of
older units to achieve performance parity with newer, more industrialized
complexes; and (d) utilizing idle capacity (labor and housing) of the private
rural individuals to fatten weaner pigs produced on cooperative farms.
1.08      In early December 1977 a Supplementary Program for 1976-80 to be
implemented in 1979 and 1980 was approved which increased the originally
planned growth rates of all major economic indicators. This was designed in
part to permit the original Plan targets to be achieved despite the serious
interruption as a result of the massive earthquake damage to the economy and
in part to permit achievement of the increased standards of living targets
(wage, housing, etc.) announced in July 1977. Investment financing for this
Supplementary Program was developed out of a 1976/77 review of industrial effi-
ciency and investment project costs which discovered existing spare capacity
in industry as well as an over estimate of original project costs.
1.09      The final form of the original 1976-80 Plan targeted an increase in
gross agricultural production of 39-51% in 1980 over 1975. With the addi-
tion of the Supplementary Program this target now stands at 40 to 54%, requir-
ing an annual growth rate of 7-9%. During the 1971-75 period gross agricul-
tural production increased by 37% or 6.5% p.a. Consequently, performance will
have to improve substantially to achieve anything significantly above the
lower bound. During the years 1976 and 1977 the average growth rate was 9.25%
p.a. which might appear to put them well on the way to reaching the upper
bound of the target, but the 1976 growth is based on a poor performance base
year, 1975, and there was an actual decline in 1977 over 1976. Obviously many
of the projects now being started will not be in production much before the
end of 1980 thus the main contribution will be from increases in variable
inputs to existing production 1/
E. The Role of Women
1.10      The demographic structure by sex in urban and rural areas for all
of Romania and for the lalomita and Timis districts in which, under the
proposed project, large-scale pig production and processing complexes for
export will be located is shown in the Project Implementation File (Annex 10,
Table 1). The proportion of men and women in the urban and rural areas is
virtually identical,
1/   It is here that a word of caution is required.  The gross agricultural
production figure is somewhat misleading as it includes increases in
inputs, consequently the targets could be attained by a massive increase
in inputs (material expenditures) and without any increase in net output.
It is felt that this inclusion has been a positive source of recorded
growth. Since no Plan or Supplementary Plan figures are available for
net agricultural output, i.e. national income in agriculture, the gross
output figure is the only indicator available for comparison of actual
achievements and planned targets.



1.11      Women currently represent 36% of the entire working population
compared with 27.8% in 1965. Not only has the proportion of working women to
men increased, but also the distribution by profession and sector has changed.
Women now make up 38% of the total population employed in industry compared
with 32.4% in 1973. Employment by sex in various sectors of the Romanian econ-
omy is given in Annex 10 Table 2 of the Project Implementation File. In 1977
women represented 35% of the working population employed by the State sector.
Within the State sector there were a large proportion of women working in
telecommunications (50%), trade (54%), education, culture and art (64%) and
public health (72%). In the agricultural sector women represent 16% of the
total number of people employed by the State. This figure does not include
employment in Intercooperatives (ICAs), Cooperatives (CAPs) or the private
sector, where women constitute the majority of the agricultural labor force.
The percentage of women actively engaged in agriculture may range as high as
80 to 85% in certain communes, particularly in the CAPs, where women consti-
tute the basic labor force nationwide. 350 out of about 4,400 CAPs have women
presidents and women hold approximately 4,700 posts as farm chief engineers/
agronomists and 26,000 positions as team leaders in the CAPs. There is an
awareness of the importance of women in achieving agricultural production
targets, and of the need to train and integrate more women into positions of
greater responsibility. The legal basis for equal opportunities exists.
Certain services, such as day care centers, to facilitate the participation
of women in agricultural production have been set up, but there is a need to
improve and increase such services.
1.12      No component in the project is designed specifically to differentiate
between beneficiaries by sex. From field observations and interviews, it is
clear that women already do and will continue to play a major role in pig pro-
duction and processing in Romania. In the pig production complexes about 50%
of the workers in the pig houses are women and in the slaughterhouses about
50% of the auxiliary workers are women. There is no distinction in wages
between the sexes. The project specifically recognizes the important role
women can play in agricultural production. With the provision of a line of
credit for individual pig production a most important resource of the individual
producers, namely surplus labor, which is largely comprised of women, will be
utilized.
F. Bank Experience in Agriculture
1.13      The Bank has made twenty-one loans to Romania since it became a member
in December 1972, for a total lending volume of US$1,102.8 million. 1/ Eight
of these, totalling US$441.5 million, have been in agriculture, of which
four are irrigation projects, one irrigation and agricultural development
project, one agricultural credit project, one agricultural component of a
flood recovery project, and one pig production and processing project.l/ The
1/   Including the $70 million loan for the Mostistea and Calmatui Irrigation
and Drainage Project to be considered by the Executive Directors on the
same date as the proposed project.



- 6 -
agricultural projects are supervised about twice a year and are progressing
satisfactorily with no major problems. A brief description and the current
status of projects under supervision in the agricultural sector are summarized
below:
(a) Giurgiu-Razmiresti Irrigation Project 1082-RO: US$70.0 million;
Board date: 1/28/75; Effective date, 5/5/75. The project will
irrigate about 100,000 ha. Crops grown include maize, barley,
soybeans, sunflower, alfalfa hay and maize silage. Progress is
satisfactory. The Project Completion Date is December 31, 1978
and the Borrower is to prepare a Project Completion Report during
fall 1978.
(b) Sadova Corabia Agricultural Credit Project 1083-RO: US$30.0
million; Board date, 1/28/75; Effective date 4/29/75. The
project provides for a wide range of on-farm investments
under an existing irrigation scheme, including orchard and
vineyard production, livestock/dairy production, agro-
industrial development and technical assistance.  Imple-
mentation progress is satisfactory.  Disbursements are
running about 15% ahead of schedule.
(c) Flood Recovery Project 1169-RO: US$40.0 million; Board date,
11/4/75; Effective date 12/2/75. The project provides for
rehabilitation, drainage and flood control works, establish-
ment of an early warning system for floods, and provision of
agricultural credit to farms affected by the mid-1975 floods.
All 248 subprojects for rehabilitation and repair of the irri-
gation, drainage and flood control systems have been completed.
The completion date has been extended by six months to June 1979
to allow for completion of the flood warning system component.
(d)  Rasova-Vederoasa Irrigation and Agricultural Development Project
1247-RO: US$60.0 million; Board date 4/27/76; Effective date
11/3/76. The project is the first of Bank loans to Romania in
which irrigation and credit are combined in a single project.
Irrigation works will supply water over about 65,000 ha for the
production of feedgrains (maize, barley), soybeans, sunflower,
alfalfa hay, and maize silage, as well as wheat, vegetables,
fruits, and grapes. Other project components are 11 dairy units
including 9,130 imported heifers, 2 beef fattening units, 1
grain storage silo, 1 feedmill, and 17 rural water supply schemes.
Under the irrigation component works are progressing satisfac-
torily. Under the agricultural development component, physical
facilities at 4 dairy farms are finished, the feedmill and silo
are 62% completed and contracts for all equipment and imported
heifers have been awarded.
(e) Ialomita-Calmatui Irrigation Project 1368-RO: US$60.0 million;
Board date, 2/17/77; Effective date, 6/23/77. The project will



- 7 -
irrigate about 148,000 ha for production of feedgrains, oil/
protein crops, and forages. Progress on construction of the
irrigation infrastructure is satisfactory.
(f)  Pig Production and Processing Project 1479-RO:  US$71.0 million;
Board date, 7/12/77; Effective date, 9/15/77. The project
represents the Bank's first participation in Romania in a devel-
opment plan on a nationwide basis. It provides for the devel-
opment of a large multiplier herd, establishment of testing and
selection centers, expansion of industrialized swine production,
and provision of slaughtering and processing facilities. Proj-
ect implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. Disbursements
are running ahead of appraisal estimates. 1977 commitments are
expected to generate an incremental output of 1.13 million pigs
in 1979 and about 1.65 million pigs in 1980 and thereafter. The
1978 project investment list has been finalized and commitments
are over 80% of the total investment cost. ICB determined con-
tracts of $43 million total over 60% of the loan amount and ICB
tender documents for another $30 million of slaughter house equip-
ment are now issued. Supervision missions have been uniformly
favorable in their findings on detail of project implementation
leaving no doubt as to the eventual success of the project.
(g)  Viisoara Irrigation Project 1509-RO:  US$40.5 million; Board
date, 2/19/78; Effective date, 5/15/78. The project will provide
irrigation and drainage facilities over about 110,000 ha for pro-
duction of maize, sugar beet, vegetables and fruits, soybeans,
alfalfa hay, maize silage, and other fodders. Preliminary works
have started in the field.
G. The Pig Subsector
Position
1.14      Pigmeat is the dominant source of meat in Romania.  In 1976 it com-
prised 47% of total meat output with beef in second place with 27%. Pigmeat's
share of domestic consumption and of exports at 46% and 48% respectively in
1976 are similar to its share of output. This dominant position in the
livestock subsector is long-standing phenomenon resulting from the Romanian
consumers' preference for it compared to other meats. This secular emphasis
on pigmeat production has also stimulated the development of a level of tech-
nical efficiency which enables Romania to export competitively.
The National Herd Structure
1.15      The 1977 national pig herd was about 10.2 million head including
about 960,000 sows (Table 1.1). Herd size increased rapidly from about 2.2
million in 1950 to about 5.4 million in 1965, to about 8.6 million in 1974,



Table 1.1: PIG POPULATION PRODUCTION AND DISPOSITION
Growth Rate p.a.
Actual                       Planned          1970-75  1975-80  1980-85
1970     1975      1976      1977      1980      1985      --%------------
No. pigs - thousand head               5972     8566      8813    10193    13000    15500           7.5       8.7       3.6
of which:
- I.A.S.                               2424     3117      3380      3469      3745      4350        5.2       3.75      3.05
- C.A.P.                               1613     2620      2795      3013      4565      6000       10.2      11.75      5.65
- C.A.P. members )2323                          1580      2403      3371      4345      4805      - 7.5      22.5       2.05
- private sector )
Production
- Total thousand tons liveweight        604      955      1018      1026      1462      1770        9.6       8.9       3.9
Consumption
- Total tnousana tons carcass weight 275         453       478       492       624       850       10.5       6.6       6.4
- Per captta kg carcass weight           13.6     21.3      22.3      22.8      28.0      36.0      9.4       5.6       5.2   X
Export
- Thousand tons liveweight /1           166      244       265       257       443       442        8.8      10.8       0
Population '000                      20253    21245    21446    21559    22311    23542             0.95      1.0       1.1
/1  Difference between production and conslmption assuming a 73% carcass yield.
Source: Ministry of Agriculture, Bucharest
July 1978



- 9 -
and 9.6 million in 1976. Over this period, emphasis was placed on increasing
production in the socialist sector. In 1950, 1.8 million pigs (about 80% of
the total) were recorded in the private sector compared with about 0.7 million
(about 6.3%) in 1977. In 1977 about 3.5 million pigs (about 34%) of the total
were recorded in large-scale commercial production units either on mixed State
enterprises or on specialized State enterprises for pig production. About 3.0
million pigs (30.6%) were recorded in large-scale units on cooperative (CAP)
farms or intercooperative (ICA) pig complexes (specialized pig production
units owned by two or more cooperatives). Another 2.7 million pigs (30%) were
produced by members of cooperatives in small individually operated plots, and
the remaining 0.7 million (6.3%) on individually owned smallholdings. State,
CAP and ICA farms produce 65% of total pork all of which is sold through the
Government operated slaughtering processing and marketing systems. Pigs
produced by individuals or CAP members on their own plots, amounting to 35% of
total output, may be sold under contract through the Government operated
system or in the private market.
Planned Development
1.16      Actual and planned production and exports of pigmeat and consumption
of pigmeat and all meat from 1970 to 1985 are set out in Table 1.1 together
with population data and annual growth rates. Total production in 1977 was
1.0 million tons liveweight. This is planned to increase to 1.5 millions
tons in 1980 and 1.8 million tons in 1985. In line with this, growth con-
sumption and exports are also planned to increase. Of particular interest is
the pattern of growth rates for the three 5-year periods from 1970 to 1985.
These show that, despite the substantial absolute increase in volumes of pro-
duction, consumption and exports, the growth rates of these show significant
declines. This growth path appears reasonable based on the future demand
facing the industry. The steepest decline is in planned exports which fall
from a growth rate of almost 11% per annum in the 1975-80 period to zero
between 1980 and 1985. Domestic per capita consumption growth is seen to
taper off to 5.2% annually during the 1980-85 period, having grown at the very
high rate of 9.4% annually during the 1970-75 period.
1.17      Thus the past 5-Year Plan emphasized consumption although not
neglecting exports. This was needed in order to give a needed boost to lag-
ging domestic consumption. The current 5-Year Plan gives priority to exports
with the general aim of firmly establishing Romania's share in export markets
which are generally viewed to grow more slowly in the future. The annual rate
of growth in domestic consumption in the period is planned to decline by 4
percentage points from 10.6%, but still remains acceptable at 6.6% annually
given actual levels of consumption. Finally the 1981-85 Plan aims at maintain-
ing growth in consumption at the level of the 1975-80 period but drastically
reducing the growth rate of exports, possibly in preparation for a more
uncertain export market future.
Constraints
1.18      Before discussing constraints it must be emphasized from the
outset that pig production and processing technology in Romania is very



- 10 -
modern and gives very satisfactory results. The appraisal mission's economic
analysis amply substantiates this conclusion. It is necessary to keep this
in mind when discussing the industry's constraints to higher output and
efficiency in order to keep the criticisms made in perspective. The rapid
development of Romanian pig production from its smallholder base in 1950 to
its present large scale industry base bears tribute to the efforts of Romania
to ensure adequate meat supplies. Thus the removal of the constraints dis-
cussed here, while likely to have greater than a marginal effect on output
and efficiency, is not critical to the survival and economic well-being of the
industry.
1.19      Given the well established technology, if the necessary investments
are made, and the technology efficiently applied, there is no reason why the
Plan targets cannot be achieved. Nonetheless the industry is not without room
for improvement. By comparison with other large pig production units in
Western Europe and North America, feed conversion efficiency, sow fertility
and labor productivity in Romania are all poor. Present levels of feed con-
version efficiency in the better-run units range from 5 to 5.2 kg feed per
kg of liveweight gain. This would range from 4.5 to 4.8 in Western Europe
or North America. Based on generous Romanian pig nutrient specifications a
figure of 4.5 is used in Romanian planning data. If these nutrient specifica-
tions were generally provided in pig feeds, the planned feed conversion figure
(4.5) would result in a 20% decline in feed use for a given output.  But, due
to poor quality domestically-produced maize and barley and inadequate use of
soybean meal and fishmeal for protein, plus the scarcity of feed additives
(vitamins and minerals), the specifications are not achieved.  Apart from the
factors mentioned, conversion efficiency is found to be reduced by feed
wastage due to inefficient feeding systems, overfeeding, and general lack of
control.
1.20      The number of marketed pigs produced per breeding sow per year is
an important coefficient in determining overall profitability. This is
relatively low in Romania, averaging 10 or 11 per sow. It is a function of
average litter size and mortality and number of litters per sow per year.
This latter is the main source of the problem. The number of litters is about
1.5 per sow/year. Allowing for 5-week weaning which is the practice in
Romania the number of litters produced per sow should be about 2.0 and could
be 2.2. The main reasons advanced for the small number of litters/sow are (a)
group housing of pregnant sows; (b) poor quality maize particularly in bad
harvest years; (c) operational shortages of feed or shortage of protein rich
feed ingredients; and (d) heat stress during summer months. It is extremely
difficult to quantify the relative contribution of these factors to the
overall problem. High summer temperatures are considered an important cause
in Romania because fertility is relatively low during the hot summer months.
However, this does not explain the broad range of results encountered across
farms since production systems, nutrition, and housing environments are much
more standardized in Romania than elsewhere. The one important factor that is
not standard is the level of management which probably accounts for the broad
range encountered. A significant example of such management problems is the
difficulty of detecting oestrus in sows, especially when dealing with batch
mating of large numbers.



- 11 -
1.21      The number of pigs produced per year per person employed ranges from
about 200 to 450 on the farms visited. This is about 1/3 to 1/2 the number
produced per worker on some well run farms in Western Europe. Managerial and
technical personnel account for about 13% of total staff on pig units in
Romania; and auxiliary workers, including those that work on the manure dis-
posal systems and in the waste water treatment plants, account for another
45%. Only about 42% of the total employees work directly with pigs. There is
considerable scope for improvement in labor productivity in Romania through
reductions in the number of managerial and auxiliary workers. The present
practice of expressing output in terms of pigs produced per worker directly
employed on pigs tends to be misleading; it is recommended that output per
employee would be a better criterion of efficiency as this would reflect the
number of auxiliary workers present. The first index is generally employed
when measuring improved productivity from the introduction of new technologies
such as mechanized feeding systems. Similar overemployment in clerical posi-
tions and among auxiliary workers is of the order of 20-25%.
1.22      While indicating the amount of room for improvement, of themselves
these deficiencies are not constraints provided they are incorporated in the
planning process. However, utilizing unrealistic coefficients in the planning
process, such as 4.5 for aggregate feed conversion efficiency and 16 pigs
sold per sow per annum, could have a serious effect on achieving Plan targets
through a shortfall in inputs required, with the exception of labor. As
presently seen, the result would be a 20% shortfall in feed inputs, to be
made up either by reduced production consumption and exports or a decrease
in energy grain exports and an increase in protein feed imports. The low
fertility problem can be counteracted in practice by increasing the number of
sows to ensure that the planned number of pigs are produced. Under Romanian
conditions the principal incremental costs associated with the larger sow herd
would be for feed and veterinary services (because accommodation allowances
for dry sows are usually adequate for the increased number required); these
additional costs are small relative to the benefits realized by operating
closer to full capacity. During appraisal a number of pig production com-
plexes were observed operating below capacity; therefore, the strategy of
increasing the number of sows should improve profitability considerably.
Planned animal feed production is such as to permit Romania to remain a net
exporter of maize and become a net exporter of soybean meal by 1979. This
latter is considered doubtful but is not of significance since adequate
supplies are available in the world. The aggregate feed grain surplus
situation is likely to continue but at present problems with poor quality
grain are also seen to contribute making it difficult to achieve improvement
in feed related production coefficients.
Feeds Sources, Quality and Compounding
1.23      Pigs are fed domestically-produced maize, sorghum, and barley.
About 50% of the soybean meal (the predominant protein food), and 100% of the
fish meal included in pig rations are presently imported. Meat, bone, and
blood meals included in rations are produced domestically. Other ingredients



- 12 -
for food concentrates include wheat offals, sunflower meal, fats, sugar, whey,
minerals and vitamins. Energy feeds (maize, sorghum, barley) account for
about 80% of the total pig feed, and high protein feeds (soybean meal, fish
meal and meat meal) account for the remainder. Romania is generally well
supplied with feed grains of satisfactory quality needed in formulating good
pig rations. This does not ensure that good quality pig rations are always
provided at producer level. Pig farms usually buy mixed feeds from large feed
mills at controlled prices. Feed mills procure energy feeds (maize, barley,
sorghum, etc.) from the Cereal Marketing enterprises and buy sunflower meal
and soybean meal from sunflower and soybean processing plants. Fish meal and
imported soybean meal are procured through Romagrimex, a State enterprise in
charge of importing agricultural inputs. Rations are formulated by computer
on a monthly basis, at the Nutrition Institute, based on a national inventory
of available feeds. The Nutrition Institute provides feed mills with direc-
tives for vitamin-mineral premixes appropriate for different ration formula-
tions. About one percent vitamin-mineral premix is incorporated in the five
standard rations formulated for pigs and designated 01 to 05.
1.24      The overall strategy for providing livestock feeds is centered on
locating large feed mills throughout the country to supply formulated feeds to
livestock producers within a radius of about 50 km. Government plans to
construct four or five plants throughout the country to provide sufficient
vitamin-mineral-protein premixes to the feedmills in the future. One such
plant, with a capacity for about 100,000 tons of premix per year, is being
financed under the Sadova-Corabia Agricultural Credit Project. Although the
feed base in Romania is satisfactory, low feed quality is the most important
single factor reducing production efficiency at farm level. There are three
main reasons for this:
(a) Low quality maize. The maize crop is frequently of low
quality because of bad harvest conditions. A proportion of
the crop is affected every year and in bad harvest years
(such as 1975 and 1976) a high proportion of the crop was
affected. Wet weather at harvest causes damage associated
with fungal growth and also with too high drying tempera-
tures. Furthermore storage facilities are frequently inade-
quate, particularly in the cooperative sector. It is not
possible to quantify the proportion of the crop affected and
the degree of damage incurred, but it is reasonable to assume
that on average 20 to 30% of the crop is affected and is
unsuitable for pigs or is of low feeding value. This portion
should be diverted to ruminants. Sufficient efforts in this
direction are not being made.
(b) Protein. Problems arise from time to time in the quantity
and quality of protein feeds available. When in short
supply, the protein content of feeds is reduced across the
board resulting in reduced animal performance. Also priority
is sometimes given to the production of poultry rations
(particularly layers) because reduced performance is much



- 13 -
more quickly detected in this category. The protein quality
of soybean meal of US origin is considered better than that
of the domestic product because considerable denaturing of
protein is caused by extraction techniques used in Romanian
plants. The problem is fully appreciated and progress is
being made in upgrading the quality of Romanian soybean
meal.
(c) Absence of Independent Quality Control. In Romania practically
all feed mills are owned and operated by a Central State enter-
prise for feed mills. It has the obligation to provide pre-
determined volumes of five standard feed formulations to pig
producers. In practice considerable deviations from these
standards occur because of low quality maize and scarcity of
protein feeds. The feed mills rather than an independent
body are responsible for feed quality control and the pig
producers have little or no control over feed quality as
delivered to the pig unit. The State enterprise for feed
mills operates the quality control program from three
regional laboratories. Although these laboratories carry
out some analysis on mixed feeds their main function is to
conduct analysis on the ingredients used in feed mills and
to help individual feed mill laboratories standardize their
own quality control tests.
Market Prospects
1.25      Based on MFIT estimates of "unrestricted" consumption and current
Bucharest city consumption, demand projections were made assuming that
domestic fresh meat consumption would be 50% higher if supplies were not
regulated by Government. Canned and prepared meat demand and supply are
assumed in equilibrium as these are in plentiful supply locally. This gives
an overall difference of 14% between "unrestricted" consumption and the actual
supply of pigmeat. At constant 1978 prices, with an income elasticity of
demand of 0.8 and a real income growth rate of 5.75% annually the projected
"unrestricted" domestic market demand for pigmeat in 1980 is 681 thousand tons
and in 1985 is 949 thousand tons. These compare with planned consumption
figures in Table 1.1 of 624 and 850 thousand tons respectively. Thus, despite
increased per capita consumption, the difference between "unrestricted" con-
sumption and available domestic supply is 9% in 1980 and almost 12% in 1985.
Over the long run the gap is seen to close only slightly and the constraint
is clearly available supply rather than consumer demand.
1.26      Export markets have altered in recent years.  Exports to the EEC
have declined due to enlargement of the Community, with completed phasing-in
of the UK, a major importing country, and Denmark and Ireland, two sizeable
exporters. The composition of sales to the EEC has also changed veering from
live pigs, frozen pork and offals to processed products. Declines in sales to
the EEC have largely been offset by sales to other Western European countries
and the USSR, mainly of frozen pork. Exports of canned pork and ham to the US
have grown steadily by about 15% annually.



- 14 -
1.27      Assuming continuation of existing marketing practices, very little
growth in exports to the EEC is foreseen. The volume of exports in any given
year will depend on the position of the EEC pig production cycle. On average,
in one year out of three, exports will be substantial, and in one year out of
three they will be extremely low. Greater emphasis on high quality brand-name
products in consumer packs would help offset declines in export earnings in
adverse years. Prospects for increasing Romanian canned ham exports to the
US are good. The traditional suppliers, Denmark and the Netherlands, have
reduced export sales in favor of the enlarged EEC domestic market. Sweden,
Spain, Portugal, and Greece are the other major export markets, although
recently the USSR is seen of importance. While trade has been erratic, it has
shown growth in the past and can be expected to continue to grow. However,
it will probably remain erratic due to domestic pig production cycles in these
countries and the lack of long-term trade agreements. The entry of Greece,
Spain and Portugal to the EEC could make export sales to these countries more
difficult because of the EEC's Common Agricultural Policy. Other small export
markets are now being investigated by Romania, e.g. Gibraltar, Hong Kong and
Malta. While these would never be large export outlets, they could be very
useful as supplemental markets and assist in the process of market management.
The general conclusion is that, between both the domestic and export markets,
there will be adequate demand to meet planned output. On the export market
there may be occasional cyclic constraints but the under-satisfied domestic
market and increased efforts in new markets should be adequate to avoid
over-production problems.
1.28      Due to the extreme domestic price stability coupled with centrally
planned production and the absence of any major disease outbreaks, pig pro-
duction in Romania shows no cyclical pattern. This results in a monotonically
increasing export supply of pigmeat. Due to cyclical production in export
markets the demand for Romanian pigmeat exports exhibits a cyclical pattern.
This pattern is expected to strengthen in the future. The net result of this
is to create variations in domestic supply of pigmeat. Such variations
are generally accepted in Romania and can be expected to increase in absolute
value in the medium term. Endeavors are made to offset individual variations
so that a decrease in domestic pigmeat supply may be compensated for by an
increase in poultry. With beef, in the recent past, increased exports of
chilled beef have been offset by imports of frozen beef.
H. Price Formation and Marketing Margins
Price Formation
1.29      Prices of all products in Romania, at both farmgate/ex-factory
and retail levels, are established and controlled by the State. A major tenet
of Romanian economic policy is to maintain stable price levels. Retail prices
in the aggregate increased by less than 3% over the 1971-75 period and are
expected to increase by approximately 5% between 1975 and 1980. The prices of



- 15 -
essential goods, including food products, are kept relatively low, and retail
prices of some goods, e.g. bread, have remained unchanged since the early
1950s. Producer (supply) prices are also kept stable over at least one
planning period: between 1974-76, producer prices were revised for the first
time since 1963 to reflect changes in technology and costs, both internal and
international.
1.30      The basis for establishing official prices is cost of production
plus a reasonable margin for the industry. Within agriculture and agro-
industries, the "reasonable margin" for production costs is considered to be
around 8-10% on turnover.
1.31      The producer prices for pigs and indeed all farmgate prices are
officially set by the State Committee for Prices, an agency established at the
level of the Council of Ministers which has a professional staff at central
government and judet levels. However, the initial calculations and proposals
for such prices are made by the pricing department within the Ministry of
Agriculture, taking technical advice from the relevant production departments.
Retail prices for main pigmeat products are also fixed by the State Committee
for Prices, in a similar fashion. Prices for new pigmeat products are pro-
posed by MIC after consultation with MFIT. Following approval by the State
Committee for Prices, MFIT issues a price order which is ratified upon
publication in the Official Bulletin.
Price Levels and Marketing Margins
1.32      State-controlled producer prices apply to all pigs passing through
the official channels. The official prices for cooperatives and individuals
are higher than those for State farms, however, so too are the prices of
inputs, mainly feeding stuffs. The rationale for this is not entirely clear,
but at comparable performance levels cooperatives generally show slightly
lower margins than State enterprises. It appears, therefore, that the State
has chosen to tax cooperatives on the basis of inputs utilized but to collect
funds from State enterprises on the basis of net income transfers.
1.33      In addition to the "contract prices", which apply to pre-agreed
quantities of produce, "acquisition prices" are also established to cover
produce in excess of contracted quantities sold to State marketing agencies by
CAP members, individual farmers and CAPs. In the case of pigs, "acquisition
prices" are the same as "contract prices".
1.34      Pigs sold liveweight in the private markets have generally averaged
55% higher prices than the official producer prices. The reason why large
volumes of pigs are not produced and sold on the private market is that feed
supplies are only obtainable from the socialist sector for contracted pigs.
Pigs for private sale have to be Eed on the produce of individuals plots. The
supply of such produce is limited because of the small amount of land available
for such production.



- 16 -
1.35      The marketing margins for retailers and for the wholesale agency
ICRA are shown in Table 2 below:
Table 2: WHOLESALE AND RETAIL MARKETING MARGINS (REBATE
PERCENTAGES) FOR PIGMEAT PRODUCTS
ICRA       Retailer         Total
Carcass meat                        0.8%          3.2%           4.0%
Prepacked meat                      0.8%          2.7%           3.5%
Offals and abattoir by-products  1.0%             5.0%           6.0%
Canned and prepared meats           1.25%         4.25%          5.5%
Raw and salted fat                  1.0%          5.0%           6.0%
Lard                                1.0%          4.0%           5.0%
Note: Percentages are based on retail prices.
The levels of retail margins in Romania are low compared with other countries.
This is a reflection of the low level of inputs into retailing - lack of
visual display materials, shortage of availability of cold storage space,
virtually no product advertising, and utilitarian labeling and packaging.
Furthermore, the policy of self sufficiency at the judet level keeps trans-
port costs low.
1.36      Generally, ex-MIC prices are calculated by reducing the retail price
by the rebate percentage figure. However, for fresh meat purchased in carcass
form there is also a tax of about 1 lei per kg levied on for meat sold directly
to shops, while carcass meat for further processing is untaxed. This tax has
the effect of keeping the price of fresh pork, ex-butchers shop, relatively
high compared with processed products.
Results of the Pricing System
1.37      Virtually no account is taken of consumer preference in setting
prices. Rather, through the use of MFIT consumer surveys the planned physical
allocation of goods takes account of consumer preference. Consequently, no
extra financial incentives are given to influence producing trusts, e.g. MITs,
to manufacture goods which are more popular. This system appears quite
satisfactory with major commodities, e.g. bread, meat, milk, but it does lead
to overproduction of some processed products, and insufficient availability of
fresh meat.
1.38      In the case of joint pigmeat products, when there is no basis for
allocating the cost of production, the policy in Romania is to keep the
differentials low. The intention is that everyone should be able to afford
fillet, chops, hams, etc. and that the allocation of high quality meat should
not be solely on the basis of who can afford it. This consumer equity orienta-
tion is the strength of the Romanian pricing system and is to be highly com-
mended. However, it does give rise to other interesting allocational issues.



- 17 -
At the consumer level, allocation in the presence of a finite supply is on a
first-come-first-served basis while at the producer level actual production
decisions are a function of bureaucratic strength between the consumption and
production-oriented ministries.
1.39      Also, the low differentials do actually permit poor allocation of
resources. For example, the relatively high retail price of fat, compared
with the price for whole carcasses, in Romania is out of line with world price
relationships. Domestically, lard sells for 11 lei/kg and the wholesale price
of carcasses is 16.5 lei/kg, a ratio of 1:1.5. Export prices on the other
hand, over the last seven years, have averaged 1/ US$500 and US$1,448 per ton
respectively, a ratio of 1:2.9 (long run estimates for 1990 are US$319 and
US$1,670 - 1:5). The high retail price of fat makes it possible for the
producer price of a heavy pig - say 130 kg liveweight - to be higher than a
lighter one. Consequently, at domestic prices it is more profitable to pro-
duce fat pigs than at 'economic' prices and, as a result, Romania is almost
certainly producing uneconomical overfat pigs. The current net annual eco-
nomic cost to Romania of slaughtering at 105 kg average weight, instead of
about 95 kg, would appear to be about US$10-12 million.
I. Government Supporting Services
1.40      Training.  Agricultural education in Romania is organized into a
national system, coordinated by the Ministries of Agriculture and Education,
to provide training for specialists and skilled workers for the agricultural
sector. Formal education consists basically of providing instruction for new
personnel and staff in-service training. Instruction starts with agricultural
gymnasiums (high schools) where students are exposed to a wide range of agri-
cultural activities, as well as provided the opportunity to specialize. Some
of the graduates from these high schools proceed directly to production com-
plexes as skilled workers while the remainder continue on to agricultural
universities. A varied in-service training program is conducted for all
levels of workers in the agricultural sector. MAFI organizes 8-week review
courses which are compulsory for all expert staff every 5 years. Similarly,
short courses are given annually for experts and skilled workers. Included in
the investment and operating costs of each new production complex is a train-
ing component for the unit's staff members. The director of the new complex
is appointed from the beginning of construction works and follows through
their completion. To gain familiarity with the operation of the unit, the
director and other key staff work on existing units for at least 6 months in
all operational activities. Once a new unit is in operation, skilled workers
from existing complexes are brought in for about 6 months to provide on-the-
job training for new lower-level staff. The system is satisfactory.
1/   Average price expressed in 1978 constant dollar terms.



- 18 -
1.41      Animal Health.  MAFI's Central Veterinary Diagnostic Laboratory in
Bucharest provides a specialized diagnostic service to the district veterinary
services, covering 39 districts and Bucharest. The District Veterinary
Inspectorates are responsible for implementing the Sanitary Veterinary Law
(1964), and their main functions include:
(a) operation of veterinary diagnostic laboratories for
the districts;
(b) provision of services to private farmers and cooperative
members who maintain livestock. (Services are free and
include the provision of medicines, drugs, advice, and
on-farm treatment of animals);
(c) administration of all inoculations required by law;
(d) provision of specialized services to large industrialized
animal production complexes, including back-up laboratory
services; and
(e) sanitary inspection and control of slaughterhouses and
meat shops.
All large livestock production complexes (including those to be financed under
the project) have full-time veterinary surgeons on their staff who are techni-
cally and functionally responsible to the District Veterinary Inspectorates
but are paid directly by the production units. The Inspectorate maintains a
total staff of about 305 out of which about 200 are employed on these large
animal complexes. Veterinarians are likewise posted throughout each district
to provide field service for small producers. A horse and buggy are provided
to enable on-farm visits at the village level within a radius of about 15-20
km.
Veterinary Research
1.42      The Pasteur Institute in Bucharest is the main center for veterinary
research as well as principal coordinating agency for all veterinary research
carried out in Romania. It is responsible to MAFI through the Agriculture
Academy of Science. The Institute has extensive, well equipped laboratories
in Bucharest and owns three farms on which experimental animals are maintained.
In addition, it operates three smaller field stations at Iasi, Cluj, and Arad.
University veterinary faculties are also located in these towns. The Institute
has two main functions:
(a) production of all the biological materials (e.g. vaccines)
required for veterinary use throughout the country; and
(b) conduct of research on infectious and nutritional diseases
of animals, including pigs.



- 19 -
1.43      The Institute has about 120 research staff members and employs
about 1,500 persons in total. Most of the general staff time is spent in
producing biological materials (e.g., about 25 million doses of Swine Fever
vaccine are produced each year). About 40% of the professional staff spend
about 80% of its time on the production of biological materials and about 20%
on research. Sixty percent of the staff spend about 80% of its time on
research and about 20% in providing technical assistance to the veterinary
services on specialized veterinary problems. The Pasteur Institute is a
research organization of high caliber providing useful services in an efficient
manner.
Pig Research
1.44      Pig research is mainly concentrated in the Peris National Pig
Research Station near Bucharest and in the Nutrition Institute in Bucharest.
The Peris research station has about 80 technical staff members including 25
researchers with university-level training (about ten with doctoral training).
It owns and operates a large pig production unit with about 1,500 sows that
produces about 22,000 fattened pigs per year. The main areas of investigation
at Peris include: (a) nutrition and feeding; (b) environmental research; (c)
production technology (e.g., different types of pig cages); (d) reproduction
and fertility; and (e) breeding research with Landrace, Largewhite, Duroc,
Hampshire, and Yorkshire breeds. Peris is applied research-oriented with the
objective of developing production systems that could stimulate production
throughout the pig industry. Reflecting emphasis placed on inter-disciplinary
research, multi-disciplinary teams are organized at Peris to carry out ongoing
research projects. There appears to be scope for improvement in the quality
of research carried out at Peris. The production facilities including pig
houses, feeding arrangements, etc. are designed to meet the needs of a large
commercial pig farm rather than the needs of a pig research station. In
particular, nutrition research seemed to be poorly organized and serviced.
For example, Peris apparently maintains neither individual feeding facilities
for growing pigs nor facilities for conducting digestibility studies on pig
feeds. Part of the problem seems to stem from the division of responsibility
between Peris and the Nutrition Institute for Nutrition Research.
1.45      The Nutrition Institute is part of the National Academy of Agricul-
ture. It has responsibility for conducting nutrition research for pigs,
poultry, cattle, and sheep. It is a specialized institute engaged in more
basic research having the following functions: (a) analysis of mineral-
vitamin-protein premixes for all animal feeds utilized in the country; (b)
monthly computer formulation of all rations to be fed to livestock in Romania
on the basis of the inventories of available feeds; (c) improvement of feed
preparation technology for such products as soybean meal, and investigation
of feed quality problems associated with processing; and (d) analysis of the
nutritive value of feeds and formulation of rations and feeding systems based
on animal experimentation.
1.46      The Nutrition Institute employs a high caliber professional staff
and maintains good laboratory facilities. Pig feeding work is carried out



- 20 -
in cooperation with the research station at Peris. This arrangement is not
satisfactory because (a) Peris is located about 15 km from the Institute and
(b) shared responsibility has not proven a good mechanism for conducting
research.
Design and Survey Institute for Construction
1.47      Within the Food Industry Department of the Ministry of Agriculture
and Food Industry (MAFI) the Design and Survey Institute for Construction in
Agriculture and the Food Industry has national responsibility for the design
of facilities required for the production and processing of a wide range of
food items. There are other organizations which also carry out project design
such as the enterprise initiating the project, the Judet Design Institute and
the specialist Centrals, such as the MIC which have design staff within the
organization. The decision on where the project will be designed depends upon
the size of the project and its complexity.
1.48      The Design Institute is organized into several sections - livestock,
food industry, feed mills, accounting and administrative services. Each sec-
tion is further subdivided into specialist sections. In the food industry
section for instance specialist sections each under the control of a chief
engineer cover such items as sugar factories, oil factories, meat and dairy
processing plants. The specialist sections in turn have particular respon-
sibilities. Within the meat and dairy specialist section for instance, separ-
ate specialist subsections cover slaughterhouses and meat processing plants,
cold storage, milk processing plants and cheese processing plants. In its
work and particularly for new projects the technology and economic aspects
are subject to review by the technical and economic section of MAFI. A
similar review is carried out by BAFI when it wholly or partially finances
such projects.
1.49      The work program for the Design Institute is planned ahead on a
yearly basis. The enterprise initiating a project must ensure that prelim-
inary planning is completed in sufficient time to get the project included in
the Institute's program for the following year. It must also negotiate with
the Institute to determine the cost of the design work and the program for
completing the design phase of the project. In turn the Institute negotiates
a design cost and time deadlines with the Project Team. Overruns on time by
the design team can result in deductions from the negotiated design cost paid
to the team. Design costs are in the range 2-3% of investment costs.
1.50      This approach to financing of detailed project design is a signifi-
cant source of the Bank's difficulties with agricultural project preparation
in Romania. The detail of project preparation reports including technical
specifications and financial models is given to this institute on an ad hoc
basis and without allowance in its budget. This results in a hastily-produced
and very incomplete and unsatisfactory project preparation report. No market
demand or economic analysis is included in these preparation reports as the
Design Institute has no capability in these areas. This significantly adds to
the deficiency of project preparation reports.



- 21 -
1.51      Romania has agencies which are technically competent to develop the
various topics requiring coverage in project preparation but no well deter-
mined point of responsibility for producing project preparation reports exists.
It is recommended that MAFI establish a small unit especially for this task
and fund it adequately so that it can contract out the work as required to
the various specialist agencies as is the practice in Romania but retain the
responsibility for assembling the final report.
Research Institute for Food Chemistry and the Food Industry
1.52      Also within the Food Industry Department of the MAFI the Research
Institute for Food Chemistry and the Food Industry carries out research in all
branches of the food industry, except in the areas of fruit and vegetables,
wine, tobacco and fish which are covered by other institutes. Organized as
a central, the activities of the Institute are based essentially on contracts
with particular enterprises, other centrals and MAFI. The Institute is orga-
nized into two basic sectors, a technology section with responsibilities in
such fields as chemistry, cold storage, mechanization and a products section
with laboratories covering food items such as meat, sugar, beer, etc. The
work of the Institute is subject to approval of MAFI although some projects
may require Government approval before they are included in the annual or five
yearly research plan.
1.53      The Institute carries out its work in the enterprises' production
units as well as in the Bucharest laboratories. Pilot plants for processes
are built in the Institute's workshop attached to the laboratories. The
Institute works closely with the Design Institute who have the responsibility
for developing the technology and pilot plants for application in full scale
plants.
Meat Inspection Service
1.54      A well organized, internationally accepted Meat Inspection Service
is operated by MAFI. Its main responsibilities include: (a) enforcing meat
inspection regulations; (b) providing inspection services at all approved
slaughterhouses and processing facilities to ensure that only wholesome and
hygienic meat products are made available to consumers; (c) ensuring that
facilities are constructed to meet sanitary standards; and (d) collecting
information on such topics as the number of animals slaughtered by type and
weight range, number of animals condemned including cause, tonnage of meat
products produced, and tonnage of freslh and processed meats leaving the plant.
The Meat Inspection Service is controlled by the Director of Veterinary Ser-
vices within the Animal Production Directorate of MAFI. The service is orga-
nized on a Judet basis for most meat packing plants, but in the case of plants
approved for export to the U.S., the Meat Inspection Service for that partic-
ular plant is directly responsible to the Director of Veterinary Services.
The Meat Inspection Service staff are mainly veterinarians but technicians
are used for some routine inspection procedures. The Inspection Service is
completely independent of the plant and is paid by the veterinary services
directorate. In the event of disagreement with the plant management, the
plant veterinarian can go to the Judet Director of Veterinary Services, or
in the case of plants approved for export to the U.S., to the Director of
Veterinary Services.



- 22 -
II. THE BANK FOR AGRICULTURE AND FOOD INDUSTRY
A. Overview 1/
2.01      The Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry (BAFI) is a State-owned
credit institution established in 1968 to finance and supervise investments
and operations in agriculture and agroindustries. The Administrative Council
is BAFI's policy-making body. Between the sessions of the Administrative
Council, the Executive Bureau acts as the decision-making body. BAFI's opera-
tions are carried out by 39 branches, 92 sub-branches and about 850 credit
cooperatives which serve as BAFI's agents for small-scale lending. Enter-
prises of national importance are served by the three operational departments
in the head office (agroindustries, cooperative sector and State sector).
B. Fiscal Agency Operations
2.02      One of BAFI's most important functions is that of financial agent
for State investments in agriculture and agroindustries. BAFI reviews and is
empowered to require changes in proposed development plans, disburses accord-
ing to approved plans, supervises implementation with particular emphasis on
adherence to appraisal estimates and plan targets, and collects depreciation
payments 2/ and net incomes for the State budget account. BAFI is paid a
commission for this service at the rate of 0.5% of the investments channelled
through it. Over the past several years, State equity contributions for
investments disbursed by BAFI were as follows:
FY                    Million Lei                       1970=100
1970                      27,077                            100
1973                      39,471                            146
1976                       70,598                           261
1977                      93,445                            345
In terms of their relative importance, net investments financed with State
equity channelled through BAFI were equivalent to about 34% of BAFI's total
assets at the end of 1977. 3/
1/   Additional details and BAFI's organization chart are given in Annex 3.
2/   Depreciation charges are assessed on capital inputs on the basis of cost
and the legal life of each item, to provide for full cost recovery and
accumulate savings for future investments.
3/   See Annex 3.



- 23 -
C. Financing Policies and Procedures
2.03      BAFI makes short--, medium- and long-term loans to the cooperative
sector and to a limited degree to individual borrowers (coop-members and
private farmers). Short-term capital requirements of State enterprises are
financed mainly by equity contribution (State budget allocations channelled
through BAFI) and partly by BAFI production credits. Long-term investments
in State enterprises are likewise generally financed with equity from the
State budget channelled through BAFI (para. 2.04).
2.04      Loans are primarily secured by "credit engagements" of borrowers,
who commit all present and future income to debt service and are obliged to
maintain all their financial assets in BAFI settlement (deposit) accounts.
Under BAFI policy, short-term credit extended to cooperatives cannot exceed
60% of the contracted value of the commodity whose costs are being financed,
and interest and principal repayments are deducted from the borrowers'
accounts when sales proceeds are realized. Though no bad debt has been
recorded by BAFI to date, the law provides that in the event a liquidity
problem should arise, BAFI's claims have priority vis-a-vis other debts.
D. BAFI Lending through the Credit Cooperatives 1/
2.05      BAFI and the Central Commission of Credit Cooperatives maintain a
protocol by which BAFI lending to individual producers is channelled through
the CRC system. BAFI pays to the CRC a commission of 0.41% of the total value
of loans processed on its behalf. BAFI provides both short-term and long-term
investment loans to individuals through the CRCs. In order to receive loans
from BAFI, the individual must contract with a socialist enterprise (or
indirectly through a Consumer Cooperative acquisition Center) for 100% of the
value of the BAFI loan. BAFI short-term loans are provided for up to 45% of
the value of the finished goods contracted at an interest rate of 2.5% p.a.
For BAFI long-term loans the individual submits the contract and an applica-
tion to the CRC for evaluation. The CRC evaluation reports are then sent to
the BAFI sub-branch for approval.
2.06      The CRCs represent a considerably more important source of long- and
short-term funds for the individual producers than BAFI. Total CRC lending over
1970-77 grew by an average of about 18% annually from 641 million lei (US$35.6
million) in 1970 to 2,094 million lei (US$116.3 million) in 1977. Its struc-
ture remained fairly stable, about 87% being short-term loans and the balance
long-term investment loans. Total BAFI individual producer lending over the
same period declined from 417 million lei (US$23.2 million) in 1970 to 385
million lei (US$21.4 million) in 1977. The structure of BAFI lending remained
1!   For details see Project Implementation File Annex 3 - Institutional for
Financing and Marketing of Pigs in the Private Sector.



- 24 -
relatively constant with about 97% being short-term loans and the balance long-
term loans. The decline in BAFI lending is attributed to the fact that in
recent years the CRCs have made special efforts to expand their lending opera-
tions especially for livestock production activities, and that the CRCs put
much less restrictive contracting conditions on their lending.  In order to
receive BAFI loans the individual must contract to market through a socialist
enterprise all of the products obtained as a result of use of the loans, while
the contract marketing conditions on CRC lending are limited to products
representing 20% of the value of the loan granted for loans up to 10,000
lei and 25% for loans exceeding 10,000 lei. Although the CRC loan terms are
more stringent than those of BAFI (3 years at 7% versus 5 years at 3%) the
less restrictive marketing conditions together with the significantly higher
free market prices during certain seasons offset this difference in terms.
E. Sources of Funds
2.07      In descending order of importance, the various sources of the funds
channelled through BAFI as of the end of 1977 were the State budget (51%), 1/
short-term loans from the National Bank of Romania (NB, 37%), deposits of
State enterprises and cooperatives (6%), miscellaneous accounts payable (2%),
BAFI's statutory capital and reserves (2%), and IBRD borrowings (2%) (Annex
Tables 3 and 4). BAFI has no other foreign debt. No major shifts in relative
importance among these financing sources is expected during the period up to
the end of 1985.
F. Financial Conditions
2.08      BAFI's financial condition is strong and is expected to remain so
through 1985. The balance sheet reveals a prudent matching of assets lives
with financing sources. Net worth is about 2% of total assets, a ratio that
is similar to those of Western commercial banks and adequate in relation to
the low proportion of BAFI's repayable long-term debt, 2/ the low volatility
of BAFI's revenues and deposits, and the quality of its asset portfolio rela-
tive to loan default risk.
1/   Balance sheet items included under this category are the "Fund for short-
term credits", the "Fund for medium- and long-term credits", accounts
payable to the State budget, and the State budget investment account
administered by BAFI.
2/   Consists entirely of six IBRD loans.  It is expected that the ratio of
repayable long-term debt to net worth will peak at 4:1 in 1981 and there-
after decline (Annex 3 Table 7).



- 25 -
III. THE PROJECT
Concept
3.01      The project represents the final two-year time slice for the pig
production and processing portion of the Romanian 1976-80 National Develop-
ment Program. The previous two-year tranche, 1977-78, was partially financed
by the Bank's Pig Production and Processing Project. As such this project
would be a major input in realizing the planned pig meat production necessary
towards meeting domestic demand and generating further export earnings.
Specific project objectives are:
(a) continued expansion of large-scale pig production units to
avail of managerial and technical scale economies;
(b) additional production of hybrid gilts for breeding so as
to expand use of animals of high genetic quality;
(c) provide new and modernized slaughtering and processing
facilities capable of providing access to export markets;
(d) assist in expanding individual producers small-scale
activities in agriculture and horticulture, including
pig production, so as to use underutilized resources
in private households;
(e) improve nutrition-related pig production coefficients
through applied research.
Composition
3.02      Investments planned are (i) 27 new fattening farms each averaging
45,500 fat pigs and 2,000 weaners annually; (ii) 25 new crossbred gilt pro-
duction farms, 12 averaging 17,000 gilts annually and 13 averaging 3,885
gilts annually; (iii) modernization of 37 pig breeding and fattening units
to increase capacity, each averaging an incremental 17,333 fat pigs and
783 weaners annually; (iv) a line of credit to individual CAP members and
individual producers for development of various smallholder agricultural and
horticultural activities such as fattening of surplus weaners produced in
the previous 3 investment categories; (v) provision of facilities to augment
existing pig nutrition research; and (vi) construction of slaughterhouses for
3.5 million pigs annually at full development, cold storage totalling 70,000
cubic meters for producing and packaging unsalted pork and beef cuts from
carcasses and processing facilities for 4,500 tons of salami annually. This
would include modernization of existing facilities, to meet both the domestic
and export market hygiene standards, as well as provision of new facilities.
3.03      Subloans would be made by BAFI to State Enterprises and Coopera-
tives for buildings, utilities, slaughtering and processing equipment, farm



- 26 -
machinery, vehicles, feed storage units, and quality breeding stock, and by
BAFI or its agent the Credit Cooperative to individuals for construction
materials, weaners and feed. Funds would be made available on a grant basis
through BAFI and MAFI to (i) the National Pig Research Station at Peris for
laboratory facilities and equipment and a small feed manufacturing plant and
(ii) the Animal Nutrition Institute at Balotesti for a 400-sow unit and
attendant housing and facilities for feeding experiments.
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Project Cost
4.01      Total Project cost is estimated at Lei 7.8 billion (about US$436
million) of which the foreign exchange component is Lei 1.7 billion (US$95.5
million) or about 21.4%. These estimates, summarized below, include taxes
and import duties on items expected to be directly imported under the project.
4.02      The cost estimates are based on prices prevailing in 1978.  An
allowance of 5% is included for physical contingencies. Price contingency
allowances are 1% per annum for 1979 through 1982 on all domestic components
and on foreign exchange components 6.5% for 1979 and 6.0% annually for 1980
through 1982. The exchange rate used in estimating costs is the Romanian
officially determined trading rate of Lei 18-US$1. This rate is expected to
remain stable.



- 27 -
TOTAL PROJECT COST
Foreign                           Foreign                   %
Local     Exchange   Total        Local      Exchange      Total      F.E.
--------(Lei '000) ----           ---------(US$ '000)---------
Fixed Capital Investments
Pig breeding/fattening units
State Enterprises                     606,131   145,893    752,024    33,674          8,105       41,779    19.4
Cooperatives                          562,836   135,472    698,308    31,269          7,526       38,795    19.4
Crossbred gilt production units
State Enterprises                     154,139    35,687    189,826        8,563       1,983       10,546    18.8
Cooperatives                          433,185   103,599    536,784    24,066          5,756       29,822    19.3
Modernization of existing
Pig breeding/fattening units
State Enterprises                     429,660   101,440    531,100    23,870          5,636       29,506    19.1
Cooperatives                          206,237    48,691    254,928    11,458          2,705       14,163    19.1
Slaughterhouses for
246,000 pigs/year                     641,976   211,716    853,692    35,665         11,762       47,427    24.8
Slaughterhouses for
500,000 pigs/year                     584,048   196,296    780,344    32,447         10,905       43,352    25,1
Sausage processing facilities           237,062    77,344    314,406    13,170          4,297       17,467    24.6
Cold stores                             202,353    66,020    268,373    11,242          3,668       14,910    24.6
Modernization of existing
slaughterhouses                       114,000    36,000    150,000        6,333       2,000        8,333    24.0
Credit to individual producers          489,600   122,400    612,000    27,200          6,800       34,000    20.0
Applied nutrition research                20,250      4,750     25,000      1,125          264       1,389    19.0
Subtotal:  Base fixed capital costs 4.681,475 1,285,302  5,966,777   260,082           71,407      331,489    21.1
Contingency allowance
Physical (5%)                         216,072    57,780    273,852    12,004          3,210       15,214    21.1
Price/l  (4%)                           76,464   137,718    214,182       4,248       7,651       11,899    64.3
Subtotal:  Contingencies                292,536   195,498    488,034    16,252         10,861       27,113    40.1
Subtotal:  Fixed capital costs        4,974,011 1,480,800  6,454,811   276,334         82,268      358,602    22.7
Incremental working capital           1,155,762   229,176  1,384,938    64,209         12,732       76,941    16.5
TOTAL PROJECT COST                    6,129,773 1,709,976  7,839,749   340,543         95,000      435,543    21.4
/1 The following expected inflation rates (in percent per annum) were used in determining price contingencies
for the prgject costs:
Imported Component           Local Component
1979                  6.5                           1.0
1980-82               6.0                           1.0



- 28 -
B. Project Financing
4.03      The financing plan for the Project is shown below:
Cofinanciers       Sub-
IBRD     MAFI/BAFI      Borrowers      Total
-----------     (Lei '000)----------------
Fixed Capital Investments
Pig breeding/fattening units
State Enterprises                  170,614      376,068        269,261    815,943
Cooperatives                       159,758      375,061        229,208    764,027
Crossbred gilt production units
State Enterprises                   42,740       94,208         67,452    204,400
Cooperatives                       121,419      285,141        174,202    580,672
Modernization of existing
pig breeding/fattening units
State Enterprises                  121,442      256,066        203,274    580,782
Cooperatives                        58,269      136,797         83,600    278,666
Slaughterhouses for 246,000
pig/year                           194,662      438,384        297,904    930,950
Slaughterhouses for 500,000
pig/year                           177,954      400,757        272,335    851,046
Sausage processing facilities         72,573      163,436        111,063    347,072
Cold stores                           61,609      138,747         94,285    294,641
Modernization of existing
slaughterhouses                     33,787       95,479        32,317    161,583
Credit to individual producers       129,262      488,919           - /1    618,181
Applied nutrition research             5,931       20,917           -        26,848
Sub-total:  Lei '000             1,350,000   3,269,910      1,834,901  6,454,811
Sub-total:  TIJS$ '000              75,000     181,663        101,941    358,604
Incremental working capital             -         959,347       425,591  1,384,938
TOTAL:  Lei '000                   1,350,000   4,229,257      2,260,492  7,839,749
TOTAL:  US$ '000                      75,000      234,960       125,583    435,543
Percentage of Total
Project Cost                          17.2         54.0          28.8         100
'1  Contributlon in kind from family labor.



- 29 -
4.04      A Bank loan of US$75 million and a loan of an unspecified amount
from as yet unidentified co-financiers would be made to BAFI. The Bank loan
would cover 17.2% of the total cost or 79% of the foreign exchange cost. The
subborrower's contribution amount to 28.8% of total project cost. The remain-
ing 54% woul7 be financed by MAFI/BAFI representing the Government and the
co-financiers. 1/ In accordance with changed regulations State-owned enter-
prises would now contribute to their own investment costs whereas as in the
Pig Production and Processing Project their contribution was channelled
through the State investment budget, these contributions range from 20 to 35%
depending on the specific investment. Cooperative Enterprises would continue
to contribute 30% to their investment costs. Individual producers would make
no financial contribution but would utilize existing family labor for construc-
tion and operation. The remaining 42.7% of the total project cost would be
met from the State budget and BAFI's own funds.
4.05      The Bank loan would be for 15 years including 3 years grace.  Terms
of the co-financier's loan are not yet determined but are likely to be more
stringent than the Bank terms.
V. DEMAND AND MARKET ASPECTS
Domestic Market Demand
5.01      Romanian domestic consumption of meat, particularly pork and pig-
meat products has increased substantially over the past decade (Table 1.1).
The fact that the price of pigs in the free market is much higher than the
official price is evidence of excess domestic demand for pigmeat. MFIT
indicated that, within the meat demand shortfall, unfulfilled demand for pork
is relatively higher than that for poultry or beef.
5.02      Provisional Romanian proposals for total allocation of meat to be
made available to the domestic market, in 1980 and 1985, are outlined below.
1/   Preliminary efforts at identification of co-financiers by the Bank have
resulted in substantial interest being generated. Institutions indicat-
ing an interest in this have been put in contact with BAFI. No serious
problems in arranging for co-financing are now envisaged. BAFI has indi-
cated that it envisages borrowing more than the amount of the foreign
exchange gap (US$20 million) from co-financiers to finance this invest-
ment.



- 30 -
1977-80              1980-85
1977    1980    increase    1985    increase
Pigmeat              492      624 /1    8.2         850 /I    6.4
Beef                 255      312        7.0        390        4.6
Other meats          330      402        6.8        460        2.7
Total              1,077   1,338         7.5      1,700        4.9
/1   Equivalent to approximately 1,140 and 1,550 thousand tons
liveweight respectively.
Within the Five-Year Plans, MFIT is given levels for total meat distribution,
rather than for the individual items, thus, under the conditions of shortage,
MFIT has been able to switch between meats, when convenient, yet still have no
problems of clearing stocks. This facility has enabled advantage to be taken
of export opportunities when the relative world price of different meats has
changed, and also, has allowed chicken to be substituted for beef when pro-
posed consumption expansion rates have been greater than sustainable beef
production expansion rates.
5.03      MFIT and retail store managers confirm that fresh pork is in scarce
supply, while canned and preserved pigmeat is readily available, but at much
higher prices. Queues at fresh meat (pork) counters are the rule and their
absence is an indicator that the store has sold its quota. Lack of attention
to final product demand is due to its inability to affect final product prices.
These are determined by MAFI and the State Pricing Committee on a cost plus
basis and processing plant targets are measured in value. Thus, since it is
more profitable for a slaughtering plant to process pigmeat than to sell it as
fresh pork, fresh meat is scarce. Although MFIT are responsible for consumer
interest in this area, they have not been successful in increasing the rela-
tive proportions of fresh pork to processed pigmeat products marketed. In
fict in 1970 fresh pork accounted for 50% of total pigmeat products sold by
MFIT whereas by 1977 the proportion had fallen to 47%. Clearly therefore the
type of processing of pigs allocated to the domestic market under this project
should reflect this composition of demand.
Future Domestic Demand
5.04      Demand projections are made on the basis that real prices remain
constant; that the present level of consumption of fresh pigmeat would have
been 50% higher had supplies been available; that canned and prepared meat
consumption is in equilibrium and will remain so; and that live pigs will
continue to be sold in the rural areas.
5.05      Under these circumstances base "potential demand" would be:



- 31 -
Assumed demand base for
Actual consumption 1977                projection purposes
Pigmeat           Factor         Pigmeat equiv.
'000 tons                            '000 tons
Fresh meat                  140               1.5                210
Sausages, etc.              140               1.0                140
Canned                       18               1.0                 18
Other                       194               1.0                194
TOTAL                       492               1.14               562
If real prices in the private sector were to continue to be the same amount
higher than official prices, demand projections for 1980 and 1985 would be as
follows:
1980                 1985
Meat                 Meat
Fresh meat                          255                  355
Sausages, etc.                      170                  237
Canned                               22                    31
Other                               234                   326
TOTAL                               681                   949
With increased public supplies, the price premium for private sector pigs may
fall, and so the demand for the 75% of "other" pigs, thought to represent
private sector pig sales will be higher than the figures in the data above.
By comparison with the 1980 and 1985 planned pigmeat consumption of 624 and
850 thousand tons respectively (Table 1.1), it is seen that the gap between
desired and planned consumption will be only slightly reduced. Actual 1970
and 1975 and projected 1980 and 1985 per capita consumption of all meat and
pigmeat is given in Annex 6 Table 1 for a selection of European countries as
well as the USSR and Japan. Current levels of Romanian consumption are well
towards the lower end of the spectrum, and growth in these levels is seen as
relatively modest. Thus, the Plan targets are distinctly non-indulgent of the
Romanian consumer.
Export Market Demand
5.06      Romanian meat exports have grown significantly over the past 8 years
from around 60,000 tons annually in the 1969-1971 period to about 160,000 tons
in the 1975-1977 period, of which pigmeat is about 50%. The majority (80-90%
by weight) of pigmeat exports are in form of frozen carcasses or cuts, some
10 percent are semi-conserved, i.e., hams, etc. and about 3 percent are other
conserved products. In addition to the pigmeat products, some 15 to 20,000
tons of lard are exported annually.
5.07      The destination of pigmeat exports have changed substantially over
the last 7 years. Exports to the United States (almost entirely semi-canned
products) have been growing at about 15 percent per year since 1973, and by



- 32 -
1977 has reached 7,000 tons. Sales to the three main importing nations within
the EEC, Italy, West Germany, and the United Kingdom grew very rapidly between
1971 and 1975, peaking at 48,000 tons. However, since 1975 as a result of
continued tightening of import restrictions, exports to the EEC have fallen
sharply, amounting to 11,000 tons in 1977 to these three main countries, and
a total of 14,000 tons to the whole EEC market. Exports to other countries,
principally Spain, Portugal, Greece, Russia, Sweden and other European coun-
tries, have grown consistently from 1970 to 1977 largely offsetting the reduc-
tion in sales to the main EEC importing countries. Exports to the US and UK
are handled by a single agency, Atalanta Corporation, while exports to other
European countries are through various brokers and importers.
Future Export Demand
5.08      This is largely a function of demand and supply prospects in the
EEC, the US, the group of traditional Southern European importing countries,
Sweden and the USSR. Efforts are being made to develop new markets with
Gibraltar, Hong Kong and Malta mentioned in this respect. But these are
small and likely to continue so. Japan, a major pork import market, is
closed to fresh and frozen pork imports from Romania for animal health
reasons and Japanese demand for processed pigmeat is low. FAO's 1985 pro-
jections of global supply and demand indicate a deficit of 260 to 270 thousand
tons. But, since this is only one half of one percent of total global demand
it is well within even the smallest margin of error. This is to be expected
since, with respect to short production cycle commodities such as pigmeat, a
basic assumption underlying these projections is that supply in most countries
would increase in line with demand and that the base period (1972-74) self-
sufficiency rate of individual countries would remain unchanged. Nonetheless
under the constant relative prices assumption this allows for growth in import
markets.
5.09      The European Economic Community produces about 9 million tons of
pigmeat annually and imports some 2 million. Most of the imports, however,
are intra-community imports. When domestic production in the EEC countries
is high and the actual market price achieved is below the target prices, it
is difficult for third countries to supply products to EEC countries at the
minimum import price or above and still be competitive with domestic products.
However, for high value processed items, the strength of brand preference can
often be sufficient to allow sales to continue at prices above those of com-
peting products from within EEC sources.
5.10      It is expected that pig production cycles will continue with a
periodicity of about three years within the EEC, and that in those years of
cyclical production troughs and price highs, substantial imports from third
countries would be made. Thus, it can be expected that in some years (probably
about one year in three) Romania would make substantial pig product exports
to EEC countries, particularly of carcasses and cuts to Italy and Germany.
However in years of low European prices, exports would probably be limited to
canned hams to UK, canned processed products to Germany and offals and a few
high quality cuts to Italy. Sales of large volumes of carcass meat would
effectively be cut off.



- 33 -
5.11      The United States of America is one of the world's largest importers
of pigmeat products. These are mainly canned hams which, over the last four
years, have been running at between 80 and 85% of total pigmeat imports. About
half of all canned hams consumed in the USA are imported. At present Romania
is a small supplier in the US canned ham market and provides about 3% of total
imports. It is a major supplier of other semi-canned imported products such
as canned bacon, pork loin and luncheon meat with about 36% of the market in
1977.
5.12      The US imports of canned hams peaked in 1973 at about 140,000 tons.
Since that time they have fallen each year until 1977 when they were 114,000
tons. The fact that real unit import prices have also fallen from the 1973
level seems to indicate that this reduction in imports has resulted from a
downward shift in demand rather than a shortage of canned hams available on
the world market. Preliminary figures for the first five months of 1978
indicate that they may be higher this year. A recent study predicted canned
ham imports would increase by about 5% annually between 1975 and 1980. 1/ So
far the 1976 and 1977 figures have negated this forecast as import growth has
been negligible.
5.13      Prospects for Romania increasing its penetration of the US canned
ham market appear good. Shares of the main traditional suppliers of imported
canned ham, Denmark and the Netherlands which between them supplied 70% of the
US market, have fallen to 48% while the shares of the Eastern European coun-
tries replacing them have increased. Taking the semi-conserved products
together it might be expected that Romania could increase its sales from about
5% of the imported supplies as at present to maybe 15% by 1985, i.e, Romanian
exports to the USA by 1985 might be of the order of 15 to 20,000 tons of semi-
conserved products annually.
5.14      Historically, other countries which have imported pigmeat and pig-
meat products from Romania include Sweden, a group of Southern European
countries--Spain, Portugal, Greece, and Eastern European countries including
Russia. The Swedish market has almost been entirely for semi-conserved hams
and has grown at more than 15% annually. As Romania appears to provide a
large production of the Swedish imports of this product it can be expected
that its market share is unlikely to increase much further. Consequently, the
potential growth of the Swedish market is likely to be in line with the growth
in demand for this product--about 2-3 percent per year.
5.15      Imports are on average a small part of total pigmeat supply, 2-3% in
aggregate, for European countries outside the EEC which import pigmeat. Con-
sequently a small change in either supply or demand can alter the status of a
country from being a net importer to being self-sufficient or a net exporter.
The FAO commodity forecasts project production and consumption of pigmeat
products will grow by about 17% in other Western European countries and 13% in
1/   Profiles and Prospects in Canned Meat - 1980.  Business Research Opera-
tions Control Department, American Can Company, Greenwich Connecticut
Spring 1976.



- 34 -
Eastern Europe between 1975/77 and 1985. Furthermore they project that the
imports of the "Other Western European" countries will grow from an average of
64,000 tons in 1972-74 to 80,000 tons in 1985 and that the import requirements
of the Eastern European countries are likely to grow from 93,000 tons in
1972-74 to 120,000 tons in 1985. But, as noted, the possibility of error in
these predictions is fairly high.
Processing Capacity
5.16      Romanian proposals for processing sub-projects being funded under
the Pig Production and Processing Project, which are being constructed in 1977
and 1978, would provide the following capacities:
Tons product weight
Output capacity
Canned meat                                    13,600
Sausages and prepared meats                    42,400
Semi-canned                                    28,200
Although further capacity would be required under this project (Livestock II)
for slaughtering and for making sausages and prepared meats, there is clearly
no need to further increase canned or semi-canned capacity. Even if sales to
USA were 35,000 tons, rather than 15,000 to 20,000 projected here, there would
be adequate semi-canned production capacity. Thus, construction or equipping
of any additional canning or semi-canning plants for pigmeat are excluded from
the project.
5.17      At full production of the project, canning capacity, particularly
for the export market, may not, at present, be suitably located with respect
to new slaughterhouse construction under the project. This may require moving
existing canning plants to new slaughterhouse locations in order to provide
the most suitable processing mix. In the absence of any detailed study and in
view of the relatively high cost particularly in foreign exchange of canning
plants this is, a priori, considered to be a lower cost solution than adding
to the existing overcapacity. It is possible that any canning plants financed
under the Pig Production and Processing Project, but not yet constructed,
could be located to facilitate any canning activities proposed in association
with output from slaughterhouses financed under this project.
Conclusions
5.18      It is clear that the exports from Romania to other countries (in-
cluding the USSR) have continued to increase over the past 7 years. In view
of this and in the light of the FAO trade projections it can be expected that
on average Romanian exports to "other countries" will continue to expand
should supplies be made available for this purpose. In the absence of long-
term agreements however trade with individual countries is likely to vary
considerably from year to year.



- 35 -
5.19       Incremental demand for pigmeat products by 1985 is projected approxi-
mately as 894,000 tons composed as follows:
1977         1985         Potential
Actual      Potential      Increase
---          ('000 tons) ---
Export market
Semi-canned                          10           23             13
Sibiu salami                          1            4              3
Canned                                1            5              4
Carcass/cuts                         63           80             17
Domestic market
Canned (incl. semi-canned)           18           31             13
Sausages, etc.                      140          237             97
Carcass/cuts                        140          355            215
Others /1
Meat equiv.                         194          326            132
Total meat                            567        1,061            494
Liveweight equivalent               1,026        1,920 /2         894 /2
/1   Meat in rural area, mainly home killed.
/2   Approximate figures based on 1977 ratios.
5.20      The availability of incremental pig production from "1976 commit-
ments", Pigs I and this project (Livestock II) would be about 580,000 tons
liveweight from 1983 onwards, that is about 65% of the estimated incremental
demand. Assuming that this production is used first to fulfill the whole
of the export demand and that the remaining products are channelled to the
domestic market, pro rata with estimated demand, incremental pigmeat (mea-
sured in terms of products consumed) would be required in different forms
approximately as follows:
Total
('000 tons)
Semi-canned                                      15
Sibiu salami                                      4
Canned                                           10
Sausages, etc.                                   59
Carcass/cuts                                    150
Non industrial slaughter                         82
Total meat                                      320
LW equivalent                                   580



- 36 -
VI. TECHNOLOGY, RESEARCH AND PLANT LOCATION
Production Technology
6.01      The basic production technology associated with large-scale pig pro-
duction is well understood in Romania. The scale of operation has grown sub-
stantially. As managerial capacity has grown with this has come changes in
feeding systems, housing, and ration formulation all with the aim of improving
efficiency and meeting the continuously expanding demand of a developing econ-
omy and a buoyant export market. Of all these investments housing is the most
expensive and long lasting, consequently prudence is counselled towards new
housing designs which should be rigorously tested in a practical fashion prior
to being accepted.
6.02      At present two pig housing innovations are undergoing preliminary
testing. There are two levels of cages in growing houses to double the capac-
ity of these houses and two-storey fattening houses are being constructed in a
few newer complexes. Despite their use in some commercial enterprises these
have not yet been fully tested and are considered by the mission as of dubious
merit. The disadvantages of the two-storey system are the substantially
higher construction costs and operating costs involved in return for the
rather small amount of site space saved. This is also the case for the
two-level cage system in growing houses together with reduced physical input-
output coefficient due to the discomfort of the pigs on the lower level. The
two-storey fattening houses would not be included in the project. A number of
variants of the two-cage growing houses are now being evaluated in Romania.
But, this innovation would not be financed under the project unless otherwise
agreed to by the Bank, subsequent to its review of the evaluation. This
evaluation would include both technical and economic analyses.
Applied Nutrition Research
6.03      Under the project about 20 million lei (US$1.1 million) would be
provided to strengthen applied pig nutrition and husbandry research. The
items financed and their specific objectives are:
(i)  pig nutrition research would be strengthened at the Peris
National Pig Research Station and Peris would be charged
with responsibility for input/output studies for all cate-
gories of pigs. Peris should be provided with a feed
manufacturing plant (10 thousand ton capacity annually);
laboratory facilities (about 300 m2) and laboratory equip-
ment to support digestible energy, protein, amino acid,
mineral and vitamin studies. In addition at least three
pig nutritionists and supporting staff would be based at
Peris. Sow breeding/management studies should be expanded
to document more clearly the relatively low fertility of the
national breeding herd;



- 37 -
(ii)  the Animal Nutrition Institute at Balotesti should be pro-
vided with a new sow unit for about 400 sows and ancillary
housing and facilities to enable medium- to large-scale
feeding experiments to be undertaken; and
(iii)  Peris and/or Balotesti should provide an independent analytical
service to pig pr-duction units cc monitor feed quality.  The
three existing national feed quality control laboratories
should be regarded mainly as a monitoring service for raw
material used by the feed mills. This approach is suggested
to ensure that adequate checks and balances, at present absent,
are introduced.
The proposed investments in the research component, together with the asso-
ciated program of work to be undertaken by Peris and Balotesti, would be
submitted to the Bank for approval prior to disbursing for these.
Slaughtering and Processing Plant Location
6.04      A comparative survey, on a judet basis, of pig slaughtering capacity
and pig production for 1982 reveals wide variations in loading figures. 1/ 2/
The overall national picture is quite satisfactory with a simple average
loading factor of 0.75. However, the range is over judets extremely wide
running from 0.05 in the Bucharest Municipality to 1.9 in three judets. There
is probably substantial transfer of pigs between judets to bring actual plant
figures much closer to the average after allowance for the age and condition
of the individual plants. However, data on this was not available. It is
quite probable that plants in judets with extremely low loading factors are
old and being phased out, but, information of this nature was not available.
6.05      A critical issue is the determination of the exact siting of
the four very large slaughtering plants of 500,000 head capacity to be con-
structed in the judets of Ialomita and Timisoara (2 in each) in connection
with the development of COMIAL and COMTIM. 3/ In the preparation report models
it was apparent from the costs that the power houses constructed for these
plants would also supply electrical power and steam heat to nearby residen-
tial complexes thereby predetermining the specific siting of these plants. 4/
1/   This survey is tabulated in the Project Implementation File Annex 5,
Appendix 3.
2/   Loading Factor - Actual Utilization/Design Capacity.
3/   See Project Information File Annex 11 for details of COMIAL and COMTIM.
4/   These costs were eliminated in the appraisal models which reflect the
costs of electricity and power required exclusively for the slaughtering
and processing plant.



- 38 -
Indicative sites for some of these, when inspected by the mission, were seen
to be poorly located with respect to such critical factors as waste disposal
(especially waste liquid), the surrounding road network, and minimization of
transport costs. Transport time is of particular importance when transporting
live pigs to the slaughterhouse because of the severe weight loss incurred by
pigs due to travel stress. Thus detailed professional site location studies
and recommendations considering these factors would be submitted to and
examined and approved by the Bank as a condition of disbursement for each of
this type of plant with a capacity of 350,000 head per year or greater.
Feed Quality and Compounding
6.06      The interest of the feed mill is adequately catered for, but the
interests of the pig producer are not. Despite this the pig producers are
responsible for any shortfall in output. The tacit Romanian assumption up to
now that the interests of these two parties are synonymous is being reexamined.
It is now generally recognized that an independent quality control service
should be available to the pig producers to ensure that the necessary checks
and balances are in operation. To ensure this an applied Nutrition Research
component has been included under the project which inter alia would provide
an independent analytical and specialized advisory service to pig producers on
pig feeds and feeding.
6.07      An alternative strategy for supplying feeds to large pig complexes
would be worth considering in the interest of the economy. If pig units were
to buy ingredients and grind and mix their own feeds, considerable cost
savings could be achieved, and in addition, the pig unit manager would have
greater control over feed quality. The advantages associated with on-farm
mixing include:
(a) economies resulting from the elimination of double handling
since grains would be moved directly to the pig farms with-
out going to a feed mill; and
(b) economies in the cost of producing feed which presently runs
about 110 lei/ton at the feed mill (10% to 12% of the average
cost of pig feed/ton).
Disadvantages include the costs of storage, grinding and mixing on the farm.
Furthermore, unless this approach were given official approval and encourage-
ment, the supply of ingredients to the pig farms might not be assured. How-
ever, since vitamin-mineral-protein premixes could in time be purchased from
the specialized plants, supply of these ingredients at the local level should
not constitute a problem.
6.08      Some pig complex managers favor home-compounding in order to provide
cheaper and better feeds. At present, some piggeries formulate rations, par-
ticularly in ICAs where the energy feeds are grown by and provided to the
piggeries by participating CAPs. Although the present system at first seems
rigid, it appears that the directors and managers of large pig complexes enjoy



- 39 -
considerable freedom of action, enabling the industry to evolve sensibly with-
in the context of fairly rigid overall planning. This flexibility should be
encouraged.
6.09      The establishment of two large 'Combinats', COMIAL and COMTIM,
in Ialomita and Timis, together with the internalization of their own feed
compounding on a large scale is a good example of the industry's ability to
evolve in a reasonably flexible manner in order to overcome major constraints
such as poor quality pig feeds which currently poses a serious problem for
these two State enterprises and for all pig production units.
VII. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
7.01      BAFI would be the Borrower under guarantee of the Socialist Republic
of Romania, and individual subprojects would be implemented by State Enter-
prises and Cooperatives after thorough appraisal by MAFI and BAFI. As with
previous Bank projects in agriculture in Romania this project would be admin-
istered by BAFI through its 39 district branches. BAFI would be responsible
for overall project management and monitoring. This is a repeater project
and the third Bank-assisted agricultural credit project in BAFI together with
4 irrigation projects thus the institution is very experienced in management
of Bank projects. The Pig Production and Processing Project is being imple-
mented smoothly and so general management of this project should be quite
satisfactory.
7.02      BAFI branches would be responsible for directly supervising the
financial and administrative execution of the subprojects, with technical
assistance from MAFI, particularly the Directorate General of agriculture,
research stations, and meat inspection service. BAFI would meet project
expenditures from a special project account which would receive funds from
the State budget and from disbursements under the proposed Bank loan.
B.  Lending Policies and Procedures
7.03      BAFI would examine all proposals for subprojects to be financed
under the project with a view towards determining their technical feasibility
and financial viability. Detailed subproject investment proposals would be
submitted to the branches or to BAFI's head office, depending upon their cost-
scale, in accordance with normal BAFI procedure and subloan approval authority
delegation. 1/ All subproject investment proposals would have to be cleared
1/   Details provided in Project Implementation File Annex 4.



- 40 -
by the responsible MAFI agency before review by BAFI. BAFI would prepare an
individual summary analysis for each investment subproject, including key
operating and investment indicators. For subprojects involving total fixed
investment costs of 60 million lei (US$3.1 million) or more, BAFI would submit
the individual summaries to the Bank for approval prior to any disbursement
for these. For subprojects involving total fixed investment costs below 60
million lei, BAFI would submit individual summaries to the Bank for approval
prior to any disbursement of the following representative investment subproj-
ects: (a) one slaughterhouse - modernization; (b) two new pig breeding/
fattening units (1 State Enterprise and I Cooperative); (c) two crossbred gilt
production units (1 State Enterprise and 1 Cooperative); (d) two pig breeding/
fattening units - modernization (1 State Enterprise and 1 Cooperative); and
(e) sample subprojects of three types of activities undertaken by individual
producers. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that analysis of
these subprojects would be undertaken according to a format agreed between
BAFI and the Bank during negotiations. This level of prior Bank review would
cover 19% of the already identified subprojects financed under the project and
23% of the total fixed investment costs.
C. On-Lending Terms
7.04      In accordance with its current lending regulations BAFI would on-
lend to (i) State Enterprises for a period of up to 10 years including a
maximum grace period of 3 years; (ii) Cooperative Enterprises for up to 18
years including a maximum grace period of 3 years; and (iii) Individual
Producers for up to 5 years with no grace period. BAFI would also provide
medium-term loans of up to 6 years to cover interest costs during construc-
tion. Funds for investment in pig nutrition research and training which is
the responsibility of MAFI would be transferred to MAFI and later repaid
directly to BAFI from the State budget on terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank and contained in a memorandum, describing this process, to be
obtained during negotiations.
7.05      Interest rates would be the same as those charged by BAFI for
similar investments. Medium-term loans extended to IASs and CAPs would be
at 4% and 3% p.a. respectively. Interest on investment subloans to IASs would
be 2% p.a. during construction and 4% p.a. after start of operations; subloans
to CAPs would be at a uniform 3% p.a. The weighted average interest rate on
total (medium- and long-term) BAFI loans made under the project would be about
3.6% p.a. and BAFI's financial and administrative costs of providing these
loans would be at a rate of about 2.6% p.a., so that BAFI would realize a
positive spread on its medium- and long-term loans. As a result of central
controls over domestic prices, 'Romania maintains a domestic inflation rate on
retail prices of less than 1% per year and it is expected to continue through
the end of the 1976-80 Five-Year Plan. This 1% annual rate of increase takes
into account the 20% increase in building and equipment costs since 1963. Be-
cause of the step-function nature of such increases in the past, no significant



- 41 -
further increase is anticipated during project implementation. 1/ Insulation
of the domestic economy from world inflation is expected to continue in the
future. In view of the above, BAFI lending operations under the project would
be performed at interest rates that are real and positive and expected to
remain so d,iring repayment of subloans. More generally, interest rates play
no role in the allocation of resources or in influencing individual investment
decisions in Romania's socialist sector. Lastly, the level of interest rates
does not influence the level of capital intensity employed in investments,
since project design and technology choices are standardized by the Ministry
of Agriculture's Design Institute and applied in all investment projects nation-
wide (para 1.04). Assurances would be obtained during negotiations that BAFI
would implement the project lending policies, procedures and terms described
in paras 7.01-7.06.
D. Procurement
7.06      In Romania, all civil works are constructed by Romanian State-owned
construction enterprises who are experienced and familiar with local condi-
tions, methods, and regulation. Installations similar to those proposed under
the project have in the past proved well designed and constructed. Construc-
tion of project facilities would be carried out under contract by the Romanian
construction enterprises. The foreign exchange component of equipment and
material required for the project is estimated to cost about US$82.3 million
(including contingencies), the remainder being indirect foreign exchange
associated with incremental working capital required during the construction
period. An agreed list of items costing US$75.0 million would be procured
by Romagrimex under ICB in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines. These
items include construction materials, concrete reinforcing steel, US$12.7
million; structural steel, US$9.5 million; steel piping, US$2.2 million;
electrical cables, US$14.8 million; asbestos cement sheets, US$4.5 million;
and slaughterhouses and meat processing equipment, US$31.3 million and are
detailed in Annex 1. Romanian manufacturers would be allowed a 15% preference
margin or the applicable customs duty, whichever is lower. Romanian manufac-
turers are highly competitive and it is anticipated that foreign suppliers
would be awarded contracts for only about US$7.8 million for slaughterhouse
and meat processing equipment which are not manufactured in Romania. Assur-
ances were obtained during negotiations that procurement of items specified
above would be obtained through ICB in accordance with Bank guidelines.
1/   The total project cost estimate includes a price contingency on local
costs calculated at 1% p.a. on the expectation that Government will
pursue a policy of passing through cost increases on a more frequent
basis.



- 42 -
E. Disbursements
7.07      Bank disbursements would extend over an estimated 5-year period
although the entire loan is expected to be committed by the end of the second
year. The annual phasing of commitments and investments and the forecast of
quarterly disbursements are shown in Annex 2, Tables 1 and 2 respectively.
Disbursement of the proposed Bank loan of US$75 million would be as follows:
Category                                       % of Expenditures to be Financed
(1) Disbursement under BAFI loans:
(a) for construction of pig breeding/
fattening complexes and crossbred
gilt production complexes                           31
(b) for construction or moderniza-
tion of livestock slaughterhouses,
cold storage facilities and
sausage processing facilities                       31
(c) for development of various agricul-
tural and horticultural activities
by individual CAP members and
individual producers                                21
(2) Goods and services for pig nutrition
research                                                 21
Disbursement will be made against certificates of expenditure, the documenta-
tion for which is not submitted for review but is retained by the Borrower and
made available for inspection during the course of Bank and co-financier
supervision missions.
F. Accounts and Audit
7.08      The existing accounting and auditing procedures in Romania are
quite strict and satisfactory. BAFI's accounts are subject to audit by
internal inspectors and an annual audit by inspectors from the Ministry of
Finance and the Court of Superior Control. The Court, which reports directly
to the President of the country, conducts an independent audit of BAFI's
accounts and of results of audits by inspectors from the Ministry of Finance.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that BAFI would submit to the
Bank an annual audit report satisfactory to the Bank within 6 months of the
close of the fiscal year.
7.09      BAFI would keep separate accounts for all project expenditures,
including those related to goods and services financed out of the proceeds of



- 43 -
the proposed Bank loan. These accounts would be audited according to exist-
ing procedures. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that such
project expenditure account satisfactory to the Bank and available to Bank
supervision missions would be kept by BAFI and that a report on the project
accounts, audited by the Ministry of Finance, would be submitted to the Bank
annually within 6 months of the close of the fiscal year.
G. Monitoring
7.10      BAFI maintains detailed records by borrowers of financial and pro-
duction results relative to subproject appraisal expectations which it uses
in its subproject supervision. In order to measure overall progress of proj-
ect implementation in relation to objectives, goals, and schedules established
for each component, BAFI would submit quarterly reports to the Bank within 45
days of the close of each quarter. These reports would include data on pro-
gress of construction of all physical facilities, progress in the procurement
of equipment and materials, and data on project expenditures and livestock
production. Information would be collected on each component and consolidated
into an annual report whose coverage would include data on the number of
enterprises and farm financed; the type, size and ownership of each; incre-
mental pig and pork production; efficiency of production; annual consumption
and exports of pork and pork products. Since its own procedures require BAFI
to assemble such material and data the incremental cost of monitoring the
project would be negligible. BAFI would also furnish to the Bank a project
completion report promptly after completion of the project but in any event
not later than 6 months after the project closing date. BAFI would prepare
its report in accordance with Bank guidelines and format to be agreed during
negotiations. Assurances regarding these matters were obtained during nego-
tiations.
H. Environmental Impact
7.11      Romania now maintains a comprehensive system of standards and con-
trols to ensure satisfactory waste disposal, and a strict system of penalties
is maintained to ensure compliance. Facilities financed under the project
would be constructed and operated in conformity with this environmental
protection code.  During construction, each pig production complex would be
required by law to install suitable waste water treatment works as well as
separate well and water pumping facilities.  In the manure and waste disposal
system, combined solid and liquid manure would be pumped to concrete holding
tanks for sedimentation and separation of liquid and semi-solid materials.
Liquid material is drawn off and pumped through existing irrigation facilities
onto field crops. After about 20-30 days of drying, the remaining solid
material would be loaded and transported to farms for use as fertilizer.
Similarly, the slaughterhouses, cold stores and sausage processing facilities
would be required to construct primary effluent treatment plants to separate



- 44 -
fats and solid materials, prior to discharge into the municipal sewerage
system. Provision would also be made for a separate drainage system for
rainwater. Slaughterhouse and meat processing plants must pay to discharge
pre-treated waste water into municipal systems for final processing; this
charge is either calculated on a fixed fee or a gauged basis. If a slaughter-
house complex is constructed in a community where it represents the dominant
industry, it would build a sewerage treatment unit for the entire town and
thereafter forego periodic charges for its use. A strict system of penalties
is maintained to ensure compliance with water purity requirements.
I. Risk
7.12      The risks associated with project investments would be minimal.
Design of the project components has been prepared in detail, and the Govern-
ment has well organized and coordinated plans to supply necessary manpower,
materials, and technical expertise to complete project works on schedule.
The project is part of the final two-year investment program from the 1976-80
National Development Plan whose directives are obligatory and carry legal
authority. However, because of the existing large capacity for processing
pork into canned hams and sausages relative to the market demand for these
products and the more favorable demand prospects for chilled and frozen car-
cass pork and cuts, the planned investment in these facilities was scaled down
considerably during appraisal. Analysis shows that with the investments
financed here adequate capacity would exist for the slaughter and processing
of planned production through 1982. The Government in addition (a) has
allocated sufficient grain to support the project; (b) stands ready to forego
grain exports, if necessary, to support livestock activities; (c) is actively
pursuing programs to expand domestic production of high grade proteins for
feed manufacture; and (d) supports the importation of protein materials to
supplement domestic supplies. Demand estimates indicate that total from
this project and prior planned investments would fail to satisfy domestic
consumption in a free market situation and export demand is expected to grow
significantly in traditional markets. Consequently no risk is seen in dis-
posal of project output. The basic technology to be employed in project
facilities is well established in Romania, and levels of efficiency observed
are acceptable, but amenable to improvement through activities built into the
project. Project construction is usually completed within the time schedule
specified by Government, and costs overruns are rare.
VIII. PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Production, Markets and Prices
Production
8.01      At full production (year 5) the project would produce 2.6 million
pigs or about 200,000 tons of pork in carcass equivalent. While some of this



- 45 -
would be processed into semi-canned and canned meats, sausages and salamis in
existing facilities most would be sold as fresh or frozen pork. The project
would finance additional slaughtering capacity for 3.7 million pigs, sausage
making facilities for 4,500 tons of salami type sausage and a total of 70,000
cubic meters of cold stores principally for processing carcass pork to cuts
and packaging these. Finally modernization of existing plants would be
carried out under the project to upgrade the health and hygiene standards of
these.
Markets
8.02      From the analysis and conclusions in Chapter V (particularly paras
5.19 and 5.20) it is seen that no marketing problem is foreseen in the aggre-
gate. The domestic market will probably remain undersupplied. However, it
may be necessary for Romania to reduce its export targets in occasional years
due to cyclical production peaks in importing countries.
Prices
8.03      The domestic pricing system is an administered one.  Without the
necessary Government directive prices may not be changed. Thus, incremental
demand for inputs and supply of pigmeat will have no endogenous effect on
these prices. At present no consideration is being given to any such price
change. Actual financial prices used are given in the Projected Income and
Investment Cost Tables for each model.
8.04      Since Romania is a net exporter of maize and is expected to continue
to be so in the foreseeable future 1/ in the absence of the project, the maize
and barley to be utilized as feed would be exported. Thus the export parity
price is used as the economic value of these. These prices are derived by
adjusting the international prices for quality, and then transportation and
handling charges. By similar reasoning the import parity price is used for
soyabean meal and an economic price of feed is determined based on the ratios
of these in the feed mix. It is generally agreed among forecasters that on
the world market, in the long run, the supply of pigmeat expands to meet
expansion in demand. Unlike cattle and sheep meat production technology,
pigmeat production technology is very much the same world-wide, having rela-
tively high variable costs and low fixed costs. Measured cross price elas-
ticities of demand between pigmeat and other meats are very low (probably zero
in the long run); consequently there is little interaction between them,
leaving the price of pigmeat as a function of its cost of production, mainly
variable costs. Feed is the major portion (63%) of this variable cost, thus,
the international price of pigmeat in the long run is a function of world feed
grain prices and is related to these by well established ratios. These ratios
do fluctuate due to cyclical fluctuations in pig and grain production but
remain fairly constant in the long run. The annual average ratio between the
Romanian pigmeat export price and the economic price of feed has averaged 8.6
1/   See Project Implementation File Annex 9.



- 46 -
from 1970 to 1977. 1/ These long run average prices in 1978 terms are used as
the economic values of pigmeat and feed. Based on the Bank's Commodities
Division's feed grain and soybean price projections the price of concentrate
feed in constant terms is expected to increase by 22% in 1990 over the 1977
level. But pigmeat prices can be expected to similarly rise, thus the given
price projections are not incorporated into the primary analysis. Actual
economic prices used, excluding construction, equipment and labor are detailed
in Annex 4, Table 1. Construction and labor were priced at domestic rates, no
shadow pricing being used. Equipment was costed at prevailing international
prices. The price of labor was adjusted for taxes and includes actual and
planned real wage increases over the current Five-Year Plan (1976-80) period.
B. Financial Analysis
8.05      The financial rates of return to the various components, summarized
in tabular form below, range from 5% for CAP pig breeding/fattening units to
40% for the slaughterhouses of 500,000 pigs/year capacity. 2/ Given the
administered price system and the general independence of investment decisions
from financial rates of return these rates of return have little meaning with-
in Romania as they provide little or no indication of relative profitability
of investments.
8.06      Differences in the rates of return among similar components range
from minor to marked. For pig breeding/fattening units, and modernization of
these, differences are minor and are the result of higher pension contribu-
tions required by CAP workers. This also is true for Crossbred Gilt Produc-
tion Units but is offset by the scale economies achieved by CAP units which
have almost 4.5 times as many pigs as the State Units. Similarly, scale eco-
nomies explain why the rate of return to larger slaughterhouses is over twice
that of the smaller ones.
1/   For details of this analysis, see Project Implementation File Annex 1.
2/   Cash flow and details of associated investment and operating costs and
revenues are contained in the Project Implementation File, Annex 7.



- 47 -
Financial Rates of Return Analysis Summary
Sensitivity Analysis
Capital      Operating
Component                Basic       Costs         Costs         Revenue
+10%  -10%    +10%  -10%   +10%   -10%
------------------- percent ------------------
Pig breeding/fattening units
State enterprises                 8.5    7.4   9.8        1.8  14.2   15.1    0.3
Cooperatives                       5.1    4.1   6.2    -4.0  12.2   12.9   -5.3
Crossbred gilt production units
State enterprises                19.4   17.7  21.4    15.9  22.8   24.4   13.9
Cooperatives                      19.0   17.3  21.0    13.0  24.5   26.1   10.9
Modernization of existing
pig breeding/fattening units
State enterprises                11.6   10.5  12.9       4.8  18.3   19.2    3.4
Cooperatives                     15.1   13.8  16.6       9.4  20.9   22.1    7.8
Slaughterhouses for
246,000 pigs/year                  20.3   18.4  22.5         -*  35.5   37.2      -*
Slaughterhouses for
500,000 pigs/year                  46.1   42.5  50.3    27.0  62.8   66.2   22.2
Sausage processing facilities    18.2   16.5  20.2    10.7  24.5   26.0    8.3
Cold stores                         17.9   16.0  20.0        -*  62.6   64.1      -*
Individual producer
pig fattening                    22.0   20.0  24.4    12.4  32.1   34.2    9.9
Individual producer
pig housing                      34.4   31.2  38.3    n.a.  n.a.   37.9   30.8
* Below zero.
C. Economic Evaluation
Economic Rate of Return
8.07      The overall project economic rate of return based on all quanti-
fiable benefits and costs is 30%. 1/ Benefits included are final goods from
slaughtering and processing facilities, including meat and bone meal and other
1/   The project economic cash flow is given in Annex 4, Table 2.



- 48 -
byproducts; incremental revenue from private sector pig house renovation, the
value of manure in N, P and K equivalents the residual value of the herd, and
sales of pigs outside of the project. Benefits from modernization of existing
slaughterhouses to achieve sanitary standards and those from research were
considered non quantifiable.
Project Economic Rate of Return                                  30.0
Sensitivity Analysis
Revenues                        + 10%                         38.6
- 10%                         20.8
Capital Costs                   + 10%                         27.7
- 10%                         32.8
Operating Costs                 + 10%                         23.7
- 10%                         36.2
10% Improvement in Feed Efficiency                              32.2
1 Additional Pig Sold/Sow/Year                                  32.3
10% Improvement in Feed Efficiency
plus 1 Additional Pig Sold/Sow/Year                            35.2
8.08      The overall project return is not very sensitive to capital cost
variations but is much more so to operating costs and benefits. Under the
very strict, but unlikely, test of applying the projected real increases in
grain prices with no corresponding pigmeat price increase the return would be
24%. But, if projected grain price increases occur and along with them the
corresponding pigmeat price increases, because investment costs are fixed the
actual margin over feed costs per pig would increase thereby raising the rate
of return to 36% compared with the base estimate of 30%.
8.09      Of more significance in sensitivity analysis of the project than
variations in costs or revenue are variations in two major technical coeffi-
cients, feed conversion efficiency and number of pigs marketed per sow/year.
A 10% improvement in feed conversion efficiency would raise the overall rate
of return to 32.3%, while an increase of one in pigs marketed/sow/year would
also raise the overall rate of return to 32.3%; finally, a combination of
both of these would give a 35.2% overall rate of return. Since the aim of
the research program is to effect changes in these two coefficients of the
magnitudes indicated here, the sensitivity analysis gives an estimate of the
effect that this might have on the entire project. The inability to real-
istically assign a time span for the targeted improvement of the coefficients
through research or to identify the possible changes in operating costs,
particularly feed costs, which might arise out of research work recommenda-
tions are the factors preventing any reasonable estimate of the rate of return
to the research component. Excluding the investment costs of research and
slaughterhouse modernization increases the economic rate of return to 30.9%.



- 49 -
Employment and Benefit Distribution
8.10      Additional employment in slaughtering and processing plants financed
under the project would create about 4,800 new jobs while project pig produc-
tion would employ about 5,000 persons. As is customary with new ventures, a
detailed education component during the investment period would provide the
necessary upgrading of skills. Almost 50,000 CAP members and other individual
producers would benefit through credits enabling them to invest on their own
holdings. Final goods from project would be sold through the Government's
fixed price marketing system or exported. In either case surplus funds
accruing to producing, processing or exporting enterprises would be trans-
ferred to the State for redistribution in accordance with State planned
expenditures.
Cost Recovery
8.11      With the exception of research costs all costs would be recovered
through subborrower repayments. Since input and output prices, and incomes
and consumer prices are determined independently of the individual enterprise
or project, these need not enter into cost recovery considerations in Romania.
Cost recovery is legislated in accordance with the characteristics of the type
of investment so that the State investment funds may be replenished. Since
BAFI default rates are virtually negligible this is additional evidence that
the legislated time schedule for such recovery is reasonable.
IX. RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      During negotiations assurances were obtained that:
(i) the project would be implemented in accordance with the
project description in paras 3.02 and 3.03 (para 3.03);
(ii)  BAFI would analyze subprojects as specified in para 7.03 in
accordance with a format agreed upon by BAFI and the Bank
during negotiations (para 7.03);
(iii) BAFI would implement the lending policies procedures and terms
described in paras 7.03-7.05 (para 7.05);
(iv)  BAFI would submit to the Bank an annual audit report satis-
factory to the Bank within 6 months of the close of the fiscal
year (para 7.08);
(v) BAFI would keep a project account as outlined in para 7.09
and satisfactory to the Bank and available to Bank supervision
missions and would submit an annual report on this account,
audited by the Ministry of Finance, to the Bank within 6
months of the close of the fiscal year (para 7.09);



- 50 -
(vi)  BAFI would submit to the Bank quarterly reports, as outlined
in para 7.11, within 45 days of the close of each quarter
and would be responsible for monitoring and evaluating the
costs of and benefits realized under the project (para 7.10);
(vii) BAFI would be responsible for the preparation of a project
completion report in accordance with Bank guidelines and
format agreed upon during negotiations. The report would
be submitted to the Bank not later than 6 months after
the project Closing Date (para 7.10).
9.02      The following four disbursement restrictions would apply:
(i) BAFI would submit to the Bank, for its agreement, the tech-
nical and economic assessments of any investment to which
new technologies or major modifications to existing tech-
nologies, including double level cages, are applied, before
BAFI requests reimbursement for such investments (para 6.02);
(ii)  prior approval by the Bank of details of proposed invest-
ments in research facilities at Peris and Balotesti, together
with the associated work program, would be required as a condi-
tion of disbursement for these (para 6.03);
(iii) with respect to slaughterhouses of 350,000 pigs/year or
greater capacity, detailed professional site location studies
as outlined in para 6.05 would be submitted to and approved
by the Bank prior to disbursement for these types of plants
(para 6.05);
(iv)  prior approval, by the Bank, would be required for subprojects
of over lei 60 million total investment cost and representative
subprojects of categories of subprojects agreed to during
negotiations, based on subproject analysis agreed to during
negotiations, before disbursements could be made with regard
to these individual subprojects and subproject categories
(para 7.03).
9.03      With the above assurances and conditions the project constitutes a
suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$75 million, equivalent, to BAFI for a
term of 15 years including 3 years grace.



-51-                           ANNEX 1
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK II PROJECT
ROMANIA
Estimated Project Procurement
1.        List of construction materials to be procured under International
Competitive Bidding procedures. Romanian bidders are expected to win these
contracts.
Value
Unit     Quantity       US$ Million
Concrete reinforcing steel        ton       36,000           12.7
Structural steel                  ton       19,000            9.5
Steel piping                      ton       14,500            2.2
Electric cables                   km         3,000           14.8
Asbestos sheets                   m2       5.6 mill.          4.5
Total                                                   43.7
2.        Slaughterhouse and meat processing equipment to be procured under
International Competitive Bidding.
US$ Million
(a)  Equipment not Produced in Romania:
Control systems, specialized boning, chopping
and filling equipment, slicing and packaging
lines, continuous lard rendering equipment
and electrical fork lifts                               7.8
(b)  Equipment Produced in Romania:
Heat exchangers, refrigeration system
components, scales, killing lines, boning and
processing tables, conveyor systems, pumps,
valves, pickling tanks, mixers, grinders,
choppers, smokehouse and curing equipment,
electrical motors, gear boxes, saws,
transformers and electrical switch gear                23.5
Total                                           31.3
GRAND TOTAL                                                 75.0



- 52 -                          ANNEX 2
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK II PROJECT
ROMANIA
Phasing of Project Investments
/1                                 YEAR
Fixed Capital Investments -1979                 1980         1981         1982        TOTAL
Pig Breeding/Fattening Units       --------      --------Lei   '000-----------------------
State Enterprises             159,790      403,166      252,987         -          815,943
Cooperatives                      -        352,924      411,103         -          764,027
Crossbred Gilt Production Units
State Enterprises               74,376     107,423       22,601         -          204,400
Cooperatives                   154,950     290,498      135,224         -          580,672
Modernization of Existing
Pig Breeding/Fattening Units
State Enterprises               90,870     194,359      194,929      100,624       580,782
Cooperatives                    45,436      93,320       93,468       46,442       278,666
Slaughterhouses for 246,000        171,045      464,026     295,879         -          930,950
Pig/Year
Slaughterhouses for 500,000
Pig/Year                       157,536     424,216      269,294         -          851,046
Sausage Processing Facilities       35,994       96,541     155,451       59,086       347,072
Cold Stores                         16,606      130,672     147,363         -          294,641
Modernization of Existing
Slaughterhouses                63,806       97,777         -            -          161,583
Credit to Private Farmers          204,000      204,000     210,181         -          618,181
Applied Nutrition Research          10,616       16,232        -            -           26,848
Subtotal                    1,185,025   2,875,154   2,188,480        206,152    6,454,811
Incremental Working Capital         90,168      462,597     669,353      162,820    1,384,938
TOTAL:  Lei '000            1,275,193   3,337,751   2,857,833        368,972    7,839,749
TOTAL:  US$ '000                70,844     185,431      158,770       20,498       435,543
June 1978
/1   Includes Contingencies



- 53 -                            ANNEX 2
Table 2
APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK II PROJECT
ROMANIA
Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements
(US$ '000)
Bank Fiscal Year      Disbursements      Cumulative Disbursements   Outstanding Balance
and Quarter         during Quarter        at end of Quarter          at end of Quarter
1979
IV                          -                        -                       75,000
1980
I                           500                      500                     74,500
II                        3,000                    3,500                     71,500
III                       4,500                    8,000                    67,000
IV                        5,500                   13,500                    61,500
1981
I                         6,000                   19,500                    55,500
II                        6,500                   26,000                    49,000
III                       7,100                   33,100                    41,900
IV                        7,900                   41,000                    34,000
1982
I                         7,300                   48,300                    26,700
II                        6,600                   54,900                    20,100
III                       6,000                   60,900                    14,100
IV                        5,500                   66,400                     8,600
1983
I                         4,700                   71,100                     3,900
II                        3,900                   75,000
July 1978



- 54                                    ANNEX 2
Table 3
APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTnCY IT PPOJFCT
ROMANIA
Phasing of Project Commitments
Investment Model or Activity                    Sector        Total   Year 1   Year 2   Year 3
1.  Pig breeding/fattening -               State Enterprise    14         6        8
45,500 finished pigs and               Cooperative          13       -        13
2,000 weaners
2.  Crossbred gilt production -            State Enterprise      -       -         -
17,000 gilts/year                     Cooperative           12       6         6
3.  Crossbred production -                 State Enterprise    13        6         7
3,885 gilts/year                      Cooperative            -       -         -
4.  Modernization of existing              State Enterprise    25       12        13
pig breeding/fattening unit           Cooperative           12       6         6
1,370 incremental sows
5.  Slaughterhouse facilities            )                       6       3         3
for 246,000 pigs/year               )
6.  Slaughterhouse facilities                    ,eat            4        2        2
for 500,000 pigs/year /2              Industrialization
7.  Sausage processing facilities        )     Cetral            3       2         1
8.  Cold stores                                Central           7        3        4
9.  Modernization of existing            )                       -      40%       6U%
slaughterhouses                     )
10.  Credit for plivate                     Private               -      33%       33%       34%
producers /1
11.  Applied nutrition research /1         Pig Personnel          -       50%      50%
Institute - Peris
and Nutrition
Research Institute -
Balotesti
/1 Financial phasing of yearly commitments over two years.
/2 As yet undetermined whether to be owned and controlled by the Meat Industrialization
Center or by COMIAL and COMTIM.
July 1978



- 55 -
ANNEX 2
APPRAISAL OF                                            Table 4
LIVESTOCK II PROJECT
ROMANIA
Phasing of Pig Production under the Project /1
No. of Models
Year 1   Year 2    Year 1       Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Yesr-5-20
(number of pigs)
Total Sales
Culled Sows
Pig Breeding/Fattening Units            6       21          -          -          7,350      33,075         33,075
Crossbred Gilts Units - IAS             6        7          -          -          1,680       3,640          3,640
- CAP           6         6          -         -          7,350      14,700          14,700
Modernization Units                    18       19       -           8,640       17,760      17,760         17,760
Subtotal                                                      -        8,640       34,140      69,175         6,1T5
Culled Boars
Pig Breeding/Fattening Units            6       21          -          -            318       1,431          1,431
Crossbred Gilt  Units - IAS             6        7          -          -             72         156             156
- CAP           6         6         -          -             318         636            636
Modernization Units                    18       19          -          378           777         777            777
Subtotal                                                      -          378        1,485       3,000           3,000
Finished Pigs
Pig Breeding/Fattening Units            6       21          -          -        161,628    831,378       1,195,560
Modernization Units                    18       19          -      18 92        512,330    641,321         641 321
Subtotal                                                       -     189,792      673,958  1,472,699       1,836,881
Culled Gilts
Crossbred Gilts Units - IAS             6        7          -          -          1,434       4,031          5,109
- CAP           6         6          -         -          6,276      16,596          20,640
Subtotal                                                      -          -          7,710      20,627          25,749
Crossbred Gilts
Crossbred Gilt Unit - IAS               6        7          -          -         14,184      39,858         50,505
--CAP             6         6         -           -        62,052    1640-52          204 000
Subtotal                                                      -          -         76,236    203,910         254,505
Weaners
Pig Breeding/Fattening Units            6       21          -          -         11,868      53,538         54,000
Crossbred Gilt Units - IAS              6        7          -          -         37,380      81,404         81,887
- CAP            6         6          -          -       163,542    328,902          330,720
Modernization Units                    18       19          -        132         28,800      28 971          2-8.971
Subtotal                                                      -       13,932      241,590    492,815         495,578
TOTAL                                                         -      212,742   1,035,119  2,262,226        2,684,888
Purchases
Gilts
Pig Breeding/Fattening Units           6        21          -       21,000       80,850      33,075           33,075
Crossbred Gilt Units - LAS             6         7          -        4,800        7,280       3,640            3,640
- CAP           6          6          -      21,000       28,350      14,700           14,700
Modernization Units                   18        19       24 660    34,670        17,760      17,760           17,760
Subtotal                                                   24 660    81,470       134,240      69,175           69,175
Boars
Pig Breeding/fattening Units           6        21          -          636        2,544       1,431            1,431
Crossbred Gilt Units - IAS             6          7         -          144          240         156              156
- CAP           6          6          -          636          954         636             636
Modernization Units                   18         19          756     1,176           777         777             777
Subtotal                                                       756     2,592        4,515       3,000            3,000
TOTAL                                                      25,416    84,062       138,755       72,175          72,175
Net Production                                            -25,416   128,680       896,364   2,190,051         2,612,713
/1  Based on herd projections shown in Project Implementation File, Annex 7,
tables 7, 12, 17, 22, 27 and 32.
July 1978



- 56 -
ANNEX 2
APPRAISAL OF                        Table 5
LIVESTOCK II PROJECT
ROMANIA
Phasing of Pig Numbers by Production, Slaughter Capacity and Purchases
Category                     Year 1  Year 2  Year 3    Year 4        Year 5      Year 6-20
Pigs Produced in Project
- Finished Pigs /1             -    196,798  809,429  1,860,529  2,356,827  2,358,258
- Cull Sows & Boars            -      9,018   35,625       72,175     72,175      72,175
Subtotal                    -    205,816  845,054  1,932,704  2,429,002  2,430,333
- Crossbreed Gilts and
Boars /2              (25,416) (57,482) (25,695)   150,867    201,462    201,462
Project Slaughterhouses         -       -   1,304,000  2,909,000  3,303,000  3,476,000
Throughput
Of which - Sows                 -       -       28,000      62,000     71,000      74,000
- Pigs                -        -   1,276,000  2,847,000  3,232,000  3,402,000
Project Produced Pigs not
Slaughtered in
Project Slaughterhouses       -    205,816      -         -            -           -
Other Pigs Slaughtered
in Project Slaughter-
houses /3                     -       -     458,946    976,296    873,998  1,045,667
/1  Including culled gilts and weaners
/2 Excluding primary purchase of gilts and boars of crossbreed
gilt units in years 2 and 3 as these are included as capital investment costs.
/3  Project slaughterhouse throughput less finished pigs + cull sows + Boars
produced in project.
July 1978



- 57 -                    ANNEX 3
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK II PROJECT
ROMANIA
The Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry
I. The Banking Structure in Romania
1.1       The role of banks within a centrally planned economy with socialist
proprietorship of the means of production differs considerably from that in
a market economy with private property. Net income from economic activity
accrues to society. Investments, production and national income are allocat-
ed and distributed according to decisions incorporated in a national plan,
not in response to market forces such as prices, interest rates, profits or
risks. The main role of banks in Romania consists of implementing the plan
by evaluating specific investment proposals and funding and supervising
investment projects and operations. With the exception of (g) below, banks
in romania are State-owned, and each financial intermediary fulfills a
definite task (Chart 1):
(a) The National Bank (NB) sets guidelines for credit policy and
grants short-term production credit to industry and commerce;
(b) The Investment Bank (IB) grants long-term investment credit to
industry and commerce:
(c) The Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade (RBFT) deals with foreign
exchange operations;
(d) The Insurance Administration (IA) deals in all types of insurance
for State and cooperative entities as well as private individuals;
(e) The Saving Bank (SB) accepts savings and grants consumer credit
for the purchase of private homes-
(f) The Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry (BAFI) finances pro-
duction and investment in agriculture and agroindustries: and
(g) The Central Commission of Credit Cooperatives, a department
within the Central Union of Consumption Cooperatives (Centrocoop),
acts through its rural branches as an agency for SB and BAFI and
also carries out savings and lending operations with the funds of
its members owners.
RBFT, NB, BAFI and Centrocoop hold ministerial rank, are directly respon-
sible to the Council of Ministers, and operate with their own funds. IA, IB



- 58 -                       ANNEX 3
Page 2
and SB are institutions under the Ministry of Finance and obtain their
resources from the Ministry's budget. Among these financial institutions
there is neither competition nor overlapping of responsibility.
II. Tasks and Responsibilities of BAFI
2.1       In recent years Romania has emphasized the development of agricul-
ture as expressed by Party Chairman and President Ceausescu: "Agriculture--
a basic branch, decisive for ensuring a food supply for the population--will
be at the core of the preoccupations of the Party and government". 1/ In
1968, Decree 55 established BAFI as a separate State entity to finance and
supervise production and investment in agriculture and agroindustries. The
principal tasks of BAFI are to:
(a) grant short-term production credit;
(b) approve investment proposals of socialist organizations; 2/
(c) grant long-term investment credit to socialist organizations,
individual coop-members, and individual farmers;
(d) maintain check accounts and accept deposits;
(e) exercise financial control and supervision over execution of
financial and investment plans;
(f) act as fiscal agent for operations financed from the State budget
and for collection of state revenues; and
(g) cooperate with foreign institutions and international organi-
zations having similar tasks.
III. Organization and Management
3.1       The Administrative Council is the policy-making body of BAFI.
It is composed of the BAFI President, two Vice Presidents, Directors of
BAFI departments in the head office and some BAFI branches, economic and
agricultural experts, and a delegate designated by the General Trade Union
of Romania. BAFI's senior officers belong to the Council ex-officio,
whereas the remaining members of the Administrative Council are appointed by
the Council of Ministers upon the recommendation of the BAFI President. The
Council meets at least once every quarter.
1/   Nicolae Ceausescu, Report to the 11th Congress of the Romanian Com-
munist Party.
2/   State enterprises and cooperative complexes.



- 59 -                       ANNEX 3
Page 3
3.2       Between the sessions of the Administrative Council, the Executive
Bureau acts as the decision-making body. Its seven members are the Presi-
dent, two Vice Presidents, three Department Directors and the representative
of the trade unions. The Bureau meets weekly.
3.3       The BAFI President, who is the chief executive officer, is appoint-
ed by State decree. The Vice Presidents are appointed by the Council of
Ministers. The BAFI President implements the decisions of the Administra-
tive Council and the Executive Bureau.
3.4       The respective functions of BAFI's six departments (Chart 2) are:
(a) crediting and financing of IASs;
(b) crediting and financing of food-and agroindustries;
(c) crediting and financing of the agricultural cooperative sector;
(e) accounting and auditing; and
(f) economic matters, administration, legal affairs, and personnel.
3.5       BAFI has a branch office in each of the 39 districts of Romania.
In addition to these, there are 92 sub-branch offices, 57 of which are
direct BAFI branches. The remaining 35 are NB agencies which perform
operations for BAFI. The branch offices and sub-branches are responsible
for the agricultural sector activities in their respective areas; there is
no geographical overlapping. The three operational departments of the head
office service the entities within agriculture and agroindustries estab-
lished on a national basis (centrals, trusts, research institutions). In
the outlying villages, there are a total of 837 Credit Cooperatives which
effect payments, disbursements, and collections as BAFI's agents in addition
to managing their members' own funds. The Credit Cooperatives are awarded a
commission by BAFI of 0.41% of transactions for this service.
3.6       BAFI employs 200 persons at the head office in Bucharest and
approximately 3,400 in its field offices. Within the total staff, there are
79 engineers, 19 lawyers, 800 university graduates with degrees in economics
and finance, 2,366 specialists with secondary school training mostly in
banking and accounting, and 135 auxiliary personnel (Table 1). In order to
provide the in-service training of staff required by law, BAFI offers
courses appropriate for the various levels of responsibility. The courses
include agriculture, project planning and evaluation, credit operations,
recovery of loans, and marketing. BAFI's staff appear to be dedicated, well
qualified and effective.



- 60 -                       ANNEX 3
Page 4
IV. Lending Policies and Procedures
4.1       In order to realize the targets set by the five-year and annual
plans, socialist organizations in agriculture and agroindustries submit
financial plans and investment proposals through MAFI for BAFI review. If
BAFI requests additional data, borrowers have to provide supplemental
information to facilitate a detailed project appraisal. On the basis of its
review of a proposal's technical and financial viability, BAFI is empowered
to reject or require a revision in the scale or design of the proposal as a
condition of credit approval. Disbursements to suppliers are made against
presentation of documents.
4.2       BAFI financing is primarily secured by "credit engagements" of
borrowers, who must commit all present and future income to debt service and
who are obliged to maintain all their financial asset accounts with BAFI.
Furthermore, the amount of short-term credit cannot exceed 60% of the value 1/
of the production being financed. For socialist sector enterprises, disburse-
ments under short-term credits take place when the enterprises' cash account
funds are low, and repayments are credited automatically out of sales proceeds.
Repayment risk is extremely low within the Romanian politico-economic frame-
work. To date no bad debt has been recorded by BAFI. However, should a
liquidity problem arise with a debtor, BAFI's claims have the second priority
(after salaries) in the financial obligations of State enterprises and first
in those of cooperatives (Legea Finantelor 9/1972; art. 137 and 138). Medium-
and long-term loans are secured with chattel mortgages. Overdue principal
installments are credited from the enterprises' depreciation accounts, which
are paid into monthly, and accrued by BAFI as sources of equity finance for
future investments. In the event a borrower is in arrears on debt servicing,
no new investment expenditures are approved until the accounts are made
current.
4.3       Each branch, sub-branch, and operational head office department is
responsible for the supervision of its clients. BAFI exercises strict
control over both annual production activities and the disbursements for and
progress of investments. BAFI inspectors visit projects at least quarterly
(but on average once every six weeks) and prepare supervision reports.
Slippages in project execution, delays in current payments or repeated
shortfalls in targeted production parameters are penalized in accordance
with BAFI's authority under the law (e.g. penalty interest rates, temporary
or permanent reduction in pay or requested replacement of responsible
officials). BAFI may declare loans immediately due if BAFI judges that
proceeds have not been used in accordance with the loan agreement. The
financial situation of borrowers is examined monthly and reported to the
head office; financing plans are prepared quarterly by each enterprise and
must be approved by BAFI. A borrower's progress in achieving targeted cost
1/   The value is calculated on the basis of the selling price.



- 61-                         ANNEX 3
Page 5
and output parameters is closely monitored by BAFI supervision staff by
comparing actual results with appraisal estimates. 1/ In addition to the
first-line supervision activities, a headquarters central supervisory staff
ensures that the supervision activity itself is properly carried out.
V. Lending and Investment Operations
5.1       The following table gives a broad overview of the volume 2/ and
relative importance of production and investment credits granted by and/or
through BAFI:
1971          1973          1975          1976          1977
Lei M    %   Lei M    %   Lei M    %   Lei M    %   Lei M    %
Production Financing
(a) Short-term loans   202,182  81  248,261  83  302,074  80  321,081  79  353,310  76
Investment Financing
(a) Medium- and
Long-term loans        7,682   3   11,484   4   10,257   3   15,086   4   18,993   4
(b) State Budget equity
contributions        38,511  16   39,471  13   62,593  17   70,598  17   93,445  20
Subtotals          46,193  19   50,955  17   72,850  20   85,684  21  112,438  24
Total Financing  248,375 100  299,216 100  374,924 100  406,765 100  465,748 100
Over the 1971-77 period, total disbursements grew by an average of about 11%
per year, with investment financing showing the fastest growth rate and
accounting for 24% of total BAFI disbursements in 1977.
1/   The most closely monitored indicators after commencement of operations
are average production per unit of capacity and expenses per 1,000 lei
of sales revenues.
2/   Data refer to the total sum of credits granted during a fiscal year,
which differs from the amount of credits outstanding at the end of a
fiscal year as shown in the balance sheet. In the case of short-term
loans, the volume granted over a one-year period has been about 7-8
times larger than the average amount outstanding at year-end.



- 62 -                        ANNEX 3
Page 6
Investment Financing
5.2       Investment projects are generated either at the production unit
level or in MA. Once a project is approved in principle for inclusion in
the annual plan, the production complex staff prepare a technical and
financial proposal with the help of the district General Directorate for
Agriculture and often with assistance from a State design institute. Within
overall financial resource constraints, projects are incorporated into the
annual investment plan in order to achieve production goals set out in the
Five-Year Plan. These studies are comprehensive and reflect the specific
physical conditions and requirements of the proposed investment. Approval
of each proposal is required from all ministries and agencies involved in
implementation (the local Popular Council and the Ministries of Transport,
Power, and Construction, among others) to ensure the availability of required
inputs. Once these approvals are obtained, proposals are submitted to a
technico-economic commission within the enterprise or MAFI (depending upon the
cost-scale of the proposed investment), where a detailed assessment is made in
relation to Plan objectives and on the basis of a comparison of key physical
and financial indicators with those of standard models developed by ISPCAIA. 1/
If the technico-economic commission's conclusions are positive, the proposals
are then sent to the appropriate higher authority within the MAFI hierarchy
for approval. The following table shows the various bodies that act on
investment proposals in the technical review stage:
(a) For investments in the cooperative sector
Advice by
Technico-Economic
Investment             Commissions in:          Approving Authority
Less than Lei 10 M   Production Unit             Management
Lei 10 to 30 M        Central and General        General Assembly
Directorate of MA         of the CAP
Lei 30 to 70 M        MAFI                       Council of MAFI
Over Lei 70 M         MAFI                      Ministers' Council
1/   Included among the indicators are (a) total investment cost; (b) in-
vestment cost/unit of capacity; (c) average volume of production/unit
of capacity; (d) total sales value; (e) total production expenses (by
category); (f) cost of goods sold/unit of output; (g) expenses/l,O0O
lei of sales; (h) payback period (investment cost/annual net benefits);
(j) sales/worker; (k) construction period; and (1) period of achieving
full production. Of the above, items (b), (c), and (k) are given the
greatest weight in the decision to accept, reject or require a revision
in an investment proposal.



- 63 -                       ANNEX 3
Page 7
(b) For investments in the State Sector
Less than Lei 10 M   Enterprise                 Workers' Council of
the Enterprise
Lei 10 to 30 M        Trust of the Dept.        Managing Council of
of State Agriculture    the Trust
at the District Level
Lei 30 to 70 M        Dept. of IAS in MAFI    Council of the Dept.
in MAFI
Over Lei 70 M         MAFI                      Ministers' Council
5.3       Once a proposed investment is approved by the technical agencies,
it is submitted to BAFI for review. In addition to a financial review,
investment proposals are subjected to thorough technical scrutiny by the
engineering group of the responsible BAFI approving authority. 1/ If the key
indicators deviate from those in the models by more than, for example, 10% in
the case of investment cost/unit of capacity, BAFI can require that the
proposal be redesigned to reduce investment costs before considering it
further, or can make its approval of the proposal subject to the achievement
of certain minimally acceptable levels of operating performance. BAFI's
review of investment proposals in the recent past has led to investment cost
reductions in more than 60% of the projects proposed.
Financing of Investments in the Cooperative Sector
5.4       BAFI finances up to 70% of the total cost of a given investment. 2/
The cooperatives' equity contributions may be drawn from cash reserves
(including depreciation accounts maintained in BAFI) or from in-kind contri-
butions such as land, livestock or construction labor and materials. The
maximum loan repayment periods are set by law. Examples of repayment terms
are as follows:
1/   The levels of authority for approving investment credits within BAFI
parallel those within the MA set out above.
2/   Exceptionally higher percentages must be approved by BAFI's President.



- 64 -                       ANNEX 3
Page 8
Maximum Grace Period
(after start-up of         Maximum Repayment Period
Type of Investment          operations)                (from end of grace period)
On-farm irrigation                  5                              25
Orchards                            7                              10
Vineyards                           4                              10
Dairy farming                       3                              20
Feed mills                          2                              12
Transport equipment                 1                               8
Pig complexes                       3                              18
Poultry complexes                   3                              15
Beef complexes                      3                              16
Greenhouses                         -                              20
Grace periods are set in relation to the period required for the achievement
of full production, and repayment periods are tied to the expected economic
lives of the investments being financed. Loans are paid off in equal annual
installments of principal at 3% p.a. interest (6% p.a. penalty rate). I/
Financing of Investments in the State Sector
5.5       Investments in the State sector are normally financed by equity
contributions from the State budget channelled through BAFI. 2/ These con-
tributions flow back to the State budget in the form of the enterprises'
depreciation payments and net incomes, both of which are collected by BAFI on
a monthly basis for the State budget account. Long-term lending to State
enterprises started on a limited scale under the "Small Mechanization Program"
(investments for modernizations), on a regional basis under the IBRD-financed
Sadova-Corabia Agricultural Credit and Rasova-Vederoasa Irrigation and Agricul-
tural Development Projects, and subsequently on a subsector basis under the
IBRD-financed First Pig Production and Processing Project. The trend towards
debt financing reflects a relatively recent policy decision to require in-
creased financial discipline with the State agricultural sector. This policy
would continue under the proposed project; all investment financing would be
in the form of 67% BAFI long-term loans, and 33% of the State Enterprises' own
contribution. Maximum repayment terms of the BAFI loans are 10 years following
the start of operations, with no grace period and equal monthly principal
installments. The relatively hard repayment terms for the State sector are
feasible because the debt-financed investments are a relatively insignificant
proportion of a typical enterprise's total assets and cash flow. Interest
rates for these credits are as follows:
1/   Decree No. 234/1974 governs all bank interest rates in Romania.
2/   For State budget-financed investments, BAFI provides medium-term (1-3
years) loans at 0.1% interest to cover the period between the purchase of
equipment and start-up of operations. The loans are paid off with State
budget equity contributions once the equipment is erected. At the end of
1976, 90-95% of the amounts shown in BAFI's balance sheet under "Medium-
and long-term loans - State Enterprises" were of this type.



- 65-                         ANNEX 3
Page 9
- 2% p.a. during construction period (6% penalty rate);
- 4% p.a. after start-up (6% penalty rate).
Financing of Investments Outside the Socialist Sector
5.6       All BAFI short- and long-term loans to cooperative members and
individual farmers are channelled through the Credit Cooperatives (CRCs), who
also provide long-term investment loans from their own funds. As a condition
of disbursement and to ensure repayment, they must present documents showing
that they have contracted to sell products to socialist sector processing/
marketing enterprises. Individuals may borrow up to 70% of the value of
investment items, but these are limited in number by type of production
activity. Maximum repayment periods are 5 years, with no grace period.
Interest is at 3% p.a. (10% penalty rate). Long-term loans from the CRCs' own
funds have been the major source of investment credits to the private sector.
Eligible investments are generally the same as for BAFI loans, with a maximum
limit of 15,000 lei, 3 year repayment terms (no grace period) and 7% p.a.
interest.
Short-Term Financing of Production
5.7       The interest rates are fixed by State Decree No. 234/1974 and vary
by type of borrower as follows:
Borrower                              Interest Rate (p.a.)   Penalty Rate (p.a.)
State units                                   4%                      12%
Agricultural mechanization stations           3%                       8%
Cooperative sector                            2%                       6%
Individual coop-members                       2%                       6%
Individual farmers                            2%                       6%
State retail organizations for
fruit and vegetables                        3%                      -
Agroindustries                                5%                      12%
Enterprises for construction in
agriculture and agroindustries              2%                      12%
Repayment periods are set to match the expected realization of revenues from
the production being financed, but cannot exceed 12 months. Credits are
granted upon presentation of marketing contracts and are limited to 60% of
the contracted value in the case of the cooperative sector and to 45% for
individual farmers and individual coop-members.



- 66 -                       ANNEX 3
Page 10
VI. Financing of Pig Production and Processing (Table 2) 1/
6.1       Available data suggest that short-term financing for industrial-type
pig production and processing accounted for less than 10% of all outstanding
BAFI short-term credits at the end of each year, 1974-78 (est.). Investment
financing for pig production and processing amounted to about 3-5% of total
State funds channelled through BAFI per year.
6.2       Short-term loans outstanding for industrial-type pig production
and processing at the end of each year, 1974-78 (est.), totaled between 2.1
billion and 3.7 billion lei, or between four and ten percent of total out-
standing BAFI short-term credits. Up to 1975, MIT received approximately 50%
of BAFI short-term lending to this subsector, and sizable variations in total
short-term BAFI lending were caused mainly by shifts in the balance of MIT
(1974: 2.3 billion lei; 1975: 1.1 billion lei). In 1977 short-term credits
to MIT reduced to about 26% of BAFI short-term lending to the subsector, and
as a result total short-term lending to the subsector decreased to about 5% of
total short-term credits outstanding. Since 1976 the cooperatives have been
the largest recipients of BAFI short-term credits for pig production and their
share has been growing. This phenomenon is attributable to the fact that
State enterprises can finance their operations out of equity contributions
from the State budget, but the cooperatives rely more on BAFI lending because
the scope for increasing their equity financing is limited.
6.3       Investment financing for industrial-type pig production and processing
takes the form of either long-term BAFI loans or State budget contributions
channelled through BAFI. Disbursements for investments in the pig production
and processing subsector grew in absolute terms during the 1974-77 period but
at a rate that was lower for BAFI's total investment operations, resulting in
a decline of the subsector's share of total investment disbursements from 5.1%
in 1974 to 2.8% in 1977. In 1978 it is expected to increase to 3.5%. The
decline is attributable to the completion of processing investments begun
under the 1971-75 Plan, but by the end of 1978 the growth of investments in
the subsector as a result of the IBRD-financed First Pig Production and
Processing Project will have reversed the declining trend in the subsector's
share of overall investment activities. Disbursements to the cooperative
sector for pig production represented 15% of the sector total in 1974 and
remained relatively the same in 1978 at 17%. Disbursements to the State
Enterprises increased from 10% to 43% over the same period while processing
investments represented 75% of the sector total in 1974, but decreased to 40%
in 1978.
1/   The following section covers only the industrial-type system, i.e., State
Enterprises and Cooperatives engaged in pig production and processing.
Financing of pig production in the private sector is discussed in Annex
3 of the Project Implementation File.



- 67 -                        ANNEX 3
Page 11
6.4       Up to 1976, long-term investment lending by BAFI for pig production
and processing was confined to cooperatives. Starting in 1977 under the IBRD-
financed First Pig Production and Processing Project investment loans were
made to State Enterprises and the Meat Central. BAFI lending to private
farmers and members of cooperatives engaged in pig production has been limited
to short-term financing.
VII. BAFI's Financing Condition and Performance (Tables 3-7)
7.1       Within the Romanian context, described in para 1.1, BAFI's institu-
tional performance must be judged in terms of its effectiveness in facilitating
the financing and implementation of Government's investment programs for the
agricultural and food industries sectors. "Effectiveness" can be defined in
terms of the quality of BAFI's subloan appraisal and supervision efforts in
the context of a rapidly expanding investment program, and its success in
performing its functions at an acceptable cost while maintaining a prudent
matching of assets with financing sources. The financial statements provide a
useful measure for judging BAFI's performance against these criteria.
7.2       The various sources of BAFI's funds are its statutory capital,
surplus reserves, funds from the State budget, IBRD borrowings, short-term
borrowing from NB, and deposits. The trend of their relative importance in
BAFI's overall financing, and the matching of assets with financing sources,
can be seen in Tables 3 and 4.
7.3       Short-term borrowings from NB have been, and are expected to be,
the most important single source of BAFI's financing. Together with the other
forms of short-term financing (deposits and the "Fund for short-term credits",
a near-equity financing source), these borrowings finance a major portion of
BAFI's asset portfolio, which is short-term production loans. BAFI pays 1.5%
annual interest on both NB borrowings and deposit accounts. The relative
importance of the former as a financing source (50% of total assets in 1977)
is expected to increase over the 1981-85 period (57% of total assets in 1985)
as BAFI phases out the "Fund for short-term credits", a zero-cost source of
financing for BAFI's short-term credits. Deposits as a financing source is
expected to remain at approximately its 1977 level through 1985 (7-8% of total
assets). The low volatility of these liabilities can be attributed to BAFI's
requirement that its borrowers maintain their revenues in BAFI deposit accounts.
7.4       BAFI has prudently matched its financing sources with its asset
lives. Investment in State Enterprises are mainly financed from a special
equity fund allocated from the State budget and administered by BAFI. Long-
term loans, which comprised about 33% of BAFI's assets at the end of 1977,
were financed from external credits (IBRD loans, comprising 3% of total
assets) and the "Fund for Medium- and Long-term Credits" (32%), another
near-equity source of funds for which BAFI neither pays interest nor has a
defined repayment commitment. It is expected that medium- and long-term loans
will grow at about 38% of BAFI's total assets by 1980, reflecting the relative
priority placed on investment activity during the present plan period, and



ANNEX 3
- 68 -                        Page 12
BAFI intends to match this growth with a near-identical increase in long-term
liabilities. The importance of IBRD financing is expected to increase to
about 7% of BAFI's total assets by 1980, and to decrease to 4% by 1985. Net
financing of investments from State budget funds channelled through BAFI is
expected to be maintained at its historical level of about 30-33% of BAFI's
total assets through 1985.
7.5       BAFI's net worth is about 2% of total assets, a ratio that is
similar to those of Western commercial banks and adequate in relation to the
low proportion of BAFI's repayable long-term debt, the low volatility of
BAFI's revenues and deposits, and the quality of its asset portfolio relative
to loan default risk. No increase in BAFI's net worth is expected over the
1978 to 1985 period. The ratio of BAFI's repayable long-term debt (consisting
entirely of six IBRD loans) to net worth is expected to peak at 4:1 in 1981
and thereafter decline (Table 7 Section A3). In accordance with a provision
of BAFI's charter, reserve fund accumulations ceased when the reserve fund
equalled paid-in capital in 1972, and since then all BAFI's net income has
been paid out to the State budget account.
Operating Performance
7.6       BAFI's operating performance can be judged from the growth and
quality of its asset portfolio and the degree to which it has succeeded in
controlling the cost of its operations. Between 1973 and 1977, total assets
expanded at an average rate of almost 14% p.a. with investment loans growing
at an average rate of 23% p.a. State budget-financed investments administered
by BAFI grew at about 22% p.a. during the 1973-1977 period. Average total
asset growth during the 1977-85 period at 6% p.a. will be lower than during
the previous five years, and BAFI's investment activities (reflected in
medium- and long-term loans plus funded State investments) will expand at an
average rate of 4.5% p.a.
7.7       BAFI's operational results can be seen in Tables 5 and 7.  Net
income during the period 1973-77 increased at an average rate of 5.3% p.a.,
and is expected to increase at about the same rate during the 1977-85 period.
It is expected that BAFI's aggregate performance ratios will decline marginally
in the medium-term but fully recover by the end of the 1985 horizon. It is
expected that BAFI's aggregate performance ratios will decline marginally in
the medium-term but fully recover by the end of the 1985 horizon (Table 7,
Section D). The expected decline is attributable to (i) the increasing
proportion of relatively low-yield, high-cost medium- and long-term loans in
the portfolio, which pulls down the average loan yield; (ii) the phasing out
of the "Fund for short-term credits", and its replacement with proportionally
greater borrowings from NB at an average cost of 1.5% p.a.; and (iii) the
build-up of relatively high cost IBRD loan balances, which together with (ii)
has the effect of increasing BAFI's average cost of non-equity financing by
29% from 1977 to 1981. The combined effect of these three structural trends
is to reduce BAFI's yield-financing spread from 1.86% in 1977 to a "trough" of
1.37% in 1981.  Thereafter, the trend is expected to improve as a result of



- 69 -                       ANNEX 3
Page 13
relatively faster growth in the higher margin short-term loan portfolio, as
investments undertaken in the 1975-80 Plan period reach full development,
enterprises begin paying off investment loans and require increased production
financing. Total income as a percent of total assets is expected to slowly
decline from its 1977 level of 3.20% to 3.09% in 1980 and then gradually
increase to its 1977 level in 1985. At the same time, because of the narrow-
ing of the spread between the yield on loans and the cost of debt-financing in
the medium-term, BAFI's total expenses as a percent of total income are
expected to rise from 43% in 1977 to 49% in 1980 (Table 6). The rate of
growth of total expenses is expected to decline from 12.9% during the 1973-77
period to 7.9% during the 1977-85 period partly through economies in BAFI's
administrative expenses, which have steadily declined historically both in
relation to total financial assets managed (Table 7, Section C5) and as a
proportion of total expenses (Table 5), and are expected to decline further
through the expanded use of electronic data processing.
7.8       Viewed in a wider context, the short-term downward trend in BAFI's
financial yield and net income ratios simply reflects the expectation that an
increasing proportion of total agricultural financing will be provided as
loans. To the extent that these investments are channelled to State enter-
prises, earnings will accrue back to the State budget through the transfer of
these enterprises' and BAFI's net incomes. Moreover, the projected marginal
deterioration in BAFI's ratios is neither a negative reflection on BAFI's cash
flow and debt-servicing ability are expected to remain adequate through 1985.
In the event the 1980-85 Plan provides for a higher than projected rate of
growth in investment lending, an increase in statutory capital will eventually
become necessary to cushion the impact on BAFI's earnings and cash flow of the
structural shift in the asset portfolio towards lower-yielding long-term loans
and the increasingly significant IBRD borrowings that help finance them. Any
consideration of an upward revision in lending rates would take place only in
the context of a general price review, but present rates are adequate relative
to costs, and no increase is expected or considered necessary in the medium
term. Regardless of the timing of any changes in BAFI's financial structure
or interest spread, potential liquidity problems would be redressed immediately
through recourse to the State budget.
Financial and Commercial Risk
7.9       Because of BAFI's control over the accounts of borrowers, its strict
surveillance of disbursements and use of loan proceeds, and its rigorous
inspection of operations at the project level, there has been no reported loss
due to bad debts. BAFI is protected against foreign exchange losses. Foreign
exchange operations are beyond BAFI's terms of reference as defined by Decree
55/1970; responsibility for such dealings lies with RBFT as well as NB. Under
the Romanian system, any effect on the servicing of IBRD loans (or any other
foreign indebtedness) resulting from a change in the exchange rate of the lei
vis-a-vis foreign currencies would be redressed in the State's financial plan.
Since BAFI is well protected against risks resulting from its portfolio or
lending operations, and since BAFI management maintains strict control over
operational costs, BAFI is expected to remain in good financial condition.



APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK II PROJECT
ROMANIA
Financial Institutions
Council of Ministers
an   or
Ministry                 Rom'anian Bank            ArclueadCe-ntral Union of
of Finance              for Foreign Trade            AgrIculu   andy              National Bank              Consumption and
Food IndustytCredit Cooperatives I
Investment                tate Insurance                                                                     Central Commission
Banvestment  |StatmInistratio                       Savings Bank                                               of Credit
Cooperatives
_n
-Y 14
e Li



APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK II PROJECT
ROMANIA
Organization Chart
Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry
Administrative Council
President
__                 _      _     _      ___
ice-President  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ Vce-President
Cedit and Finance   Credit and Finance   Credit and Finance          Coordinat ion,                                Administration,
of Stat  Agricl-  of Fod andof the Agricul-              Special Studies         Accounting anid          Legal Affairs,
tural Enterprises      Agro-Industries       tural Cooperative           and                     Auditing         External Relations
Sector           xternal Relations
Organization,
Personnel,                  M L
Training



APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK II PROJECT
ROMANIA
Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry
Head Office Staffing List
Economists/                                 Accountants/        Auxiliary    Total
Depart1pent                  Financial       Lawyers      Engineers   Statisticians /1    Personnel    Staff
____ __  Analysts  _    
Credit and Finance of State               33              -             5               2                  -          40
Agriculture Enterprises
Credit and Finance of the                 25              -             3               2                 -           30
Agricultural Cooperative Sector
Credit and Finance of Food and             26             -             2               2                  -          30
Agro-Industries
Coordination, Special Studies              23                           2               5                  -          30
and External Relations
Organization, Personnel and               24              -             -               6                             30
Training
Accounting and Auditing                    23             -                             7                  -          30
Administration, Legal Affaire             -               1             -               6                  3          10
and External Relations
TOTAL - BAFI Head Office /2              154              1            12              30                  3         200
TOTAL - BAFI Branches and sub-           646             18            67            2336               132         3199
branches
I/ Mostly secondary sohool training,
2/  In addition there is 1 President and 2 Vice-Presidents,                                                              m X
Source:  BAFI - July 1978                                                                      July 1978



APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK II PROJECT
ROMANIA
Financing of Pig Production and Processing through BAFI and the State Budget /1
1974                    1975                       1976                         1977                     1978 (Est.)
Million                  Million                    Million                     Million                    Million
Let ~~~~~~~Lei                                Lei        16 -1            Lei                        L ei     t     --
Type of Financine                Borrower/Investor
RAFI short-term                 -     Meat central                      2,346         6.3        1,178         2.9           604           1.2           625           1.2           800          1.3
Production credits /5           -     State owned pig units (LAS)         317         0.8          162         0.4           400           0.8           500           0.9          550           0.9
-     Cooperative sector pig units
(CAP)                          1,005          2.7       1.065         2.6          1,098                      1 0             2.4         1458
TOTAL                        ,3,6_6 _4_ 2.808                                                                                                            4.6
BAFI medium - and               -     Meat central /7                     -             -          -            -                                        213           3.6 /3        220          3.4 L3 
Long-term investment loans /6  -      State owned pig units (IAS)         -             -          -            -             -            _             190           3.2          500           7.7
-     Cooperative sector pig units
(CAP)                             98          0.5 a        8          0.4 L          115           1.9  3       123           2.1           150           2.3
TOTAL                            98          L.                      0.              1            1956                        .             701.
Total investments La            -     Meat central                        646         3.8 /4       810         4.2           376           1.4           360           11 A464                     1.4 L
-     State owned pig units (IAS)          89         0.5           28        0.1            128           0.5           369           1.2          500           1.5
-     Cooperative sector pig units
(CAP)                            13.          0.8          96         0.5            280           1.1          171           0.5           200           0.6
TOTAL                            868          51          93-4.       4.8            784           3.0           900          2.8         1,1643
I Does not include the traditional sector.
aOf total BAF  short-term lending.
Of total RAFI long-term lending.                                                       
4 As a percentage of State budget contributions channelled through  APFI.                                                                                                                           ,. x
Amounts shown are balances outstanding at end of fiscal year (December 31).
Amounts represent disbursements during the year.
, Financed under the Pig Production and Processing I Project.
i  Amounts are disbursements during the year:  financing sources are BAFI investment loans, State budget
equity contributions and own funds (in the case of the CAPs), Purchases of pigs and modernization are not
included.                                                                                                                                                                              July 1978






- 74 -
APPRAISAL OF                                                                          ANNEX 3
Table 3
LIVESTOCK II PROJECT
ROMANIA
Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry
Historical and Projected Balance Sheets /1
mnillions of Leti)
Avg. Growth Avg. Growth
Projected                                           1973-77       1977-85
1973      1974       1975       1976      1977       1978       1979      19dO       1981       1982       1953      1984       1955  77  p                p.a.
Assets
Cash                                   31         58        56         58         65        58         59         59        b5         68         71         74         78         20.3           2.3
Short-term loans:                    36727    36845      40297      49732      52905     54900      570uO      59000     63000      69000      75000      o1000      88000          9.6           6.6
a)  Cooperatives                                                  12645     12860      13340      13850      14600
b)  State enterprises                                             36655      39573     41065      42650      41000
c) others                                                           432       472        495        500        4oo
Medium and LT loans:                 11585    16621      18719      21723      26663     29522      33222      37523    38000       38600      39030      39200      39500         23.2           5.0
a)  Cooperatives                                                  17557     20993      22000      24200      26500
b)  State enterprises /2                                           4144       5647      7500       9000      11000
c) Others                                                           2P'         18        22         22         23
Other assets                           201     1124       1107       1133       138FJ     1356       1459       1556     1400        1450       1500       1550      1600          62.1         1.8
Total Assets                       4354     54648      60179      72         5121      T583       3t7+0      9T3   f102485       109118    115571    121624    129178            13.7         6.0
Liabilities and wet Worth
3N overdraft                         23165    23280      28441      32748     40539    4+1834       43446     45779    50964.       56474      619)47    67420       73778         9.5          7. 8
Deposits:                             4853      5120      5129       5768       6133      6380       6542       6712      7200       7600       8000       8400       8900          6. o        4.8
a)  Cooperatives                    2880     2571       2697       2419       2640      2615       2725       2810
b) State enterprises                1403      2543      2426       3345       3486      3760       3811       3895
c) Others                            570         6         6          4          7         5          6          7
Liability for funds:
a)  Fund for short-term                2   )            1859       3759       1009      1500       1500       1500      -           _          -                     - 
credits               5 2597
b)  External credits a               -      )            204       1507       2325      465       5800       6600     6200        5800       5450       5000      4600    )  23.8 /   )        4 /
c)  Fund for med. + LT             11916    17270      19276      22064     25694      25300      26000     31000    31300        32800      33550     34200      34900    )              )
credits
Due to the State Budget for:
a) Collections for State
Budget account                292        -          22         78        12         50         50        50       -           -          -         -          -
b) BAFI's own operations             227      1233      1244       1252       1405      1373       1412       1487     1401        1544       1724       19o4      2100    )  16.7    )   4.8
Other liabilities                     1489      3548      2384       3870       2304      3199       3390       3410     3300        3300       3300      3300       ,300     )
Net worth:
a)  Statutory capital                800      800        8oo        Soo        80)       oo        800        8o0      800         800        80o       800        80o          -              -
b) Surplus reserve                   80o       800       800        800        8o0       800        800        0o0      8o          8oo        800        oO        Bo-
Total net worth                      5WJ      10         97 1600                           751                         1600        13         1i6 10                            - -             -
Total liab. and net worth          48544    54648      60179      72646     81021      85836      91740     98138   102465       109118    115571    121824    129178           13.7          b. 0
Funded State Investments
with BAFI as Fiscal Agent          12310   16601      19086      2172S     27253'     2.750     30500     32750    33250        34500      35200     36200      37200         22.0          4.0
I  At December 31.
2  Includes (a) 1-3 year mediuim-term loans to cover the period betwqeen equiprment purchase and its erection, at which time the loans are refinanced from State budget
allocations-  these loans comprise about 905 of the total medium- and long-term loan balance outstanding at Dec. 31, 1977 and earn .1%/ interest for SAFI;  and
(b) long-term investment loans (BSPD-financed sub-projects only, about 10% of the Dec. 31, 1077 total balance).
C3 Consists entirel,y of principal amonts outstarding (including capitalized initerest) en following  IERD  oans:  10o2-RO, 1053-RO, 16g-Ro, 1247-RO, 1368-R0, and 1479-RO.
Growth rate of Fund for medium- and long-term debt - external credits
July 1978






- 75 -
ANNEX 3
APPRAISAL OF                                                                             Table 4
LIVESTOCK II PROJECT
ROMANIA
Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry
Comparative Balance Sheet Structure
Projeacted
1973        1974         1975         1976         1977         1978         1979         1980         19bl         1952         1983         1954         1985
 of Total  % of Total  D of Total  % of Total % of Total  % of Total  % of Total  % of Total  % of Total  % of Total  5 of Total  6 of Total  % of Total
Assets      Assets       Assets       Assets       Assets       Assets       Assets       Assets       Assets       Assets       Assets       Assets       Assets
Assets
Cash                                           -            .1          .1           .1          .1            .1           .1          .1            .1           .1           .1           .1           .1
Short-term loans:                           75.7         67.4         67.0         68.5        65.3          63.9         62.1       60.1           61.5         63.2        64.9         66.5         68.1
a) Cooperatives                                                                  17.4        15.9          15.5         15.1       14.9
b) State enterprises                                                             50.5        48.8          47.8         46.5        41.8
c)  Others                                                                         .6          .6            .6           .5          .4
Medium- and long-term loans:                23.9         30.4         31.1         29.9        32.9          34.4         36.2       38.2           37.1        35.4         33.7         32.1         30.6
a)  Cooperatives                                                                 24,2        25.9          25.6         26.4       27.0
b)  State enterprises                                                             5.7         7.0           8.8          9.8        11.2
c) Others
Other assets                                   .4         2.1          1.8          1.6         1.7           1.6          1.6         1.6           1.3         1.3           1.3          1.3         1.2
Total Assets                               100.0        100.0        100.0        100.0       100.0         100.0        100.0      100.0          100.0       100.0        100.0        100.0        100.0
Liabilities and Net Worth
NB overdraft                                58.0         42.6         47.3        45.1         50.0          48.7        47.4        46.7          49.7         51.8         53.6         55.3         57.1
Deposits:                                   10.0          9.4          8.5         7.9          7.6           7.4          7.1         6.8           7.0         7.0           6.9          6.9        6.9
a)  Cooperatives                           5.9          4.7          4.5         3.3          3.3           3.0          3.0        2.9
b)  State enterprises                       2.9         4.6          4.0         4.6          4.3           4.4          4.2         4.0
c) Others                                  1.2          -            -           -            -             -            -          -
Liability for funds:
a)  Foods for ST credits                      )         4            3.1         5.2          1.2           1.7         1.6         1.5            -                         -            -          -
b)  External credits                        -                          .3        2.1          2.9           5.4          6.3         6.7          6.1          5.3          4.7          4.1         3.6
c)  Fund for M + LT credits               24.6         31.6         32.1        30.4         31.8         29,5         30.5        31.6          31.0         30.1         29.0         28.1        27.0
Due to the State budget for:
a) Collections for State budget              .6         -            -            .1           .1            .1           .1         .1           -            -            -            -           -
b)  BAFI's own operations                    '5         2.3          2.1         1.7          1.7           1.6          1.5        1.5           1.4          1.4          1.5          1.6         1.6
Other liabilities                            3.1          6,5          4.0         5.3          2.8           3.7         3.7         3.5           3.2          3.0          2.9          2.7         2.6
Net Worth:
a)  Statutory capital                      1.7          1.5          1.3         1.1          1.0            .9           .9         .8            .8           .7           .7           .7          .6
b)  Surplus reserves                        1.7         1.5          1.3         1.1          1.0            .9           .9         .8            .8           .7           .7           .7          .6
Total Bet Worth                               3.3         2.9          2.7         2.2          2.0           1.9          1.8        1.6           1.6          1.4          1.4          1.3         1.2
Total liab. + Bet Worth                    T8.0        100.0         100.0       70?          00.0    1      0          100. 0      100.0         100.0        1000         100.0        iO. O      100.0
Funded State Investments with BAFI
as Fiscal Agent           25.4        30.4          31.7        29.9         33.6         33.5         33.2        33.4          32.5         31.6         30.5         29.7        28.8
July 1978






APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK II PROJECT
ROMANIA
Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry
Historical and Projected Income Statements
(millions of Lei)
Avg. Growth Avg. Growth
Projected                                 1973-77       1977-85
1973    1975    1976              1978    1979                      1982    1953    1984    195         % p.a.        % p.a.
Income
Interest on ST loans A          1358    1540    1679    1952    2048    2126    2204    2318    2508    2736    2964    3211                9.5            6.4
Interest on M + LT loans /1      224      316     328      382     449      502      570     604      613     621      626      630        14.3            6.5
Commissions received /2           58       82     100      121      139     147      157     163      168      173     177      182        2D.2            5.2
Other income                     148        5        1       1      -       -        -       -        -        -       -        -           -
Total Income                  179       942     107    2456    2636    2775    2931    3205    3259    3530    3767           4023
Expenses
Interest paid NB                 423      419     570      535     618      640      669     726      806      888     970    1059          6.o            8.9
Interest paid IBRD /             -          7      50      174     287      358     404      576      544     510      473      430         -             14.6
Interest on deposits              70      107      54      162     170      176      180     189      201     212      223      235        23.3            4.8
Commissions paid A                12       114     14       16      15       15       15      17       17       18      18       19         7.5            2.2
General + admin. expenses        141      151     165      163      173     174      176     176      177      178     179      180         3.7            1.2
Misc. banking expenses             2        1        1       1      -       -        -       -        -        -       -        -           -                -
Total Expenses                         64                 8 85  1051    1263  113683                       1506 2                        12.9
Net Income                     1141    1244    1252    1405    1373    1412    1487    1401    1544    1724    1904    2100               5.3            5.2
/1  Late payment penalty interest included in projections in proportion to recent ,historical experience.
72 BAFI earns a commission of .5M on the value of (i) disbursements from the State budget for investments
in the State sector;  (ii) disbursements for investments from the cooperatives' own funds.
/3  Includes commitment fees;  excludes capitalized interest on Rasova-Vederoasa Irrigation Project
(Ioan 12147-RO), Giurgui-Razmiresti Irrigation Project (Loan 1082-RO), and Ialomita-Calmatui                                                                 R |
Irrigation Project (Loan 1368-RO);  capitalized interest appears in Balance Sheet as part of
external credit balance outstanding.
4  BAFI pays the Credit Cooperatives a commission of .14% of the value of transactions they perform on
BAFI's behalf.
July 1978






APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK II PROJECT
ROMANIA
Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry
Structure of Income and Ekpenses
Projected
1973        1975         1976         1977        1978         1979         1980          81         1982         1983         1984        1985
8 of Total  % of Total  , of Total S of Total  % of Total  , of Total  , of Total  % of Total  t of Total  % of Total  9 of Total  % of Total
Ineome      Income       Income      Income       Ineome       Income      Income       Income       Income       Income       Income      Income
Income
Interest on short-term loans                  75.9         79.3        79.7         79.5         77.7        76.6         75.2         75.1         76.3         77.5        78.7         79.8
Interest on medium- and long-term loans       12.5         16.3        15.6         15.6         17.0        18.1         19.4         19.6         18.6         17.6        16.6         15.7
Commissions received                           3.3          4.2          4.7         4.9          5.3          5.3         5.4          5.3          5.1          4.9          4.7         4.5
Other income                                   3.3           .2          _           -            -            -           -            -            -            -            -            -
Total Income                               100.0         O    100.0        100.0              l     -O.  0       100.      0 100.       O        100.0        100.0       100.0        100.0
Expenses
Interest paid NB                               23.6        21.6         27.1        21.8         23.4        23.1         22.8         23.5         24.5         25.2        25.7         26.3
Interest paid IBRD                              -            .4          2.4         7.1         10.9         12.9        13.8         18.7         16.6         14.5         12.6         10.7
Interest on deposits                            3.9         5.5         2.6          6.6          6.4          6.3         6.1          6.1          6.1          6.o          5.9          5.8
Commissions paid                                  .7         .7           .7           .7          .6           .5           .5          .6           .5           .5           .5           .5
General and Admin. expenses                      7.9        7.8          7.8         6.6          6.6          6.3          6.o         5.7          5.4          5.0          4.8          4.5
Miscellaneous banking expenses                   .1         -            -           -                         -                        -            -            -                         -
Total Expenses                30.                         2           406   4      2 . 8                    47.9.1    4   9.3       _54'     5 T31            -51.2   4      9. 5 47, 8
Net Income                                   63.8        64.o         59.4        57.2         52.1         50.9        50.7         45.4         46.9         48.8         50.5        52.2
Joly 1978



-78-
AM 3
Tabl 7
LXZSO  T1 PRJYCT
.ank for Agriculture and Food lndustry
Selected Financial Satins 2
(lei actuate in millions)
ProJected
19i3      1975      1976      3977       197S      1979      150           r 19J1  1932     1963      1984      1965
A. Fin-ciog R tios
1. Financing of short-test loans:
a. Avg. short-tero l.eas  out.tnoding                             34690     38571     45015     51319      53903     55950     58000     6iooo      66ooo     72000     78000     84,50z
b. Avg. (NB overdraft + depoeitt  + Food for st. credit)          31036     33183     38853     44978      48693     50601     52740      56078     61I19     67010     72884      79249
o.  Ratio (aOb)                                                    1.12      1.16      ;1i6      1.14       1.11      1.11      1.10      1.09       1.08      1.07      1.07      1.07
2.  Fi.anciig of -edi-m- and bog-term  lays:
a. Avg  ed. -nd 1.t.-oann outetnoding                             10351     17671    20224      24196      28093     31372     35373     37762      38300     38800     39100     39350
b. Ag. (Frod for  d.&l.t. credits + exteroal credits)             11089     18385     21536     25795      28959     31.850    35700     37800      38300     38800     39100      39350
c. Ratio ()ab)                                                      .96       :96      .194        :94       .97       .99       .99        .99      1.00      1.00      1.00      1.00
3. Eoteroal debt /2 to oet rorth:
a. Avg. exteroal debt                                                 0       152       856      1916       3463      5200      6200      6400       6000      5625      5225       48o0
b. Avg. oet wrrth                                                  1600 i     6oo      1600       i6oo      1600      1600      i6oo       i6oo 0    16oo       600      i6oc       15oo
c. Rtio (art)                                                         0       .10       .54      1.20       2.i6      3.25      3.88      4.00       3.75      3.52      3.27       3.00
B.  Thsoe ROtioc
1. Yield on short-term  ions portfolio:
a.  Ioterest 00 s.t. loans /3                                      1358      1540     1679       1992       2046      2126      2204      2313       200       2736      2964       3211
0. Avg. s.t. loans o.totoodihg                                    24690     38571    45015      31319      53903     55950     58ooo     619oc    66000    72000        78000      0450C
tield (crb6.)                                                  3.91      3.99     3.73       3.80        3.8       3.0       3.8       3.8        3.8       3.8      3.8         3.S
2.  Yield 00 med.-l.t. loss portfolio:
a   1otere-t on od.ol.t. bays /3                                   224        316      328        382       449        502       570       604        613       621      626        630
b. Avg.  ed.-i.t. obas ootstatA3og                                10851     17671    20224       24196     28093     31372     35373      37762     3830C     38800    39100       39353
,. Yield (nab, f)                                                  2.06      1.79     1.62       1.58       i.6o      1.6o      i.6C      1.60       1.6o      1.60     1.6Q       1.60
3.  Yield oo fisoichal .asets,
T. Total ihterest hocone                                           1582      1856      2007      2334      2497       2628      2774      2922       3121      3357     3591       3841
b.  Avg. total lovIo oUtstandiog                                  45541     56242     65239      75515     81995     87322     93373      98762    104300    110800   117100      123850
c.  Yield (asb, 6)                                                3.47       3.30      3.08      3.09       3.05      3.01      2.97      2.96       2.99      3.03     3.07       3.10
E Opetc.e ROtios
1.  Coot of 22 overdraft:
a.  Interest paid 00                                                423       419       570       535       618        640       669       726        806       088      970       1059
b. Avg. hB overdraft ootctasdiog                                  26633     25816     30595     36644      41187     62640     44613     48372      53719     59211    64683       70599
o.  Cost (s;b, 6)                                                  1.59      1.62      1.86      1.46       1.50      1.50      1.50      1.50       1.50      1.50     1.50        1.5C
2.  Cost of e-teroal oreditt:
a.  Tatere-t and fees paid 2BRD /4                                  -           7        50       174        287       358       404       576        544       510      473        430
b. Avg. bbl--ce outots-diog                                         -        1152       856       1916      3463      5200      62Cc       6400      60C0      5625     5225        486o
0.  Cost (asb,  5)                                                  -        4.61      5.84      9.06      6.29       6.66      6.52                 9.07      9.07     9.05       9.96
3.  Yost of deposits:
a.  lIterest paid oo de-ooits /5                                     71       107        54       162        170       176       180       189        201       212      223        235
b.  Avg. de-ooits octotandiog 3                                    44oi      5225      5449      5951       6257      6461      6627      6956       7400      780C     8200        8650
-. Cost (.ob, a)                                                  1.59       2.09       .99      2.72      2.72       2.72      2.72      2.72       2.72      2.72     2.72       2.72
4. Total fionootog co-to:
a.  lo.tere. t paid 02, 0BRD and depositors                         493       533       674       871       1975       1174    1253      1491       1551      1610     i666        1724
b. Avg. baloce ootatandiog:  22 overdraft o depoeito +
eseroal -redits - Foods f/s.t. ,.t. sod l.t. credits        42L25     51598     60368     70773     77657      82451     88440     93878      99419    105311   u1984      118599
c. Coot (s;b,4)                                                    1.17      1.03      1.12      1.23       1.38      1.42      1.42      1.59       1.56      1.52     1.49       1.L5
5.  Cost of adsioltratioo
a.  Cod-oi-os paid I genl  a+ivlo. expe--es + misc.
ba-kiog eopeoes-                                              155       166       180       163        188       189       191       199        194       196      197         199
;.  Avg. (total loa..  .ototsodiog + State bodget)                57731     74085     85645    100005    109997    116947    124993    131762    138175    145650   152800        160550
o.  Coot ();,b,)                                                    .27       .22       .21       .16        .17       .16       .15        .15       .14       .13      .13         .12
D. A6gdgte Perforosoce Ratios
I       Total tocoos c Avg. total assets (6)                           3.91      3.38      3.17      3.20       3.16      3.13      3.09      3.08       3.11      3.14     3.17        3.21
2. Fi-nocial inoome - fi-osctal exoevies  330-240) (3)                 2.30      2.27      1.96      1.86       1.67      1.59      1.55       1.37      1.43      1.51     1.58        1.65
3. Total expetes . Avg. total assets (9)                               1.42      1.22      1.29      1.37       1.51      L.54      1.52       1.68      i.65      1.61     1.57        1.53
L.  Y,et ir0c:: + Avg. total assets (6)                                2.L9      2.16      1.3v      1.83       1.65      1.59      1.57       1.40      i.46      1.53     1.6o        1.67
5.  Net icome ; Avg. (net worth + RAFI nt inoome + -P od for
,t. oredits + Prod for -.-l.t. credits) (9) /7                   8.82      5.33      4.75      4.81      4.62       4.53      4.37      3.98       4.37      4.47     5.11       5.50
l  Al1 ratios ore - alnuiated ot the basis of averaging the year-end bala.ces shoot is the balance bheet (Tal.e T-1).  These are ge.eral2l  reliable sorrogates for
averages bhsed on average daily balances f-r the entire yer, except io the case of short-tern assedt and liabilities, ahere year-cod balances nay depart quite
ertensively fro= averages based so the entire year doe to the e.assoality of agricoltural prodctihon fin-ncing.  The year-cnd averages do, however, give a geoerally
reliable indication of the trends, eves for the short-tern balance sheet ites.
/2  See Tnble T-1 footnote /2.  The 'Flod for medium- and long-tern credits" has to fixed repays-t Achedole and can he bonsidered near-eqoity.  Etrernul credits
therefore represent toal long-tern debt as regards debt servicing.
/3  Inolodes pecalty interest.
4 Inclludes cowo-it-unt fees;  itterest no loans 102-SRO,  1247-RO aod 1368-RO is capitalised d-ring the  bas  resPective  grace periodsa, sd thereby eroluded from this iteo.
- Inclodee only intst paid so EJIFI' Le d7pdet..
T-ooluda  depaat. of tbe C-it 1pa.  CmI  hald La OEl bh_.*     aRr     h a t           a ate sf thu   fad.  i!  tbb *ithrt eIt W o s -b h th    r igb=ea  by 55;
neither of the latter tr-ossetions eaters BAFR'I in-ose st_ett.
/7 Te de_omiotor represents the eqity and sear-eqoity fiosociog of 13A1's operations.
Jaly 1976



- 79 -
ANNEX 4
APPr AISAt OF                                                                                             Table I
LIVESTOCK II PROJECT
Prices for Economic Analysis (Crrrent 19731
Li
Itens                        lpcport Price Fob                                Source or 3asis for  bhe Price                                      Internal traneaort   Special  acking    x-factory-  rice   Ex-farm price
oat pigs                              1,1O0/ton                    arcass price adj.sured for                                                                                             -                  -                  107/pig
transport P. slaughter costs.
Culled smow  and                        858/ton                   live pig price diacooined 15' for ql.Ity                                                                                -                  -                   129/pig
boars                                                           as  eremitted  -mder RFo  import reaglationa.
Carcass meat
- lead o./Fat or                    1,405/tom                 1  Average fob carca-s  price of  1,l4i3/t-c                                                      20(/too              15/ton            1,370/ton              -
- Head off/Fat on                   1,490/ton'                  adjuated assoming 504% head on & 5 )i head off.                                                 2PCton                15/tin            1,455/ton              -
- lead off/Defatted                 1,905/ton                   Carcass Drice adj-sted for head and fat.                                                         20/ton               15/ton            1,873/ton              -
-  Cout                             1,914/ton                  Average fob export price.                                                                         2t/tin               15/ton            1,879/ton              -
- Filets                            3,305/ton                  Average fob carcass price adjusted for domestic filet/carceas  price ratio (2.26).                20/ton               15/ton            3,27'0/ton             -
- Head meats                        1,5lI5/tbn                  Fquivalent to average carcass price as contains no bones and can all                             20/ton                 -               1,428/ton              -
be msd fcc canning.
- Edible offals                     1.882,4/ton                Average carcass price x 1.3 (the domestic market prCce ratio beiween edible                         /too                 _               1,862.4/ton            -
offalr & carcass meat - thie is similar to EEC import levies ratio).
Proc-esed meats
- Semi-canned - hams, loins         3,809/ton                  Average rrS import unit val-e (1T04,.05/ton) tins .3165/ton oneam freight and                     20/ton              15/ton             3,774/ton              -
and Shoulders                                              $66/ton import duty.
remi-canned - Others               2,193/tom                  Approximately 695 of US semi-canned ham, etc. import onit value                                   20/ton              15/ton             2,158/ton              -
minuc $165/ton ocean freighL and $66/ton imoort dnty.
- Sibim  (dry) salami               4,258/ton                  Average export price.                                                                             20/ton              15/ion             4,223/tom              -
- Slanic (soft) salami                ma.                    ( A best estimate, n  export n-otce available.  Use of domestic price ratio                           -                    _               3,200/ton              -
- Other sansages ! salamis            n.a.                   ( as for edible offal gives too high a value.                                                                              -               2,500/ton              -
By- Prodoct a
Lard                                461/ton                 TBK import price nimos $124/tcn longrun differential for transpo,rtation and                       17/ton              33/ton               411/ton             -
a quality adju-rmenL.
- Fat                                 n.a.                     Lard price adjisted for rendering value added ', weight loss.                                       n.a.                 n.a.              357/ton              -
- Skin                                n.a                      Equivalent US ex-factory price.                                                                     ri.a.                na.               2S65/tin
- hair and casings                    n.a.                      iocestic price.                                                                                    n.a.                 n.a.             1.39/pig
- Technical fats    /                 323/ton                  70i of lard price                                                                                 17/tno              33/ton               273/ton
- Meat and bone meal                  351/too                   With 556 proteic aonnmoed 256' promioc: oveor Eaybeam mcal (44% protein) at border.              20/ton                 -                371/ton
Inputs
- Conoentrate feed                      -                       Based on world market prices for maccc, barley & soybean nmol./%                                  2/tom net            -               133.1/too           136.8/ton
- Maize                               112                      World price adjusted  for quality iiscount L  and transport to border.                            19/tori              _                   33/ton
- soybean meal /2                     P81                      World price, plus transport within e-otry.                                                        20/ten               _                  301/ton
Farmyard macore
- N                                   311/Fmn                   Baced o wo-rid market prices asd assumes off setting traneport charges                             -                   _                   _
- p                                   P75/too                   ( P   E import & 1  export).                                                                                           -                   -
- K                                   114/to                                                                                                                                 -                             -_
Breeding pigs
- icybrid gilts                                                 F 0at pig price pins 156 premium for additi-cal peodoctitity.                                                -         _                   _23/pig
-  uorebred boars and cows            -                         lat pig price pluB 30% premium tfr additional prodnctivity.                                        _                   _                                     139/pig
Live oeanere                            -                         Per kilo pricm  of live fat pig adjosted by the ratio of 1 .5.                                                                                                53/pig
/1  To be deducted from FOB pricc for items valued at export par.ity.
7   JCporI saving therefore port ti  factory transport adced to POb value to give em-fenton: value.
bloaze and barley val-od ot export parity,  soy-a m-I at i.p1ort parity.
/ R pomanian meize considered to be at 15  pr-ne discou-t from iS. maic duo to T1altiL  dedicien-ies.
Ante:  FOB prices based on <I70-177 averag-s exprensed inl 1?78 holler ter.                                                                                                                                  Joly 1978






- 80 -
u 2F2000Tb. CF
1101505:11 10 11rs302
Tjl,'FqT~~~~~~~~~,~~'L IT Ml~~~~~~~~~,E-'f ~~~~ANNEX 4
RObRLT!t                                                                                            T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~gtlu 2
-  Econom.c fars ot f   t-
______________ _____ ____ ______ ______________________ ____________ ___________ _______-  ------            Iso 0|----   -                  ----    ----  4                 1            6         _71                   _____             _
1         2          -3                                    6          7                       5            4          1          2            2          14          1            4            51                     9    ~     20
P oojt b-sieflto
,ooal goods from  as.oghtorhobse  i                              _          _        1,-5,109,    3, ,-  ;-3  4,34 1,7()  4,665,265  4,c44,4         ,1ohL, 4,6'4h . 'I P9      4'4,485  4,644,4b9  4,644,489  4,,44,03?  4,6814, J,90    ,4,661,49  Z,fl 44,48-  4,644,489   4644,4d9  4644,439  4,644,489
Pinal goods f- ..sa. ge facilities and cold stres L2              -          _         o98,335  2,497,041 2,943,310  3, 131,41f   ,03o,316  3, so,f P6  3,00a,d6o  3, '60,S-6  3,0o63,8)6  3,o60,894  3,04D,81 6  3,360,396  3,060,896  3,460,894   3,460,896  3,460,894  3,0 O,56  3,0608,396
V'lor or manure faotilisso soolv-leots L                        1,534       lq,532      63,35+     11,504    134,563    134,538          131,5    3,3    134,503    134,54 3    134,583    134,583    134,583    134,583    134,533    134,533    134,583    134,533    134,533    134,583
Osoldoal valor of hard L                                                     - _         _                                                                                                                                                                                                     2,-1-,4-0
lerramertal revenue from renovation of raietig e                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,1,0
!oouslg iOL private  -ot-or                                     _         43,312     137,264    206,436    246,436    206,43        206,43t    206o436    206, 436   206,430    206,436    006,436    256,436    206,436    206,436    203,436    296,433    206,436    206,436    206,436
Salvo of  loronatral 30100 ootidr Frojact (years 4-25)           _         -            -         334,  43 44,4:37    -46,537    446,C37    :1:1  '?7    4463,    -v 46, 37    446,437    81,8,037    446,037    446,,03            446,037    446,337    446,037    '163,037    446,037    446,037
Sales of  dlga autsida ProJect (year 2)                           -       399,401        -           -           _           _          _
Prj.ect b-nefit tatel                                          1,834      444,735  3i,47,43o  6.952,eO4  8,071,063  b,483,797  3,452,441  f 6,4-441  8,34,' 44i 3,442 a4l  3,492,441  -,492,441  3,492,441  8,492,441  8,492,441  8,499,441   ,49f2,441  8,492,441  8,L92,1-  10,506,841
Project coats
_ d,n>vscclanta
Pig prodootion in dtalt  se-tor /5                           519,560   1,393,684   1,055,333    17,11o36         -           -          -           -           _                       -          -           _           -           _           _           =                       -
ig prodction in  ri-vte setor 3/ 6,683                                   253,24'       354,440       3,36d       -           _           -          _           _           _           _          _           -           _           -           _           _           _           _          _
Xest p-P-esaiug /7                                           431,357   5,916,553       771,6350     34,529
Xloriti ,orr--rr  oOr-rt                                      11,510       15,790        -           -           -           -          -           ---                                                                                                           
Omorroenlal. nos froan renon at on of vait ettg tauslong
-n private sactar                                          135,281      165,26O      l--5,2--
Prcohuse of gilta in yeas 1-3                                 56,271       237,953      s    7       -           -           -          -                       -           -           -          -           -           -           -           _           -           -           _          -
I-mert-oote vobtotel                                       1P.00.145   3,1?6,672   2,451,025    194,385          -          _           -           -           -           -           -          - _                     -           -           - _                                -
- trertign costs
Fig prodontioo io Stlat  /eonor L                             44,636 5359,96    1,413,346  2o,63,-664  3,007 ,5b  3,500,d87   3,05,d80   3,00c ,78o   3,-C7,805  3,057,8o  3,03r,483  3,C07,803  3,557,358  3,17,808  3,007,62d  3,  57,8d8  3,007,838  3,007,89d  3,057,830   3,037,808
ig prodo-tio: in privte seotor                                   -          4,335        7,377       0,38834    2   I'+,i1.   26,-?335   255,433    263,073    236,933    034,Y33    o39"I33    230, 933 222,933    269,33319,933         f8433    25,933    269,y33    069,)33    269,133    2695,533
Moot      -1Cda 2i /13                                            -         -          157,735    417,110    406,297    523,0.15   526,555    520,555    526,555    526,555    526,55    526,53    526,555    526,335    526,555    526,555    526,555    526,555    526,555    526,555
P -,r -   -,, 0  ,tI,v   ig-                                                         __y- -_3_21)                       2,01S.455    0, 13,4~,  2,    _ _   _ _  _ _     _ _  _ _  __  _ _  _  _ _  _ _     _ _  _ ___                _  _ _  _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _  _    _ _ _ _     _  _ _ _   _ _  _ _
r a t pods (yours 3-20)                 ____ __      _              3o3,sOo  7 310 ,3n6  1 o35          13.SS5 300  _1 71  2,33,_55  2,;13,1 55  2,013,955  2,013,955  2013-,55  2 0113,55  20,013,955  2,013,955  2,013,955  2,113,955  2,013,955  2,013,955  2,513,55
Opartig gosts abtatsl                                         44,03       513,89    2,565,5R75  4,762,330  5,445,6C6  5,814,701  5,8,251           I 31, 51   5,31d,?51  3,31, 251  3,315,271  5,419,251  5,61R,251  5,5 ,251   5,818,251  5,818,251  5,91    18,251   5,818,251  5,813 ,2531,1  9,313,251
Frojeot ouslo: total.                                      1,244,734   3,710,563   5,ClG,4u43  4,737,0514  5,44',8:s6) 5.43, 00.  53,]09, 35 1  5,     815.71  3,316,751 8 ,1oo1t  3,4R,2 51  5,319 ,251  5,381,251  5,518,251  5,818t,251  5,3R1,751  5,463,351  5,318,250  3,11 5,231  59,8,
Prcje-t -at btaufits                                        (1,21.2,250) (3,225,773) 3 1) 9 6,973) 1,8 3  5,3310  2,62L,460  2,669,096  2,674,135, 2,1 7L,Ius   2.3(4,1>) 2,674,13:  2,674,190  2,.;74,190  2,8674,190  P, 714, 1u   2,674,1)0  2,674,155  2,674,19C  2,674,19C  2,674,195  4,683,590
totso,,- date 00 0500400 cold Soosoctavty koodyaa rour _oteL otojato
1    --t r   isru),     Au eBditi.oou  ocrkrtes    153 iopoo..-eut to feed  -onsrd- efficla-y
Base    Inveett-nt r.cnssrO,3    Cocool ng oosle1            Peoefloa -106    lOud -. nors o  effloteocy           pig/zov/year               a.u i    ddit-,n  -e,-hrt  fr pg/-ov/Yac-
30.0             27.7                       L3.7                 20,8                    7.3                          32.3                                    35.2
'1  PeC. P-07000 Iupleon-tatiou Filt, Acnex/ T.able  35 -od Io.  Prod-t .,lu o: tls',oOonbseso ir )naoona,one at'), dooa -,   -deP , I. ,ghto- .- Fao-li)r,    for 5,5  sod 2,                     p iga/year, Irojotd Ince   tat nt.  Soc AnAe 4, Pl   , fo  p                    tlied.
75  Projeot sausage fentlittas and cold etor-, sopplied vith  pork caroasaes from  al1-ght-rho-cee.  Pooduct mi. in ooo- da-e          ) 1uthusadoe .... looy sod - olc -lsd n t odel ,o.oonn   env,,oa.  Sen A3,.tn  4, table 1, zoo  oioee,ootllced.
7r  At f11  desl]oponnt of  jtg production capsity (193), 134, 274 tone of dry n tte r ge-te ed/year fro...f     758,614 t..o.os of f-od.   -)h o  of f-d ---3  to p-do .3 kp,5o. N, 1-3R9   P rod  .9 kg, 1_              t-otrer pt-           ri       - 33*,314/too, P - JS$20,/too sod
0 - 3JSil44/ton.  P and Eaouadarvd inport sodetitution sod 1' report 1iotrease, oharafooe t     ranaport oharges sad asovr.o  arc assumed eporooluntoly el-at and son ignor-d.  lost of loa.dig on pleofoom af         a retd-o 00ield:  7.25 lei/too.
14  Rof. Prolc-t TnpleosltLto  Pile, Antex 7, PPJ-rot Cast Flows.  'heo h      l,o-   ore liq isotel, etook uce,,aed sol- d    ao ec. s  p'P oat    oio-rp)  - 15,792 1st/kg (saport oo-oaos potoe sd.-stud for Ic--up-co tad slght,r -ostoL)
7   Oaf. Proj-st 1cpL--astati-o  ils,  A 0    orned-t-t Cost tsbl-e     000ki0.g -spita1  -colidad.
70  Hoo-iog  ooetel  leA 12,d/Fa/frmer.
r Oaf. Project ITple-e-tstio  File, Anoes 7, Invest-etn Cost tabllee   eooti.,  -apittl excloded.
7f  PeF. P-o)       p      te     Fle, A-ceu '. don3strn-t.  lo                    olt-es      ty foo, o a ...      nhaes  l-on             (                                       to  proect omitted.                                             I     wlottoot of fend -2.14  lc/Lc n    t pro    o, slo, bly
s-C  -oybaan -el sod adjosoed fo- internal transport.  See A-ue- 4, Bable 1:  Poites foo                A-onotic Atalyio._
/o  taloalaioo of purchasauF ursauerandCa feed:  reaes-3-  5le/piaI p-coOsd dnod 1.94l,4 i/oo  (,3/a -er, 5   -ot-aoo (so-be-o  teal)1.
1;: Ref. Project Noplaeutattoo. Fils, Antee 7.  REoloding raw e                -ieals,  sooial seo-uitr fiod, p.yroll rax eod onsoreuoe.
loOp 1370






APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK II PROJECT
ROMANIA
Total Meat-  and Pigmeat Per Capita Consumption for Selected Countries (kg cwe/year)
1970                       1975                       1980                             1985
Region/Country           Total meat    Pigmeat    Total Meat    Pigmeat    Total Meat    Pigmeat                Total Meat    Pigmeat
Eastern Europe                                                                                             /2/2
Romania                   36.0          13.6         47.0          21.3          60.0         28.0(25.9) -       72.0         36.0(27.1) -
Czekoslovakia             45.1          24.2         77.1          50.7         76.5          38.8               81.5         38.0
Germany D.R.              61.5          26.9         69.4          33.2          78.9         48.7               83.6         40.7
Poland                    59.2          34.0         75.9          46.3          61.0         39.4               66.5         41.5
USSR                        41.9          13.1         50.8           15.9         55.6         20.1               60.3         22.0
Western Europe
EEC-9                     73.7          29.6         78.8          32.5          75.3         33.8               78.5         35.1
France                  84.2          30.6         91.3          34.0         84.0          34.4               88.0         35.5
Germany F.R.            83.7          45.6         89.3          51.3         87.5          52.1               91.7         54.1
Italy                   53.7          12.7         61.4          17.8         63.2          19.4               68.1         23.2
Netherlands             61.3          28.6         69.9          35.3          65.9         34.9               71.0         37.0
U.K.                    75.4          26.9         73.4          23.2         69.1          26.8               68.8         26.9
Other Western Europe
Spain                  41.6           13.8         58.5          18.8         55.0          19.5               58.3         20,7
Sweden                  52.2          26.9         59.3          31.5         54,8          30,7               59.0         32.4
Yugoslavia              33.7          13.6         57.5          28.8         42.7          19.4               52,9         23.2
Japan                       17.8           7.2         24.2           10.4         26,0         12.6               32.2         15.0
NOTE:  The inconsistency between Actual 1970 and 1975 and Projected 1980 and 1985 levels for Western Europe results from using,                      W
out of necessity, two different data sources.  Nonetheless relative levels are believed correct.
/1  Four major meats only; beef and veal, pigmeat, mutton and lamb and poultry.
/2 FAO projections. Note FAO 1985 Projections in ESC:PROJ/78/2 do not give Total Meat for Romania.
Sources: 1970-1985 Romania - Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry, Bucharest; 1970 and 1975 other Eastern Europe and USSR -
USDA FAS Foreign Agricultural Circular Livestock and Meat, FLM 10-78, Sept. 1978; 1970 and 1975 Western Europe and
Japan - OECD Meat Balances in Member Countries 1965-1976, March 1978; 1985 - FAO Commodity Projections 1985 Meat
Supply Demand and Trade Projections 1985, ESC:PROJ/78/2, June 1978; 1980 interpolation of FAO 1985 projections.
July 1978



ANNEX 6
-82-                          Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK II PROJECT
ROMANIA
Project Implementation File
Table of Contents
1. Marketing and Prices
Appendix 1: Effect of Slaughterweight on the Economics of
Pig Production
Appendix 2:  Table 1 - Romania - Meat Exports 1970-1977
Table 2 - Romania - Pig Population, Production and
Disposition, Actual 1970-1978, Planned
1979-1985
2. Agricultural Production Organizations and Investment Financing
3. Institutional Channels for Financing and Marketing of Pigs in the
Private Sector
4. Pig Production
Appendix 1: Pigfeed Supply
Appendix 2: Pig Production Technical Coefficients, Pig Nutrient
Specifications and Pigfeed Analyses in Romania
5. Livestock Slaughtering and Meat Processing
Appendix 1:  Material Balances, Product Yields and Material
Utilizations for Slaughterhouse Models
Appendix 2:  Agricultural Construction and Food Industry Research
Institutes
Appendix 3:  Estimated MIC Pig Slaughtering Capacities and
Requirements by Judet for 1977 and 1982
6. Waste Water Control in Romania
7. Models for Financial Analysis
8. Economic Analysis - Individual Component Rates of Return and
Some Background Considerations
9. The Feed and Forage Base for Livestock Development in Romania
10. Data on Women in the Romanian Labor Force
11. COMIAL and COMTIM



ANNEX 6
- 83 -                        Page 2
CHARTS
IBRD No. 19417 - COMIAL - Organization Chart
IBRD No. 19418 - COMTIM - Organization Chart
MAPS
IBRD No. 13795 - COMIAL - Location of Facilities
IBRD No. 13796 - COMTIM - Location of Facilities



ANNEX 7
- 84 -                        Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK II PROJECT
ROMANIA
Project Background File
Table of Contents
A.   Sector and Subsector Reports and Studies
1.   Romania:  The Industrialization of an Agrarian Economy under
Socialist Planning, 4 Vols., World Bank Report No. 1601-RO,
March 31, 1978.
2.   Romania:  Agricultural Sector Survey.  World Bank Report No.
953a-RO, October 29, 1976.
B.   Project Related Reports and Studies
1.   Romania:  Appraisal of a Pig Production and Processing Project.
World Bank Report No. 1500-RO, June 27, 1977.
2.   Import  Customs Tariff of the Socialist Republic of Romania.  Decree
of Council of State No. 395, Official Gazette of the Socialist
Republic of Romania, Vol. XI, No. 109-110, Dec. 9, 1976.
3.   By-Laws of the Intercooperative Council, By-Laws of the Interco-
operative Economic Association and By-Laws for Cooperation and
Association of Agricultural Production Cooperatives with State
or Consumer Cooperative Organizations. Decree of Council of
State No. 346, Sept. 28, 1977, Ceres
4.   By-Laws of Consumer Cooperative Organizations
5.   By-Laws of Agricultural Cooperative Organizations
6.   Measures for Improving Foreign Trade Activities.  Resolution
No. 1771 of the Council of Ministers. Official Gazette of
the SRR No. 13, Jan. 20, 1975 (Basis of Romagrimex and
Prodexport Operations).
7.   Improvement in Production and Consumption of Feeds in State
Agricultural Enterprises and Agricultural Production Coopera-
tives. Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industries, Order No.
25, Oct. 27, 1971, Publishing Office for Agricultural Periodicals.
8.   FAO Commodity Projections 1985.  Meat:  Supply,  Demand and Trade
Projections 1985. FAO, Rome, ESC: PROJ/78/2, June 1978.
9.   On the Common Organization of the Market in Pigmeat Regulation (EEC),
No. 2479/75 of the Council, Oct. 29, 1975. Official Journal of
the European Communities, No. L 282/1, Nov. 11, 1975.
10.   Weekly European Market Survey:  An Explanation of the Operation of
the EEC Pigmeat Regime. Meat and Livestock Commission, Bletchey,
Milton Keyes, U.K., November 1976.



ANNEX 7
- 85 -                       Page 2
11.   Weekly European Market Survey:  Pigs - Background Notes, Meat and
Livestock Commission, Bletchey, Milton Keyes, U.K., October 1977.
12.   Profiles and Prospects in Canned Meat - 1980.  Business Research
Operations Control Department, American Can Company, Greenwich,
Connecticut, Spring 1976.
13.   Cont-act, Production, Acquisition and Retail Prices for Live Animals
and Animal Products. Decree of Council of State No. 410, Official
Gazette of the SRR, Vol. IX, No. 103, Part 1, July 13, 1973.
14.   System for Contract and Acquisition of Animals:  Order of the Council
of State No. 511/1963. Official Bulletin of the Socialist Republic
of Romania, Part I, No. 117
15.   Methodological Standards for Application of the Finance Law on
Provision of Credit to State Agricultural Organizations, No. 2.
Credit for Production Activities. Bank for Agriculture and Food
Industries, Sept. 1977
16. Project Technical and Economic Indicators, Forecast and Actual, BAFI
C.   Selected Working Papers, Tables and Drawings
1.   Pig Production Project - Preparation Report
a.   Summary
b.   Information
c.   Drawings
2.   Considerations in Modernization of 30,000 Pig Capacity Model to Reach
a Capacity of 44,000 Pigs
3.   Manure Disposal
4.   Specimens and Translations of Private Individual Contracts for Agri-
cultural Products with Consumer Cooperatives and Credit Cooperatives
5.   Selected Livestock and Meat Production and Trade Data - Europe and
North America
6.   Pigmeat Production Efficiency - Some Experimental Results
7.   BAFI/MAFI Proposed:  - Project Investments, Phasing of Investments,
Investments by Judet, COMIAL Investments and COMTIM Investments -
for State, CAP and Food Industry Enterprises, June 15, 1978






( i~X~     POLAR4 INO                                   24                28                                                2E- 30
0   20  w40, 60      105  20...... 40  160                             SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF ROMANIA
_.            US.s,                               o,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 20  40  6,0  80 10,0 120 140 1,80               I     E     T      CPR                  J        T
KILOMTERSLIVESTOCKIIPROJECT
CrAu$ImA                                    5S>                  5 >  -80   o  20    40    60    e0   ion                                                                                      50~
4 >,g   ,'lJ                    ;  ,,  >                                       h9E                                                           Planned under Project:
MILES
ROMANIA    <                                                                                                              Pig breeding /fattening units
\'               ."a~   ~R  -~ ,DhJa                                                                                                        Crossbred gilt production units
-/ ' 5t69  e  r {' "   j # EfiLA   t   Sea                                                                                                Modernization of existing pig breeding /fattening units
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Slaughterhouses
_                                                     I                                                            Modernization of existing slaughterhouses
2'2            /                                                                                                         Cold stores
C Z E C H O S L O V A K I A       j                                                                                                        :  Sausage processing (salami)
Agro-Climatic Zones:
N ~~~~~~'                        U. ~~~~~~~ S.          S.         R.                                   Plains
Foothills
48                                                                                                  \ \\                                         Transylvania mountains and tablelands          48
H    U    N      G A         R    Y       >         -.                                                                                       Zose boundaries
H. XGAftJMA~EY~   MAR              ~                                                                    - ----District (Judet) boundaries
\<)~ eJ  -sR *t 2;Ea                   j  $ U C E A V A   \I International boundaries
'        A      /    \. NiASAD   i              _           AN         A   .
.1     \~~~ SALAJ,                                                            A 
B I H O R                                                                  A MT
,1))-.,             /   M UIE~ 5  /                             , '                  )                                    >M U
/HARGHIT  ,               BAC  U\
BAA   C
-46th       , .          X           r)        >   A L BA       /      N     A _       /- \)                                                                                                     4 \   >-* i  / _ _/  ;  46L
)Ou ~       OASNA             ,
2'i                               I. G/Ss aSa6  <   ( 5I B I 0  y  >9 XVRANCEASAIIATI G
T I MI ~  ,-..JHUNEDARA\  IBRA~O                                            VA    E          A   
T I M ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~I-
t      NU A  z    t   \ !   BU Z A U
.1SEVERIN.                                                                                                                     -
~~~/N   .'t't                    :,. \VILCA                        j                           ,^ 9- I RA T U L CE  A.5
' GO R J             i ARGEL1                                             RI         j r.6<A4
     MEHIEDINTI\6 
-'                                                                                                 7 V S
-,   -       1-                      -<    reiic~~~fB  AE~ST    ?'/ 
)         '   )~~"        t     k~~' \              A LOM ITM 
Y U GOS LA V IA                            /                                              I LFOV'-1 
44  r             DO      ~ ~~~~~    /'  '  ~~~                         . .*-~~~  ~~     CONS~TANTA,,
/              TELORMAN\ 
2S    .B    U    L    G                         A     R    I   A
2,2'                               24                                26                                 2e



