               Document of
            The World Bank




                                       Report No: 25735

  IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
          (IDA-28890; PPFI-P9830)

                   ON A

          LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT

     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ MILLION

                  TO THE

FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA

                  FOR A

           Health Sector Transition




               April 10, 2003

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective April 11, 2003)

                                Currency Unit = Macedonian denar
                                    61.2 denar = US$ 1
                                  US$ 0.0161 = 1 denar

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                       1996    2002

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CME     - Continuous Medical Education
HIF     - Health Insurance Fund
HIL     - Health Insurance Law
HSTP    - Health Sector Transition Project
ICB     - International Competitive Bidding
IPH     - Institutes of Public Health
IPU     - International Project Unit
MIS     - Management Information System
MOH     - Ministry of Health
MTR     - Mid Term Review
NTP     - National Tuberculosis Control Program
PEIR    - Public Expenditure and Institutional Review
PIC     - Public Information Campaign
PR      - Public Realtions
PHC     - Primary Health Care
PHCS    - Primary Health Care School
PSMAC   - Public Sector Management Adjustment Credit
SSAC    - Social Sector Adjustment Credit
TA      - Technical Assistance
TB      - Tuberculosis
WBI     - World Bank Institute
WHO     - World Health Organization



                               Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn
                  Country Manager/Director:      Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
                    Sector Manager/Director:     Annette Dixon
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Jean-Jacques de St. Antoine

                  MACEDONIA, FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF
                                  Health Sector Transition


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            17
6. Sustainability                                                                18
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 19
8. Lessons Learned                                                               20
9. Partner Comments                                                              22
10. Additional Information                                                       23
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             24
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             25
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                31
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            32

Project ID: P036089                                                      Project Name: Health Sector Transition
Team Leader: Jean J. De St Antoine                                       TL Unit: ECSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 24, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: Health Sector Transition                                 L/C/TF Number: IDA-28890; PPFI-P9830
   Country/Department: FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF                                        Region: Europe and Central Asia
                            MACEDONIA                                                                Region

        Sector/subsector: Health (54%); Central government administration (34%); Health
                            insurance (12%)



KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    09/01/1994                                        Effective:                         12/23/1996
   Appraisal:    04/05/1996                                            MTR:                           03/24/1999
    Approval:    06/20/1996                                         Closing: 03/31/2000               03/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVT. OF FYRM/MOH
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                      Current                                             At Appraisal
Vice President:            Johannes F. Linn                                    Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:          Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                              Kenneth G. Lay
Sector Manager:            Annette Dixon                                       Ralph W. Harbison
Team Leader at ICR:        Jean J. De St Antoine                               Ellen A. Goldstein
ICR Primary Author(s): Silviu Radulescu


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:M

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives of the Health Sector Transition Project (HSTP) stated in the SAR were to:

(i)      improve the health of the population by enhancing the quality of basic health services; and
(ii)     support an initial phase of policy reforms to increase cost effectiveness, fiscal sustainability and
patient choice within the health system.

The specific objectives of the project components were the following:

(i) health finance and management component to build capacity for policy-making and health system
management;

(ii) basic health services component to strengthen primary health care and health promotion, particularly in
rural areas; and

(iii) supply and distribution of pharmaceuticals component to help reduce the cost of essential drugs
through reforms creating a more competitive pharmaceutical market.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Although the project was restructured and simplified at the mid-term review (MTR), the development
objectives were not revised. During restructuring, it was acknowledged that the project was excessively
ambitious to tackle the complex problems in health finance and in the pharmaceuticals sector in a
comprehensive way within the scope of this project.


3.3 Original Components:
The initial project design included the following components and subcomponents, with their respective
costs estimated at appraisal:

I. Health Finance and Management (estimated cost of US$ 4.2 million, of which IDA US$ 4.0 million).
This component was to provide support for technical studies, strengthening of management skills in the
Ministry of Health (MOH), Health Insurance Fund (HIF) and health facilities, and the development of
management information systems.

The following subcomponents were included:

A. Health Financing Reforms (estimated cost of US$ 0.57 million). This subcomponent was to provide
technical support for preparation and implementation of health financing reforms including: (i) definition of
a fiscally-sustainable benefits package, to be covered by mandatory national health insurance, as well as
supplemental premiums and packages; (ii) revision of copayment and user fee policies and penalties for
non-contribution to health insurance; (iii) adoption of a capitation payment mechanism for public and
private sector primary health care; and (iv) adoption of an integrated medical and financial information
system for the public sector health network, as a prerequisite to defining a new payment mechanism for
hospital care. It was planned to support a resident Health Financing Advisor responsible for coordinating
short-term teams of local and foreign consultants to carry out policy studies related to each reform area.

B. Strengthening of Health Insurance Fund (estimated cost US$ 1.13 million). This subcomponent was
designed to increase the capability of the Health insurance Fund (HIF) personnel to analyze and implement
policy options, through fellowships and in-country training workshops in health economics, principles of
insurance, health system planning and public advocacy techniques, as well as a study tour of comparative
health financing systems. Capacity building for the HIF was to include technical and financial support to
develop trainers and training seminars for staff of district HIF offices.



                                                     - 2 -

C. Strengthening of Hospital Management (estimated cost of US$ 0.39 million). This subcomponent would
support the creation of a Macedonia Hospital Association for the sharing of information and training for
hospital administrators to utilize the information system. Envisaged activities were a study tour, training
seminars and development of a continuing education program in facilities management for hospital
administrators and medical directors.

D. Public Information Campaign (estimated cost of US$ 0.38 million). Activities planned under this
subcomponent were to support public information and advocacy campaigns using social marketing
techniques, to enhance understanding and acceptance of health sector reforms by policy-makers, interest
groups and the general public.

E. Financing Accounting System (estimated cost US$ 1.68 million). This component was designed to
provide the tools for effective management, and allow for the future introduction of a case-mix based
hospital reimbursement system. It was planned to implement the first phase of a medium-term automation
plan for an integrated medical and financial management information system for public sector health
facilities. Planned activities were: (i) to test the system in two pilot districts, receiving an automation
package for the participating Medical Centers (general hospital and polyclinic), two primary health care
centers, district Institutes of Public Health (IPH) and district HIF offices; (ii) to provide information
technology to the HIF and National IPH offices; and (iii) to establish the necessary electronic linkage for
data transfer and processing within the HIF network.

II. Basic Health Services (estimated cost of US$ 7.8 million, of which IDA US$ 6.5 million). This
component was to equip rural primary health care centers, upgrade skills of primary care personnel and
supply essential materials to five high-priority disease prevention programs. The following subcomponents
were included.

II.1. Priority Prevention Program (estimated cost of US$ 4.4 million). Five programs were selected on
the basis of their potential impact in reducing the national burden of disease and on the cost-effectiveness of
the proposed interventions.

A. Immunization (estimated cost of US$ 0.05 million). The project was to supply hepatitis B vaccines,
while UNICEF would provide parallel financing for most vaccines needed to combat childhood diseases
and control epidemics, aiming at maintaining coverage rates of at least 95 percent.

B. Tuberculosis (TB) Prevention (estimated cost of US$ 0.97 million). The project aimed to improve
prevention of tuberculosis, through better screening capacity by providing spare parts for x-ray equipment,
photographic film and replacement of two outdated mobile clinics with one new mobile van.

C. AIDS Prevention (estimated cost of US$ 0.42 million). Test kits were to be provided for HIV screening.

D. Blood Donation (estimated cost of US$ 0.35 million). The subcomponent aimed to increase blood
supply and restore donation levels, by financing promotional materials in local languages.

E. Maternal and Child Care (estimated cost of US$ 2.12 million). Activities under this subcomponent were
to provide material support for reproductive health services, for drugs and equipment for prevention and
treatment of disease in neonates and infants and to support restructuring and expansion of an existing
cervical cancer screening program.




                                                     - 3 -

F. Laboratory Diagnostics (estimated cost of US$ 0.32 million). Equipment and materials to strengthen
laboratory diagnostics for the prevention and treatment of infectious diseases were to be provided.

II.2. Primary Health Care (PHC) (estimated cost US$ 3.4 million) including:

A. Equipment for PHC (estimated cost of US$ 2.9 million) This subcomponent would provide basic
equipment kits to all rural PHC centers in the country (an estimated 150 PHC centers with one or more
full-time physicians, 50 PHC centers to which a full-time physician had to be assigned, and more limited
equipment kits for 50 centers without a full-time physician).

B. Capacity Building (estimated cost of US$ 0.47 million). Activities planned under this subcomponent
were to: (i) provide technical and financial support for workshops and study tours to help the MOH and
professional associations develop their own permanent programs for continuing education of primary care
personnel, broadening the skills of primary care physicians and identifying and enforcing quality assurance
standards for primary care; and (ii) provide short-term fellowships to develop capacity within the MOH for
planning and implementation of primary care strategies.

III. Supply and Distribution of Pharmaceuticals (estimated cost of US$ 6.4 million, of which IDA US$
5.4 million). This component was to finance the procurement of essential drugs for primary care, and to
provide technical advice, training and equipment to improve public procurement, reimbursement and
quality control. The following subcomponents were included.

A. Drug Procurement and Capacity Building (estimated cost of US$ 4.06 million). Planned activities under
this subcomponent were: (i) technical support to revise the Drug Bill and accompanying regulations with
respect to registration, pricing and generic substitution, and establish essential drug lists for primary and
hospital care; (ii) building of local capacity for competitive procurement and for implementation of a
reference price reimbursement system for HIF, through external internships in international procurement
offices, technical assistance, studies to establish reference prices and support to carry out initial
international tenders for drugs; and (iii) procurement of essential drugs and supplies from an agreed list,
that were to ease HIF resource constraints and provide practical experience in international competitive
bidding for pharmaceutical products.

B. Drug Control Laboratory (estimated cost US$ 1.7 million). The plan was to support the provision of
advanced drug testing equipment for quality control laboratories, short-term fellowships, in-country
training and technical assistance to upgrade the drug quality assurance system.

C. Pre-clinical and Clinical Pharmacology (estimated cost of US$ 0.38 million). This would help establish
a system to test the possible adverse side effects of drugs.

D. Drug Information and Rational Use (estimated cost of US$ 0.26 million). Activities were to: (i) support
the establishment of a drug information center and a small center for adverse drug reaction monitoring; and
(ii) promote more rational use of drugs through information campaigns directed at prescribers, dispensers
and the public.

A condition of project effectiveness was for the government to sign a contract with a procurement agency to
ensure the procurement and distribution of pharmaceutical products, medical equipment and supplies under
the project. In addition, the enactment of a Drug Law, satisfactory to IDA, regulating the registration, trade
and distribution of drugs in Macedonia and all provisions for implementation of this legislation completed
was a condition of disbursement of this component.


                                                      - 4 -

IV. Project management ­ International Project Unit (IPU) (estimated cost of US$ 1 million, of
which IDA US$ 0.9 million). This component was to support an IPU in the MOH, responsible for the
coordination, management and monitoring of the HSTP. The IPU was to be headed by a Director,
supported by a core full-time staff funded under the Project consisting of a Procurement Officer,
Disbursement Officer/Accountant, and an Office Administrator/Interpreter. The component was also
designed to facilitate the work of the IPU by allowing to contract short-term foreign and local consultancy
services in project management and procurement, as well as policy-related areas such as health economics
and private sector development.

3.4 Revised Components:

Following a slow implementation, and very limited disbursements during the initial project years, the
project was simplified and restructured in October 1999 following the MTR. It was clear that the project
was overly ambitious and complex and the local capacity needed substantial strengthening to implement the
project. It was agreed that Credit funds would be reallocated to the two high-impact sub-components which
were performing most successfully, the Continuous Medical Education (CME) program for primary health,
and maternal and child health. Seven of the 17 sub-components were cancelled, including: I.C.
Strengthening of Hospital Management, II.1.A. Immunization, II.1.C. AIDS Prevention, II.1.D. Blood
Donation II.1.F. Laboratory Diagnostics III.B. Drug Control Laboratory, III.C. Pre-clinical and Clinical
Pharmacology. Four of the remaining 10 subcomponents were scaled back. There was a significant
reduction of pharmaceuticals procurement

The revised components were as follows:



             Component                          Cost (US$)                             Rating
Basic Health Services - Prevention               5,070,000                              HS
Programs
Basic Health Services - Primary                  4,818,000                               S
Health Care
Health Finance and Management                    2,666,000                               S
Pharmaceutical Policy and Supply                 1,550,000                               U
Project Management                               1,288,000                               S


3.5 Quality at Entry:
A QAG or QER review was not available at the time of project preparation. However, this ICR rates the
quality as unsatisfactory for the following reasons. First, although the project strategy and concept were
generally valid, the design was too complex for the implementation capacity existing at project launch.
Second, the project time frame of three years and a half was too short and, as a result, two extensions
totalling two years were required to allow the simplified project to be implemented. Third, the project was
linked to an excessively ambitious sector reform agenda, but technical preparation of some of the
components was not substantial enough, and there was insufficient agreement of major stakeholders.
Fourth, the monitoring and evaluation framework was weak.

The project was intended to be an instrument for achieving one of the aims for investment operations stated
in the 1995 Macedonia CAS (Report 14379-MK), i.e. "maintaining an adequate social safety net through
institutional strengthening of cash benefit programs, development of employment services, and


                                                    - 5 -

restructuring of health and education systems." According to the CAS, lending in the health sector was
contingent specifically upon a "a medium-term strategy for structural reform of the health system." This
strategy was prepared by five Macedonian technical groups as part of project preparation with support
from the Bank and the World Health Organization (WHO). In view of the difficulties and controversies that
occurred during project implementation (e.g. regarding model for development of primary care services,
based on family doctor), evidence has accumulated to sustain the view that, although technically sound, the
health reform strategy developed in 1995-96 was not shared by significant shareholder groups in the health
sector.

The project design sought to balance policy reforms and capacity building with investments, though
without consistent consideration of whether the beneficiaries of the investments were in fact those
institutions and actors who would bear the costs and challenges of reform. The risks related to the many
different emerging groups of winners and losers could have been mitigated if there had been a strong
champion to provide leadership and mediate between stakeholders. Also, the use of a strong participatory
process would have helped. These prerequisites did exist during part of the preparation phase, but
disappeared during implementation. This came about because of frequent changes of the MOH leadership,
polarization of people and institutions inside versus outside the project. During the first half of the project,
even working groups, that were potential instruments for consultation and dissipation of tensions, became a
factor of increased negative reaction towards the project, as they were influenced by stakeholders left
outside the process.

Some of the project subcomponents were not well linked to the development objectives, either conceptually
(e.g. laboratory equipment) or as incentives for change (e.g. TB prevention, as designed originally). Some
of those subcomponents lacked the adequate input mix (i.e. physical investments, technical assistance (TA)
and training) to support the policy agenda. The overall impression given by the original design is that of a
large number of small investment components grafted on a complex sector reform policy agenda, more
likely to be found in an adjustment operation. Annex 1 of the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) presents an
elaborate matrix with "project benchmarks". Most of these benchmarks were legislative and regulatory
changes, in addition to some restructuring measures, which is unusual for an investment operation. The
policy changes covered in this matrix exceeded the borrower's implementing capacity, and the leverage that
the Bank would have through this project was overestimated. In the event, reform implementation was
supported subsequently by an effective coordination with two subsequent adjustment operations - the Social
Sector Adjustment Credit (SSAC) and the Public Sector Management Adjustment Credit (PSMAC). The
design of the prevention programs subcomponent was particularly complex: resources were spread thinly
across many objectives and programs, each of which required separate strategy development, project
planning, stakeholder and implementation agency arrangements.              There was inadequate technical
preparation regarding strategy and project planning. Resources were allocated to support only some of the
necessary inputs to achieve development impact.

The design focused excessively on financial levers for reform (payment systems, performance of insurance
administration), and neglected organizational aspects, especially at the micro level. A number of issues
were not properly taken into account, notably: (i) the lack of appropriate governance, accountability,
management autonomy and incentives for public sector healthcare providers (there seemed to be an
assumption that public sector providers would respond to payment arrangements in the way that
competitive private organizations would do); and (ii) the excessive specialization of providers in primary
health care (separate physicians/services dealing with adults, children, emergencies, obstetrics and
gynecology in PHC, preventive care ­ immunizations, home care) and the relations of obstetrics and
gynecology, neonatology, and pediatrics in the provision of prenatal and perinatal care. The lack of an early
agreement regarding the strategic direction to take in these areas resulted in tensions and delays in the


                                                    - 6 -

implementation of the project, exposure of the project to controversies and turf battles by different interest
groups, as well as an incomplete use of the potential of consultants' capacity. Technical assistance was
excessively focused on the development of contracting and payment mechanisms, and on the clinical
training of staff, and not enough on addressing organizational and human resources issues.

Further gaps in the design of implementation arrangements were the lack of provision for technical
specialists in the IPU, the underestimation of capacity required for the expected volume of procurement
activities. These had to be corrected later through the recruitment of health specialists and the contracting
of an external procurement adviser. Both measures have substantially improved project implementation.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
1. Improve the health of the population by enhancing the quality of basic health services. DO rating:
Satisfactory. The Basic Health Component of the project has contributed to an impressive 21 percent
reduction of perinatal mortality. The perinatal mortality rate is the number of fetal (stillbirth) and early
neonatal deaths (within the first week after birth) per 1000 total births. There is evidence of improvement in
the quality of perinatal and primary care offered by Continuous Medical Education (CME) graduates. In
perinatal care evidence based practices in maternity and pediatric units caring for neonates have been
widely adopted, as a result of the training started at the Royal Alfred Hospital in Australia under the
project, and continued in the newly established National CME Center for Perinatology and Neonatology.
General practitioners have improved their capacity to identify and manage cases of diabetes and
hypertension in primary care. The increasing trend of TB incidence registered in the early nineties has been
reversed, reaching the lowest level ever in 1999 (27.6 new cases per 10,000). The increase in 2000 (31.6
per 100,000), is a cause for concern, but has to be interpreted in the context of an inflow of 400,000
refugees during the Kosovo crisis.

2. The second project objective ­ to support an initial phase of policy reforms to increase cost
effectiveness, fiscal sustainability and patient choice within the health system ­ is presented in the outcome
indicator matrix in three different sub-objectives, as follows:

Enhance cost-effectiveness of health services. DO rating: Satisfactory. Decreasing average length of stay
in hospitals, increased number of consultations per physician in outpatient care and a decreasing trend of
the excessively high ratio of primary care physicians to population suggest improvements in allocative
efficiency, through a change in the balance of inpatient versus PHC services in favor of the latter, as well
as higher technical efficiency in both hospital and PHC services. Although these changes are difficult to be
attributed to project activities alone, the improved skills of about 40 percent of all PHC physicians in
Macedonia, associated with the increased availability of basic diagnostic and treatment equipment at PHC
level, have improved the capacity of general practitioners to deal with current conditions manageable at this
level. The CME sub-component and the pharmaceutical component also made a modest impact on
improving the cost-effectiveness of prescribing.

3. Ensure fiscal sustainability. DO rating: Satisfactory. The Health Insurance Law, developed with the
support of the project, was passed in Parliament on March 29, 2000 and satisfied one of the conditions of
the SSAC.      Bylaws on mixed-capitation payment to physicians, copayment by users, and priority
prevention programs (covering uninsured as well as insured) have been adopted. They were designed to
improve fiscal control in payments to PHC and increase revenue from users while protecting the poor and
chronically ill. The revised positive list for drugs, and new information systems have improved the HIF's
capacity to control costs.



                                                      - 7 -

Arrears of the HIF to health service providers have not been eliminated, as projected in the SAR. Since the
restructuring at the MTR, not all of the factors which affect the fiscal sustainability objective continued to
be tackled by the project. This goal has been picked up in other parts of the Bank's work program in
Macedonia - the Public Expenditure and Institutional Review (PEIR) and PSMAC that focused on the
problems of financial management and control in the HIF. The PSMAC conditions eliminated the cause of
arrears to public sector healthcare providers by replacing a poorly implemented "points" system for paying
hospitals with prospective global budget contracts. Arrears of the HIF and public providers to commercial
suppliers (notably of pharmaceuticals) remain a cause for concern. The government has agreed to include
conditions related to the stabilization of these arrears in the second and third phases of the Public Sector
Management Adjustment Loan (PSMAL) program.

4. Increase patient choice. DO rating: Satisfactory. PHC reform has increased patient choice through
patient enrolment and capitation-based payment to private family medicine practices. Progress was made in
this area with the adoption of by-laws on primary care capitation payment, copayment and priority
prevention programs. Five hundred private physicians (representing more than 25 percent of PHC
providers) have signed capitation contracts with the HIF. A public information campaign has been
implemented to inform patients about their rights, obligations and options under the new arrangements. An
important aspect of patient choice introduced via contracts with private practitioners is that doctors from
all regions are well represented among those who have contracts with the HIF.

Overall, the project helped to lay the foundation for several areas of health reform, including:

(i) primary health care reform, and CME for primary care doctors;
(ii) perinatal health services development, which has reduced perinatal mortality through intensive training
and investment in equipment;
(iii) training of staff in HIF, MOH and other health sector institutions;
(iv) development of hospital contracting, financial management and information systems in the HIF;
(v) development of a national drug policy, the drug information center, and training of doctors in rational
prescribing; and
(vi) public information campaign to promote health reform.

4.2 Outputs by components:
I.       Health Finance and Management Component (actual cost of US$ 2.42 million, of which credit
US$ 2.37 million). Rating: Satisfactory

To achieve project objectives, interventions (training and equipment) were designed to build capacity in
health finance related organizations (hospitals, HIF, and MOH) that would develop and implement health
finance policy change in Macedonia. Some of these interventions and policy changes were to be tested in
pilot areas before national implementation. Limitations in staffing and technical skills in the MOH, HIF
and hospitals were noted, and therefore, training, study tours, and longer-term training at all levels were
included in the project to enhance technical capacity. The project also intended to build capacity through
the purchase of information system hardware and software, and supplement technical expertise through
foreign and local technical assistance. Enhanced capacity would help design and implement policy change
(participation policy, basic benefits package, capitation payment for primary care, and the foundation for a
resource-based payment for hospital care). Policy changes were to be implemented through changes in laws
and regulations.

1.A      Health Finance Reforms. Foundations for the proposed policy reforms ­ clearer public



                                                     - 8 -

accountability, participation (copayment) policy, basic benefits package, and new forms of provider
reimbursement, including primary care capitation pilots ­ have been provided by technical assistance under
a Japanese Grant for project preparation, followed by a contract financed by the Credit. Using this
information and other Bank technical assistance, and reinforcing the need for legislative change through
coordination with adjustment lending (SSAC and PSMAC conditions), the MOH prepared a Health
Insurance Law (HIL) designed to implement public accountability measures, reform of provider payment, a
new participation policy as well as a basic benefits package. The HIL was adopted by the Parliament in
2000, and emphasized the separation of the HIF functions from the MOH.

This separation is a rather standard institutional arrangement in European countries with social health
insurance, but has been controversial with the MOH in Macedonia, and has been associated with lack of
cooperation and conflict at times between the MOH and HIF. The HIL envisages that the MOH should
hold the HIF accountable and gives it a range of powers to approve laws and bylaws affecting patient
access, to monitor and analyze HIF performance, and to approve key resource allocation and planning
documents of the HIF. However, lack of MOH capacity has undermined that the effectiveness of the
statutory powers of the Ministry to hold the HIF accountable and to exercise strategic policy leadership.
The MOH has complained of powerlessness though in practice, even prior to the HIL, the HIF always
exercised de facto autonomy and greater power than the MOH through its control over resource allocation.
Attempts to build the MOH's capacity to carry out its statutory responsibility more effectively in
association with PSMAC have been undermined by hiring and salary freezes in the public sector which
have been requirements of IMF program/standby arrangements throughout the period of the project, and by
the instability associated with political appointments at several tiers of organization in the MOH.

Part of the results of technical studies, carried out over the first three years of the project, and focusing on
baseline surveys in pilot areas (the towns of Prilep and Ohrid) for the introduction of primary care
capitation, were not further used. This was replaced by a more realistic approach adopted during the
second half of the project, of providing for a gradual phasing in of PHC finance reform and capitation, first
among private sector doctors and then among public sector doctors.

In the last two years of the project, technical assistance and support to working groups was provided for
the preparation of bylaws required for the implementation of the HIL, such as those regarding Government
financed prevention programs, copayments and contracting and payment arrangements for PHC doctors.
The latter provided for a mixed payment system, consisting of capitation and an incentive part prioritizing
preventive activities.

Technical support was also provided to help prepare proposals for amending the Health Care Law, that
was presented to Parliament in Spring 2002. These amendments include changes in the organization of
public provider organizations, separation of PHC from inpatient services, a shift from publicly owned and
managed PHC centers towards privately operated PHC units, as well as licensing procedures of the health
care workers in PHC. The law was not passed and this issue will need to be addressed again.

During the last year of the project, a strategic document about the educational, financial and organizational
reforms in PHC was issued after a long public debate and two workshops. The broad strategic
recommendations of the report have been accepted through a Memorandum of Understanding between the
MOH, the HIF, and the Faculty of Medicine, but a number of important details still need to be worked out.
This issue will be addressed again under the proposed second project.

A plan for redistribution of doctors and dentists was carried out in the early years of the project, but this
has not been implemented because of limited central levers over local management and staff deployment.


                                                      - 9 -

The intention of Ministers has been to use the extension of capitation-based payment to public sector
doctors as the lever to drive redistribution. However, legislation required to underpin the necessary
organizational change of public sector primary care has not yet been passed, and has been controversial
with labor organizations and professional associations. No evidence has been gathered on changes in
patient access associated with the extension of capitation contracts to a larger number of private doctors.

I.B      Strengthening of the Health Insurance Fund. Training of experts from the HIF, MOH and other
health institutions in the areas of health policy, financing and management has been provided mainly
through participation in short courses, workshops and study tours. Fifteen participants (from the MOH,
HIF, and IPU) attended the Flagship training program in Health Sector Reform organized by the World
Bank Institute (WBI) in Washington (1998, 1999, and 2000) and in Budapest (2001). A local version of
the Flagship Course was held in Macedonia in December 2001, attended by 44 participants. The local
course was highly appreciated by participants, as a learning experience, but also as a rare opportunity for
critical examination of reform alternatives in Macedonia by a diverse group of stakeholders. One doctor
from the Republican Institute for Health Protection has successfully completed her Masters studies at
Aberdeen University, U.K, financed by the project.

The project planned to select a small number of candidates for masters-level training in health economics
and health management to develop their potential to be the next generation of leaders in the HIF. The plan
was put into practice only for one staff member, who attended a one-year training program in international
health policy at the London School of Economics. This staff has held a senior position in the HIF for about
two years and has been responsible for leading the reform program required to meet the key HIF conditions
of the PSMAC. A recurrent constraint for implementing this subcomponent was the difficulty of releasing
staff from their duties to attend training.

I.C      Hospital Management. Fifteen medical center managers attended short term health care
management courses in Krakow, Poland in 1998 and 1999; and London, U.K in 1999. This initiative
proved to be premature: it took place ahead of changes in the financing and management of medical centers.
As well, management turn-over associated with the 1998 change of government, limited the scope to follow
up the first phase of training with subsequent modules. As a consequence, this subcomponent was
cancelled at the MTR, and funds reallocated.

I.D      Public Information. Public information activities were designed to seek support and enhance
understanding and acceptance of health sector reforms among policy makers, interest groups and the
general public. The first public information campaign (PIC) was implemented by a Slovenian based public
relations (PR) firm, contracted to create and execute the media campaign, to help the MOH set up a public
relations unit, educate journalists, facilitate their better understanding of the health sector reforms, and
disseminate information on the progress of health reforms. In the lead up to and aftermath of the 1998
election, delays in the design and implementation of the reforms made it impossible to make full use of the
PIC services contracted. The planned information campaign was not implemented and the contract was
terminated.

In 2001, when essential by-laws for implementation of the reforms were finalized and started to be
enforced, the project supported additional public information activities. The PIC used a public opinion
survey, polling, and focus groups to lay the foundation for the communication strategy for health reform.
This was followed by a PR campaign with the objective to inform the public about the planned and adopted
reforms in the health sector, to build public confidence in the reform, and to explain how these reforms
affect individuals.   The campaign included the strengthening of the MOH PR capacity through the
employment of a local communications specialist, several TV and radio commercials (with an estimated 1.5


                                                     - 10 -

million of the population reached), the distribution of 160,000 leaflets, as well as billboards and posters to
health care institutions in 30 locations in Macedonia. The campaign also developed two training seminars
for journalists who specialize in health care issues, media training workshop for the officials dealing with
the health reform and included a study tour for journalists on Estonia's health care reforms. Overall, the
PR campaign achieved most of its objectives and was well organized. However, the analysis of the
effectiveness of the campaign revealed that the at-times strained relationship between the management of
the MOH and the HIF became publicly visible and impacted the image of the reform efforts. In addition,
because of the political developments triggered by the Kosovo crisis, the public at large paid relatively less
attention to the government's communications efforts beyond political issues and military activities in
Macedonia. There was also insufficient capacity in the MOH to coordinate and provide enough input and
guidance for a proper PR campaign. These issues will need to be further addressed under the next project.
The latter should also incorporate a beneficiary assessment tool that would continue to measure the level of
public satisfaction with the country's health system with special emphasis on the issue of access to health
services and quality.

Overall, the public information activities conducted under the project significantly curtailed the initial
negative media coverage of the health reform, contributed to increase the level of the society's
understanding of the need for the reform, and generated more positive attitudes towards the proposed
changes among key stakeholders. It is essential that the MOH maintains the momentum of the public
information effort in the future.

I.E     Information Systems. The project included the development of a management information system
and a cost accounting system to underpin a national set of hospital accounts. This simple system would
allow for the tracking of costs, patient outcomes, and information that eventually could establish a
resource-based provider payment or budgeting mechanism. Health centers in two pilot districts were to be
linked electronically to the HIF's regional branches to allow transmittal of appropriate data.

The procurement of the management information system (MIS) has been a difficult and lengthy process.
The first tender was unsuccessful as no responsive bids were received. Then, re-tendering was abruptly
stopped by the MOH prior to bid opening. This was because, after the 1998 elections, there was a new
team in the MOH and HIF and it expressed concerns about the need for a two-stage process for MIS
development. That would consist of a first stage of system design, followed by a second stage of actual
procurement of hardware and software. After advice from the Bank, additional external technical assistance
(TA) and work of the local experts, the specifications for the system were prepared. An additional
extension of the September 2001 closing date of the project was granted to allow for completion of the
Bank financed elements of the MIS.

The US$ 1.34 million contract for the supply of the MIS for the HIF, was funded with US$ 1.13 million
from the credit and US$ 0.23 million from the government. By the closing date of the HSTP, the credit
funds for this contract were fully disbursed, covering 100 percent of the price of MIS sub-system 1 (all
hardware and operating systems), 80 percent of the price of sub-system 2 (core business applications that
have been already developed and installed, such as registration of insured, contribution records,
administration of contracts and payments for providers, general accounting, assets management and
payroll), and 20 percent of the prices of the sub-systems 3, 4 and 5 (other application software). The
remaining payments for sub-systems 2, 3, 4 and 5, and the costs of training were to be paid by the
government who undertook to provide financing until the completion date of the MIS, i.e. December 31,
2002.

The new system will help link costs to inputs employed and outputs provided and will be used to establish


                                                    - 11 -

efficiency benchmarks for health expenditures. The applications developed will also allow to process the
new methods of payment to primary care providers and support automated monitoring and enhanced
analysis of new hospital payment systems currently under development with TA under PSMAC.



II.      Basic Health Services (actual cost of US$ 11.57 million, of which credit US$ 9.37 million).
Rating: Satisfactory

This component was by far the most successful of this project. It was designed to address inefficiency in
organization of health care through the establishment of sustainable cost-effective, preventive and curative
primary health care services. The success of this component is all the more noteworthy because most of the
activities under this component were actually implemented during the last three years of the project. This
was due to high levels of commitment from the relevant MOH staff and particularly through the
extraordinary efforts exhibited by the IPU staff to help implement this component.

II.1     Priority Prevention Programs

A.       Immunization. As Hepatitis B vaccines had not been procured by the time of the MTR, this
sub-component was cancelled and funds reallocated.

B.       Tuberculosis prevention. A National Tuberculosis Control Program (NTP) for 2000-2005 was
prepared starting from a draft produced in 1999 by Macedonian experts, improved with the support of
external TA, and endorsed by the MOH. The TA, provided by the project, financed an expert identified by
WHO. In collaboration with the National Institute for Lung Diseases and Tuberculosis, the expert assessed
TB control in Macedonia and investigated the situation in existing TB health facilities. This led to the
design of the National TB Program based on the DOTS Strategy. The program is sound in terms of
objectives and takes into account international best practice. It includes the strengthening of tuberculosis
reporting and surveillance, case management, case detection, case definition and equipment needs.

The replacement of the two old mobile X-ray units equipped with mass-miniature radiography (MMR) with
one new mobile unit, as described in the SAR, did not occur. This resulted from the recommendations by a
Bank supervision mission in October 1998 concerning the appropriateness of the initially designed
intervention from a public health perspective, cost-effectiveness, and recurrent cost implications. MMR
does not give a sufficient incremental yield of identified cases to justify an investment in such a form of
active case detection. Instead, active case detection of high risk groups coupled with improvement of
passive case detection through strengthening of the PHC and diagnostic system of the existing health
service was recommended as the most cost-effective approach for Macedonia.

Based on the NTP and expert recommendations, new X-ray equipment, consumables and supplies were
purchased and delivered to the National Institute for Lung Diseases and Tuberculosis and TB dispensaries
located in six areas with a high number of cases (Skopje, Prilep, Kumanovo, Tetovo, Kicevo and Bitola).
Laboratory facilities were upgraded in 15 project sites. Equipment includes micro-bacteria analyzer for TB
Institute, laminar-flow cabinets, microscopes, incubators, film processors, and sterilizers. Program
monitoring capacity has been strengthened through provision of computers and a vehicle. All sites that
received X-ray equipment were renovated and functionally adapted, with civil works cofinanced by WHO
and the government.

Improved diagnostic and management have resulted in a decrease of the average length of stay (ALOS) in
TB hospitals. The average length of stay in the TB wards only in two general hospitals Bitola and Shtip


                                                    - 12 -

decreased form 22.0 days in 1996 to 17.9 in 2000. In the two special TB hospitals, the ALOS decreased
from 38.2 to 32.0 days on average from 1997 to 2000. Similar trends were found in each of the tertiary
hospitals (for adults and children). The cooperation between the Bank, the government and WHO has been
quite positive. The technical assistance and training provided by WHO to the National TB control program
have been essential for the successful implementation of this subcomponent.

C.       AIDS Prevention. Following the MTR, this subcomponent was cancelled and funds reallocated.
AIDS incidence remains low, but the risk of an epidemic is increasing because of the number of injecting
drug users. This issue will be revisited during the preparation of the second project.

D.       Blood Donation Programs. Activities in the Macedonian Institute of Transfusion, such as design
of promotional materials and ID cards, that were planned to be financed by the project have been carried
out without use of resources from the Credit. Computers and software for transfusion services have been
donated to the Institute by a local source. Following the MTR this subcomponent was scaled back and no
further investments were financed.

E.       Maternal and Child Care. This was the most successful subcomponent of the project. It provided
support to the National Perinatal Program, designed with significant input from a foreign consultant, in
close cooperation with a local adviser and several local working groups, and implemented principally
during 2000 and 2001. The program provided for a new organizational framework and functioning of
perinatal services, based on regionalizing neonatal care, defined the range of services at three levels of care,
introduced protocols for transfer of high risk mothers to Skopje, and established a national transport service
for sick neonates. The program is guided by principles of evidence-based education and practice. Training
focused on thermoregulation of babies, breast-feeding, infection control, and treatment of jaundice.

The implementation of the program included two series of training (16-24 weeks course) at the Royal
Prince Alfred Hospital in Sydney, Australia for an initial group of 15 doctors and 10 nurses. The trained
medical staff then trained local staff working in neonatalogy services. The local training was conducted in
the CME Center established at the Special Hospital for Obstetrics and Gynecology - Cair (a district of
Skopje), which is fully equipped with modern educational technology. Trainees surveyed were strongly
positive about the educational curriculum, teaching and assessment methods. There are now 115 certified
doctors and nurses who have successfully completed four modules (eight weeks in total) of training. They
represent about 50 percent of all doctors and 25 percent of all nurses working in the neonatology services in
Macedonia.

US$4 million worth of equipment for perinatal care was procured and installed under this program,
including:

l Neonatal/pediatric ventilators
l Neonatal monitors, blood gas/pH analyzers, bilirubinometers, oximeter
l Infant incubators, mobile and for transport, infant warmers
l Lamps for phototherapy, infusion and syringe pumps, humidifiers
l Ultrasound scanners, mobile X-ray unit
l Special ambulance for emergency neonatal transport
l Computers for neonatal departments with over 1000 births, with specific application software
    (neonatal data base)

The rehabilitation of civil works, amounting to US$335,000, was a joint financing effort between the
government and UNICEF. It involved three units in Skopje: the Pediatric Clinic, the Clinic for Gynecology


                                                     - 13 -

and Obstetrics, and the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit in the Pediatric Clinic. At the same time, under its
Baby-friendly hospital initiative, UNICEF, reconstructed the neonatal wards in all district hospitals in
Macedonia.

The combined result of improved knowledge and skills, changes in care practices, improved physical
environment and availability of state-of-the-art equipment was a dramatic reduction in perinatal mortality.
A decrease from 27.4 to 21.5 per 1000 births, from 1997-1999 to 2000-2001 respectively, was registered
in departments providing care to 93 percent of all newborn in 16 Macedonian hospitals. A 36 percent
reduction in early neonatal deaths was also achieved during the same period. These are consistent with the
shift in the process of care for neonates, using evidence based practice, that was observed in an evaluation
carried out in early 2002 by consultants in 12 maternity units and two pediatric units.

F.       Laboratory Diagnostics. No laboratory equipment and supplies have been purchased. Following
the MTR, this subcomponent was cancelled and funds reallocated, as the expected development impact was
unclear in the absence of any coherent strategy or project plan for this area of service, and no progress had
been made in implementation.

II.2     Primary Health Care. One of the main achievements of the project was the success of the CME
program for primary care practitioners. The CME began as a pilot program in 1998 with the objective of
establishing a deep vocational training commitment by primary care doctors to the concept of life long
learning. The goal was to produce a team of educators who would be able to provide CME to all PHC
doctors in Macedonia. Under the pilot program, a CME strategy was designed, two training centers were
established (in Prilep and Veles), seven educators were trained and 247 participants completed the CME
basic retraining course. During the second phase that began in 2000, the program was expanded to two
additional centers (in Strumica and Gostivar). As a result of this program 24 educators were trained, and
another 431 physicians completed the CME basic retraining course. An additional 408 participants
attended courses during the second year of CME program, including newly developed modules in
healthcare management, sexually-transmitted diseases, women's health, Internet course for healthcare
professionals. Eight educators are now able to design and develop new teaching modules independently. In
addition, 15 guidelines and short guides were prepared and published, including the guidelines developed
for the management of most common diseases at PHC level. A website was created. Overall, 40 percent of
all PHC doctors in Macedonia have attended CME courses supported by the project. To complement the
training program, 678 CME graduates of the main CME course received individual equipment and 110
PHC equipment sets were provided to clinics throughout Macedonia (totaling US$3 million).

This training program supported small-group, peer-based, post-graduate refresher courses that helped to
prepare doctors for forthcoming challenges in PHC. As a result of their experience, many PHC doctors left
the public sector to establish quality, effective privately operated PHC clinics. Most of the latter have
publicly funded contracts with the HIF. Other trainers and former participants led the way to establish
internationally accredited training in pre-hospital emergency medicine. There are signs that the primary
care sector has become self-starting in its development, which is positive for its future. There is also a shift
to more effective, evidence-based practice in primary care, with dramatic reductions in ampular therapy
(which has been excessive in Macedonia), improvements in management of asthma, high blood pressure
and ischemic heart disease, better diagnostic and follow-up of diabetic patients (reflected in a reported
prevalence closer to the expected level). The basis for improved patient-physician relationships has been
established, PHC doctors in Macedonia providing now patient leaflets of their own design to inform
patients of their rights and help them manage their health concerns more effectively.

One of the most important results of this program is its sustainability. Due to its great success which


                                                    - 14 -

exceeded all expectations, the program has now been institutionalized under the form of a Primary Health
Care School within the Medical Faculty. Funding for the school has been secured from the Health
Insurance Fund (2 percent of the PHC capitation budget). Ownership and administration issues of the CME
centers have been also dealt with, allowing further operation and adequate use of the training equipment
and facilities. The future strategy and the institutional arrangements for implementing it are described in
several important documents finalized in the last year of the project: a Strategy for CME for Primary Care
Doctors, a Memorandum of Understanding between the MOH, the medical faculty, the HIF, and a
professional association regarding the development of primary care standards and the program for primary
care specialist training approved by the Faculty of Medicine. The specialization program will allow training
of new physicians moving into primary care according to standards compatible with requirements in
European countries with well established PHC services.

A strategy and new standards for the accreditation and licensing of PHC doctors were also prepared during
this second phase, and the by-laws of the Chamber of Physicians were revised. Accreditation and licensing
standards developed under the project would be implemented with the participation of professional
associations, as provided by the draft of the new Health Care Law, presented to Parliament in July 2002.
The law was not passed because it was linked to privatization, a much more controversial subject. The
issue of licensing and accreditation remains an important issue on the government's agenda and this topic
will be addressed again in the context of the second project.

III. Pharmaceutical Supply and Distribution (actual cost of US$ 1.51 million, of which credit US$
1.36 million). Rating: Unsatisfactory

[The rating compares the project's achievements with the original design, not with the redesigned
component after the MTR]

A. Drug Procurement and Capacity Building. The development and passage of new drug legislation was
a condition of disbursement of the pharmaceutical component. As significant delays occurred, in part due to
changes of Minister of Health,. the passage of new drug legislation was then made a condition of the first
tranche of the SSAC and was adopted in 1998. The new Drug Law allowed for: (i) streamlined registration
of drugs: (ii) reference pricing based on generic products; (iii) adoption of essential drug lists for public
sector reimbursement; and (iv) competitive bidding procedures for public sector drug procurement.

Drug procurement capacity building and procurement of drugs under this subcomponent were originally
oriented around emergency procurement of essential drugs to address acute shortages in the sector in the
early to mid-1990s. By the time of the MTR, however, these components had not been launched and there
was no more emergency regarding pharmaceutical supply. At the MTR and in follow-up discussions with
a new Minister of Health later in 1999, it was agreed to scale down the pharmaceutical procurement and
use it primarily as a training exercise for staff in the MOH and HIF. Approximately half the budgeted
resources for procurement of drugs were reallocated to component II of the Project. One MOH and two
HIF procurement staff were sent to an international procurement training course. A foreign expert in
pharmaceutical policy and procurement was contracted in 2000 to provide on-the-job training and advice
on an international tender for a small list of essential drugs. MOH and HIF staff participated in all stages
of the tender and in the evaluation committee, thus received on-the-job training in international
pharmaceutical procurement. The tender achieved price reductions of up to 60 percent compared to prices
paid at the time by the HIF for these drugs, and exceeded expectations. Because of this success, a second
tender was conducted by the same team of trained local staff with foreign expert advice, and also achieved
substantial savings. Some problems emerged with the distribution of a limited number of drugs due to
overestimation of the local needs.


                                                     - 15 -

On the basis of the two international competitive bidding cycles (ICBs), the IPU developed a template of
bidding documents for the procurement of pharmaceuticals in accordance with the local law on public
procurement. Despite this progress and the success of the tenders conducted within the aegis of the project,
the HIF and MOH have not used international tendering for pharmaceuticals in their own procurements.
The positive experience of the tenders remains useful for possible future advocacy for improvement of
procurement practices.

B. Drug Control Laboratory and C. Pre-clinical and Clinical Pharmacology. These subcomponents had
not made any progress by the time of the MTR. There were no plans for development of these laboratories,
nor of the Adverse Drug Reactions Center. Also, there appeared to be unresolved issues about the
duplication of roles of laboratories at the Republican Institute of Public Health and the Faculty of
Pharmacology, pointing to a case for rationalization. In view of this lack of progress and the lack of
evidence of expected development impact, it was agreed at the MTR that these subcomponents would be
cancelled, and the budgeted resources transferred to Component II.

D. Drug Information and Rational Use. In 1998, a Drug Information Center was established in the
Pharmacy Department of the University of Skopje, but by the time of the MTR, it was serving only few
inquiries.  In 1999, the WHO Humanitarian Affairs Office initiated a pharmaceutical project. This
provided an opportunity for collaboration and created conditions for the HSTP to increase the effectiveness
of its support to the Drug Information Center, develop a national drug policy, and improve prescribing
practices. The WHO project supported a resident foreign pharmaceutical expert and local experts who
helped develop policy, consult stakeholders, and strengthen local institutions. The HSTP financed
equipment and the publication of drug bulletins and their dissemination by the Drug Information Center.

In May 2001, a national experts' workshop on National Drug Policy was conducted. It was the result of 12
workshops of four working groups, supported by the project and WHO technical assistance. After the
workshop, the government adopted a National Drug Policy document. There is an ongoing process of
preparation of the Implementation Plan for the National Drug Policy, and that will require additional
technical assistance.

Two courses for Rational Drug Prescribing in PHC were attended by 159 PHC doctors. Using the
"Personal Formulary" concept and different educational formats, participants were taught principles of
drug selection and rational drug therapy of common medical problems. The training was evaluated as
extremely positive by the participants.

IV. Project management ­ IPU (actual cost of US$ 1.64 million, of which credit US$ 1.42 million).
Rating: Satisfactory

The successful implementation of this project during the last two-three years is due to the outstanding
efforts and technical expertise of the IPU staff. In addition, important internal changes in IPU management
were made in 1999-2000 which greatly improved the functioning and the internal controls of the unit.
Changes included the replacement of the IPU Director and former project disbursement officer, the hiring
of a health specialist, a new disbursement officer, a procurement assistant, as well as an external
management and procurement advisor to the IPU. The rules of IPU management and accountability were
improved. Together, these changes allowed the IPU to complete all the project activities in the work
program, disbursing roughly $13 million of the $16.9 million since early 2000. This is a remarkable
progress and the IPU team is commended for its dedication and commitment.




                                                     - 16 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
NA

4.4 Financial rate of return:
NA

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project has had a significant institutional development impact on health professionals and policy
makers. Forty percent of all PHC doctors have received CME under the project. Their performance has
improved and this should have an impact beyond the project. Quality of care should further improve as
further doctors are expected to be trained by the Primary Health Care School established within the
Medical Faculty under the project and for which financing has been secured. The training received by 50
percent of doctors and 25 percent of nurses working in neonatology services should have an impact on
reductions in neonatal and perinatal mortality for many years after the project closure as the new
evidence-based protocols of care continue being used. The Flagship training program in health sector
reform has been attended by 44 participants with important positions in the health sector. The experience
from other countries shows that, because these courses foster a better understanding of health policy and
finance, they usually result in a more fruitful dialogue with the Bank and may lead to innovations in the
sector.

Project implementing capacity has been developed. A core group of Macedonian staff in the health sector
has now the necessary skills to carry out project activities in compliance with Bank project monitoring,
procurement and financial management requirements. Also, key staff in central administration institutions
(MOH, HIF, and Faculty of Medicine) have become familiar with the requirements of Bank project
implementation and are in a better position to act as effective partners for future projects.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

1. The Kosovo crisis of 1999 broke just after the project was restructured at the MTR. This increased the
difficulty of following up on agreed actions. Some activities, especially training, TA, and installation of
equipment, were delayed because of security issues affecting the travel of local and international
consultants, trainees, and IPU staff. During the internal crisis in 2001, project implementation was
similarly affected.

2. Initial resistance from the medical community and professional associations, mainly related to lack of
consensus on major reform directions, such as development of family medicine/ primary care practice or
introduction of accreditation mechanisms for health care providers and training programs.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

1. Successive changes in Ministers of Health and senior appointees in the MOH and HIF since project
start-up have eliminated continuity; reduced political commitment and project ownership, and delayed the
project.

2. Weak capacities in the MOH and HIF and weak inter-institutional collaboration and support e.g those
described in section 4.4 regarding experience of implementation of the public information campaigns and of
the management information system.




                                                     - 17 -

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

1. The MOH was the lead implementing agency for this project, supported by the IPU for daily project
operations. During the first three years of the project, the IPU went through many staffing changes, had
weak financial management and project management functions, and a limited capacity in procurement
compared to the volume of activities. IPU staff would require to improve their skills for technical inputs,
such as developing specifications and terms of reference. One important weakness of the original IPU was
the absence of the position of health specialist. There were also frequent delays in administrative and
procurement-related decisions. All this affected implementation efficiency, causing unnecessary delays.

2. Delays in implementing the training and education activities foreseen under the project have affected the
upgrading of skills and knowledge needed to implement both the policy agenda and the investment program.


5.4 Costs and financing:
The original project cost estimate was US$19.4 million, of which US$16.9 million equivalent would come
from the IDA Credit. At the close of the project, the total project cost was US$17.1 million, of which
US$14.5 million was financed by the credit, and US$2.6 million was provided by government through
financing of all civil works and tax obligations. Only US$0.8 million was cancelled from the credit, the
remaining US$1.6 million being the result of changes in the SDR/US$ exchange rate.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of projects benefits is rated as likely.

Key achievements that will ensure sustainability are the substantial quality improvements of PHC and
perinatal care, through improved staff skills and upgraded equipment that is now part of the daily operation
of those services. The CME capacity developed by the project (infrastructure, the available curricula,
competent and enthusiastic trainers) is likely to keep the momentum for training activities. Physicians and
nurses who have not yet received this training are likely to press for the continuation of the CME program.
The financing needs for further PHC training could be largely covered from the 2 percent of capitation
payments that the HIF has agreed to allocate to that effect.

Despite the continuous change of health ministers during the six years of project implementation (with 6
Ministers replaced), the project has helped improve the quality of the policy dialogue, maintain the
momentum for health reform, and the degree of stakeholder acceptance of reform. Health reform
components have been included in other projects in Macedonia (e.g. development of hospital payment
mechanisms is supported as part of PSMAC) and the Government has sought Bank support for a further
project. In spite of traditionally strained relations between the MOH and HIF, the two have achieved to
coordinate their actions and reach agreement on key by-laws related to health sector reform, training and
accreditation of PHC physicians and public information activities. Overall, the HIF's commitment to
develop and implement reforms has considerably increased during the project and is continuing after
project closure.

As mentioned in Section IV (Project management), a core group of Macedonian staff in the health sector
has acquired the skills to implement projects in accordance with Bank requirements and are potential
effective partners for future projects. The follow-up Health Sector Development Project under preparation



                                                      - 18 -

will build upon the achievements of this project, help build more institutional capacity, which should
further ensure sustainability.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The operation of most of the equipment procured under the project is financed from the current expenditure
budget of recipient institutions. As the project was approaching closure, the Bank underlined to the MOH
the need to ensure that managers of health care institutions continue to allocate proper resources, especially
for consumables needed for the use of medical equipment. The MOH has decided on the future operation of
the regional centers for CME that have been created. Agreement has been reached by the Dean of the
medical faculty, the Minister of Health, and the HIF Director regarding the strategy for the Primary Health
Care School (PHCS), including its implementation plan, organization, functions and funding. The priorities
currently being addressed by the PHCS team are the CME business plan, status of the educators, CME roll
out to continue in September. It was expected that in Autumn 2002 the selection process of educators,
tutors and clinics for PHCS would start, the Governance Board appointed and twinning with an established
PHC training institutions in Europe would be initiated. The HIF has agreed to complete the implementation
of all of the health information system and start using it for day-to-day operations.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance is rated unsatisfactory for the reasons presented below.

1. The project design was too complex, with too many components. It also involved too much policy
reform for a first-time borrower, a former Yugoslav republic where political instability was likely to be
high in the 1990s. The final design looked fragmented. It was difficult to link some subcomponents with
the overall project objectives and it appears that their inclusion may have responded to the pressure from
specific interest groups or institutions.

2. The Bank did not pay enough attention to the setting up of a project unit with staff having the right
technical profile or with enough capacity in relation to the expected volume of activities.

3. The monitoring and evaluation framework was weak. It only defined outcome and output indicators,
without providing a complete baseline or making provisions for putting it together at an early stage. There
was no elaboration on the system of data collection and reporting. Some of the outcome indicators (e.g.
infant mortality) were too general, insufficiently sensitive or specific for evaluating the impact of actual
project activities.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank performance is rated highly satisfactory. The supervision of the project was steady and regular
during the first years of the project, then became quite intense during the second part of the project life. The
Bank team was changed in 1999, and together with substantial support from Bank management, it made a
special effort to improve the implementation of the project. Intensity and depth of supervision activities
dramatically increased after the MTR, bringing in more realism, giving priority to high impact activities for
which the political environment and the available capacity in the health sector were conducive to successful
implementation. It creatively linked the health policy agenda with other instruments available to the Bank in
Macedonia such as adjustments operations and analytic work on public expenditure. The technical side of
supervision was significantly strengthened. The Bank team kept a daily contact with the government
counterparts and IPU staff, and provided continuous support and policy advice to move the project
forward. The team also made a serious effort to improve project management by the IPU, including project



                                                     - 19 -

financial management which were of serious concern.

This performance is commendable because the project, as restructured during the MTR, had to be
implemented during a civil conflict in Macedonia that started in 1999 with the Kosovo crisis (resulting in
large numbers of refugees in Macedonia) and continued with ethnic violence that lasted up to the
Framework Agreement of 2001. The scheduling of Bank missions as well as that of consultants was not
always possible, but when missions had to be postponed for security reasons, regular contact was
maintained with the IPU and the latter made special efforts to implement the project under difficult
circumstances.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Given the above ratings, the overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance during preparation is rated satisfactory.

The Minister of Health involved in project preparation provided strong leadership for reform. A
consultative process, involving several working groups, provided inputs for the preparation of the project.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's implementation performance is rated satisfactory (details below).

However, counterpart funds were often provided after delays and significant efforts by the IPU and MOH.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The performance of the MOH, as well as that of the IPU it has established and maintained for project
implementation, is rated satisfactory. The basis for this judgement is the same as for the Bank's
performance: weak at the beginning, but very strong after the MTR.

The project was extended twice for a total of two years compared to the original closing date. Project
implementation has been highly successful during the last two years of the project, with a total of roughly
US$13 million disbursed during that time i.e. 90 percent the total funds disbursed (US$14.5 million). This
is despite the fact that several Ministers changed during the last 3 years (a total of 6 Ministers changed
during the project) and despite the most recent political and military crisis in Macedonia which could have
delayed the project further Much of the recent success of the project is due to numerous factors, including :
(i) strong commitment made by the Health Minister in 1999 to move the project forward; (ii) the
replacement of the previous IPU Director and disbursement officer, and the hiring of new staff who were
very dedicated to the project; (iii) revamping of internal IPU guidelines and substantial improvement of the
financing accounting system; (iv) substantial external management and procurement support to the IPU
during the last three years; (v) very dedicated and committed team of specialists working in steering
committees; and (vi) in depth Bank supervision.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Based on the above ratings, the overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

A realistic assessment of the environment for project implementation is crucial. Political instability, leading



                                                     - 20 -

to frequent changes in leadership, the overall low level of technical skills of key institutions in the sector
(MOH, HIF), and the low level of motivation and pay proved to be obstacles for the progress of the project,
especially in the first two years.

What seemed to work better were large investments in equipment and in training in the case of services
addressing major health issues where significant gaps existed in terms of staff skills and technical level of
facilities. Although they required considerable implementation effort , these investments had a high impact.
High professional quality and commitment of training providers can get results even under most difficult
circumstances. This was the case of neonatal care and to some extent of PHC development.

What barely worked, with huge difficulties in implementation and had more modest impact were complex
policy changes or investments in complex technical systems (e.g. MIS), requiring detailed technical
preparation and consensus of many agencies. These tend to take longer time than planned (sometimes
beyond project life), sustained TA, long term development of skills of staff of local institutions. Consensus
on the professional and political level is of greatest significance for the success of these activities and
explicit mechanisms for achieving that consensus need to be built into project design, starting with the
proper involvement of the main stakeholders in the preparatory activities. In addition to quality technical
assistance, customized surveys and empirical data from routine sources are necessary inputs for success in
policy reform.

The implementation of changes has to be facilitated by properly timed and designed public information
activities. A prerequisite for successful PR is good communication and coordination of key institutions at
the top. Only late in the project have the MOH and HIF shown joint interest. Even then, public information
activities insufficiently used the results of public opinion research, and the campaign was more a
commercial than an educational or promotional product.

What does not seem to work using the means available in an investment operation are changes of policy
and regulatory environment in areas where vested interests are significant, there is collusion of interests of
players within the sector against changes, and the potential for corruption high. A typical case is the
pharmaceutical sector.

More involvement of local experts and end users would have helped to better match the characteristics of
the goods and services provided to the specific needs and conditions in Macedonia. Future projects could
use more local input for: (i) defining the technical specifications and performances of the goods, quantities,
lists of the end-users, working conditions of the end-users: (ii) providing expertise in drafting TORs for
foreign consultants; and (iii) building support for the implementation stage through increased ownership
from the initiation of procurement and selection activities.

More involvement of local experts would also require an adequate planning of resources for local
consulting services. However, during the early years of the project, contracting of individual consultants
was affected at times by a lack of precision in the definition of outputs and in some cases by a lack of
transparency in the selection processes. When this occurred, it led to difficulties in management of
consultant work, and has affected the project's reputation with some stakeholders who felt excluded. During
the second part of the project, both the Borrower and the Bank addressed this problem upfront. As a result
performance significantly improved and good experience has been gained through a strengthening of
selection and consultants' work monitoring procedures.

The procurement of equipment and consumables from UNICEF has not been a good experience. Under the
project, this method was contemplated for the procurement of US$2.2 million of goods, but this was


                                                     - 21 -

reduced to only US$365,000 because of complaints from end users. The main sources of grief were: (i) the
low quality of the medical equipment and consumables; (ii) unacceptable long delivery times, 3-4 months
after the deposit of funds; (iii) too close expiry dates of some of the medical consumables; and (iv) rigid
and atypical commercial conditions (100 percent advance payment, no warranty, no say by the client in the
technical specifications, origin of the goods or manufacturer). Complaints on quality had two origins: (i)
those referring to the more "sophisticated" items such as sphygmomanometers, stethoscopes, and
thermometers, where the end-users' opinion was that those items were weak and perishable; and (ii)
complaints referring to instruments such as forceps, probes, and scissors, where the material of the
instruments was considered to be easily corrosive.

Much time and effort were spent in the procurement of goods because there were numerous packages for
ICB, international shopping (IS), and national shopping (NS). To improve economy and efficiency in the
procurement process, better procurement planning and packaging should be undertaken at the project
preparation phase.

Both the Bank and the Borrower paid insufficient attention to the setup, maintenance and systematic use of
a monitoring and evaluation framework. A better selection of relevant indicators and the compiling of a
baseline would improve the quality of future projects. It will also be important to plan adequate human and
financial resources for periodic reporting, supervision and decision-making by the implementing agency.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:



                                                  Macedonia
                          Health Sector Transition Project ­ IDA Cr.# 2889-MK
                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
                                              Borrower's Part




Certain steps forward have been made in the health sector transition, however, it is a fact that this sector is
still facing serious problems. Given the importance and necessity to promote the health sector operations, a
lot of work needs to be done in order to achieve acceptable quality and efficiency of the health services
necessary for the population , both in the public and the private sector.

Project implementation was directed towards the following major objectives: health financing, improvement
of expert skills of employees in the health sector, strengthening primary health care and improvement of
pharmaceutical policy and medicines procurement, to the end of reducing prices of essential medicines and
creating a more competitive medicine market in the Republic of Macedonia.

The achievements of determined objectives in the above-mentioned health areas is essential for the
improvement of quality of life in the Republic of Macedonia, especially in the rural areas. However, having
in mind the significance and willingness to improve the general conditions in health in general, the project
realization began too optimistically, as well as the estimates of time required to overcome the very complex
problems present in the health sector.

A pleasing outcome is the significant progress in primary health care. The organized training of the medical



                                                     - 22 -

personnel (especially in the rural areas) has already resulted in an improvement in the quality of primary
health care. There is, and it is also expected in the period to come, reduction of natal and perinatal
mortality, which is also a sign of improved quality of primary health care services.

With respect to the progress in the area of health sector management and financing, we should take into
account that the development of this component was affected by the frequent changes in the management
personnel, stemming from the political instability in our country. In addition, low salaries also reduce the
motivation of the employees, thus adversely affecting the service quality. All this led to discontinuity,
resulting in incomplete project implementation.

Concerning pharmaceutical policy in the area of medicine procurement and given the difficulties in this area
during project implementation, as well as the need to change the project activities concept, we should be
content since significant contribution has been achieved in this area. Essential and positive lists of
medicines related activities have been completed, doctors were trained in rational prescription of medicines,
and a pharmaceutical policy document has been prepared.

Several areas remain where activities should be further undertaken in the future. These are: implementation
of priority preventive programs (tuberculosis prevention, AIDS prevention, promotion of blood donations
etc.), equipping and promotion of laboratory operations, procurement of additional equipment needed for
the primary health care etc. Large amounts of funds were invested in the health sector, both for training of
personnel and for equipment, thereby better results are expected in the future. Hence, we believe that
certain effects were accomplished during the project realization, however, not to the extent foreseen.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                           1
               Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
                                            Baseline (1995)                     2000 if not otherwise specified

Infant mortality rate reduced.              22.7 per 1000 live births           11.8 per 1000 live births
Maternal mortality rate reduced.            21.8 per 100000 live births         13.7 per 100000 live births
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000).    40                                  31.6     34.1 (2001)
Average immunization coverage maintained    95.4%                               95.2%,    91.4% (2001)
above 95 percent.
Consultations per day per primary care      3204 per year                       3795 per year
physician increased.
Average length of stay in hospitals         14.3                                11.4
decreased.
Market price/world price of tracer drugs
decreased (averaged ratio of all tracers).
Arrears accumulation by NHIF/facilities     3500 million MKD (1998)             1692 million MKD arrears of NHIF to health
eliminated (amount in MKD).                                                     care providers, 2120 million MKD arrears of
                                                                                health care providers to their suppliers
                                                                                (December 2001)
Number of licensed private providers        340                                 484 contracted by HIF (May 2002)
increased.


Output Indicators:
                                                                           1
               Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate




1End of project




                                                              - 24 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
1.Health Finance and Management                              3.80             2.40            63.2
2.Basic Health Services                                      7.00           11.60            165.7
3.Supply and Distribution of Pharmaceuticals                 5.70             1.50            26.3
4. Project management ­ IPU                                  0.90             1.60           177.8

Total Baseline Cost                                         17.40           17.10
 Physical Contingencies                                      1.40
 Price Contingencies                                         0.60
                        Total Project Costs                 19.40           17.10
                  Total Financing Required                  19.40           17.10


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00              0.00         0.00          0.80         0.80
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          9.40              0.00         3.40          0.60         13.40
                                  (9.40)           (0.00)      (3.40)          (0.00)      (12.80)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00         3.90          0.80         4.70
Consultancy and Training          (0.00)           (0.00)      (3.90)          (0.00)       (3.90)
4. Incremental Recurrent          0.00              0.00         0.00          0.30         0.30
Cost
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
5. PPF Refinancing                0.00              0.00         0.20          0.00         0.20
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.20)          (0.00)       (0.20)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                          9.40              0.00         7.50          2.50         19.40
                                  (9.40)           (0.00)      (7.50)          (0.00)      (16.90)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00             0.00         0.00           0.83        0.83
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          7.66             0.00         1.40           1.50        10.56
                                  (5.75)          (0.00)       (0.73)         (0.00)       (6.48)
3. Services                       1.13             0.00         4.07           0.03        5.23



                                                - 25 -

   Consultancy and Training                (0.00)             (0.00)            (2.11)            (0.00)           (2.11)
   4. Incremental Recurrent                 0.00               0.00              0.12             0.32              0.44
   Cost
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. PPF Refinancing                       0.00               0.00              0.13             0.00              0.13
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                8.79               0.00              5.72             2.68             17.19
                                           (5.75)             (0.00)            (2.85)            (0.00)           (8.60)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
1.Health Finance and            4.00         0.20                     2.37         0.05                  59.3      25.0
Management
2.Basic Health Services         6.50         1.30                     9.37         2.22                  144.2    170.8
3.Supply and Distribution       5.40         1.00                     1.36         0.16                  25.2      16.0
of Pharmaceuticals
4. Project management ­         0.90         0.10                     1.41         0.25                  156.7    250.0
IPU
TOTAL                          16.90         2.50                    14.51         2.68                  85.9     107.2




                                                           - 26 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits




                                      - 27 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               Jan.-Sept. 1995

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               October 1995

 Supervision

               05/23/1997                 6   SR INFO TECH SPECIALIS (1);           S               S
                                              MISSION LEADER (1);
                                              HEALTH POLICY ADVISOR
                                              (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                              (1); SR. HEALTH SPECIALIST
                                              (1); PROJECT OFFICER (1)
               02/13/1998                 5   MISSION LEADER (1);                   U               U
                                              HEALTH ECONOMIST (1);
                                              INFO SYSTEM SPECIALIST
                                              (1); IMPLEMENTATION SPEC.
                                              (1); PROJECTS OFFICER (1)
               10/08/1998                 6   TEAM LEADER (1); HEALTH               S               S
                                              ECONOMIST (1);
                                              IMPLEMENTATION/PROCMT
                                              (1); RM PROJECTS OFFICER
                                              (1); PHARMACEUTICAL
                                              SPEC. (1); MEDICAL
                                              EQUIPMENT (1)
               03/24/2000                 3   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                              OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                              PROJECT OFFICER (1)
               07/14/2000                 5   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                              PROCUREMENT ADVISOR
                                              (1); OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                              (1); PROJECT OFFICER (1);
                                              PHC CONSULTANT (1)


 ICR

               02/21/2001                1     TEAM LEADER (1)                                      S



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation



                                               - 28 -

Supervision
ICR
Total




               - 29 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents




                                      - 32 -

- 33 -

