Page  1
                                                          CONFORMED COPY
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2889 MK
                        Development Credit Agreement
                     (Health Sector Transition Project)
                                  between
                    FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
                                (the Borrower)
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                              (the Association)
                           Dated September 24, 1996
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2889 MK
                         DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated September 24, 1996, between the Borrower and the
Association.
     WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter from the Borrower
dated May 15, 1996, on Health Sector Development Policy describing a
program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve improve-
ments and reforms in the health sector (hereinafter called the Program),
and declaring the Borrower's commitment to carry out such Program;
     (B)  the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                ARTICLE I
                    General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
Page  2
integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     (b)  The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
          "Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise
          agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of
          expenditures in the territories of any country which is not
          a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services
          supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of
          any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of
          goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
          Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United
          Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the
          Charter of the United Nations."
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "IPU" means the International Project Unit, established within
the Ministry of Health of the Borrower;
     (b)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an
exchange of letters dated April 15, 1996, and May 16, 1996, between the
Borrower and the Association; and
     (c)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to eleven
million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 11,800,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the National Bank of
the Borrower on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date
and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the
authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon
be cancelled.
     Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2000 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30
of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent
Page  3
(1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty
(60) days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of
the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph
(a) above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied
from the next payment date in that year specified in Section 2.07 of
this Agreement.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii)
in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant
to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
     Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on June 15 and  December 15 in each year.
     Section 2.08. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual
installments payable on each June 15 and December 15 commencing
December 15, 2006 and ending June 15, 2031.  Each installment to and
including the installment payable on  June 15, 2016 shall be one
and one-fourth per cent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of
such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita,
as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant
1985 dollars for five (5) consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall
consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association
may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive
Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of
installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the
principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested
by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with
the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the
Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained
under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association
may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in
paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE III
                          Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
Page  4
ment, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due dili-
gence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate health sector
management, administrative and financial  practices, and shall provide
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03 For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6)
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed
for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan
for the future operation of the Project; and
     (b)  afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan.
     Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall:
     (a)  maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators
satisfactory to the Association, the carrying out of the Project and
the achievement of the objectives thereof;
     (b)  prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association, and furnish to the Association, on or about January 31,
1998 a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and
the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following
such date; and
     (c)  review with the Association, by March 31, 1998, or such later
date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and
recommendations of the said report and the Association's views on the
matter.
                               ARTICLE IV
                     Financial and Other Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures
in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) of this Section including those for the Special
               Account for each fiscal year, audited, in accordance
               with appropriate auditing principles consistently
               applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
               Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but
               in any case not later than six (6) months after the end
               of each such year, a certified copy of the report of
               such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
               detail as the Association shall have reasonably
Page  5
               requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Association such other information
               concerning said records, accounts and the audit thereof
               as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
               request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
               paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Association
               has received the audit report for the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account or
               payment out of the Special Account was made, all
               records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
               and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in
               the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
               Section and that the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
               year, together with the procedures and internal controls
               involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
               support the related withdrawals.
     Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain continuous staffing of
the IPU with staff devoted full-time to the project, including a
director, procurement officer, disbursement officer/accountant, and
office administrator/interpreter or other such staff as may be
agreed by the Association from time to time, with terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely that an event has
occurred which shall make it improbable that the Program as specified in
the letter from the Borrower dated May 15, 1996, on Health Sector
Development Policy or a significant part thereof will be carried out.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                         Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following event is specified as additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions,
namely that the Borrower has executed a contract, satisfactory to the
Association, with a specialized procurement agency for the procurement
and distribution of pharmaceutical products, medical equipment and
supplies to be provided under the Project.
     Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
Page  6
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          Dame Gruev 14
          91 000 Skopje
                                   Telex:
                                   51119
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INDEVAS             248423 (RCA)
               Washington, D.C.     82987 (FTCC)
                                    64145 (WUI) or
                                   197688 (TRT)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                    THE BORROWER
                    By /s/ Ljubica Z. Acevska
                                               Authorized Representative
                    THE ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Kenneth G. Lay
                                         Acting Regional Vice President
                                                Europe and Central Asia
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                   Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                                Credit               % of
                              Allocated           Expenditures
                           (Expressed in             to be
     Category             SDR Equivalent)           Financed
(1)  Goods                                        100% of foreign
                                                  expenditures,
     (a)  For Parts A and B   5,300,000           100% of local
Page  7
          of the project                          expenditures
                                                  (ex-factory
     (b)  For Part C of       3,400,000           cost) and 85%
          the Project                             of local
                                                  expenditures for
                                                  other items
                                                  procured locally
(2)  Consultants'                                 100%
     services and
     training
     (a)  For Parts A and     2,600,000
          B of the Project
     (b)  For Part C of the     300,000
          Project
(3)  Refunding of               200,000           Amounts due
     Project                                      pursuant to
     Preparation                                  Section 2.03
     Advance                                      of this Agreement
                              _________
          TOTAL              11,800,000
                             ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made: (a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement; and (b) for Categories 1 (b) and 2 (b)
before legislation, satisfactory to the Association, regulating the
registration, approval for use, trade and distribution of drugs in the
territory of the Borrower shall have been enacted, and all arrangements
for implementing the provisions of said legislation shall have been
completed.
4.   The Association may require withdrawls from the Credit Account to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for: (i) contracts
for goods less than $200,000 equivalent; (ii) contracts for consulting
firms less than $100,000 equivalent, and for individual consultants less
than $50,000 equivalent, and all training expenditures, under such terms
and conditions as the Association shall specify to the Borrower.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                          Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
improving the health of the population by enhancing the quality of
basic health services and to support the initial phase of policy
reforms designed to increase cost-effectiveness, fiscal sus-
tainability and patient choice within the health system.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A.   Health Finance and Management
     Provision of training, (including study tours, training seminars,
Page  8
fellowships, and public information campaigns), technical support and,
information technology (including software) and office equipment for
the strengthening of financial and administrative management of the
health sector.
Part B.   Basic Health Services
     Provision of training in public health (including the organization
of study tours, fellowships, workshops, and continuing education of
health personnel), technical assistance and equipment for development of
cost-effective primary and preventive care.
Part C.   Pharmaceutical Policy and Supply
     Provision of drugs, medical consumables, and advanced testing
equipment and supplies, and technical assistance for the improvement
of the efficiency in procurement, pricing, reimbursement and prescribing
of essential drugs.
                                   * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1999.
                                 SCHEDULE 3
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.     Procurement of Goods
Part A:   General
     Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January
1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.   The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of
this Part B.
     (i)  Grouping of contracts
     To the extent practicable, contracts for  pharmaceuticals, medical
equipment and supplies shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to
cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more each.
Part C:    Other Procurement Procedures
1.   International Shopping
     Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $600,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6
of the Guidelines.
2.   National Shopping
     Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6
of the Guidelines.
3.   Direct Contracting
Page  9
     Goods which are of a proprietary nature and costing $100,000
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Association's prior
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
3.7 of the Guidelines.
4.   Procurement from UN Agencies
     Medical equipment for rural health centers up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed $2,200,000 may be procured from UNICEF or UNIPAC in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance
with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association,
and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more, and any direct contracting the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply.
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.    Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank,
with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Association.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting
firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b)
contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less
than $50,000 equivalent each.  However, said exceptions to prior
Association review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for
such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the
Association; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of
consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent
or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equi-
valent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                              Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  10
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1 and 2 set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time
to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided,
however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 3,500,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit
or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower
shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits
               into the Special Account at such intervals as the
               Association shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents
               and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
               this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of
               which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each
               such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower,  withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
               into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
               shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have been paid out
               of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents
and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expendi-
tures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Association shall not be required to make further deposits into
the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement;
Page  11
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Asso-
ciation, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii)
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished
to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit
of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to
the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of
the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by
notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only
after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as
of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or
in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or
(ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund,
as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association
such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
