Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
/g. ay%ŽCo
Report No. 4947-CO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
COLOMBIA
DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
October 18, 1984
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This docmnt has a resticted distibution and my be used by recipiets oly in the performance of
dtir offiid duies. Its contents may not otherwise be dicosed without Word Bnk authorizaion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
All currency amounts are expressed in Colombian Pesos (Col$)
and US Dollars (US$).
Colombia has a crawling peg that resulted in a nominal devaluation of 26.3Z in 1983.
Exchange rate as of September 30, 1984
US$1.00= Col$107.01
ColS1.00= US$0 .0093
Average Exchange RaLe
1981                           1982                           1983
US$1.00 = Col$54.491           US$1.00 = Col$64.102            US$1.00 = Col$78.857
Col$1.00= US$ .0184            Col$1.0O= US$.0156              Col$1.00= US$.0.127
Weights and Measures
Metric System
Government of Colombia Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BCH         Banco Central Hipotecario
BR          Banco de la Republica (The Central Bank)
CAVIs       Corporaciones de Ahorro y Vivienda (Savings and Loan Associations)
CDTs        Certificados de Depositos a Termino (Certificates of Deposits)
CFs         Corporaciones Financieras (Investment Banks)
CFCs        Companias de Financiamiento Comercial
CFP         Corporacion Financiera Popular
DDC         Department of Development Credit of BR
DFC         Development Finance Company
DTF         Weekly Index of CDT Interest Rates
ERR         Economic Rate of Return
FFI         Fondo Financiero Industrial (Industrial Financing Fund)
FIP         Fondo de Inversiones Privadas (PrivaLe Investment Fund)
FRR         Financial Rate of Return
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
IDB         InterAmerican Development Bank
IFC         InternaLional Finance Corporation (Member of the World Bank Group)
IIT         Instituto de Investigaciones Tecnologicas
(Technological Research Institute)
LIBOR       London Interbank Offered Rate
PROEXPO     Fondo de Promocion de Exportaciones (Export Promotion Fund)
SEC         Securities and Exchange Commission
USAID       United States Agency for International Development



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY        ...............................* ........    (i)
1.   THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR         ... ....        .....................    1
A.   Background .................. .......... ....... .  ..........    1
Recent MacroEconomic Developments .           .................  1
Industrial Structure ......... .. ..* ............. ..    1
B.   Manufacturing Industry ...........        ....      ........       2
Trends and Policies ....... ..........................    2
The Financial Situation of the Manufacturing Sector...    3
Employment and Wages ..................................        3
Manufacturing Investment ............................. .       4
II.  THE FINANCIAL SECTOR AND THE INSTITUTIONAL SETTING ............    4
A. The Financial System ......... .......                               4
B.   The Development Banking System ...........................    6
C.   Bank Lending to CFs    .       ....... . ......... .    7
D.   Performance under Prior Bank Lending through the CFs.....    8
E.   Cofinancing and IFC's proposed Investment ................         9
F. Participation of Additional CFs                    .      ..  10
III. PROPOSED FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM  .......    ..............            10
Ah.  Introduction .......................................................... 10
B.   Government Actions to Date ... .      .......... ....... .....   12
C.   Bank Support                ...................   13
IV.  THE PROJECT ...................................................   14
A.   Project Objectives and Description         . . ...........   14
B.   Credit Component .......               ..................................   16
C.   Onlending Terms ............... . . .    17
D.   Technical Assistance Component . . .........................   17
E.   Investment Project Appraisal and Supervision .............       18
F.   Procurement and Disbursement                .       ....    19
G.   Accounts and Auditing .      .     ..................................   19
H.   The Borrower         .     .. ......         ..............   20
This report is based on the findings of a mission to Colombia in
November 1983 composed of Messrs. K. Challa, N. Hughes, M. Hinds and
Ms. A. Velarde.
This docuMent has a restricted ditibution and may be used by reipients only in the performance of
their ofriid duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discd without World EBnk authorization.



I.   Participating Intermediaries .......-......-... -........   20
Group A DFCs - Full Participation...................   20
Group B DFCs - Limited Participation .................  21
J.  Benefits and Risks ...............                              21
V.   RECOMMENDATIONS ...............................................     22
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex 1 - Estimated Schedule of Disbursementss.....................   23
Annex 2 - Banco de la Republica - DDC's Statement of Operating           24
Policies and Procedures
Appendix 1 - Checklist for the Evaluation of Tecbnology        28
Development Subprojects
Appendix 2 - Checklist for the Evaluation of Pollution         29
-Ontrol Subprojects
Annex 3 - Supporting Tables
T-1       Geographic Distribution of Industrial Activity
T-2       Manufacturing Sector Structure by Product Category
T-3       Industrial Development and Its Determinants, 1970-1982
T-4       Short Term Indebtedness of Manufacturing Firms Listed in
the Bogota Stock Exchange
T-5       Estimated Average Marginal Interest Rates Paid by the
Manufacturing Sector
T-6       Investment, Employment and Real Wages
T-7       Percent Composition of Deposits in Colombia, 1970-1983
T-8       Estimated Outstanding Credit to Manufacturing Sector, by Source
Percentual Composition
T-9       Marginal Spreads of Corporaciones Financieras (CFs)
T-10      Determinants of the Profitability of Long Term Oriented CFs
T-11      Selected Financial Data of Participating CFs,
as of December 31, 1983
T-12      Income Statements of Participating CFs
T-13      Selected Financial Indicators of Participating CFs,
as of December 31, 1983
T-14      Co-Financing:  Subprojects Financed with Funds Obtained
from Foreign Commercial Banks
T-15      Selected Financial Indices of CFs
T-16      Interest Rates and Spread of BR's Rediscounted Credit
(At 36% CDT Rates)
Annex 4 - Documents Available in the Project File



- i 
COLOMBIA
DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
1.  Borrower:        Banco de la Republica
2.  Guarantor:       Republic of Colombia
3.  Financial        Private development finance companies (DFCs) meeting
Intermediaries:  certain minimum conditions
4.  Beneficiaries:   Manufacturing, agroindustrial, tourism and mining
enterprises for investment financing. BR's DDC, and
DFCs for technical assistance.
5.  Amount:          US$90.0 million equivalent
6.  Terms:           Interest at the Bank's standard variable rate, plus
standard commitment and front-end fees. Repayment in
17 years, including 4-1/2 years of grace.
7.  On -Lend
Terms:i'/
Interest (%)2/              Maximum Terms
Dollar Funds       Peso Funds          (Years)
To Sub-           To Sub-
To DFC   borrower  To DFC  borrower Maturity  Grace
Subloans                 LIBOR-0.5 LIBOR+2.5 DTF-1.O  DTF+3.0    15          3
Equity Investments                  Not App.            Not App.   15        3
Special Projects
(Technology Development
and Pollution)                     LIBOR+2.5    -      DTF+3.0    15        5
8.   Project Description:
A. The provision of equity and medium- and long-term debt financing for
private enterprises engaged in manufacturing, tourism or mining
activities, for projects aimed at increasing or rationalizing
production, technological improvement or pollution control.
1/   Banco de la Republica would assume the foreign exchange risk on the
loan.
2/   Interest rates for dollar as well as peso-denominated sub-loans and
equity investments would be variable and subject to adjustment
semi-annually.



- ii -
B. The strenghtening of the Government's financial sector reforms by
primarily (i) helping to develop mechanisms aimed at developing a
long-term credit market; and also (ii) carrying out a program of
technical assictance for the staff of the Borrower and of the DFCs
in operating tl-e variable interest rate system and related financial
sector managemen. issues, and carrying out a program of technical
assistance for the Superintendency of Banks to enhance its banking
supervisory capabilities.
9.  Estimated             FY 85    FY 86    FY 87   FY 88   FY 89   FY 90
Disbursements
Annual                 2.0      15.0      25.0    23.0    15.0    10.0
Cumulative             2.0      17.0      42.0    65.0    80.0    90.0
10.  Rate of Return:
Subprojects requiring Bank financing in excess of US$3o0,000
equivalent will not be approved unless their projected FRR and ERR in
real terms is 11% or higher. Below US$300,000, only the FRR in real
terms of 11% or higher will be required.
11. Risks:
The project faces two main risks: lower than anticipated
demand for investment financing, and failure of "second category" DFCs to
meet conditions for continued participation in tne project. In the first
case, either a portion of the loan would have to be cancelled or the
commitment and disbursement periods would have to be extended. In the other
case, legal remedies were agreed upon that would allow to be excluded such DFCs
from participation in the project.



COLOMBIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
1.   THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
A.  Background
Recent Macroeconomic Developments
1.01      After a 6% annual average growth rate during most of the last two
decades, Colombia's economy advanced less than 4% during 1978-1981, and only
1.4% in 1982: the latter is the lowest GDP expansion registered during the
entire 1960-1982 period. Falling coffee prices and reduced export volume,
combined with the poor performance of non-coffee exports, worsened the
country's external position and led to the marked decline in GDP expansion.
Colombia did weather the storm in world capital and commodity markets better
than other Latin American countries because of previous cautious economic
policies, which provided a legacy of high foreign exchange reserves and a
relatively low external debt burden. Nevertheless, at the end of 1982,
Colombia had a growing fiscal deficit, an appreciated exchange rate, a large
balance of payments current account deficit and, additionally, was losing
foreign exchange reserves.
Industrial Structure
1.02      The share of the industrial sector in Colombia's GDP is
approximately 30%, with manufacturing accounting for 23%, construction for 5%
and mining for 2%. Mining is the industrial activity that is expected to
grow faster in the medium term, mainly as a result of large scale coal and
nickel projects that are being undertaken through joint ventures betwven the
Government and foreign partners. Colombia's single nickel deposit at Cerro
Matoso, the largest in Latin America, produced 14,000 tons of nickel in 1983
and is expected to reach full capacity at 22,000 tons in 1984. The
exploitation of El Cerrejon, Colombia's largest coal deposit, is expected to
increase the country's coal production from its current level of 6.5 million
tons to 13 million in 1985, and to 22 million tons by 1990. Since most of
the increased coal and nickel output will be exported, the Government expects
that the foreign exchange thus generated will help to strengthen the
country's balance of payments position in the mid-to-late 1980s. However,
the bulk of industrial finance will continue to be provided to the
manufacturing sector during the period covered by the proposed project.
1.03      Colombia's difficult topography has given the country a strong
regional character. In spite of improvements in communications, it is still
made up of several semi-independent regional markets. As a result,
industrial activity is more decentralized in Colombia than in most other



2
Latin America countries. Nevertheless, the three largest urban centers and
their areas of influence-Bogota, Medellin and Cali-accounted for more than
60% of the manufacturing value added and nearly 70% of manufacturing
employment during most of the last 20 years (Annex 3, Table 1). A similar
concentration is found in the construction industry. During the late 1960s
and early 1970s, concern over the concentration of economic activities in a
few urban centers was translated into special incentives to decentralize
investment, particularly in manufacturing. Under previous loans, the Bank
has supported this policy, but, as a result of the current recession,
decentralization has become a less important objective for the Government.
The proposed project does not include any special provisions dealing with
decentralization.
B.   Manufacturing Industry
Trends and Policies
1.04      Colombia's manufacturing industry has expanded rapidly over the
past two decades. As a result, the share of manufacturing activities in GDP
rose from 16% in 1960 to about 20% in 1982/83. However, growth rates for the
sector have been quite variable, achieving an average of 8.6% in 1967-1974,
decelerating to 5.2% in 1974-1978, and falling to an average growth rate of
only 1% in 1978-1982. During the last 20 years, the structure of the sector
has changed considerably, with consumer goods declining from about
four-fifths to one-half of the total and intermediate goods increasing to
about 40% in 1982. Capital goods make up the remaining 10% of total
production. The largest subsectors are food, beverages and tobacco (30% of
total value added), chemicals (25Z) and textiles, garments and leather (15%)
(Annex 3, Table 2).
1.05      Policies favoring import substitution in the 1950s and 1960s,
followed by export promotion measures in 1967, stimulated the growth of the
manufacturing sector. While less important in absolute terms than the
expansion of internal demand, the rapid growth of manufactured exports
provided the principal impetus for the rise in industrial output and
employment between 1967 and 1974. After an export-oriented expansion in the
early 1970s, the Colombian industrial sector catered again to the domestic
market during the latter part of the last decade, mainly because of the
spillover from the boom in traditional exports and an overvalued exchange
rate (Annex 3, Table 3). However, during the last few years, competition
from contraband, weakening domestic and international demand, lower
international prices for major agricultural exports, and substantial
devaluations by Colombia's most important Latin American trading partners
have resulted in decreasing industrial production and exports. In 1982,
manufacturing employment, gross output and value added fell by 5.0%, 2.9% and
1.1% respectively.
1.06      Reacting to the recession abroad and at home, the Government has
devised a new straLegy that emphasizes the reactivation of manufacturing
in the short term through increasing the share of local producers in the
domestic market, and the subsequent long-term development of the sector



- 3' -
through increased exports. To implement this strategy, the Government
substantially increased protection in 1982-1983, shifting a large share of
imports from free to prior licensing, and increasing import tariffs by an
average of 32%. These measures are considered temporary by the Government
and are expected to be removed once the balance of payments constraints are
eased through exports expansion in a more rapidly growing world economy. Key
elements of the long-term strategy are: (a) an increase in the tax rebates
for exports; and (b) a peso devaluation, in real terms, to be effected
gradually through an acceleration of the crawling peg to rates exceeding Lhe
rate of domestic inflation. In 1983, the rate of nominal devaluation was
increased from 19X to 28%, while the inflation rate was reduced from 24Z to
17%. If this pace of real devaluation is maintained, the real exchange rate
will reach 1974-1975 levels by ;986, establishing a natural incentive for
exporters and the basis for the achievement of the Government's long-term
objectives.
1.07      Two serious problems are hindering the Government's efforts:  the
high levels of both real interest rates and real wages. In the past year,
real rates of interest increased as inflation was reduced, while nominal
interest rates remained at their previous levels to compensate for the
accelerated rate of devaluation. Real wages rose throughout the late 1970s,
and even increased by 5Z in 1982-1983 when the manufacturing sector output
was declining by over 4%. While there are signs of a slight decline in the
last months, as a result of the recession and of conscious efforts by the
Government to raise the minimum wage at a slower pace than inflation, wage
settlements in early 1984, in several activities, have exceeded 1983 levels
considerably. In addition, social security contribution and other indirect
labor costs remain costly elements for manufacturing firms.
The Financial Situation of the Manufacturing Sector
1.08       The current recession has significantly weakened the financial
situation of the manufacturing sector. As sales slowed down, the sector's
liquidity disappeared, and firms were forced to increase their indebtedness
rapidly, mainly through short term credits. With low or negative profits,
the weight of debts on internally generated cash (after tax profits plus
depreciation) multiplied (Annex 3, Table 4).   Manufacturing firms have also
suffered from the rising trend followed by interest rates during the last
decade (para 1.07). The real lending rates of interest in the formal market
increased from approximately 10 in 1975 to 17% in 1982 as the ceilings on
them were removed, and, in 1983, they went further up to 29Z. The burden of
interest rates is unequally distributed, however. It was estimated that, at
the end of 1983, manufacturing firms were paying lower real rates on official
credit lines than they were on external credits and on loans obtained in
pesos in the formal and informal markets (Annex 3, Table 5).
Employment and Wages
1.09      Manufacturing employment, which had grown at an annual rate of only
1.6% during 1963-1968, rose at a rapid 8.3Z per year during the 1968-1974
period, reflecting the strong industrial growth induced by the 1967 export



4
incentive policy reforms and a falling trend in real wages. The expansion in
employment was particularly notable in labor-intensive subsectors such as
textiles, garments, footwear and mechanical engineering, which were
export-oriented and responded well to the incentives. Since 1974, however,
the growth of manufacturing employment has generally not kept pace with that
of the sector's value added. While the more recent employment problems are
linked to cyclical factors, the overall trend of a slower labor absorption in
manufacturing since 1977-1978 has its origin in structural problems. With
the weakening of the exporL promotion of non-traditional products after 1974,
growth in the more labor-intensive activities declined relative to the more
capital-intensive branches, mostly devoted to the domestic market. In
addition, some of the traditionally large employers, especially textiles,
went through a restructuring process in the later 1970s and early 1980s,
investing in more capital-intensive techniques, which led to rather large
cuts in employment (para. 1.07).
Manufacturing Investment
1.10      As the emphasis on the sector's growth was shifted from exports to
the highly protected domestic market, the sector's need to invest to maintain
its profitability was diminished, and gross investment as a percentage of
value added fell from 15.1% in 1971-1973 to 12.62 in 1974-1980 (Annex 3,
Table 6). The diminished rate of investment occurred in a period of drastic
changes in international prices and left the manufacturing sector working
with facilities thaL were rapidly becoming obsolete, thus diminishing its
capacity to export and to compete with contraband when the recession
started. Therefore, despite the effects of Lhe current recession, the
manufacturing sector faces a critical need to modernize its equipment in
order to reduce costs, improve the quality of its products and increase its
competitiveness. Many firms are already taking the necessary actions,
especially in non-metallic minerals (cement), food, beverages and tobacco,
textiles and basic metals, and this effort represents an important source of
demand for long term investment credit (para. 4.02). Overall, the growing
importance of intrasectoral linkages, combined with the changing structure of
incentives and ongoing modernizaLion in intermediate and capital goods
producers, can be expected to create significant investmenL opportunities for
them.
II. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR AND THE INSTITUTIONAL SETTING
A.   The Financial System
2.01       Colombia has a relatively well developed and diversified financial
sector comprising the Central Bank (BR), about 25 each of commercial banks
and Corporaciones Financieras (CFs) (investment banks), a central mortgage
bank (Banco Central Hipotecario--BCH), ten savings and loan institutions
(Corporaciones de Ahorro y Vivienda--CAVIs), nearly 40 trade finance
companies (Companias de Financiamiento Comercial--CFCs), more than 70
insurance companies, several mutual funds and two stock exchanges (in Bogota
and Medellin). The commercial banks have the largest branch network, with
more than 1,800 offices distributed throughout Colombia, followed by the
CAVIs (400 branch offices), BCH (75 offices) and CFs (over 100 branch



- 5 -
offices). While the importance of commercial banks has diminished during the
last decade, they still represent the dominant segment, accounting for
approximately 60% of the total deposits of the institutionalized financial
system in recent years (Annex 3, Table 7).
2.02       The Colombian financial sector enjoyed a prolonged period of
stability until the late 1960s. By that time, however, the financial system
was characterized by depressed financial savings caused by low ceilings on
interest rates, high reserve requirements, and substantial credit rationing.
By the end of the 1960s, an increasingly flourishing informal (extra-banking)
market had developed to circumvent the regulations of the formal
institutionalized financial system. In 1974, a comprehensive liberalization
of the financial system was undertaken to permit higher financial savings and
improve the efficiency of credit allocation. In 1977, however, a series of
stabilization measures, which were implemented to counter strong inflationary
pressures, effectively reversed most of the 1974 reforms, as ceilings on
interest rates became more restrictive and renewed emphasis was placed upon
forced Investments and selective credit allocation.
2.03       The net effect of these measures was an increase in the ratio of
deposits mobilized by the institutional financial system to GDP, from an
average of 19.7% in 1970-1974 to 24.6% in 1975-1979. However, this increase
was not adequate to fill the intermediation needs of the economy, and the
informal market remained strong, while institutions in the formal financial
sector developed complex innovations to circumvent the still existing
regulations. During the mid and late-1970s, it is estimated thaL as much as
one-quarter to one-third of the total industrial credit was being channeled
through the extra-bank market (Annex 3, Table 8). In an attempt to bring
part of the resources intermediated in the informal market into the
institutional system, the Government created th: CFCs, a new category of
financial institutions, to channel commercial and consumer credit funded with
market resources, and imposed upon them lesser requirements and controls than
those existing for banks and CFs. Many informal financial intermediaries
were thus incorporated into the formal =arket. Because of the lesser
requirements, CFCs were the fastest growing institutions during the late
1970s.
2.04      Starting in 1980, restrictions on the whole financial sector were
eased, ceilings on interest rates on certificates of deposit (CDTs) and on
loans made with their proceeds were removed, and the forced investment
requirements imposed upon them were reduced from 25% to 15%, and later to
10%. Yields on the forced investments were also increased. However, the
Government continued LO maintain relatively high marginal reserve
requirements and retained substantial forced investment requirements upon
financial intermediaries.
2.05      The growth of specialized institutions that occurred during the
last two decades was accompanied by a trend toward the formation of financial
conglomerates (groups), as commercial banks created CFs, CFCs and CAVIs as a
way to expand services to their customers. During the 1970s, new groups
started to grow through acquisitions rather than through creation of new



-6-
enterprises, combining financial and non-financial firms in their
conglomerates. Intra-group lending eventually led two Colombian groups into
receivership in 1982, with substantial losses to depositors.   Since then,
the Government has taken strong actions to counteract this trend (paras. 3.06
and 3.07).
B.   The Development Banking System
2.06       The Colombian CFs system was established in the early 1960s to
provide medium and long term debt and equity financing to private productive
enterprises, principally in the industrial sector. The mobilization of
market resources by CFs was practically nil during the first 15 years of
their existence. The only instruments that they could use for that purpose
were long-term bonds at fixed interest ratee, which, in Colombia's environ-
ment of high inflation and high liquidity preference among savers, made them
difficult to place. CFs thus served mainly as channels for BR's rediscounted
credit. In 1975, their operations were broadened, permitting them to issue
90-, 180-, and 270-day CDTs and to utilize the resources so mobilized to
finance working capital needs of productive enterprises (Decree 399/75).
This measure had the positive effect of liberating CFs from their excessive
dependence upon BR's credit, but, since they no longer had to use BR's long-
term credit lines as their only source of funds, it also freed CFs from the
need to provide term financing. In practice, the measure resulted in a
strong incentive for CFs to turn toward the short end of the credit market
because: (a) CFs lacked a suitable instrument for term transformation in the
presence of variable rates of inflation and competition from BR's subsidized
credit; and (b) short-term credit operations, funded with CDTs, proved to be
more profitable than long-term transactions, which were funded with BR's
resources and were subject to more restrictive policies (para. 2.07 follow-
ing).
2.07       The strong credit demand in the still highly regulated Colombian
financial markets allowed CFs to charge much higher spreads in their short-
term operations than those allowed by BR in its rediscounted lines - FIP and
FFI (Annex 3, Table 9). Also, in 1980, the rediscountable portions of these
operations were lowered from 100% to 65-80% in the midst of rising interest
rates. Since the CFs had to provide the balance of the required funds from
resources mobilized at market rates, which were considerably higher than the
prescribed lending rates on BR's operations, the CFs obtained very low or
negative average spreads on them. As a result, in 1982, the weighted average
of the effective spreads on these operations ranged between -0.4 and 1.6%.
2.08       As a result of the narrow spreads on long-term lending, all CFs
have expanded their short-term operations since 1975. However, those working
with Bank funds could not expand their short-term credit beyond the limits
imposed by the Bank in subsidiary loan agreements.l/ Consequently, they
remained tied to long-term operations and could make only a limited use of
I/   Under Loan 1857-CO, the ratio of short-term assets to capital cannot
exceed 4.5.



-7-
CDTs. All other CFs turned almost completely to short-term credit operations
funded with resources mobilized in the market, undermining the original
objectives of the development banking system and creating a situation in
which two different kinds of institutions coexisted under the same name.
This heterogeneity made it difficult to control the system with a homogeneous
set of regulations and created a disparity in the rates of growth of the two
kinds of CFs, with the short-term-oriented ones growing faster, both because
of their higher spreads and, to a lesser degree, because they were allowed
higher gearing ratios.
2.09       The result of these developments has been a steady decline in the
profitability of the credit operations of long-terr-oriented CFs. Since
financial costs were increasing faster than gross income (because most of
their loan portfoAdos were in long-term, fixed-interest rate loans), the
long-term CFs' weighted average gross spread declined 42% in 1976-1982 (from
7.2Z to 4.22), depressing the ratio of gross profits to total assets from
5.3% to 1.6%. To dampen the impact of this trend on their overall
profitability, CFs increased their leverage (total assets to net worth) from
5.7 in 1976 to 9.0 in 1982 and realized capital gains through the sale of
long-held equities (Annex 3, Table 10). While these actions were sufficient
to maintain their profitability in real terms from 1976 to 1980 (although at
very low levels, averaging 3.4% on net worth), this was not a long
sustainable process, and long-term-oriented CFs showed a trend toward lower
profitability in 1981 and 1982.
C.  Bank Lending to CFs
2.10       Eight of the 23 CFs currently operating in Colombia, accounting
for 57% of the system's total net worth, have been beneficiaries of Bank
Group financing. They were established between 1959 and 1975, are
predominantly Colombian-owned and their shares are relatively widely held
among banks, insurance companies and industrial enterprises. Typically,
however, CFs are part of larger financial groups which include other
institutions. Bank DFC lending to Colombia began in 1966 with a first loan
of US$25 million to BR for onlending through five private CFs located in
Colombia's major industrial centers. To date, eignt DFC loans, totaling
US$492.5 million, have been made to BR, and the number of participating CFs
has increased to eight. Although all of these loans were designed to assist
efficient productive projects, the most recent loans contained additional
specialized features designed to promote technology development, pollution
control and equity investments by CFs. The nature of CF operations--the
structure of their portfolios, their lack of an extensive network of branch
offices, and the relatively low margin of resources available to
them--limited the assistance they could provide to smaller firms. Therefore,
beginning in 1975, DFC loans were complemented by three loans, totaling
US$52.5 million, to Corporacion Financiera Popular (CFP), a Government-owned
DFC which specializes in financing small-scale enterprises. 2/
2/   A fourth loan of US$40 million to support small-scale industry was
presented to the Board on July 10, 1984



-8-
2.11       Initially, the Bank focused its efforts upon assisting the
institutional development of the five participating CFs and closely monitored
their operations. This approach was successful in building the five older
CFs into effective and mature term-financing institutions.  Commencing in
1973, institutional arrangements were progressively modified, with the
objective of developing, within BR, the capability to eventually take over
most of the Bank's supervision functions. Therefore, Bank supervision
efforts focused on strengthening the capability of BR's Department of
Development Credit (DDC- a specialized unit responsible for supervising the
participating CFs) to discharge increased responsibilities in the areas of
subproject review and supervision. With the two previous objectives already
fulfilled, the Bank would be shifting the focus of its efforts in the
proposed project to support sector policies that are expected to improve the
allocation of financial resources throughout the economy.
D.  Performance under Prior Bank Lending through the CFs
2.12       BR carries out its functions as an apex institution for develop-
ment banking activities through DDC. These functions include the administra-
tion of various official lines of term credit, principally to industry and
agriculture. While the primary responsibility for the appraisal and supervi-
sion of projects financed through these rediscounting facilities rests with
CFs (or other participating intermediaries), BR reviews project proposals to
check their economic merit and the adequacy of appraisal. BR's performance
with respect to subproject review and CFs' supervision has continued to
develop satisfactorily. The performance of the participating CFs in the
appraisal and supervision of subprojects has evolved satisfactorily over the
years.
2.13      Since a portion of the long-term, fixed interest rate credits
granted in the past by CFs is funded with resources mobilized in the
short-term deposits market, the substantial increase in market interest rates
that occurred in the recenL past caused financial costs to increase much
faster than revenues, and CFs have had to rely upon leverage to maintain
their profitability (Annex 3, Tables 11 to 13).  At the same time, they are
in a difficult competitive position in comparison with other financial
institutions which have a greater capacity to leverage their capital and
improve profitability.  As a result, two of the CFs have had difficulty in
msaintaining their debt-to-equity ratios within the 9:1 limit agreed upon with
the Bank (Annex 3, Table 13).  To help CFs to deal with this problem, while
at the same time maintaining prudent leverage, a moderate increase in the
debt-to-equity limitation is proposed. CFs participating under the proposed
project would be allowed to increase their total debt up to a maximum of ten
times equity (paras. 4.19-4.20).  The CFs have also had difficulty in keeping



within the 4.5:1 current-assets-to-equity ratio (including the current
portion of medium- and long-term loans), as they have increasingly been
forced to augment their short-term lending, which, in the last several years,
has been a more profitable operation (para. 2.06) than term financing. The
proposed loan would help restore Lhe relative profitability of long-term
lending by providing more attractive spreads for CFs (para. 4.08), and by
facilitating the use of short term deposits to fund medium- and long-term
credits ('term transformation") (para. 3.09). As a result, the limitation on
short-term lending would be maintained under the proposed project, although
expressed as a ratio of total assets (paras. 4.19-4.20), and BR would enforce
its compliance.
2.14      The current recession has significantly weakened the financial
situation of many manufacturing firms. As sales slowed down, the sector's
liquidity disappeared, and firms were forced to increase their indebtedness
rapidly, mainly through short-term credits (para. 1.02). With low or
negative profits, the overall debt burden increased, and many firms are
unable to service their debts. One of the main effects of this situation was
a rise in arrears over 90 days, which ranged from .9% to 7.0% of CFs' total
portfolio as of December 31, 1983 (Annex 3, Table 13), with the highest
levels of arrears tending to be concentrated in those CFs with the largest
exposure in very short-term debt. From a financial point of view, CFs seem
to be well protected overall by sufficient collateral and adequate bad debt
provisions; howev;--, CFs will need to exercise a stricter control over
subloan collectiuns, and a special effort should be made to reduce those
loans in arrears for more than 90 days. BR will step up its monitoring
efforts and a special program will be launched to reduce arrears, whereby
specific semi-annual and annual targets will be set.
E.   Cofinancing and IFC's Proposed Investment
2.15       To introduce the CFs to international capital markets and to
reduce their dependence upon BR's rediscounted credit, the Bank required them
to mobilize resources from foreign commercial banks by introducing
"cofinancing" covenaats under the Seventh and Eighth Loans.  Credit lines
totaling US$89.4 million, typically for maturities of five to seven years,
were approved by about 15 foreign banks between December 1979 and June 1983.
By mid-1983, commitments had been made amounting to US$116.8 million, in the
expectation that these credit lines would be increased during the course of
the year. The financial crisis which afflicted several Latin American
countries during 1982-1983, however, resulted in a general contraction of
foreign credit to all Latin America, and several credit lines for Colombia
were not renewed, while others were curtailed. This left three CFs with a
gap between their commitments and the dollar financing available for
disbursements under these lines of approximately US$46 million (Annex 3,
Table 15). The three CFs approached IFC, which is presently processing a
proposed US$18 million subordinated loan to help them match the maturities of
their dollar-denomainated assets and liabilit4es, as well as to strengthen
their equity and quasi-equity positions. This operation is fully consistent
with the proposed Bank loan in its conditionality and would complement it by
strengthening the financial position of the three biggest CFs participating
in the Bank project.



- 10 -
F.   Participation of Additional CFs
2.16       Although most of the non-participants are relatively small insti-
tutions (Annex 3, Table 15) with predominantly short-term lending profiles,
some could become effective development banks, with appropriate support.
However, the smaller CFs are likely to find it more difficult to meet
immediately the same institutional standards that apply to the more mature
institutions, given their high exposure to short-term operations and their
low level of capitalization. To encourage their participation in Bank
financing, CFs interested in qualifying for such financing for the first time
would be given a longer period in which to meet the conditions applying to
the already participating financieras (para. 4.20) under the terms of the
proposed loan.
III. PROPOSED FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM
A.   Introduction
3.01       The rapid growth and diversification of the Colombian financial
sector caused some strains in the existing regulatory system, established
when the sector mainly comprised commprcial banks. The creation of CFs in
the late 1960s, and of CAVIS and CFCs in the mid 1970s set a pattern of
diversification through specialization. Since, however, in many instances,
financial institutions are owned by parent companies that control firms in
different fields of specialization, a de-facto multibanking system exists in
Colombia, superimposed on the formally specialized framework. However, in
the last two decades, there was a trend for business groups to grow through
acquisition of firms in both the financial and non-financial areas, resulting
in the current existence of large, unregulated industrial/financial
conglomerates. The failure of one of these groups in 1982 aroused concern in
the Government that some of the conglomerates were mainly financing related
companies and acquiring other firms, thereby increasing the risks for the
financial institutions and restricting the access to credit of firms not
associated with these conglomerates. Furthermore, the restricted access to
the commercial banking business that has prevailed in Colombia for the last
several decades, and the higher profitability of short-term operations
vis-a-vis long term ones (para. 2.07), resulted in the creation of many CFs
that operate mainly in the short-term credit market, contrary to their stated
purpose as CFs, and the establishment of 'Companias de Autofinanciamiento,"
loosely regulated and over-leveraged firms that mobilized market resources to
finance credit for a few specific firms. These developments, the continued
existence of a substantial extra-banking market and the worsening
debt-to-equity ratios of non-financial companies (para. 1.08), created the
need for a major revision of the country's financial and regulatory systems.
3.02      Reflecting the priority accorded to financial sector reform, the
Colombian Government, in 1982, requested from the Bank a financial sector
study focusing particularly on the investment financing mechanisms and the
role of CFs. A Bank mission visited Colombia in June-July 1982, identified
the problems, and presented a set of recommendations at the end of its stay



- 11 -
in the country. 3/ Subsequently, the Government presented to Congress draft
legislation to realize a comprehensive financial reform and took measures to
implement many improvements that did not require a change in the laws
(paras. 3.07-3.09). The orientation of the proposed reform is fully
consistent with the Bank's recommendations.
3.03      The Bank proposed action in three main areas:  (a) issues
concerning improvements in the allocation of resources in the financial
sector as a whole; (b) ways to promote the development of capital markets;
and (c) the need to increase the profitability of CFs while maintaining their
long-term nature. The recommendations concerned with the overall allocation
of financial resources focused on the progressive liberalization of interest
rates, the elimination of other restrictions now imposed on the formal
financial market (mainly forced investments and restrictions on non-financial
firms for obtaining direct foreign financing), the dismantling or,
alternatively, the increased control over the "Companias de Autofinancia-
miento,' the need to control the operations of large industrial financial
groups in order to protect minority shareholders and depositors of the
groups' banks, the tightening and improved enforcement of limits to credit to
any single enterprise or conglomerate, and the need to clearly define the
role of each kind of financial institution within the current framework of
specialization (para. 3.05).
3.04      To promote the development of capital markets, the Bank suggested
reforms to the tax system to remove the existing asymmetry between the tax
treatment of interest income and i sterest expenses (with respect to the
deductibility of the inflation-related part of the interest payments), to
equate withholding taxes for dividend and interest income and to remove or
reduce the double taxation of dividends. It also suggested a review of the
relevant legislation to strengthen protection to minority shareholders, as
well as the promotion of the use of quasi-equity instruments and
underwriting by CFs to capitalize enterprises and reduce the financial
problems of the private sector (para. 1.08). While many other measures
concerned with the overall allocation of financial resources were recommended
by the Bank, the following discussion focuses on those having a direct impact
on the CF system.
3.05      Regarding CFs, the Bank reco=mended measures to clearly define
their role as well as to improve the profitability of long-term credit
operations. The Bank specifically recommended the elimination of the duality
currently existing in the CF system, in which institutions devoted to short-
and long-term credit coexist under the same name (para. 2.08). To unify the
system, the Bank suggested measures requiring CFs to: (a) maintain a minimum
share (say 60%) of their total assets in medium- and long-term loans and
equity investments; (b) have a maximum debt-to-equity ratio of approximately
3/   After the recommendations were presented, a complete report was written,
discussed in green cover with the authorities in April 1983, and circu-
lated in gray cover in August 1983 (Colombia: The Colombian Investment
Banking System and Related Financial Issues.  Report No. 4274-C0)



- 12 -
10 to I (down from 15 to 1) to make it more suitable to the risk profile of
their assets structure (mainly long term) and to the significant term
transformation that CFs may have to undertake; and (c) maintain a minimum
capital (around C$ 500 million, roughly equivalent to US$5.0 million) which
would be applicable for existing as well as newly created CFs. Since many
CFs do not currently comply with one or more of these requirements, the Bank
recommended allowing a transition period of two to three years for them to
adjust to the new regulations.
3.06      To increase the profitability of long-term credit operations, the
Bank suggested measures to: (a) facilitate term transformation through the
introduction of variable rate credit instruments, linked to an index of the
marginal cost of funds; (b) allow the use of this instrument in the
non-rediscounted portion of BR's credit lines (to avoid the reduction of
spreads caused by lending at fixed interest rates on that portion -
para. 2.07); (c) reduce the impact of controlled interest rates in BR's
credit lines by reducing the margins of rediscount, thereby increasing
long-term credit at market interest rates and raising the share of resources
mobilized in the market for funding long-term credit; (d) exempt CFs from the
10% forced investment requirement on their CDT resources; (e) improve the
access of CFs to BR's liquidity support facilities, thus providing an
adequate safety net for term transformation operations; (f) improve the
spreads of rediscounted credit and facilitate the access of CF's to medium-
and long-term external loans to strengthen the competitiveness of CFs
relative to commercial banks (now low because of the latters' access to zero
financial cost demand deposits and wider variety of services); and
facilitate, in the longer run, resource mobilization by the CFs through the
use of medium-and long-term floating rate instruments.
B. Government Actions to Date
3.07      The Government decided to improve the functioning of the existing
specialized system, mainly through the establishment of similar regulations
for institutions performing similar operations and through measures aimed at
making all fields of specialization equally profitable. Particular attention
was given to the development of intermediation of market resources for
medium- and long-term credit, where specialized skills and technical
capabilities are required, and whose development could be impaired if an
immediate approach to multi-banking was made because commercial banks are
naturally inclined to short-term operations. In the Government's view, once
adequate regulations and mechanisms are well developed and enforced, a
gradual move to formal multi-banking could be considered, building on the
strengthened capacities of the potential constituents of the future
multibanking institutions. The enforcement of specialization is the main
aspect of the ongoing financial reform that can only be addressed through the
law now under consideration in the Colombian Congress. Although the same
kind of specialized institutions would remain in existence, their operations
would be further defined, as well as the financial and managerial
requirements with which they would have to comply. The rest of the proposed



- 13 -
legislation would specifically empower the Executive Branch to regulate the
financial markets under the new framework, would strengthen the power of the
Superintendency of Banks and the National Securities Commission, and would
incorporate as laws the basic principles of the reforms already enacted
through Executive decrees in order to ensure the permanency of those
principles as part of the country's main body of legislation.
3.08       The Government has already implemented the following measures:
(a) to limit the concentration of ownership in the financial sector as well
as to reduce the linkages between financial and non-financial firms, the
Government issued two decrees (2920/82 and 3227/82), reducing the share of
financial institutions in the ownership of other financial firms and
establishing stiff penalties for violations of the prohibition to lend to
related companies beyond certain limits; (b) to further reduce credit
concentration and risk to depositors, the Government abolished the "Companias
de Autofinanciamiento," unregulated financial companies that mobilized market
resources to fund credit for a single company; (c) to promote equity
investment and reduce the leverage of non-financial firms, the effect of
double taxation on companies with widespread ownership was substantially
reduced (Law 9 of 1983) and two special rediscount funds were established in
BR to finance the purchase of minority shareholdings in financial and
non-financial firms, both directly and through CF's underwr'  ig; (d) to
raise the profitability of long-term credit intermediation ., CFs in the
immediate future, the Government reformed BR's Official Financing Funds
(rediscounting funds) to improve the spreads for CFs and to allow the use of
variable interest rates; and (e) to raise the profitability of CFs in the
long run, the Government enacted important measures to promote the
development of long-term credit markets (para. 3.09).
C.   Bank Support
3.09      The proposed loan was designed as part of a Bank strategy to
support the Government's efforts to reform the financial system, using the
loans to the industrial sector to help the development of the country's
long-term financial markets through the use of resources mobilized in the
market to financ-: text.. lending. The Bank identified the creation of suitable
term transformation instruments (the use of short-term deposits to fund
medium- and long-term credits) as the single most important measure to attain
that objective within the current economic environment. Term transformation,
however, poses two mair risks: (a) the possibility that interest rates paid
by CFs for their CDTs could increase over the rates charged on long-term
credits outstanding, thereby causing a loss to CFs, and (b) the possibility
of liquidity problems caused by deposits withdrawals that cannot be matched
with reductions in credits because these mature in the long-term. The first
risk is eliminated through lending at floating interest rates linked to a
deposit rate index, and the second risk is minimized through adequate access
to a last resort liquidity facility from BR. To facilitate the use of the
floating interest rates, the Government started, in January 1984, the
publication of a weekly index of interest rates on newly issued CDTs and is
taking measures to establish a systematic procedure to revise periodically
the 'usury rate of interest" ( a ceiling on interest rates, equal to 2 times
the market rates as ascertained by the Superintendent of Banks) in order to



- 14 -
ensure that this ceiling will fluctuate in accordance with the market rates
and will not restrict their movement. These measures would be protected by
contractual remedies (Section 5.01, (J) of draft Loan Agreement). To provide
adequate liquidity as-istance to CFs, the Monetary Board created, in 1982,
the Cupo Ordinario," a credit facility in BR that can be used on call by
CFs. The conditions of CF's access to this facility were modified in 1984
and are currently considered adequate for the purposes of the 'cupo.
Additionally, as a result of the rapid growth of the financial system, the
Superintendency of Banks needs to be strengthened to streamline its
administrative procedures and improve its capacity to rapidly gather, process
and interpret data on the financial system; the Government has requested the
Bank's technical support in the design and implementation of a program aimed
at improving the Superintendency's Technical Capabilities (para. 4.10).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Proje'et Objectives and Description
4.01      As noted in Part II of this report, DFCs are currently suffering
from difficulties in tapping international capital markets, and the country
is redressing the more fundamental structural weaknesses of the financial
sector that have become evident as a result of the downturn of economic
growth. Accordingly, building on the accomplishments of prior Bank loans,
which helped several individual DFCs develop into relatively mature term
financing institutions, and complementing the Bank's work on financial sector
issues, the proposed project has the two-fold objective of:
(a) making available mediumr-term loans to DFCs, that are now unavail-
able to Colombia, to channel term financing toward efficient
investment projects in the industrial sector (including manufactur-
ing, agro-industry, tourism and mining); and
'b) assisting the Government in strengthening the financial sector
reforms already undertaken, by (i) helping to develop mechanisms
aimed at developing a long-term credit market, (ii) carrying
out a program of technical assistance for the staff of the Borrower
and of the DFCs in operating the variable interest rate system and
related financial management issues, and (iii) carrying out a
program of technical assistance for the Superintendency of Banks to
enhance its banking supervisory capabilities.
4.02      The aggregate investment cost of projects potentially eligible for
financing out of the proposed Bank loan over the next 24 months (the proposed
loan commitment period) is estimated to be on the order of US$350 million
equivalent. This estimate is based on current Bank projections of economic
growth for Colombia, an enterprise investment survey carried out by BR late
in 1983, information on project pipelines of selected DFCs, and the proposed
terms and conditions of subloans. The foreign exchange financing require-
ments of such investment activity are estimated at US$200 million equiva-
lent. After taking into account other probable external sources (i.e., a
US$90 million IDB loan and a conservative level of suppliers' credit) a Bank
loan of US$90.0 million equivalent is proposed to help fill the sector's



- 15 -
estimated foreign exchange gap. Based on data from the BR survey,about 401
of the investment projects can be expected to involve modernization of
existing plants and improvements in capacity utilization, 20-25% to support
expansions in production capacity for existing product lines, and the
remaining 35-40% to help set up new product lines and/or new enterprises.
4.03      The proposed US$90 million loan would be allocated as follows:
(a)  US$89.8 million for the credit component which would cover the
foreign exchange costs of subloans and equity investments made by
DFCs for investment projects involving increases in, or rationali-
zation of, productive capacity of enterprises, industrial pollution
control or technology development, and for technical assistance
required to undertake those projects; and
(b) US$0.2 million for capitalizing the front-end fee of the loan.
A related program of technical assistance for the staff of BR and the DFCs
would be financed by BR with its own resources. This program would cover the
promotion and evaluation of investment projects, investment and credit port-
folio supervision and management, and the operation of the variable borrowing
and lending rate system. Also, concomitantly with the proposed project, the
Government would carry out a technical assistance program for its banking
regulatory agency, the Superintendency of Banks (para. 4.10)
4.04      BR would be the borrower, with the guarantee of the Republic of
Colombia, and would onlend the loan proceeds to participating DFCs in accord-
ance with subsidiary loan agreements satisfactory to the Bank, entered into
as a condition precedent Lo disbursements with respect to each DFC (Section
2.02(d), draft Loan Agreement). BR itself would assume responsibility for
the training and technical assistance to DDC's and DFCs' professional staff.
The proposed loan would have a 17-year term, including 4-1/2 years of grace.
The grace period would be flightly longer than the usual 4 years for
Colombian loans to partly compensate the country for the reduction in the
repayment period from 17 to 14 years made under the petroleum project. BR
would assume the foreign exchange risk between the currency pool obligations
incurred under the Bank loan and the currency of BR's onlending to DFCs
(i.e., US dollars or Colombian pesos, para. 4.07). The spreads between BR's
onlending rates to the DFCs and the Bank's standard variable interest rate
are considered adequate to compensate BR for assuming this risk. In view of
the administrative complexities associated with the large number of subloans
and investments expected (100-150), the loan would be repaid according to a
fixed amortization schedule with equal repayments of principal, instead of a
schedule reflecting subloans' amortization. It is expected that the
composite of subloan repayments and yields of equity investments will be
close to the terms proposed for the loans.  It has been agreed, however,
that any funds repaid to BR prior to the maturities of the Bank loan would be
used for purposes similar to those of the loan (Section 3.02(c), draft Loan
Agreement).



- 16 -
Credit Component
4.05      About 90% of the credit component is expected to be used for
modernization of equipment and facilities and increases in productive
capacity, while technology development, pollution control and technical
assistance to enterprises are expected to account for the rest. No special
allocation is made for equity investments within the credit component but,
based on prior experience, about 5-10% of the component can be expected to be
used for this purpose. Subloans and equity investments would cover estimated
foreign exchange costs of: (a) fixed assets (machinery, equipment, factory
buildings and related civil works and services); (b) permanent working
capital (initial stocks or increases in stocks of imported raw materials,
spare parts and components required for increases in productive capacity);
and (c) technical assistance services required by industries.
4.06      No enterprise, including its subsidiaries, shall be eligible to
obtain financing out of the proposed loan (in either a subloan and/or equity
investment) in excess of US$5.0 million equivalent. Likewise, no investment
project shall receive financing (whether from one or more DFCs) in excess of
US$5.0 million equivalent. Equity investments in a single enterprise (or its
subsidiaries) shall be limited to an aggregate maximum out of the proposed
loan of US$3.0 million equivalent, regardless of the number of DFCs proposing
to make investments therein. These limits are intended to: (a) ensure a
reasonable degree of dispersion of loan funds; (b) reduce concentration of
credit in the largest enterprises; and (c) allow a greater concentration of
peso-denominated subloans for the relatively smaller enterprises. Unlike
previous loans, and reflecting the prevailing difficulties in raising foreign
exchange on the international capital markets, a company's size would not
limit its access to the proposed Bank loan; however, a company's access to
adequate alternative sources of foreign financing has been included in BR's
statement of operating policies and procedures as part of DDC's criteria,
whereby DFCs' financing to those companies would be ineligible for financing
out of the proposed Bank loan.
4.07      Within these limits, enterprises (and the respective DFCs) would
have an option to receive the first US$500,000 equivalent in the form of
loans denominated in Colombian pesos or US dollars; any financing in excess
of this limit would be denominated in US dollars. Exceptions would be
allowed in subloans for pollution control, technical assistance and
technology development/adaptation, and in loans to DFCs for equity Invest-
ments, increasing the amount available in peso-denominated loans to the first
US$2.0 million of exposure. This arrangement is expected, on the average, to
result in relatively higher proportions of peso financing being available to
the smaller sized firms. At the same time, it avoids the complications
experienced in the past of trying to limit the access to peso-denominated
loans on the basis of firm size. It has been statistically observed that the
90-day CDT rate tends to compensate savers for current and expected levels of
both domestic inflation and devaluation of the Colombian peso (IBRD Report
No. 4444-CO). As a result of the acceleration in the pace ef devaluation
over the past 18 months, lending rates based on the CDT rate have exceeded



- 17 -
the effective cost of borrowing in foreign currency (nominal interest rate
plus devaluation). Thus, during the life of the proposed subloans (about
eight years on average), the cost to industry of a 'peso" subloan should be
about the same as a 'dollar' subloan. The purpose of the option to be
of fered is mostly to meet the perceptLion of risk among the smaller enter-
prises, which are generally less at ease with foreign currency movements.
For these reasons, this dual system would not entail unreasonable risks for
BR, especially since "peso' lending is not expected to exceed 50% of the
loan. This limit would be reviewed from time to time between BR and the Bank
and could be increased only by mutual agreement (Schedule 4, para. III.3,
draft Loan Agreement).
Onlending Terms
4.08      Interest rates would be floating in both currencies, adjustable
every six months. The rates to the final beneficiaries on subloans denomi-
nated in US dollars would be set at the published London Interbank Offered
kate (LIBOR) on 180-day deposits (currently in the 11.0 to 11.5% range) plus
a charge of 2-1/2 percentage points. Peso-denominated subloans would bear
rates, also adjustable once every six months, equal to the Index of the cost
of CDTs (para. 34) plus three percentage points. BR would lend funds to DFCs
following the same floating rate schemes, allowing for spreads of 3.0 per-
centage points in the case of dollar-denominated subloans, and 4.0 percentage
points in the case of peso-denominated subloans. Interest rates charged to
DFCs by BR on loans for equity investments would be identical to those
charged by BR on loans to DFCs for financing subloans in the respective
currency (Schedule 4, paras. II. 1-4, and III, 1 and 2, draft Loan
Agreement). Maximum subloan maturities would be 15 years, including grace
periods of up to three years, except that subloans for pollution control or
technology development may have grace periods of up to five years (Schedule
4, para. II.5, draft Loan Agreement). The exception is justified in view of
the longer gestation period involved in some technology improvement programs
and the non-productive nature of pollution control investments.
4.09      All subloans requiring more than US$3.0 million equivalent of Bank
funds in the case of Group A DFCs with "full participation," or more than
US$750,000 equivalent in the case of Group B DFCs participating on a "limited
basis" (paras. 4.17-4.18), would require the Bank's prior approval. Equity
investments in excess of US$650,000 equivalent would also require prior Bank
approval. Within the above limits, BR itself would delegate part of its
review responsibilities to the participatLing DFCs, depending on the degree of
their maturity, as outlined in BR's policy statement. These arrangements
should result in prior Bank review of about 10% of the number of investment
projects to be financed, accounting for 25-30% of the proposed loan amount.
Technical Assistance Component
4.10      The Government has committed itself to further strengthening of its
banking regulatory agency, the Superintendency of Banks. To this effect, it
will carry out a technical assistance program, in consultation with the Bank,
to enhance the capabilities of this agency to monitor and enforce the regula-



- 18 -
tions applicable to the financial sector. This technical assistance package
for the Superintendency would include assistance for improvements in the
areas of: (a) information systems to select and process data from financial
institutions under its control; (b) analysis and interpretation of data
received; tc) diagnostic and control techniques applicable to the different
categories of financial institutions; and (d) training of the inspectors and
financial analysts of the Superintendency. Assurances were received from the
Guarantor that a detailed action program to this effect would be presented to
the Bank for its comments within six months of loan signing and implemented
promptly thereafter (Section 3.01 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
4.11      Likewise, to ensure smooth introduction of term transformation in
Colombia (para. 3.09), the staffs of DFCs and BR will need to be trained in
the application of the new techniques and their control. This will be done
through a special technical assistance component consisting of: training
courses and seminars for the professional staff of BR's DDC and of the parti-
cipating DFCs, emphasizing promotion and evaluation of investment projects
for credit and equity investments purposes, project supervision and term
transformation control. Financing for this component would be provided by
the borrower.
Investment Prolect Appraisal and Supervision
4.12      The participating DFCs would be responsible for the appraisal and
supervision of investment projects. Appraissls would contain an adequate
analysis of the organizational, financial, marketing, technical and other
relevant aspects of the proposed investment projects. In addition,
appraisals of all projects for increases in productive capacity requiring
more than US$300,000 equivalent in Bank financing would include a calculation
of the project's FRR and ERR following guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and
the projects would be financed only if such rates exceed 11% in real terms;
for projects involving less than US$300,000 equivalent in Bank financing,
only an FRR would be calculated and financing would not be approved unless
the FRR equals or exceeds llX in real terms (see Section 2.03, draft Loan
Agreement). Special guidelines for project evaluation would be used in the
case of pollution control and technology development sub-projects. They are
contained in BR's Development Credit Department's Statement of Operating
Policies and Procedures. Each DFC would supervise the projects financed by
it to see that subloans or equity funds are utilized for the purpose intended
and that the financial and other conditions affecting the project's perform-
ance are progressing satisfactorily. BR and the DFCs would have the right to
visit the enterprises as necessary and to request from them the relevant
information on the enterprise and the project. BR would be responsible for
supervising the performance of the participating DFCs and their compliance
with the conditions agreed in the proposed loan. To this end, BR would make
periodic visits to the DFCs and would receive quarterly reports from them on
their financial condition, status of portfolio and performance of loan comr-
mitments. These understandings, reflected in Schedule 4, paragraph IV of the
draft Loan Agreement, will not be modified without the Bank's consent
(Section 5.01(h), draft Loan Agreement).



- 19 -
Procurement and Disbursement
4.13      Procurement procedures would be similar to those under the Seventh
and Eighth DFC Projects and conform with standard practice for DFC loans; BR
would monitor procurement to be financed out of the proposed Bank loan to
ensure that the items are reasonably priced and appropriate for their
intended purpose. The loan proceeds would be disbursed against: (a) 100% of
foreign currency expenditures for goods supplied from outside the territory
of the Guarantor; (b) 100% of foreign currency expenditures (c.i.f.) on
imported equipment purchased off-the-shelf in Colombia, or 60% of the
reasonable cost of such goods, when the c.i.f cost cannot be ascertained;
(c) 40X of the ex-factory cost of domestically manufactured goods and of the
reasonable cost of locally supplied services and civil works; and (d) 100% of
expenditures for services required for technical assistance, and training.
The above percentages reflect estimated average foreign exchange costs of the
respective expenditure categories, except in the case of technical
assistance, where the proposed disbursement percentage makes no distinction
between foreign and local consultants. Only expenditures made within not
more than 180 days prior to the date of receipt by the Bank of the
corresponding financing requests would be eligible for reimbursement out of
the proposed loan-rather than the 90 days customary under the Bank's
DFC-type loans-in view of the administrative complexities and time lags
involved in the two-tier lending arrangement with participation of a large
number of DFCs. The Loan and Project Summary provides an estimated
disbursement schedule, which is based on the average disbursement profile for
DFC projects in the LAC Region. The closing date would be June 30, 1990. To
cover the foreign exchange requirements of participating DFCs for investments
they will be financing before this loan becomes effective, retroactive
financing of up to US$9 million, 10% of the loan amount, has been provided
(Section 2.02(d) of the draft Loan Agreement).
4.14      In order to ensure timely payment of reimbursement claims, as a
condition of loan effectiveness, a Special Account in U.S. dollars would be
established in BR to cover estimated expenditures for three months. The Bank
would make an initial deposit of US$7.0 million into the Special Account. BR
would claim reimbursement of the Bank's share of expenditures from the
Special Account upon presentation of fully-documented withdrawal applications
forwarded to the Bank for replenishment of the Special Account. The Bank
would receive from BR a monthly statement of the Special Account which would
reflect transactions during the previous month. The Special Account would be
subject to the same audit procedures as the other project accounts (Sections
2.02(c) and 6.02 and Schedule 5, draft Loan Agreement).
Accounts and Auditing
4.15      DFCs participating in the proposed project would be required to
maintain adequate records reflecting their operations and financial condi-
tion, and to submit annual financial statements audited by independent
auditors following principles satisfactory Lo the Bank. BR would maintain
adequate records concerning the progress of the project and to reflect,



- 20 -
separately from its other operations, the operations and financial transac-
tions of DDC. These accounts would be audited by independent auditors
following principles satisfactory to the Bank (Sections 4.01 and 4.02, draft
Loan Agreement).
The Borrower
4.16      Banco de la Republica (BR), the proposed borrower, is Colombia's
central bank. As of December 31, 1983, its paid-in capital and reserves were
Col$611.7 billion (US$6.9 billion equivalent). The Board of Directors is
composed of ten members, of whom three are appointed by the President of the
Republic, another four are appointed by the President upon nominations
submitted by, respectively, consumers' groups, manufacturers and
distributors, exporters, and the Coffee Growers Federation, while the
remaining three are elected by Colombia's private banks. BR's General
Manager is appointed by the Board; the rest of BR's senior management is
appointed by the Board, upon the advice of the General Manager, and is often
drawn from BR's middle management and staff, a generally proficient body of
career professionals, now numbering about 1,700. In addition to its central
banking responsibili-ties, BR carries out several development banking
activities entrusted to its DDC, which administers the official lines of
medium- and long-term credit available primarily to agriculture and industry
(FFAP, FFI, FIP), including Bank DFC loans.
Participating Intermediaries
4.17      All 23 DFCs legally constituted in Colombia would be eligible to
participate as intermediaries of the proposed loan, provided that they
satisfy the following conditions:
Group A DFCs - Full Participation
(a) ratio of total debt (including debt of the DFC's subsidiaries and
contingent liabilities) to equity not exceeding 10 to 1;
(b) minimum equity capital of Col$ 500 million;
(c) medium-4/ and long-term loans plus equity investments accounting
for notiless than 55% of the DFC's total assets;
(d)  its  Statement of Operating Policies and Procedures" was approved by
the Bank; and
(e) its assets' composition, portfolio quality, income outlook
and technical capacity to appraise and supervise investment
projects are satisfactory to BR and the Bank.
4/   Mediumr- and long-term loans are defined as the aggregate of all loans
which are not repayable within less than 12-months, and all export
promotion loans rediscounted with PROEXPO (the official export-promotion
agency).



- 21 -
DFCs which meet all the above conditions would have unlimited access to Bank
financing under the proposed project. Initially, seven DFCs are expected to
fulfill the above conditions.
4.18      In line with the recommendations of the Financial Sector Report to
encourage the gradual evolution of an increasing number of DFCs into sound
termr-lending institutions, DFCs which are initially unable to meet the
requirements in paragraph 4.17 preceeding, but which are interested in
complying with them in the future, would be, nevertheless, allowed a limited
degree of participation (total commitments out of the proposed Bank loan not
to exceed the lower of two times such DFCs equity or the equivalent of US$10
million), provided they meet all of the following requirements:
Group B DFCs - Limited Participation
(a)  a ratio of total debt (including debt of the DFC's subsidiaries and
contingent liabilities) to equity not exceeding 10 to 1;
(b)  minimum equity capital of Col$ 300 million, to be increased, at
least, to Col$ 500 million within 24 months from the date the DFC
is admiitted to participate in the project;
.c) medium- and long-term loans plus the equity investments accounting
for not less than 30% of the DFC's total assets on the date the DFC
is admitted to participate in the project; these percentages to be
increased to not less than 37%, 44% and 50% within 12, 24 and 36
months, respectively, from such date;
{d)  its assets' composition, portfolio quality, income outlook and
technical capacity to appraise and supervise investment projects
are satisfactory to BR and the Bank; and
Ce)  the Bank has approved its "Operating Policies and
Procedures."
The Bank would annually review the progress made by each DFC in this second
category after it is admitted to participate in the project. Three Group B
DFCs are expected to be eligible at project start. Should any of these DFCs
be found in default, the Bank would have the right to suspend or terminate
both commitments and disbursements out of the proposed loan to the DFC in
question. Adequate arrangements concerning DFCs' participation have been
agreed with BR (Sections 5.01 and 5.02 and Schedule 4, para. I, draft Loan
Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
4.19      The credit component of the proposed project would finance effi-
cient industrial investment projects and would help fill a gap in term
financing needed for increasing or rationalizing productive capacity in the
industrial sector. A total of 100-150 subprojects covering a wide range of
industrial activities and involving total investment costs on the order



- 22 -
ANNEX 1
COLONBIA
DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements a/
IBRD Fiscal Year and        Estimated Disbursements   Cumulative Disbursements
Quarter Ending            During the Quarter         at End of Quarter
FY85
March 31, 1985                    1,000                      1,000
June 30, 1985                     1,000                      2,000
FY86
September 30, 1985                3,000                      5,000
December 31, 1985                 3,000                      8,000
March 31, 1986                    4,000                     12,000
June 30, 1986                     5,000                     17,000
FY87
September 30, 1986                6,000                    23,000
December 31, 1986 b/              6,000                     29,000
March 31, 1987                    6,000                    35,000
June 30, 1987                     7,000                    42,000
FY88
September 30, 1987                6,000                    48,000
December 31, 1987                 6,000                    54,000
March 31, 1988                    6,000                    60,000
June 30, 1988                     5,000                    65,000
FY89
September 30, 1988                5,000                    70,000
December 31, 1988                 4,000                    74,000
March 31, 1989                    3,000                     77,000
June 30, 1989                     3,000                    80,000
FY90
September 30, 1989                3,000                    83,000
December 31, 1989                 2,000                    85,000
March 31, 1990                    2,000                    87,000
June 30, 1990 c/                  3,000                    90,000
a/   Based on the average disbursement profiles of IDF projects in the LAC
Regiotk.
b/   Estimated end date for submission of subloans.
c/   Closing date.



- 23 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 5
COLOMBIA
DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
Banco de la Republica - Department of Development Credit
Statement of Operating Policies and Procedures
This statement lays down the policies and procedures that Banco de
la Republica (BR) will follow through the Department of Development Credit
(DDC) in discharging its responsibilities under the Proposed Development
Banking Project (the Loan) of the World Bank (the Bank).
I.     Utilization of Funds
(a) The funds shall be used, in accordance with the terms of the
relevant Loan and Subsidiary Loan Agreements, to finance the estab-
lishment, expansion or rationalization (includiug technological
upgrading and pollution control) of economically productive enter-
prises that are effectively controlled by the private sector.
(b) The economic activities that may receive financing shall include
manufacturing industry, tourism, mining, and agroindustry; special
attention shall be given to projects involving export generation,
pollution control and technology development, and to projects of
mediumrsized and smaller enterprises.
(c) The proceeds of the loan shall be used only to finance specific
projects that are technically, financially, and economically sound.
(d) Only the following types of expenditures, or such other expendi-
tures as may be agreed by the Bank, would be eligible for financing
as technology improvement subloans.
(i)  Research and development programs subcontracted to national or
overseas technical research institutes or equivalent agencies,
or carried out in cooperation with overseas collaborators.
(ii) Training of Colombian technicians abroad for periods of up to
one year, when not included as part of a normal licensing
arrangement.
(iii)  Hiring of foreign technicians or consultants to work with a
firm for up to one year.
(iv) Establishment of a laboratory and/or purchase of equipment,
instruments for: quality control, environmental promotiMi of
materials testing or product research and laboratory supplies.
(v)  Lump sum payments to purchase outright, and without restric-
tion, the rights to utilize a new or modified production
process or to produce some new product patented by a foreign
concern.



- 24 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 5
II. Requirement for Participation of Corporaciones Financieras (CFs)
All 23 DFCs legally constituted in Colombia would be eligible to
participate as intermediaries of the proposed loan, provided that they
satisfy the following conditions:
Group A DFCs - Full Participation
(a)  ratio of total debt (including debt of the DFC's subsidiaries and
contingent liabilities) to equity not exceeding 10 to 1;
(b) minimum equity capital of Col$ 500 million;
(c) mediumr-/ and long-term loans plus equity investments accounting
for not less than 55% of the DFC's total assets;
(d) its 'Statement of Operating Policies and Procedures'
was approved by the Bank; and
(e) its assets' composition, portfolio quality, income outlook
and technical capacity to appraise and supervise investment
projects are satisfactory to BR and the Bank.
DFCs which meet all the above conditions would have unlimited access to Bank
financing under the proposed project. Initially, seven DFCs are expected to
fulfill the above conditions.
In line with the recommendations of the Financial Sector Report to
encourage the gradual evolution of an increasing number of DFCs into sound
term-lending institutions, DFCs' which are initially unable to meet these
requirements, but are interested in complying with them in the future, would
be, nevertheless, allowed a limited degree of participation (total
commitments out of the proposed Bank loan not to exceed the lower of two
times such DFCs' equity or the equivalent of US$10 million), provided they
meet all of the following requirements:
Group B DFCs - Limited Participation
(a) a ratio of total debt (including debt of the DFC's subsidiaries and
contingent liabilities) to equity not exceeding 10 to 1;
(b) minimum equity capital of Col$ 300 million, to be increased, at
least, to Col$ 500 million within 24 months from the date the DFC
is admitted to participate in the project;
1/ Medium- and long-term loans are defined as the aggregate of all loans
which is not repayable within less 12-months, and all export development
loans rediscounted with PROEXPO (the official export-promotion agency).



- 25 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 5
(c)  medium- and long-term loans plus the equity investments accounting
for not less than 30% of the DFC's total assets on the date the DFC
is admitted to participate in the project; these percentages to be
increased to not less than 37%, 44% and 50% within 12, 24 and 36
months, respectively, from such date;
(d)  its assets' composition, portfolio quality, income outlook and
technical capacity to appraise and super_i  e investment projects
are satisfactory to BR and the Bank; and
(e)  the Bank has approved its "Operating Policies and
Procedures."
The Bank would annually review the progress made by each DFC in
this second category after it is admitted to participate in the project.
Three Group B DFCs are expected to be eligible at project start. Should any
of these DFCs be found in default, the Bank would have the right to suspend
or terminate both commitments and disbursements out of the proposed loan to
the DFC in question (Sections 5.01 and 5.02 and Schedule 4, para. I, draft
Loan Agreement).
III.     Supervision of CFs
BR would 'oe responsible for supervising the performance of the
participating CFs with respect to the proposed loan; for this puipose, BR
would maintain a 'ull-time supervision unit within DDC and provide adequate
training on supervision policies and procedures for the unit's staff. The
unit 's specific functions include the following:
(a) It shaU monitor, on a continuing basis, the compliance, by the
CFs, of their various obligations and financial covenants under the
respective Subsidiary Loan Agreements (including, inter alia, the
lending limits, exposure limitations, maintenance of the required
minimum capital, minimum portfolio of medium- and long-term loans
and equity investments, and maximum debt limits) and notify the CFs
if there is a need to take corrective action. It shall also
monitor the institutional development of the CFs, including the
maintenance of an adequate organization and technical capability,
and progress in achieving the objectives set forth in the strategy
papers and/or plans of action agreed with the respective CFs.
(b) BR shall require, from each participating CF, a program to reduce
its portfolio in arrears for more than 90 days to a percentage of
the total portfolio to be established by BR, under an agreed
timetable, and shall closely monitor the implementation of such
program.
(c) For the purpose of achieving the above, BR shall receive and review
periodic (at least quarterly) reports from each of the CFs,
showing, inter alia, their financial statements and exposure in
their largest client groups and in their own group, as well as a



- 26 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 5
detailed statement of interest rates and maturities of credits
compared with interest rates and maturities of liabilities.
(d)  BR shall require satisfactory external auditing for all
participating CFs.
(e) It shall visit, at least once every six months, each CF for which
it has the principal supervision responsibility.
(f) It may examine the CF's books and relevant documents that it
considers advisable.
(g) it shall monitor the loan and investment decision-making process of
the newly participating CFs, particularly for those operations that
involve their large shareholders.
(5) It would conform to other requirements set forth in the manual on
supervision of the CFs.
DDC would, as appropriate, grant technical assistance to any of the
CFs under its supervision.
IV.  Subproject Appraisal and Supervision
The participating CFs would be responsible for the preparation,
appraisal and supervision of subprojects. Subproject appraisals would
contain an adequate analysis of the organizational, financial, marketing,
technical and other relevant aspects of the projects. The criteria to
determine the eligibility of a given subproject to be financed out of the
proceeds of the proposed loan would include the lack of access to adequate
alternative sources of financing. Unless justified by special reasons,
appraisal reports of all subprojects for increases in production capacity,
requiring more than US$300,000 equivalent in Bank financing, would include a
calculation of the project's internal economic rate of return (ERR) and
financial rate of return (FRR) following guidelines acceptable to the Bank.
In the case of projects involving smaller amounts of Bank financing, an FRR
calculation would be included as a substitute for ERR. Only projects with
ERR (or FRR if financing requested is below US$300,000 equivalent) exceeding
11% in terms of constant prices would be financed. In the case of pollution
control and technology development projects, for which an ERR and FRR
calculation may not be relevant, special guidelines for project evaluation,
which have been agreed between the Bank and BR, would be used (see
Appendices). Each CF would supervise the projects financed by it to see that
funds under the subloans or equity investments are utilized for the purpose
intended and that the financial and other conditions affecting the project's
performance are progressing satisfactorily. The CFs and BR would have the
right to visit the enterprises as necessary and to request from them relevant
information on the company and the project. BR would be responsible for
supervising the performance of the participating CFs and their compliance
with the various conditions agreed in connection with the proposed loan. To
this end, BR would make periodic visits to the CFs and would receive
quarterly reports from them on their financial condition, status of portfolio
and performance of loan commitments.



- 27 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 5
V.    Disbursements, Accounting and Auditing
The procedures to be followed and documents required for authoriz-
ing disbursement of the approved subloans shall be the same as those utilized
for previous DFC loans extended to BR by the Bank. The accounting procedures
to be used for this line of credit shall be similar to those currently in
use, and operations shall be audited by the Audit Office of BR and by exter-
nal auditors as agreed with the Bank.
VI.    Procurement
BR will monitor closely the procurement of items to be financed
under the Bank loan in order to ensure that the items are reasonably priced
and appropriate for their intended use. Particularly, BR will make sure that
CFs require final beneficiaries to obtain quotations from at least three
qualified suppliers for pieces of equipment or single procurement packages
worth US$500,000 equivalent or more.
VII.    Staff
BR will take all the necessary steps to ensure that the staffing of
the DFC remains both capable and sufficient in numbers to fulfill the respon-
sibility for implementing the proposed Development Finance System project.
VIII. Amendments and Clarifications
Amendments to this policy statment may be made upon agreement
between BR and the Bank. In addition, the procedures to be used by BR in
dealing with any subloans or investments of a type not previously subject to
agreements between the Bank and BR would be determined or clarified through
an exchange of letters.



- 28 -
ANNEK 2
Appendix 1
COLOMBIA
DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
CHECKLISTS FOR THE EVALUATION OF TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT AND
POLLUTION CONTROL SUBPROJECTS
A. Technology Development Subprojects
l.   Background and ownership of the firm, types of products and activities
carried out by the firm.
2.   Organization, management and staffing of the firm, commenting on the
qualifications and experience of the managerial and other key staff.
3.  Current sources of technology and their cost; reason for looking into
possible changes in technology.
4.   Objectives and scope of the proposed technology improvement program; the
nature, technical details, timetable and the costs of the program.
5.   Expected results and benefits to be achieved by the project, including
an analysis of the incremental economic or financial impact.
6.   Justification of the equipment being acquired and the sources of
procurement on the basis of quality and price comparisons with
alternatives.
7.  An analysis of the past and projected financial condition of the firm
demonstrating creditworthiness and financial viability and
profitability.



- 29 -
ANNEX 2
Appendix 2
COLOMBIA
DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
B. Pollution Control Subprojects
1.   Background and ownership of the firm, types of products and activities
carried out by the firm.
2.   Organization, management end staffing of the firm, commenting on the
qualifications and experience of the managerial and other key staff.
3.   An analysis of the past and projected financial condition of the firm,
demonstrating creditworthiness and financial viability/profitability.
4.   Background of the pollution problem facing the company; the source, type
and the degree of pollution being generated by the company; a
comparison of the pollutant concentration with that specified by the
federal or local regulations, if any, for the concerned type of
pollution; fines being paid or that would have to be paid (if any) if
regulations are not complied with.
5.   Objectives and scope of the proposed pollution control project; a
technical description of the equipment proposed to be acquired;
reductions expected to be achieved in the levels of pollution and their
consistency with the prevailing emission/discharge standards.
6.   A brief economic analysis of the proposed project, including a
demonstration that the project would be an economical way of achieving
the desired level of pollution control--for example, an analysis to show
that the proposed method for reducing the pollution levels would
approximate the least cost solution; the incremental financial and
economic impact of the project, including the effects of any expected
changes in production or product quality and employment, and any
identifiable benefits and costs accruing to society.
7.   Justification of the equipment being acquired and the sources of
procurement on the basis of capacity, quality and price comparisons with
alternatives.



-30 -
ANNEX 3
T-1
COLOMBIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
Table 1:  Geographic Distribution of Industrial Activity
(Percentages)
Value Added                 Employment
Areas                       1967    1975    1981        1967    1975     1981
BoRota, D.F.                22.7    26.0    26.0        26.9    28.3     30.2
Soacha
Medellin -                  23.3    21.1    19.4        25.2    24.5     22.6
Valle de Aburra
Cali - Yumbo 1/             20.0    18.5    13.1        17.2    16.2     12.1
Barranquilla                 8.2      7.7     6.5        8.1     7.7      7.5
Soledad
Cartagena                    3.6     4.8      6.1        1.6     2.1      1.7
Other areas                 22.2    21.9    28.9        21.0    21.2     25.9
TOTAL                    100.0   100.0   100.0       100.0   100.0    100.0
1/   Data for 1967 and 1975 cover the whole Cauca Valley, which explain most
of the decline of Cali's share in both, value added and employment. It
is likely that if data were available for the Valley in 1981, they would
show a higher share, which will leave geographic concentration more
or less unchanged.
SOURCE: DANE, Encuesta Anual Manufacturera



- 31 -
COLOMBI                             ANNEX 3
T-2
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
Table 2:   lanufacturing Sector Structure by Product Category
(Percentaxe)
ISIC
Code    Subsector              No  of Enterprises          Esmloyment              Value Added
1970/1      1980/1      197011    1980/1         197011      198011
31    Food, Beverages and    23.8           20.1       19.7        21.1         30.7        30.2
Tobacco
Food                    21.0         17.8        14.0        14.7         13.7       13.5
Beverages                1.8          1.9         4.7         5.6         13.6       14.4
Tobacco                  1.0          0.4         1.0          .8          3.4        2.3
32    Textiles, Garments       20.1        24.6        29.0        26.8         21.4        15.4
and Leather
Textiles                 6.0          7.2        17.8        13.5         16.3       10.4
Garments                 8.5         12.6         7.9         9.8          3.4        3.4
Leather Products         1.5          1.6         1.4         1.5          0.9        0.8
Shoes                    4.1          3.2         1.9         2.0          0.8        0.8
33    Wood & Products           9.4          5.7        3.9         2.5          1.7         1.2
Wood and Products        4.5          2.7         2.1         1.3          1.0           7
Furniture                4.9          3.0         1.8         1.4          0.7        0.5
34    Paper, Printing           7.6          7.4        6.0         6.3          5.8         5.9
Paper & Products         2.1          2.1         2.3         2.3          3.0        3.2
Printing                 5.5          5.3         3.7         4.0          2.8        2.7
35    Chemicals                 8.7        11.1        11.8        13.8         17.4       24.9
Basic Chemicals          1.4          1.5         2.2         2.'          3.4        4.7
Other Chemical Products 4.1           4.3         5.2         5.0          7.5        6.2
Pecroleum RefiMng        0.2          0.1         0.6         1.2          3.1       10.0
Coal & Oil Derivatives  0.1           0.3         0.1         0.1          0.1        0.3
Rubber Products          1.0          1.4         1.8         1.7         2.0         1.7
Plastics                 1.9          3.5         1.9         3.1          1.3        2.0
36    Non-Metal Minerals        7.9         6.2         1.3         6.7          5.8         5.1
Earthware. Porcelain    0.6           0.6         1.1         1.1          0.6        0.6
Glass & Glass Products  0.7           0.7         1.2         1.5          1.1        1.1
Cement and Others        6.6          4.9         5.0         4.1          4.1        3.4
37    Basic Metals              1.2         1.4         3.8         3.4          3.1         3.5
Iron and Steel           0.7          0.8         3.3         2.9          2.5        3.0
Non Ferreous Metals      0.5          0.6         0.5         0.5          0.6        0.5
38    Metal Products and      18.7         21.2        16.5        11.9         11.0        12.9
Machinerv
Metal Products            9.6         9.1         6.9         6.3          4.5         3.7
N.E. Machinery           3.9          4.8         3.7         2.9          3.0        1.7
El. Machinery            2.2          3.0         2.6         3.6          2.6        3.4
Transport Equipment      2.3          3.4         2.9         4.5          2.7         3.7
Professional Equipment  0.7           0.9         0.4         0.6          0.2        0.4
39    Other Industries          2.7         2.4         2.0         1.5          1.1         1.1
TOTAL (z)              100.0        100.0       100.0       100.0        100.')     100.0
Total (absolute Noa.)6,444        6.821         343.7 1/   501.0 1J       30.7 2/   409.5 21
Manufacturin. as Z      n.a.        n.a.         24.9 3/    25.6 3/      17.5        21.4
of GDP and Total
Employment
1/  In thousands
#   In billion of Colombian Pesos for 1971 and 1981 respectively.
1 Employment In seven mayor urbau areas for 1975 and 1981 respectively.
SOURCE:  DANE. Industria Manufacturera 1981 and Colombia Estadistics 1982
LCPI2
January 1984



-32-                            ANEX  3
T-3
COLOMBIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
Table 3: Industrial Development and its Determinants, 1970-1982
Determining Factors
Changes in                     of Output Change
Value     Gross          Internal   Import    Export
Added     Output          Demand   Substit.  Develop-
ment
Total Manufacturing
1970-74                   10.1      9.0              7.0       1.0       1.0
1974-79                    3.7      4.0              4.1      -0.5       0.5
1979-82                   -0.6     -0.3              2.3     -2.3       -0.3
Consumer Goods 1/
1970-74                    9.3      6.2              5.5      -2.3       0.8
1974-79                    3.4      4.3              4.5      -0.1       0.5
1979-82                   -0.4      0.1              1.0      - .05     -0.3
Intermediate Goods
1970-74                   10.0     12.3              9.4       1.4       1.4
1974-79                    3.4      0.3              2.8       0.1       0.4
1979-82                     -       0.3              2.8     -2.3       -0.2
Capital Goods
1970-74                   17.0     14.7              4.5       9.3       1.0
1974-79                    6.6      5.8              7.6     -2.6        0.8
1979-82                   -5.1     -5.4              5.0    -10.2       -0.2
1/ Excluding coffee production.
SOURCE: FEDESARROLLO, Coyuntura Economica, XIII, 3.



COLOKDIA
STAFF APPRAISAL RFPORT
DEVELOFPENT BANKING PROJECT
Table 4: SHORT TERM INDESTNESS OF HANUFACTURING FIRKS LISTED IN THE BOGOTA STOCK EXCHANGE O
Memo Items: Data from
the Superintendencia de
Sociedades Anonimas C/
average
1978    1979    1980    1981    1982                   1978      1979      1971-79
A. Short Term Debt/Sales b/ (C)                     36.9    39.7    39.8    43.5    51.2                   35.9       38.2        38.0
S. Internally Generated Cash/Sales (2)              11.2    11.3      9.3      8.4     3.7                  9.4        7.8         8.9
C. Short Term Debt/Internally Generated Cash:    3.3         3.5      4.3      5.2    13.7                  3.8        4.9         4.3
-  Food, beverages, tobacco                       1.9     2.8      2.2      2.9     3.6
-  Textiles. garments. leather                    3.5     4.1      7.0    12.7  negative
-  Chemicals, rubber. plastic                    16.7     4.8    18.8    16.1    24.4
-  Non-metallic waneralr                          3.9     1.7      2.7      2.6     3.3
-  Basic mtals                                    2.7     3.2      5.1     7.0  negative
-  Netal products                                 7.3    12.0    17.5    31.0  negative
-  Other                                        nsa.      3.5      3.6     4.2      4.9
Notes:
a/    Lrw for which data vas not available for the five years and Celsnese (a large cospany that vent broke in 1981) vere
excluded.  This left a sample of 53 firms, accounting for approximately 162 of total manufacturing sales.
b/   The short term debt to sales ratio Is not affected by the vay Inflation is treated in a company's accounts and therefore is a
better index than short term debt to assets to *essure the fir'as short term Indebtedness.  Data on total financial debt was
balance sheets.
c/ Sample of 220 manufacturing fims. Source: Superintendencia de Socledades Anonimas 'La Sociedad Anonima: Evoluction
Financiera en Is decada del setenta' Bogota. no date.
Source: Mission estimates based on data from the Manual del Kercado Bursatil (various issues).



- 34 -
ANNEX 3
T-5
COLOMBIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
Table 5: ESTIMATED AVERAGE MARGINAL INTEREST RATES
PAID BY THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR
Share of         Nominal
Source of Credit                 Estimated Total      Interest   Real Rates d/
Credit Outstanding      Rates
Commercial Banks (own resources) a/        12.4              50.0X         28.6%
CFs (own resources) a/                     15.2              50.0%         28.6%
CPs (external lines)                        9.1              41.4% b/      21.3%
CFCs a/                                     3.9              50.0%         28.62
FIP                                         2.6              32.3%         13.5%
FF1                                         3.3              29.5%         11.1X
PROEXPO                                     5.5              21.5%          4.2%
Direct External loans                      16.4              40.7% C/      20.7%
Caja Agraria                                2.8               n.a.          n.a.
Total Formal Market                        71.2              42.7%         22.4
Estimated Informal market                  28.8              58.6%         36.0%
Total and Weighted Average                100.0              47.4%         26.4%
Memo Item: Average Official lines          11.4              26.4%          8.4%
a,   36%. paid quarterly in advance, plus .5 to 1% quarterly commission.
D/   Estimated on the basis of LIBOR (11%) plus 3%. adjusted by an expected
devaluation rate of 24% in 1983.
c,   LIBOR+2.5Z
il   Deflated by the 1983 inflation rate (16.6%).
Source: Mission : Banco de la Republica and mission estimates.



- 35 -
ANNEX 3
T-6
COLOMBIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
Table 6: INVESTMENT, EMPLOYMENT AND REAL WAGES.
(1)                (2)              (3)              (4)
Gross fixed       Net fixed         Labor force to
Investment         Investment       value added         Real bh
to value          to value          at constant         Wage
added (Z)          added (Z)        prices (M) a/
1971                13.6               8.9               12.6             175
1972                15.6              10.4               12.7             187
1973                16.2              10.5               14.0             183
1974                12.0               6.3               13.9             158
1975                12.9               6.8               14.4             161
1976                12.1               6.8               13.9             156
1977                13.2               8.4               13.2             159
1978                14.0               8.6               12.3             188
1979                12.5               7.5               11.7             201
1980                11.5               6.9               11.7             196
1981                11.9               9.7               11.2 ci         n.a.
a/  Number of workers per million of 1980 CS.
b/   Thousands of 1980 C$
cf  Estimated.
Sources:   Columns (1), (2) and (3) from DANE.  Column (4) from Mauricio Rubio,
Estimacion de una funcion de inversion para la industria Colombiana, Corporacion
Centro Regional de Poblacion, Bogota, Agosto, 1983.



3LIA
SAFF A}RAISAL WKAT
DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
Table 7: PEI aIVSTCN OF IEPOSITS IN OXLMIA. 1970-1983
(YEAR HqD FvMwS, EKOir RF 1983)
1970  1971  1972  1973  1974  1975  1976  1977  1978  1979  1980  1981  1982  1983(jun)
A.  ,r_      ar Sks_                         99.2  99.7  98.9  87.5  83.2  79.4  75.8   71.   69.   67.7  66.6  65.1  61.2    58.2
of ltch:
1.  (wret Akc_te                          79.4  78.4  75.6  66.8  59.0  54.3  50.0  45.2  42.2  42.5  35.8  29.8  29.2             27.8
2. 8SwAlp Deposits                        19.8  21.3  23.3  20.7  19.0  17.6  16.8  17.4  19.1  19.5  16.1  13.7  12.5             11.7
~~~~~~~~~~_ __ ___ ___._ _ _ _.________
3. M' s                                    -      -     -      -     5.2   7.5   9.0   9.2   8.4   5.7  14.7  21.6  19.6           18.7
B. CkVIS (ordinary deposits. +UPMC)           -     -       .8  12.1  16.4  19.7  20.2  17.6  18.2  22.5  22.9  23.0  25.5            29.0
C. _                       _                      _      _      _         _        _        4.2   3.9   4.1   5.2   6.9   6.6          6.5
V.Gtb                                        .8    .3    .3    .4    .5    .9   4.0   6.3   8.1   5.6   5.4   5.0   6.6              6.3
Total                                    100.0  100.0  100.0 100.0   100.0 1.10 00 I10DIO .0 1       100.0  10. 0.0   100.0    10.0
HMO Itea:
Depoeits as 2 of G13:                13.3  12.8  13.5  15.9  15.4  16.6  18.9  19.3  21.0  19.8  23.5  26.2                  n.a.
Deposits to aery ratio:             2.2  2.3   2.3   3.0   3.2   3.3   3.5   3.4   3.6   3.5   4.4   5.3   5.2              5.2 a/
a/ bsoally adtusted to moke it anpqrable with lece&er figurs.
Scme: hvista del Bmeo de la Republica (varioLu lioaes).



- 37 -
ANNEX 3
T- 8
COLOIBIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEVELOPMENT BAING PROJECT
Table 8:  ESTIMATED OUTSTANDING CREDIT TO MANUFACTURING, BY SOURCE
PERCENTUAL COMPOSITION
(YEAR END FIGURES)
1970     1975     1979     1980     1981
1. Commercial banks               17.9    16.8       9.8    12.1    12.1
2. CFs                            24.9     21.8    22.7      22.5    30.4
3. CFCs                            n.a.    n.a.      2.8      4.7      9.4
4. Caja Agraria                    1.3      2.0      3.3      2.9      2.9
5. Direct External                29.3     25.9    20.4      18.1     16.4
6. Total Formal Market            73.5     66.4    58.6    65.3    71.2
7. Estimated Informal             26.5    33.6      41.4    34.7    28.8
8. Estimated Total Credit        100.0    100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Memo Item: Total credit to
Gross manufacturing  output       19.6    15.0    13.9    14.4    18.1
Sources:  'Colombia: The Colombia Investment Banking System and Related Financial
Sector Issues." August 1, 1983. Report No. 4274-CO, and Mission
Estimates.



- 38 -
ANNEX 3
T-9
SEW AL  Ker
DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
Table 9: MARGINAL SPREADS OF COtPORACIOINES FINANCIERAS (CFs)
(For  ne       at umrl-, aef aiEL982) I/
SDort Tern       lorg Tern OriermeI CFs
Oderted CPs                     2/
Momtn  rersem Padem                      -                    --
Facced  nwesB                            10.0                10.0
Sub-Total                                10.0                10.0
Aailable for Vobraary Openito            90.0                90.0
Yile3            hAR. Forced 1mestimts                    25.0                 25.0
We kted Aver= ag  dioms                   -                  26.6
Otber Vqbmta  %azmtkm                    50.0                50.0
Weiited Agerage VolxItazy OpemstLc       50.0                37.1
Overall Weitl Aereh sits                 47.5                35.9
FIrwdal l ts CIS                                          38.1                 38.
Wigted Averag of Pediscs                  -                  22.9
OveraU WeIghted Ahve=                    38.1                31.0
Spmad                                                      9.4                  4.9
1/      B froa equity ctalt ace notm tat   inw  m t. 7le amrag  for 3ields, costs and twgins
of redlsccu rmd credits mme ldghtbd lt-' the  =rqootims in  ih  the ran
umwe tuse at th2 end of     r 1981 (PE0, FFI, FIP, EFAP). (Mb me  tau
as tie sozose  E fiuns f  Al short tenm creadit ai kr 15.4Z of the rescasmt (te
averdg ingtn of redio    mm 84.e).
2/    beCse ca    i t apezzi mLidvly In siort-ten oqretkcu, dum t  mootual
dbligatio~utb tim  Irld Bak, tiey  azt lendi re mm t 45.(K of timr pDrtifoio
In  ie asritt tm unri (ataCey). ThE rest Is am_d tD be red*scmted
becsm   restiLy tiere is n log ter credit    1 at free narbet ra.
Sorce: ELaim Fatimte b_s  ca UR's data.



COLOMBIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
Table LO:  DETERMINANTS OF THE PROFITABILITY OF LONG TERM ORIENTED CFs (Weighted Averages)
1976     1977     1978      1979     1980     1981     1982
a) Gross Income/Total Assets (Z)                      18.4     20.4     20.3      23.3     23.8     23.0      21.8
b) Financial Costs/Total Assets (X)                   11.2     12.9     13.7      15.1     16.6     17.5      17.6
c) Gross Spread/Total Assets (%)                       7.2      7.6      6.6       8.3      7.2      5.6       4.2
d) Administrative Costs/Total Assets (Z)               1.9      1.9      1.7       2.1      2.0      2.1       2.5
e) Gross Profits/Total Assets (X)                      5.3      5.7      4.8       6.2      5.8      3.5       1.6
f) Total Assets/Net Worth (Pure Number)                5.7      5.9      6.8       6.8      7.0      8.1      9.0
g) Gross Profits/Net Worth (X)                        30.0     33.6     32.8      41.8     36.3     27.9      14.8
h) Taxes/Gross Profits (%)                            25.9     26.0     25.6      17.2     19.6     16.5       1.3
i) Net Profits/Net Worth (%)                          22.2     24.8     24.4      34.6     29.2     23.3      13.5
Memo Items:
Inflation Rate (CPI)                               18.4     25.4     19.8     26.5      24.5     25.6     24.4
Net Profits/Net Worth in Real Terms                 3.2      -.1      3.8      6.4       3.8     -1.8     -8.8
Source: Financial Statements of Long Term Oriented CFs.



COLOMBIA
STAFF AIPPUAIA 331O1T
DEPIBMNT NaNKIRG PRWOCT
Table 11:  Selected Financial Data of Participating CFs, as of December 31, 1983
COMPORACION CORPORACION CORPORACION CORPURACION CORPORACION CORPORACION CORPORACION
FINANCIERA  FINANCIERA  FINANCIERA  FINANCIERA  FINANCIERA  FIN4NCIERA  FINAWCIERA
DE CALDAS    ALIADAS      NACIONAL   COLOMBIANA  DEL VALLE   DEL NORTE   SANTANDER
S.A.        B.A.         S.A.        S.A.         9.A.        S.A.         S.A.
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA:
am of December 31, 1983
Tot:l Assets                                5,02t,314   2,372,221  10,113,142  19,335,716  12,495,414   6,902,913   3,05,559
Total Liabilities                           4,430,057   2,057,491   9,203,606  19,014,300  11,211,924   6,135,546   2,753,958
Total Shareholders Equity                     591,257      314,730     909,536   1,324,416   1,273,488       667,367     304,601
Current Assets                              2,479,100   1,584,640   4,267,236  10,472,479   5,219,815   3,911,147   1,369,333
Current Liabilities                         2,636,437   1,726,278   4,607,162  12,570,201   7,639,236   4,041,427   1,310,333
Long Term Debt                              1,751,040      319,904   4,3S4,290   5,444,097   3,321,218   2,066,409   1,365,479
Contingent Liabilities                        402,155       34,265     621,871   1,BB9,006   1,612,601       791,031      401,054
Total Portfolio                             3,309,219   1,"?6,4B5   6,922,956  13,994,975   5,981,955   2,997,190   1,954,666
Portfolio including Acceptances
Letters of Credit and Contingent L.    4,007,039   1,947,030   8,653,9I1  16,970,038  12,114,052   6,220,769   2,917,554
Equity Investments at Cost                    563,657      312,872   1,186,134   1,225,069      990,741      620,573      215,497
Equity Investments at Market Value            959,360      509,151   1,326,100   1,717,361   1,529,342       747,295      252,958    >
Equity Investments loss Provisions            563,657      312,73  .1,186,134   1,225,089       990,741      620,573      215,497
Total Arreas                                  290,974      156,297     103,764      758,830     225,450      153,806       75,733
Total Portfolio affected by Arreas            797,847      343,092     771,994   1,933,930      294,354      410,524      199,517
Arreas 3-6 months                           17,017       5,979       32,294      194,422 *    13,271       35,409        9,456
Arreas 6-12 months                         167,150      33,151       11,989      137,294       2,945       32,219*      16,210
Arreas 1-2 years                            39,163      45,173       14,914      255,964      50,999       22,923       15,507
Arrwas greater than 2 years                  9,a75      56,660        3,692       75,526      16,501       37,654       16,3B9
Gross Revenues                                999,930      000,332     119,595   3,621,869   2,461,994   1,342,371        593,669
Administrative and General Expenses           130,277       BO9,37     179,945      367,599      259,543     204,696       93,173
Net Income                                     1,060        12,926     119,595      157,732     216,000       37,492       10,292
Security received                           6,211,460   1,703,539  17,029,473  24,747,866  17,795,070   9,949,609   3,357,752
Deficit in Security                           633,664      756,773     892,459   2,499,243   1,719,165   1,454,040       926,068
As of December 31, 1992
Total Assets                                4,145,296   2,315,973   9,531,934  28,505,513  10,062,690   6,654,269   2,543,720
Total Shareholders Equity                     571,671      424,524     955,314   1,373,259   1,100,698       66,951      314,795   w
Gross Revenues                                954,440      800,687     169,774   3,429,628   2,237,319   1,358,059        615,520
Total Arreas                                  139,799      264,056     127,539      135,029     411,502      262,435      107,730
Total Parfolic affected by Arreas             475,595      294,901     703,607      526,769     595,915      400,020       94,603
Sarw: I    Auited Pluaelail Statm_mt



COLOMBIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
Table 12:       INCOME STATEMENTS OF PARTICIPATING FINANCIERAB  AS O  DECEMER 31, 1953
(Col$ millions)
CORPORAC ION  CORPORACION  CORPORACION  CORPORAC ION  CORPORACION  COPCRACION  CORPORACION
FINANCIERA   FINANCIERA   FINANCIERS   FINANCIERA   FINANCIERA   FINANCIERA    FINANCIERA
DE CALDAS      ALIADAS      NACIONAL    COLOMBIANA    DEL VALLE    DEL NORTE    SANTANDER
A.            SA.           S.A.          S.A.          S.A.           S.A.           S.A.
Interests and Commissions              901.7          S52.6       1580.9        3378.7         2331.2        1261.2          527.9
Dividends                               50.9          31.1          154.1         138.4          50.9          66.1            20.2
Capital Gains on Equity Inv.            17.3           0.0           65.1          78.3           2.9           0.0             0.0
Other Income(Net of Amortiz.)           30.0           16.6          21.4        -309.5          77.0           15.1           45.6
Total Income                           999.9         600.3         1621.5        3285.9        2462.0        1342.4          593. 7
Financial Expenses                     826.9         497.1         1469.3        2661.7        1887.3        1093.1          489.1  *
Provisions for Dad Debts                21.5           5.1           29.6          68.0           0.0           0.0             t 5
Administrative Costs                   130.3          80.8          178.9         372.5         258.5         209.1           8 .2
Total Expenses                         978.7         503.0         1677.6        3102.2        2145.8        1302.2          579.8
Nut Operating Profit                    21.2.          17.3         143.7         193.7         316.2          40.2            13.9
Taxes                                    3.2           4.4           24.0          26.0          98.3           2.8             3.6
Net Profit                              18.0           12.9         119.7         157.7         217.9          37.4            10.3
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
lb~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



COLOMBIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
Table i3; Selected Financial Indicators of Participating CFs, as of December 31, 1983
CORPORACION CORPORACION CORPORACION CORPORACION CORPORACION CORPORACION CORPORACION
FINANCIERA FINANCIERA FINANCIERA FINANCIERA FINANCIERA FINANCIERA FINANCIERA
DE CALDAS    ALIADAS     NACIONAL   COLOMBIANA  DEL VALLE   DEL NORTE   SANTANDER
S.A.        S.A.        S.A.         S.A.        SA.          S.A.        S.A.
ANALYSIS OF ARREARS
Arrears >90 days/Total Asset. CX)                4.62        5.94         0.62        3.38         0.67        1.98         1.99
Arrears >90 days/Total Equity (Z)               39.22       44.79         6.90       49.31         6.60       19.21        10.90
Arrears >90 days/Total Portfolio                 7.01        8.83         0.91        4.67         1.41        4.43        3.10
Accumulated Arrears as X of Portfolio
> 2 years CX)                                0.29         3.55        0 .05        0.54        0.29         1.30        0.88
> I year (X)                                  1.44        6.38        0.27         2.37        1.14         2.09        1.72
> 6 months (X)                               6.50         9.46        0.44         3.35        1.19         3.20        2.59
> 3 months CX)                               7.01         8.93        0.91         4.67        1.41         4.43        3.L0
Annual Increaset
Portfolio in Arrears CX)                    67.76        20.47        9.72       249.13       (50.60)       2.63      (52.00)
Ai-rears (.)                                108.07      (40.92)      (18.64)     461.98       (45.21)     (41.39)     (29.70)
ANALYSIS OF EXPOSURE
Portfolio without Security N/)                  19.15       47.40        12.89       17.87        29.82       50.19       44.65
Coverage for Portfolio Secured (X)             187.76      106.71       245.99      176.96       298.48      339.94      191.04
SELECTED FINANCIAL RATIOS
Debt/Equity(covenants)                        5.76         4.28         8.17        9.95        7.69         8.07        .05
Current Assets / Equityccovenants)             2.70        3.03         3.46        4.54         2.95        4.27        3.16
LTD/Equity Ratio                               3.01        1.02         4.79        4.11         2.61        3.10        4.48
Current Ratio                                 .0.94        0.92         0.93        0.93        0.67         0.94        1.05
Equity invested(Cost)/Total Assets C)         11.23       13.19        11.73        6.33        7.94         9.12        7.05
Equity Investud(Market)/Tatal Assets          19.09       21.46        13.11        9.99        12.25       10.98        9.27
Administrative and General Expenses an
X of Averago Total Assets                    2.84         3.45         1.92        1.54        2.29         3.04        2.97
Net Profit as X of Average Not Worth           3.11        3.50        12.93       11.69        19.20        5.62        3.32
Net Profit as Y of Aver. Total Assets          0.39        0.55         1.29        0.66         1.92        0.56        0.37     -
Source:   A.dited Psaoiuil StotZt



COLOMBIA
STAFF APPRASAL RSPORT
DmVWPHENr BhING PROJECT
Table  14:       Co-PINANCINOI  SUBPROJECrS FINANCED WITH FUNDS OBTAINED FROM FOREIGN OOIeRCIAL BANKS
(In U.Sj million
Credit lines obtained from   CF's commitments to lend with                                   To be
foreign commercial banks         cotinancing resources           CFe Disbursements        disbursed
CF                1980  1981  1982  1983 a/      1980  1981  1982   1983 a/      1980  1981  1982  1983 aj
Coloeblana
During the year         14.0  10.0   5.0   -           12.2  25.9   11.3    1.5         7.2  10.5   8.5   2.1
Cumulative              14.0  24,0  29.0  29.0         12.2  38.1   49.4   50.9         7.2  17.7  26.2  28.3        22.6
Valle
During the year         13.0   9.5   1.8   -            5.5   9.6    5.3    2.0         -     -      7.0   .3
Cumulative              13.0  22.5  24.3  24.3          5.5  1S.1  20.4   22.4          -     -      7.0   7.3       15.1
Nacional
During the year          9.0   3.3   2.0   -           13.9   2.1    3.8    2.8         3.8   5.1   -      2.0
Cumulative              9.0  12.3  14.3  14.3          13.9  16.0   19.8   22.6         3.8  11.9  11.9  13.9         8.7
Norte
During the year          8.0   1.0   5.0   -             .4   2.1    5.8    -             .1   2.2   3.7    .9
Cusulative               8.0   9.0  14.0  14.0           .4   2.5    8.3    8.3           .1   2.3   6.0   6.9        1.4
Caldae
During the year          2.0   -     -     -            1.3   4.0    -       -          1.1   .3   -       -
Cumulative               2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0          1.3   5.3    5.3    5.3         1.1   1.4   1.4   1.4         3.9
Santander
During the year          n.a.  n.a.  n.a.  n.s.         n.s.  n.a..  n.a.   n.a         n.a.  n.a.  n.a.  n.a.
Cumulative               n.a.  n.s.  n.a.  5.0          n.a.  n.a . n.s.   5.3          n.a.  n.a.  n.a.  3.0         2.3
Occidente
During the year          -     -      .8   -            -     -      -       2,0        -     -      -      .B
Cumulative               -     -      .8   .8           -     -      -       2.0        -     -      -      .8        1.2
Total 
During the year         46.0  23.8  14.6   5.0         33.3  43.7   26.2    6.3        12.2  21.1  19.2   6.1
Cumulative              46.0  69.8  84.4  89.4         33.3  77.0  '03.2  116.8        12.2  33.3  52.5  61.6         55.2
a/ June 1983
sources BR



- 44 -
ANNEX 3
T-15
COLONBIA
DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
Table 15: SELECTED FINANCIAL INDICES OF FINANCIERAS
SEPTEMBER 30, 1983
A. CFs currently          Debt to      Short term    Net worth   Z of System's
participating         equity       assets to      as a Z of      Total Net
in Bank Loans         ratio          equity       proposed        Wo:th
ratio       minimum  b/
1. Colombiana              10.5          4.8           371.4           13.2
2.  Valle                   8.4          4.0           299.2           10.9
3.  Nacional                7.3          3.1           235.4            8.6
4.  Norte                   8.6          4.3           164.0            6.0
5.  Caldas                  5.7          2.2           155.4            i.6
6.  Santander               7.3          2.6            81.4            3.0
7.  Aliadas                 4.7          2.4            94.2            3.4
8.  Occidente               9.4          5.7           162.0            5.9
a/
Sub-total               8.3          3.9             -             56.8
B.  CFs not
participating
9. Suramericana             8.8          n.a.           74.2            2.7
10.  Progreso                4.0          n.a.           89.6            3.3
11.  Cofiagro                9.7          n.a.           43.0            1.6
12.  Tolima                  6.2          n.a.           49.9            1.8
13.  Colon                   3.7          n.a.           49.0            1.8
14.  Internacional           6.3          n.a.           29.2            1.1
15.  Indufinanciera          8.8          n.a.           21.6            0.8
16.  Union                   4.9          n.a.           26.8            1.0
17.  Cundinamarca            3.2          n.a.           29.6            1.1
18.  Grancolombiana         11.6          u.a.          611.6           22.1
19.  Oriente                12.0          n.a.          116.0            4.0
20.  Andes                  12.4          u.a.           47.4            2.0
a/
Sub-total               9.7          n.a.            -            43.2
a/
Total                   8.9          n.a.                         100.0
a/ Average weighted by net worth.
_/ C$ 500 million.
Source: Banco de la Republica



COLOHBIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
Table 16:  INTEREST RATES AND SPREAD OF BR'. REDISCOUNTED CREDIT LINES
(AT 36% CDT RATES)
N E W   S Y S T EM                                                    O L D   S Y S T EM
DTF - 36X                      Spread on         Spread on     Overall
BR's resources                    CF's resources              Total Loan         rediscounted      own            Spread
lend-                     Overall                resources         resources
2 redia-  Lending  BR's                 ing      CDT              lending    Overall
counted    rate    rate   Spread        rate    cost  Spread       rate      spread
FIP (Big firms) a/        78.0      35.1    30.8     4.3        40.5    36.0    4.5       36.3        4.3           2.8             -4.7           1.3
FIP (centralizedy b/      82.0      32.3    27.4     4.9        40.5    36.0    4.5       33.8         4.8          3.5             -7.5           1.3
PIP (decentralizedT c/   82.0       30.8'   25.4     5.4        40.5    36,0    4.5       32.5         5.2          4.1             -9.0           1.5
FP1 (centralized)   F    85.0       30.8    25.4     5.4        40.5    36.0    4.5       32.3         5.3          4.1             -9.0           1.5
FFI (decentralisedT C/   90.0       28.1    22.8     5.3        40.5    36.0    4.5       29.3         5.2          4.0            -11.7           1.6
Weighted average d|       82.7      31.8    26.8     5.0        40.5    36.0    4.5       33.2         4.9                          -8.4           1.4
a/   Firma with assets exceeding C$1,870 a in any location.
'/   Firm  in Bogota, Medellin and Cali.
l/ Firas in any other location.
t/   Weighted by the share of each line in the new operations realized in 1982.
Source: BR.



- 46 -
ANNEX 4
COLOMBIA
DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
Prolect File
1.   Colombia: The Development Banking sector and related Financial sector
issues. Report No. 4274-CO, August 1, 1983.
2.   Newly enacted financial legislation, copies of executive decrees and
draft reform law.
3.   Cofinanciamiento Banco de la Republica, Bogota, 1983.
4.   Algunos aspectos relacionados con la participacion de las Corporaciones
Financieras en la Novena Linea del Banco Mundial, Banco de la Republica,
octubre de 1983.
5.   Encuesta sobre la linea del Banco Mundial. CF Colombiana, Noviembre de
1983.
6.  Manuales del Mercado Bursatil, 1978-83.
7.   Revistas de Superintendercia Bancaria, 1980-83.
8.   Revistas del Bonco de la Republica 1980-83.



ppl-.                                                                                         I RD 18 27C\gRZ
L  aPANAA,                                               X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J.  __!INI  111,  
coL'MS]A1_-
t (, S vC ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V INC H UD  A
xp  wF   M  E  I  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C A -0i111
vPAX  ~~~~~~~~~~~U
t,AN          F      g                      XX              e     
e  Netlwolcoeltel~ 0                 c         T.       O,!      4 
°  CxtioF end Tow wnh Peplo Ow 000    
0                  OD-e_                                        -    cf.  1-0-w,-FWit    W P. .W W\ IW






