Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Ag- o y)) Co
Repwct -N. P-3887-CO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN ALN AMOUNT EQUIVALEN-T TO US$90 MILLION
TO
BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA
WITH THE GUARAN=TE OF
THE RE?UBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR A
DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
October 18, 1984
This documet has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnance of
their official duties. Its contents smay not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIALENTS
Currency Unit   Peso - Col$
Average Calendar 1982                          Average Calendar 1983
US$1  = Col$64.102                             USSI    ColS78.857
ColSl = USSO.0156                              ColSl = US$J.0i27
Exchange Rate Effective September 30, 1984
US$1.00   = Col$107.01
Col$1.0O0  USSO.0093
Weights and Measures
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BCH               Banco Central Hipotecario
BR                Banco de la Republica (Colombia's Central Bank)
CAVIs             Corporaciones de Ahorro y Vivienda (Savings and Loan
Associations)
CDTs              Certificates of Deposit (Certificados de Deposito a Tercino)
CFCs              Companias de Financiamento Comercial
CFP               Corporacion Financ.era Popular
COLCIENCIAS       Fondo Colombiano de 'tvestigaciones Cientificas y
Proyectos Especiales (Colombian Fund for Scientific
Research and Spec.al Projects)
DDC               Department of Development Credit of BR
DFC              Development Finance Company
DTF              Weekly Index of CDT Interest Rates
ERR               Economic Rate of Return
FFAP             Fondo Finarciero Agropecuario (Agriculture and
Livestock Fund)
FF1              BR's Fondo Financiero Industrial (Industrial Financing Fund)
FIP              BR's Fondo de Inversiones Privadas (Private Investment Fund)
FRR               Financial Rate of Return
CDP               Gross Domestic Product
FIB               Inter-American Development Bank
IFC               International Finance Corporation, a member of the World
Bank Group
IIT               Instituto de Investigaciones Tecnologicas
(Technological Research Institute)
LIBOR             London Interbank Offered Rate
PROEXPO           Fondo de Promocion de Exportaciones (Export Promotion Fund)
SEC               Securities and Exchange Commission
UPAC              Units of Constant Purchasing Power (Indexed Instruments
Issued by the Savings and loan Corporations)
USAID             United States Agency for International Development



FOR OmCUL USE ONLY
- _
C-TAIA
DE                  PROJECT
LAN AND PROJECT SIEAR
1. Borrower:         Banco de la RepubUca
2. Guarantor:        Republic of Colombia
3. Financial
nterinediaries:  Private development finace companies (DFCs) meting
certain miniiwmI conditions                  a
4. Beneficiaries:  Manufacturing. agroindustrial, tourism and AdiLnUg
enterprises for investment financing. BR's DDC, and
DFCs for technical assistance.
5. Amount:           US$90.0 million equivalent
6. Terms:            Interest at the Bank's standard variable rate, plus
standard commitment and front-end fees. Repayment in
17 years, including 4-1/2 years of grace.
7.   ,l
Tnterest (%)2/             Naximwm Terxs
Dollar Funds       Peso Funds         (Years)
To Sub-           To Sub-
To DFC  borrower  To DFC  borrower Maturity  Grace
Subloans                 LIBOR-0.5 LIBOR+2.5 DTP-1.0 DTF+3.0   15         3
Equity Investments          -      Not App.    -    Not App.   15         3
Special Projects
(Technology Development
and Pollution)             -      LIBOR+2.5    -    DTF+3.0   15         5
8.  Project Description:
A. The provision of equity and medium- and long-term debt financing for
private enterprises engaged in manufacturing, tourism or mining
activities, for projects aimed at increasing or rationalizing
production, technological improvement or pollution control.
1/  Eanco de la Republica would assume the foreign exchange risk on the
loan.
2/  Interest rates for dollar as well as peso denominated sub-loans and
equity investments would be variable and subject to adjustment
semi-annually.
This documentbus a rsrieF1ddribu*iokandnybcxsedb Precipensonlt performncofe
the officialduxtes. Its conten ma nt otherwise be disiedl -1   without Wod lnk authorizatioL



- i  -
B. The streaghteniug of the Governcent's financial sector reforis by
primarily (1) helping to develop uechanis-  aimed at developing a
long-ter credit market; and also (Ui) carrying out a program of
technical assistance for the staff of the Borrower and of the DFCs
in operating the variable interest rate system and related financial
sector *iagezent issues, and carrying out a program of technical
assistance for the Superintendency of Banks to enhance its banking
supervisory capabilities.
9. Estimted              FY 85    FT 86   FT 87   FT 88  FY 89  FY 90
Disbursements
Annual                2.0      15.0     25.0    23.0    15.0    10.0
Cumulative            2.0      17.0     42.0    65.0    80.0    90.0
10. Rate of Return:
Sub-projects requiring Bank financing in excess of US$300,000
equivalent will not be approved unless their projected FRR and ERR in
real terms is IIZ or higher. Below US$300,000, only the FRR in real
terms of IIZ or higher will be required.
II. Risks:
The project faces two main risks: lower than anticipated
demand for Investment financing, and failure of -second category  DFCs to
meet conditions for continued participation in the project. In the first
case, either a portion of the loan would have to be cancelled or the
cowuitment and disbursement periods would have to be extended. In the other
case, legal remedies were agreed upon that would allow to exclude such DFC.
from participation in the project.
12. Staff Appraisal:  Report No. 4947(a)-CO of October 18, 1984



INTERNAION BL ANK FOR  AECONS CIO I) DE.VEPMEWT
REPORT AND RECGMENDAION O THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN OF US$90 ILLION
TO BANO DE LA REPUBLICA
WM THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUC OF COLOMBIA
FOR A
DEVELPMET BANKING PROJECT
1. I        submit the following report and recouzinndation on a proposed loan
to Banco de la Republica, with the guarantee of the Republic of Colombia, for
the equivalent of US$90 million, the proceeds of which vould be on-lent to
private development finance companies (DFCs) to finance productive Invest-
ment, technological improvement and pollution control in private enterprises
engaged in manufacturing, tourism or mining activities in Colombia. The loan
would bave a term of 17 years, including a 4-1/2-year grace period, at the
standard variable interest rate and will bear a front-end fee of US$224,439.
VART I - TBK 3011
2.        An economic mission visited Colombia in July 1982 and its report
(4444-CO) was distributed to the Executive Directors in August 1983. This
mission was followed by a small updating mission which visited the country in
February 1984. Also, a mission to review the external sector and agriculture
visited Colombia during April/Nay 1983, and its report (4981-CO) was distrib-
uted to the Executive Directors in April 1984. This section reflects both
missions' major findings. Country data sheets are presented in Annex I.
Background
3.        The Colombian economy has become more resilient to external shocks
as a result of the structural changes that have occurred over the past thirty
years. Rapid economic growth has resulted in a substantial structural trans-
formation of the country from a predominantly rural and self-contained eco-
nomy to a more diversified urban, industrial, services and open economy.
Colombia has reached a point where population pressure on land no longer
increases much, if at all. Public sector investment and output now play a
greater role, primarily as a result of increased activity on the part of
decentralized agencies and public enterprises. Also, non-coffee exports,
particularly exports of manufactured goods, expanded rapidly and the range of
products sold abroad widened considerably. The growing urban-Industrial-
services oriented economic activity and a rapid expansion of surplus labor in
rural areas attracted by higher wages and better services in the cities bas
given rise to rapid rural-urban migration.  This phenomenon, together with
the increased participation of women in the labor force, has been instru-
mental in reducing poverty and improving income distribution over time.
Financial and capital markets have evolved pari-passu with the growing needs
1/ This section is an updated version of Part I of the report for the Cucuta
Water Supply and Sewerage Project (No. P-3869-CO of August 17, 1984).



of the economy, and Colombia has become an active participant in interna-
tional capital markets.
4.       Real GDP per capita rose by about 2.2Z on average during the
1950-83 period, with each succeeding decade registering greater gains in per
capita income. This was the result of lower population growth, which after
having remained in the 3.0% to 3.5% range during the 1950. and early 1960s,
declined dramatically after 1965 as a consequence of a sharp fall in the
fertility rate. Greater economic and educational opportunities for women,
rapid rural-urban migration, rising per capita income and increased effec-
tiveness of family planning programs contributed to the decline in fertil-
ity. Colombia's population is presently growing at an annual rate of 2.0Z.
As a result of the high proportion of women now entering childbearing years,
this rate of population growth is likely to continue until the early 1990c.
5.        The combination of rising per capita income and expanded public
services has brought about a significant improvement in the welfare of the
poorest, in absolute and relative terms. As a result of increased sanitation
control, improved diets and better bealth care, the crude death rate fell by
over 50% and life expectancy rose from 48 years in the early 1950s to 64
years currently. The child mortality rate declined from 11 per thousand in
the early 1960s to 4 per thousand in the late 1970s. Infant mortality fell
to 54 per thousand in the late 1970s, from about 124 per thousand in the
early 1950s. School enrollment ratios have increased substantially at all
grade levels since the 1960s and, by the late 1970s, 80Z of urban children
aged 7 to 14 were enrolled in school.  The poorest income groups have experi-
enced the greatest increases in electricity and water services in recent
years and have benefitted more than the average of the population from
services of the national health system. In spite of this progress, Colombia
remains largely underdeveloped, with a relatively small modern sector super-
imposed on a broad, traditional and economically poor base. Development has
been concentrated in relatively few areas of the country, public services are
still not available to many of the rural and urban populations and unemploy-
ment and underemployment are relatively high. The coverage of health care
and water supply requires further improvement, and adequate housing is not
available to a substantial portion of the population. Rapid migration to the
large and medium-sized cities has created urban development problems, with
attendant social difficulties. Moreover, in spite of the steady increase in
per capita income over the past 30 years, substantial efforts are still
required to improve and extend the benefits of development to the poorest
income groups.
6.       In large part, the achievements of the past 30 years were the
results of government efforts to stimulate the productive sectors, provide
the required economic and social instrastructure and establish an effective
institutional base in the economy. In the 1950s and early 1960s, development
policy favored Import substitution supported by high tariff protection and
the provision of economic infrastructure by the public sector. It was during
this period that the country's major coumnication and transportation net-
works were developed and the transformation to a semi-industrial economic
structure began in earnest. By the mid-1960s, the prospects for further
import substitution were substantially diminished, and the country was con-
fronted with great economic uncertainty, arising from the fact that economic
activity and the balance of payments were heavily influenced by developments



-3 -
in the world coffee market. In order to ease this constraint, during 1967
the authorities adopted an outward-looking development strategy, expanding
and diversifying exports and, among the export markets, increasingly tapping
the Andean Group countries. Export promotion policies, including frequent
small exchange rate devaluations, export tax rebates and other export incen-
tives were introduced and the authorities began lowering tariffs somewhat and
freeing capital maricets from controls as means of raising efficiency and
increasing the competitiveness of Colombian goods in external markets. These
measures were highly successful in relieving the foreign exchange constraint
and stimulating growth and employment. However, by the mid-1970s the economy
was once again experiencing difficulties caused primarily by the world
recession and by excessive Central Bank financing of the Central Government's
overall fiscal deficit.
Recent Economic Developments
7.        In late 1974, the Government introduced a wide range of measures
designed to correct the structural and policy weaknesses prevailing in the
economy at that time. Before these reforms were fully effective, the economy
was subjected to strong inflationary pressures arising from a sharp increase
in world coffee prices. The increased receipts from coffee exports, together
with some official surrender of foreign exchange from illegal exports, caused
a turnabout in the balance of payments. Incomes rose rapidly and st-Inlated
aggregate demand; inflation accelerated. Economic growth also accelerated,
and unemployment fell substantially, both in rural and urban areas. Largely
as a con.-4equence of increased coffee tax revenues, the public finances
generated overall surpluses averaging about 1% of GDP during the 1976-78
period and, by the end of 1979, net official international reserves had risen
to about US$4.1 billion, equivalent to about 12 months imports of goods and
non-factor services.
8.        While beneficial in many respects, the foreign exchange boom had a
somewhat negative impact on the evolution of the Colombian economy, largely
as a consequence of the need for measures to stabilize the economy. Public
investment was curbed, thereby delaying some badly needed additions to econo-
mic and social infrastructure. The rate of currency devaluation was slowed,
and the conversion of export receipts into pesos was delayed to moderate the
growth of domestic deawnd, with adverse effects on export expansion and
diversification. Also, the Government was compelled to maintain high reserve
requirements and expand controls over credit thereby reducing, in real terms,
the financing available to the private sector via the official capital
market.
9.        The stabilization measures were virtually unchanged from early 1977
through 1979 and were partially successful in restraining aggregate demand
growth, but relatively high inflation persisted. In response to the effects
of increasing restraint on aggregate demand and the troublesome financial
market distortions caused by inflation and the extended period of monetary
restraint, the authorities began in late 1979 to adjust the stabilization
program. The rate of peso devaluation was advanced to increase export incen-
tives and reduce borrowing abroad, and in early 1980, credit restraints were
relaxed by lowering reserve requirements. At the same time, interest rates
on time deposits captured by commercial banks and development finance
companies--and on lending therefrom--were freed from controls. To offset the



-4 -
inflationary effects of these measures, the authorities further liberalized
import payments and adopted the policy, supported by the emission of new
sbort-tern certificates, of not expanding the subsidized selective credit
operations of the Central Bank in excess of the resources captured from
private savings for this purpose. The authorities also increased the sur-
veillance and control of the illegal export trade. The effects of the above
measures were not inmediately notlceable. Real GDP growth declined to 4% in
1980, unemployment started to creep up, and inflationary pressures continued.
10.       In 1981 the economic situation took a turn for the worse and the
problems have continued through 1983. Real GDP growth which had decelerated
to 2.5Z in 1I81 fell to 0.92 in 1982 and to about 0.8Z in 1983. Agricultural
output was hard-hit both in 1982 and 1983 as the production of cotton, oil
seeds and other agricultural commodities dropped as a result of low interna-
tional prices, reduced fertilizer use and adverse weatber. Industrial
activity deteriorated on account of depressed aggregate demand, and unutil-
ized capacity continued to increase, particularly in manufacturing. After
experiencing a surplus for six years, a deficit emerged in the resource
balance in 1981 of about US$1.5 billion, which continued at roughly this
level through 1983. These deficits resulted mainly from a drop in exports by
about 92 annually in real terms: major reasons were the slowdown in world
demand, a major devaluation and the introduction of import restrictions in
Venezuela-a major trading partner--in 1983, and the reduction in Colombia's
coffee export quota in the International Coffee Agreement significantly below
the 1981 coffee export level. Net foreign exchange reserves declined by
about US$1,800 million in 1983 and Colombia's net international reserves were
equivalent to about 6.7 months of imports of goods and non-factor service at
year end. To a significant extent, the fall in foreign exchange reserves was
caused by the difficulties in tapping capital markets which resulted from the
external debt problems of other countries. Inflation slowed down in 1983 to
a ZO average for the year, down from 282 in 1981 and 25% in 1982.
11.       Since 1983 the Government has been introducing a series of measures
designed to stimulate aggregate demand and to initiate the adjustment process
required to expand and diversify non-coffee exports, stimulate domestic pro-
duction, and resi   economic growth. The rate of peso devaluation is being
accelerated with a view to regaining the 1975 real exchange rate during 1985;
the housing construction industry is being provided with incentives to mobil-
ize an increasing amount of resources; and open market operations are being
discontinued to increase liquidity in the economy. Temporary import restric-
tions are being introduced to arrest the falling foreign exchange reserves;
these are to be lifted once the real exchange rate achieves its equilibrium
level and exports respond fully to this incentive. The stabilization
measures introduced in 1977 have been gradually dismantled, followed by
government legislation, weasures and regulations designed to reduce the
fiscal deficit and ease distortions and restrictions in the financial
system. While these measures bave been in the right direction, there is need
for significant additional efforts, as recognized by the authorities. In
particular, the country continues to be affected by the tight international
capital market in 1984: a sharp reduction in the credit lines available to
Colombia resulting from the overall debt problem of Latin America has con-
tributed further declines in foreign exchange reserves. The continuing
pressure on the external sector has brought to the Government's attention the
need for further and timely actions to reverse the current trends. Such a



-5 -
policy package would need to include vigorous export promotion, stepped-up
external resource mobilization, promotion of foreign investment, assistance
to resolve private sector financial difficulties and fiscal and monetary
measures for adjustment.
Development Strategy
12.       The Government's strategy for accomplishing its development objec-
tives is set forth in the 1983-86 National Development Plan. This strategy
emphasizes growth with equity with the purpose of expanding the benefits of
development to Colombia's population. This is to be achieved through
increasing participaEtion of all social and regional groups in the process of
economic growth. The strategy also places high priority on the resumption of
growth while maintaining price stability. The strategy strengthens the
previous emphasis on export promotion as a means of supplementing domestic
demand and assuring balance of payments stability, and on policy measures
designed to increase economic efficiency and raise institutional capacity.
It proposes a continuation of the large effort in public investment, giving
high priority to energy, agriculture and industrial projects and to the pro-
vision of transport infrastructure. Economic decentralization, regional
autonomy and the uniting of regional grovth centers through improved tran-
sport, communication and financial links are directed towards creatinga an
integrated national market. The development plan's strategy also vplaces.
emphasis on the promotion of both small-scale and commercial a   culture as a
means of diversifying and increasing exports, assuring adequate to  sic food
supplies, holding down inflation and contributing to the Government s nutri'-
tion and welfare goals.  Industrial policy objectives are to provide an
environment of certainty, along with adequate credit and infrastructure,
that entrepreneurs are encouraged to invest and expand output. .Because
its benefits in opening foreign markets, creating employment and\bringing in
new technology, private foreign investment is to be encouraged. '\The finan-
cial sector is also to be strengthened. The Government's approach to helping
the poor takes on a new orientation in the development plan's strategy. Its
efforts are focused upon improving -fficiency in the jise of resources, broad-
ening coverage of services and strengthening the social service institu-
tions. Programs in the housing, health, and education sectors are to be
better focused and integrated, and selected low Income and disadvantaged
groups, such as workers in the informal sector, children and unemployed
youth, are singled out for special attention. Combined with a significant
expansion in construction of low-income housing and the extension of the
Integrated Rural Development (DRI) program, the new directions given to
social programs are expected to raise significantly the welfare of low income
groups in Colombia.
13.       After many years of being a net petroleum exporter, Colombia
became a net oil importer in the mid 1970s and, in recent years, 10-15% of
merchandise imports have been accounted for by petroleum. In the absence of
rapid energy development, energy shortages could become a major constraint on
growth later in this decade. Resolution of the energy problem depends on the
country's success in developing its abundant domestic energy resources-
hydroelectricity, coal and natural gas--and also upon increasing petroleum
exploration and development. The strategy for doing this will require energy
pricing policies that balance consumption with energy resource availabili-
ties, a least cost program of investments, sufficient domestic and external



-6 -
financing for these investments, strengthened sector institutions, improved
program execution capability and rapid carrying out of investments. Although
planning and policy making have improved substantially in many energy sector
institutions in recent years, further improvements in overall sector planning
and coordination are needed. A recently completed National Energy study
carried out by the Government is providing the basis for seeking such
improvements. Additionally, recent oil pricing decisions have gone a con-
siderable way towards providing the correct signals for regulating consump-
tion and encouraging production. the prices paid to producers (primarily
foreign companies) for 'incremental' and 'new' crude provide adequate produc-
tion incentives, and the retail prices of petroleum products have been
increased substantially in recent years, reflecting, on the whole, interna-
tional levels.
14.       Colombia's agricultural growth performance has slowed down markedly
in recent years. Both demand and supply constraints have been responsible
for this. To increase output, utilization of additional acreage for cultiva-
tion is projected to involve greater investment than in the past, implying
the increasing need to pursue options of'yield improvements. In addition to
productivity gains, additional land could and should be brought under irriga-
tion and/or drainage for more intensive cultivation. Watershed management
and forestry development should also become integral parts of a long-term
strategy for growth and for conserving the natural resources. The generation
and delivery of technological innovations should receive priority in the
array of long-term measures. Research and extension institutions are in need
of rehabilitation and strengthening. Marketing constraints also need to be
relaxed if higher production is to be sustained. Sufficient credit availabi-
lity for production and marketing is also essential. Recently the Government
initiated a major policy redirection to address these issues and the develop-
ment plan assigns a key role to future investments in the sector.
15.       Colombia's high transportation costs and inadequate services could
become a constraint on economic growth and exports, affecting particularly
the development of the country's vast coal reserves and its agriculture. The
State Railway is in poor condition and the road network needs maintenance and
rehabilitation. The authorities have taken steps to improve the country's
infrastructure and the development plan assigns an important share of future
investments to the sector. An important part of this effort is the ongoing
Rural Roads, Railway Rehabilitation, and Highway Sector Projects.
Investment and its Financing
16.      An increase of public sector investment will be required in the
next several years to carry out the development strategy outlined in the
development plan. Over the 1984-86 period, such investment is expected to
increase by about 2Z p.a. in real terms. The energy and transportation
sectors are expected to account for the bulk (about half) of this investment;
however, real increases in investment are also expected in the small- and
medium-scale agriculture, housing, nutrition and health, industry (including
mining), water and sewerage, and education sectors. Overall, public fixed
investment is projected to average 7% of GDP during the 1984-86 period, and
is expected to total Col$1,890 billion. Private investment will have to
increase also during this period to provide the goods and services required
by the expanding economy.



- 7 -
17.       The execution of the Investment program will demand a major
resource mobilization effort on the part of Colombia's public sector. In
particular, the size of the overall Central Government deficit will have to
be reduced significantly. The buoyancy of the tax system (excluding coffee
tax revenues and receipts from earnings on foreign exchange holdings), which
has declined in recent years, will have to be increased through new taxes and
better tax administration; the growth of expenditures will have to be
checked; resources will have to be used more efficiently; and the charges
levied for public services will h>ave to be raised substantially in real
terms. A package of measures to tackle some of these issues was approved by
Congress in 1983, including measures related to broadening the base and
increasing the average rate of the sales tax, increasing other indirect
taxes, reducing the earmarking of revenues, reducing tax evasion, and
strengthening tax administration. Additional actions on both revenues and
expenditureb have been proposed to Congress, all of which, when approved, are
expected to have a significant effect in reducing the fiscal deficit in
1985. Since this effort is likely to coincide with increased private sector
demand for investment resources, the importances of measures to expand domes-
tic savings cannot be over-stressed. The recent capital market liberaliza-
tion should encourage savings. A significant increase in voluntary private
savings is not likely, however, as long as inflation remains high. Conse-
quently, stabilization remains a sine qua non for the country's future growth
and development.
Growth and Balance of Payments Prospects
18.       Given the country's strong resource base, sound economic management
and the efforts mounted to realize the required increases in capital inflows
envisioned during 1984-86, Colombia's growth prospects for this decade are
reasonably good and significant advances in economic welfare are anticipa-
ted. However, because of the decline in coffee prices from the previous boom
levels and the weakening in exports caused by the recession and by import
restrictions in some of Colombia's traditional markets, in addition to the
need to increase imports to develop the country's resource potential and
restore higher economic growth, the current account deficit of the balance of
payments is projected to average US$1.7 billion per year during 1984-86,
equivalent to about 5% of GDP. Almost half of the deficit is projected to be
financed by reducing foreign exchange reserves and by direct foreign invest-
ment. By the end of this period, net official international reserves would
have fallen to a level of about three months of imports of goods and non-
factor services (a level which is adequate for Colombia) without prejudice to
the country's creditworthiness. This should be sufficient to support an
average growth of real GDP of 2X during this period. Beyond 1986, the
current account deficit should improve as a result of increasing export
proceeds (particularly coal) and a leveling-off of imports resulting from
increased domestic production of petroleum. The current account deficit
would gradually fall to about 1.5Z of GDP by 1990.  To achieve real GDP
growth of about 2Z per annum during 1984-86, gross fixed investment will have
to be maintained at 19Z of GDP to complete existing long-gestating projects
in the energy and mining sector, and to avoid too large an increase in
foreign indebtedness, gross national savings would need to average about 18Z
of GDP.
19.       Gross external capital requirements are projected to total about
US$7,772 million in current prices for the 1984-86 period, for an annual



-8-
average requirement of about US$2,591 million. Net foreign investment is
expected to account for US$825 million during 1984-86. This should provide
about 112 of the gross external financing required. Of the remaining 892
(US$6,947 million) about US$5,271 million, has been either comitted or Is
expected to be secured from multilateral and bilateral sources, while t1.e
difference, US$1,676 million, will need to be borrowed abroad from financial
markets and suppliers' credit sources. At the end of 1983, Colombia's public
and publicly guaranteed external debt disbursed and outstanding amounted to
US$6.9 billion, equivalent to 18.5Z of GDP. The Bank/IDA share of this
external debt was 22Z. Reflecting the recently increased Colombian borrowing
from comnercial sources, this share is expected to remain at about 202 during
1984-86. The public debt service ratio at the end of 1983 was 202 and is
expected to climb to 282 by 1986, peak at about 282 in 1988 and then decline
gradually to 232 in 1990. The World Bank's share in public debt service is
expected to remain below 252 during 1984-86. With continued sound economic
anti financial management, Colombia iL expected to maintain its creditworthi-
ness through and beyond the 1984-90 period.
PART II - MAE GROU OPZRATIC  IN COLGIDIA
20.      The proposed loan, the 110th to be made to Colombia, would bring
the total amount of Bank loans to Colombia to US$4,341.9 million (net of can-
cellations). Of this amount the Bank held, as of March 31, 1984 US$2,981.3
million; IDA made one credit of US$19.5 million for highways in 1961. Dis-
bursements have been completed on 66 loans and the IDA credit. Before 1979,
disbursements averaged US$86 million equivalent per year, but had increased
to US$250 million per year by 1982 and US$294.5 million in 1983. While lower
than those recorded in Latin America for similar projects, concentrated
efforts to overcome problems in project execution have resulted in signific-
ant increases in the disbursement record in 1983 and 1984. Improving per-
formance of social sector institutions, gradual containment of inflationary
pressures and the effects of the recently introduced fiscal reforms, which
should improve counterpart funding, and increased Bank lending for infra-
structure projects, all point to a higher level of disbursements in the
future. IFC has made investments and underwriting commitments of US$119.9
million in 29 enterprises and, as of March 31, 1984, it held US$48.0
million. Annex II contains a sumary statement of Bank loans, the IDA credit
and IFC investments as of March 31, 1984.
21.      Since the initial loan was made in 1949, Bank lending to Colombia
has become quite diversified. Although through the mid-1960s, 882 of the
loans made were for power or transport, since then the Bank has broadened its
participation in lending for agriculture and industry, and initiated lending
for irrigation and watershed management, education, water supply, telecomu-
nications, urban development and nutrition. By the late 1970s, 53Z of the
loans made to Colombia were for projects other than transport and power. Of
the loans made since 1978, 39% were for power and transport, 16Z each for
agriculture and industrial projects, 7Z each for projects in water supply and
urban development, 4Z each for projects in telecommnications and irrigation,
and 72 for education, nutrition and multipurpose projects. The diversifica-
tion was a desirable aim as it helped provide close contact with a broader
range of Colombia's development problems. The experience gained has served
to identify areas in which the Bank's role can only be a marginal one and,



thm, t enable lending to be focussed upon sectors in which the Bank's
presece cam hae a meaningful imact.
22    lBank lending to Colombla in FY84 consisted of lons for power sec-
tor financing, coal exploro, ea          e reconstruction, agricultural
diversification and multipurpose water supply and electricity, totalUng
US$464.1 million. In addition, the Bank participated in two B-loans for a
total of 14% of the loans, or US$28.75 mllion. Tn response to Colombia
having undertaken a gradual adjustment process to expand and diversify non-
coffee exports and resume growth, the thrust of Bank support has shifted
towards str       ng the Covenment's programs, enhancing the effectiveness
of resource use, ana empbasizing quick-yielding investmuents- Loa recently
approved by the sBard and a mmber of operatio s at an advanced stage of pre-
paration reflect this overall direction. Regarding  frastructural invest-
lmts, the FY85 program strses r        ation, modernization and a more
intensive use of facilities already in place, as in the cases of the recently
approved water supply and electricity distribution projects. Ihe recently
approved power development finance project was entirely geared towards com-
pletion of ongoing projects. Similarly, Increased emphasis has been placed
on directly productive operations, such as the already-approveda agricultural
diversification and small-scale industry projects. Ihe project described in
this report and the petroleum project which is to be considered by the Board
separately fall in this category. Beyond FY85, work is also underway on
projects for further petroleum development, electric power, agricultural
extension and marketing. fertilizers, and irrigation for possible considera-
tion by the Executive Directors during the next two years.
23.       The proposed Bank lendilg is consistent with the Government's
development strategy. Nature loans would finance agriculture and industry to
support the GCoverment in its efforts to raise overall productivity, income
and employment, and to increase and diversify exports, and help develop
renewable sources of energy through lending for hydropower an arrnaging
asociated co-financing. Closely related to these objectives would be Bank
lendlng for infrastructure that would facilitate the increasing inter-
regional flow of goods and services. Finally, several loans are being pre-
pared in support of the Government's efforts to help the poorer segoents of
the Colombian population. Proposed lending for furtber rural development,
agricultural credit, health, water supply and sewerage, and irrigation pro-
jects are principally designed to improve the standard of livIng of the poor.
24.      Ihe operations of external lenders in Colombia are shown in
Ahnex I. While IBRD. IDB and bilateral sources provided about 75Z of total
external finaucing to Colombia in the 1961-72 period, their share had
decreased since then to some 49Z for the 1975-82 period and is expected to
dec'lie further to about 4OZ of external capital requirements during the
1980O. Like the Bank, 1DB has given increased emphasis to energy-related
projects in addition to those for low-cost housing, urban and rural develop-
ment, agrarian reform, university education, water supply, rural electrifica-
tion and land erosion control which are aimed at imroving living standards
of the lower Income population. In the future, it proposes to assist
Colombla in developing sources of domestic energy and in expanding productive
sector activities to help generate increased employment. USAID has supported
program in education, rural development and small farm development, but is
phasing out its program in Colombia. The Goverment of Canada, the Federal



- 10 -
Republic of Germany and the Netherlands have also provided concessional
financing for basic needs and regional integration projects.
X  HI - MM ninDS L AND FINANCIAL SECOrS Iv CIAIBI&
Industrial Sector Structure, Growth and Performance2/
25.       Between the late 1940s and the late 1970s, Colombia witnessed rapid
growth of its   nufacturing industry. At first, industrial expansion was
spurred by policies favoring import substitution and was supported by the
provision of infrastructure and public services. By 1967, local industry
supplied the internal market with most consumer goods, about two-thirds of
intermediate products and about one-half of capital goods. In 1966/67, the
Government adopted an outward-looking development strategy that emphasized
export expansion and diversification, which was consistently carried on into
the mid-1970s. With the large growth and diversification of manufactured
exports, industrial output gained impetus and so did employment; between 1967
and 1974, the growth rate for the sector reached an annual average of 8.6Z.
By the end of the 1970s, employment in manufacturing reached about 2 million
and the contribution of manufacturing to Colombia's gross domestic product
equalled 17%. This had been made possible through a combination of natural
resources, human skills, entrepreneurial initlative and Government policy.
26.       Starting in 1981, however, industrial growth stagnated (see para.
10). At the same time, export receipts accumulated during the coffee boom
and an overvalued exchange rate boosted demand for imported products. Sub-
sequently, weakened international demand, competition from contraband and
substantial devaluation of the currencies of Colombia's foremost Latin
American trading partners led to a decline in manufacturing production and
exports. As a result, consumer goods industries, which during the 1960s and
1970s saw their sbare of industrial output decline from about 80% to about
50%, have assumed greater importance at the expense of industries producing
intermediate and capital goods.
27.       Reacting to falling foreign exchange reserves resulting from
rapidly decreasing export receipts in the early 1980s, the Government
reverted to protectionist measures, introducing licenses for most imports and
raising customs duties. These measures are intended to be temporary and to
be removed as soon as the balance of payments and exports improve. Simul-
taneously, to enhance Colombia's ability to compete abroad, additional export
incentives were provided through higher tax rebates for exported goods and
later-in 1983-the rate of currency depreciation was accelerated. Despite
the current recession, which has significantly weakened the finances of
industrial enterprises, the manufacturing sector faces a critical need to
modernize its equipment in order to reduce costs, improve the quality of its
products and increase its competitiveness. Many firms are already taking the
necessary actions, especially in non-metallic minerals (cement), food,
2/ A report entitled -ColombLa - Manufacturing Sector Developments and
Changes in Foreign Trade and Financial Policies (No. 4093-CO)- was
distributed to the Executive Directors on January 21, 1983.



- 11 -
beverages and tobacco, textiles and basic metals, and this effort represents
an importaat source of demand for long term investment credit. Recent
surveys conducted by Banco de la Republica (BR). Colombia's Central Bank, and
DFCs indicate that investments currently planned by m3nufacturing firms for
1985-1986 add up to some US$600.0 million, of which approximately 40Z is
essentially aimed at modernizing equipment and increasing productivity.
Overall, the growing importance of intrasectoral linkages, combined with the
changing structure of incentives and ongoing modernization in intermediate
and capital goods producers, can be expected to create significant investmeat
opportunities for these firms.
The Financial Sector and the DFCs
28.       The Colombian financial sector enjoyed a prolonged period of
stability and was characterized by a relatively simple institutional system
comprising mainly commrcial banks and investment banks (Corporaciones
Financieras-DFCs) until the late 1960s. A series of economic developments
in the subsequent period, especially the perceived conflicts between stabili-
zation and financial sector liberalization policies in the face of high
inflation rates during the 1970s and early 1980s, led to numerous changes in
the institutional structure of the system as well as financial instruments.
Most important among these changes were: (a) periodic but small movements
towards financial sector liberalization as a means to increase the volume of
resources intermediated by the institutionalized (formal) system; (b) further
growth of a flourishing extra-bank (informal) market as a response to strong
financial sector repression which prevailed over a major part of the decade
and prevented the institutionalized financial system from meeting fully the
demand for intermediation; some of the informal market was later regulated
under the name of Companias de Financiamiento Comercial (CFCs); and (c) the
creation of new categories of financial intermediaries: Corporaciones de
Aborro y Vivienda (CAVIS) and Companias de Financiaziento Comercial (CFCs)
and of new instruments such as certificates of deposits (CDTs) and indexed
instruments (UPAC) to mobilize resources to meet specific evolving needs in
the economy.
29.       The complexity of these developments has put strains on the tradi-
tional framework of financial institutions, especially on the Superintendency
of Banks, which regulates financial institutions and is responsible for over-
seeing their financial soundness. By the end of the 1970s, several incon-
sistencies were visible in the institutional framework and in the body of
financial regulations. The liberalizing measures introduced periodically
over the last decade have not succeeded in reducing the fragmentation of the
financial markets. Instead, they have led to a complex system in which the
institutionalized free market coexists with a compartamentalized system of
official lines of term credit, principally to industry and agriculture, and a
large and growing informal market. The structure of market incentives in
recent years made it more profitable, even for intermediaries traditionally
oriented towards term financing, to move increasingly towards short term
operations. A de facto multibanking system has resulted from the formation
of groups of entities working in the different specialized markets and linked
by common ownership, but uncontrolled linkages between financial and non-
financial groups have become widespread, in the absence of adequate regula-
tion of such groups.



- 12 -
30.       The sources of the above can be traced In part to the conflicting,
or at least competing, objectives which the Government tried to prsue with
its financial policies. Among the competing objectives were: (a) to sake
available rediscounted credit from the Central Bank to priority sectors;
(b) to increase the intermediation of resources through the institutional
financial system; and (c) to use regulation of the financial sector as an
instrument to control inflation.  The relative weight given to these ais
differed at various periods during the 1970s. In the early 1980s, the diffi-
culties that DFCs faced in tapping international capital markets, because of
the banking community's concerns regarding its exposure to Latin America's
mounting debts, and the weakening of the financial situation resulting from
the downturn of economic growth, caused the authorities to reappraise the
setup of the financial sector. To this end, the Government requested the
Bank, in mid-1982, to review the situation with particular regard to the
DFCs, and to propose, where warranted, remedial action.
31.       The preparation and discussion of the ensuing report (-The
Colombian Investment Banking System and Related Financial Sector Issues -
Report No. 4274-C0, distributed to the Executive Directors on August 1,
1983), provided an opportunity to address the more fundamental structural
weaknesses of the financial sector. The report noted, among other problems:
Ca) the tendency of the private DFCs to operate increasingly in the short
term market; (b) the relatively less dynamic resource mobilization by the
DFCs in comparison with other types of financial institutions; and (c) the
observed limited impact of the DFCs in stimwlating risk capital investments
in the productive sector. These factors have led to a dilution of the iden-
tity of the DFCs as genuine investment banks.
32.       The causes for the above situation can be traced to, among other
aspects, the regulatory and incentive framework, and the early stage of
development of the Colombian capital markets. The principal factors that
were specifically identified which have led to this situation were: (a) the
lack of adequate mechanisms to facilitate using short term deposit resources
for mediumr- and long-term lending; (b) the competitive disadvantages faced by
the DFCs vis-a-vis other types of financial institutions with respect to the
type of deposit accounts permitted, size of branch network, etc.; (c) a
relatively high degree of concentration of financial power characterized over
the last decade by the emergence of -de facto- financial/industrial groups,
and the absence of a comprehensive regulatory framework to control activities
of these groups and to define clearly the mutual responsibilities and obliga-
tions of the majority owners and minority shareholders; and (d) a tax system
that favored heavy debt financing by industrial firms in preference to ade-
quate capitalization and acted against a satisfactory development of the
stock market and wide distribution of share ownership.
33.       To address these concerns, and in accordance with the findings of
the Bank's report, the Government, in a first stage effort, undertook all the
key reform measures which are needed to strengthen the DFC system. These
reforms, which were introduced under the authority of existing legislation,
and which form the basis for this operation, include abolition of the risky
auto-finance companies (a device to finance parent company requirements
tbrough ad hoc subsidiaries raising funds from the public', and the provision
of financing to encourage greater equity investments by the public. Also,
incentives to increase equity investments have been strengthened with the



- 13 -
elimination of the double taxation of dividends and the marginal reserve
requirements on coooercial banks. Moreover, the Central Bank is now publish-
ing an index of deposit costs as a reference rate to facilitate introduction
of variable interest rates in the DFC operations, which shoald reduce risks
of term tranformation (see para. 34). To help build up their reserves and
profits, the rules governing the Central Bank's official financing funds have
been modified to allow the DFCs higher spreads and the use of variable
interest rates on part of the funds. The DFCs have also been authorized
access to emergency discounts in the case of possible financial difficulties
and have been allowed to increase their spreads on funds from the Central
Bank's credit lines. In addition, to address issues transcending the DFC
system and concerning the overall performance of the financial sector, the
Government has submitted a new reform bill for consideration of the Colombian
Congress. This draft legislation proposes measures to better control the
operations of financial/industrial groups, to define more clearly the roles
of different categories of financial institutions, and to strengthen the
powers of the Superintendency of Banks to exercise the necessary controls
(details on the status of actions on financial sector reform are contained in
Annex TV to this report).
34.       Finally, to help DFCs mobilize more resources, the Government
decided to promote term transformation (use of short-term deposits to fund
medium- and long-term credits). To protect against the risks of term trans-
formation, namly (a) the possibility that interest rates paid by DFCs for
their 90-day certificate of term deposits (CDrs) would increase over the
rates charged on long-term credit outstanding, and (b) liquidity problems
caused by transitory fluctuations resulting from deposit withdrawals, the use
of floating interest rates bas been introduced. Since January 1984, the
Central Bank has periodically been publishing a cost-of-funds index (DTF).
This index is calculated on the basis of the average interest rate offered by
DFCs on their 90-day certificates of deposit (CDT). It provides a reference
rate which permits lenders to charge floating rates of interest in Colombian
pesos and constitutes a major innovation in financial sector operations. In
particular, it allowed the use of variable interest rates on BR's official
lines of credit. To date, this system of floating interest rates based on
the CDT has worked well. The only possible limitation to its use is a pro-
vision contained In Colombia's Code of Commerce, under which interest rates
charged by commercial lenders cannot exceed twice the -ordinary interest
rate- as certified by the Superintendent of Banks. Therefore, it is
necessary that this -ordinary interest rate- at all times adequately reflects
market rates, as otherwise it could become a ceiling on the interest rates
that DFCs can cbarge. To this end, the Government has requested that the
Superintendent of Banks establish a system to periodically update its certi-
fication of this rate. The system would have to be satisfactory to the Bank,
and its enactment is a condition of loan effectiveness (Section 6.01 (b),
draft Loan Agreement). Should the borrower cease to calculate or publish the
DTF at least on a monthly basis, or should the DTF fail to reflect the
average interest rate offered by DFCs on their 90-day certificates of
deposit, or should any event occur which would make the payment of interest
based on the DTF inapplicable, unenforceable or illegal, the Bank would have
the right to suspend loan disbursements (Section 5.01 (j) and 5.02 (a), draft
Loan Agreement).



- 14 -
Role of the Bank and IFC
35.       The IFC and the Bank bave been workling jointly on sector analysis,
and IFC is presently processing proposed investments in tbree DFCs consisting
of subordinated loans of US$18 millon to improv2 their capital structure and
to permit them to grow at a faster rate than would othervise be possible.
The proposed IFC investment and the Bank loan under consideration deliber-
ately emphasize the different focus of activities and instruments for financ-
ing of the two institutions. While the Bank's work has given priority to
sector and institutional issues, IFC has concerned itself more directly with
the commercial resource generation ability of the more mature DFCs. The Bank
has provided the analytic work to identify sectorwide reforms needed to
enhance the role of the financial system in the mobilization of resources
tbrough, inter alia, the strengthening of the term transformation functions
of DFCs. IFC, in turn, has provided the relevant inputs regarding capital
market implications of the recommendations formally outlined to the authori-
ties by the Bank.
36.       On the operational side, the Bank and IFC have used their proposed
operations as instruments to further the policy dialogue and ensure that the
measures recommended in the Sector Report are carried out. Thus, the Bank
now proposes to proceed with an apex loan through the DFCs to channel medium-
and long-term credit towards efficient investmuent projects in the industrial
sector and to fortify the financial framework within which the DFC system
operates. At the same time, through the US$40 million fourth small-scale
enterprise project recently approved (Report No. P-3848-CO presented to the
Board on July 10, 1984), the Bank intends to continue supporting a special-
ized Government institution which is performing a role that private institu-
tions are reluctant to undertake, given the high cost involved in financing
very small enterprises. IFC, on the other hand, has been orienting its
support to resource mobilization for the three most mature DFCs, and it has
also promoted the introduction of more specialized financial instruments
(such as leasing operations). Also, the proposed IFC investments have been
structured as subordinated loans, so that they will count as quasi equity of
the three DFCs. This will allow them to maintain their real level of opera-
tiolis until the shift toward market peso long-term lending now being
initiated will improve their profitability and further strengthen their
capital base for future growth. Therefore, while the Bank loan primarily
addresses sectoral concerns and resource transfer, the IFC investment
supports the individual DFCs as private profit-making companies. The pro-
posed Bank and IFC operations thus complement each other well, with the two
institutions focusing on the different areas in which they, respectively,
have the greater competence.
Previous Bank Lending for Colombian Industry
37.       The Bank made its first loan for industrial development in Colombia
in 1963 to help Acerias Paz del Rio to carry out a steel mill project.
Between May 1966 and May 1980, the Bank made eight loans to Banco de la
Republica (BR), totalling US$492.5 million, which were relent, through the
DFCs, to private enterprises in the fields of manufacturing, tourism and
mining for the establishment or expansion of productive capacity, for tech-
nological improvements and for pollution control. These loans were charac-
terized by rapid commitment and smooth disbursement, reflecting both the



- 15 -
strong investment climate during 1966-1980 and the efficiency of the parti-
cipating intermediaries. In 1972, the Bank lent US$60.0 million to Colombia
for a development and export expansion program, part of which was relent to
industrial enterprises. In 1975, 1977, and 1980, the Bank lent a total of
US$52.5 million to BR; these funds were relent, through the Government-owned
Corporacion Financiera Popular, to privately owned small-scale industry; a
fourth US$40.0 million loan for the small-scale industry was recently sub-
mitted to the Board. In 1978, the Bank lent US$15.0 million to the Cartagena
Industrial and Commercial Free Zone, which is aimed at promoting manufactured
exports and expanding employment in a poor region of the country. In the
mining sector, the Bank lent US$80.0 million in 1979 (together with US$145.7
million from U.S. Eximbank and a syndicate of private banks) to exploit a
nickel deposit and set up refining and smelting facilities for export, and
US$9.5 million in 1983 for a coal exploration project.
38.       These operations bave contributed both to the expansion and the
development of Colombia"s industry. Their objectives included growth, export
promotion and diversification, strengthening financial intermediaries
specializing in investment lending, and stimulating the establishment and
expansion of medium- and small-sized industrial units throughout the country,
with the attendant creation of employment. The OED Report on the fifth and
sixth DFC projects3/ noted the successful channelling of resources at a
rapid rate for economically efficient industrial projects, the increasing
maturity of six of the participating DFCs, their capacity to keep up with
credit demand and the improvement of their growth and profitability in real
terms, and BR's major strides in developing a project appraisal capability.
39.       The 1981 OED report also noted, however, that the Bank had only
limited success in its dialogue with the authorities on financial and indus-
trial policies and, more specifically, in obtaining support for priority
activities within the industrial sector. Moreover, BR was found devoting too
much time to scrutinizing projects prepared by the DFCs, while its capability
to supervise the DFCs' overall performance was still limited. The report
recommended greater delegation of responsibility by the Bank to BR on project
design and supervision, with a corresponding shift of the Bank's attention to
financial and industrial sector issues and stronger DFC efforts to mobilize
other resources in the domestic and international markets. In this last
respect, the report specifically recommended that the Bank continue the
effort it had started in 1978 to set up a system permitting the transforma-
tion by the DFCs of short-term deposits into long-term lendable resources.
Subject to some modifications resulting from the diversity of the parties
involved and the intervening time, all the substantial recommendations of the
1981 Project Performance Audit Report have been adopted in the design of the
project described in this Report.
3/ -Colombia - Fifth and Sixth DFCs Projects - Project Performance Audit
Report' (&SecM8-430, May 15, 1981).



- 16 -
PART Iw - UK PROJEcT
Project Objectives and Description
40.       As noted in Part III of this report, DFCs are currently suffering
from difficulties in tapping international capital markets, and the country
is redressing the more f%ndamental structural weaknesses of the financial
sector that have become evident as a result of the downturn of economic
growth. Accordingly, building on the accomplishments of prior Bank loans,
which helped several individual DFCs develop into relatively mature term
financing institutions, and complementing the Bank's work on financial sector
issues, the proposed project has the two-fold objective of:
(a)  making available medium-term loans to DFCs, that are nou unavail-
able to Colombia, to channel term financing toward efficient
investment projects in the industrial sector (including manufactur-
ing, agro-industry, tourism and mining); and
(b) assisting the Government in strengthening the financial sector
reforms already undertaken, by (i) helping to develop mechanisms
aimed at developing a long-term credit market, (ii) carrying out a
program of technical assistance for the staff of the Borrower and
of the DFCs in operating the variable interest rate system and
related financial management issues, and (iii) carrying out a
program of technical assistance for the Superintendency of Banks to
enhance its banking supervisory capabilities.
41.       The aggregate investment cost of projects potentially eligible for
financing out of the proposed Bank loan over the next 24 months (the proposed
loan commitment period) is estimated to be on the order of US$350 million
equivalent. This estimate is based on current Bank projections of economic
growth for Colombia, an enterprise investment survey carried out by BR late
in 1983, information on project pipelines of selected DFCs, and the proposed
terms and conditions of subloans. The foreign exchange financing require-
ments of such investment activity are estimated at US$200 million equiva-
lent. After taking into account other probable external sources (i.e., a
US$90 million IDB loan and a conservative level of suppliers' credit) a Bank
loan of US$90.0 million equivalent is proposed to help fill the sector's
estimated foreign exchange gap. Based on data from the BR survey (paragraph
27 above), about 40% of the investment projects can be expected to involve
modernization of existing plants and improvements in capacity utilization,
20-25% to support expansions in production capacity for existing product
lines, and the remaining 35-40% to help set up new product lines and/or new
enterprises.
42.       The proposed US$90 million loan would be allocated as follows:
(a) US$89.8 million for the credit component which would cover the
foreign exchange costs of subloans and equity investments made by
DFCs for investment projects involving increases in, or rationali-
zation of, productive capacity of enterprises, industrial pollution
control or technology development, and for technical assistance
required to undertake those projects; and



- 17 -
(b) US$0.2 million for capitalizing the front-end fee of the loan.
A related program of technical assistance for the staff of BR and the DFCs
would be financed by BR with its own resources. This program would cover the
promotion and evaluation of investment projects, investment and credit port-
folio supervision and management, and the operation of the variable borrowing
and lending rate system. Also, concomitantly with the proposed project, the
Government would carry out a technical assistance program for its banking
regulatory agency, the Superintendency of Banks (see para. 49).
43.       BR would be the borrower, with the guarantee of the Republic of
Colombia, and would onlend the loan proceeds to participating DFCs in accord-
ance with subsidiary loan agreements satisfactory to the Bank, entered into
as a condition precedent to disbursements with respect to each DFC (Section
2.02(d), draft Loan Agreement). BR itsalf would assume responsibility for
the training and technical assistance to DDC's and DFCs' professional staff.
The proposed loan would have a 17-year term, including 4-1/2 years of grace.
The grace period would be slightly longer than the usual 4 years for
Colombian loans to partly compensate the country for the reduction in the
repayment period from 17 to 14 years made under the petroleum project. BR
would assume the foreign exchange risk between the currency pool obligations
incurred under the Bank loan and the currency of BR's onlending to DFCs
(i.e., US dollars or Colombian pesos, para. 46). The spreads between BR's
onlending rates to the DFCs and the Bank's standard variable interest rate
are considered adequate to compensate BR for assuming this risk. In view of
the administrative complexities associated with the large number of subloans
and investments expected (100-150), the loan would be repaid according to a
fixed amortization schedule with equal repayments of principal, instead of a
schedule reflecting subloans' amortization. It is expected that the com-
posite of subloan repayments and yields of equity investments will be close
to the terms proposed for the loans. In any event, it has been agreed that
funds repaid to BR prior to the maturities of the Bank loan would be used for
purposes similar to that of the loan (see Section 3.02(c), draft Loan
Agreement).
Credit Component
44.       About 90% of the credit component is expected to be used for
modernization of equipment and facilities and increases in productive
capacity, while technology development, pollution control and technical
assistance to enterprises are expected to account for the rest. No special
allocation is made for equity investments within the credit component but,
based on prior experience, about 5-10% of the component can be expected to be
used for this purpose. Subloans and equity investments would cover estimated
foreign exchange costs of: (a) fixed assets (machinery, equipment, factory
buildings and related civil works and services); (b) permPnent working
capital (initial stocks or increases in stocks of imported raw materials,
spare parts and components required for increases in productive capacity);
and (c) technical assistance services required by industries.
45.       No enterprise, including its subsidiaries, shall be eligible to
obtain financing out of the proposed loan (in either a subloan and/or equity
investment) in excess of US$5.0 million equivalent. Likewise, no investment
project shall receive financing (whether from one or more DFCs) in excess of



- 18 -
US$5.0 million equivalent. Equity investments in a single enterprise (or its
subsidiaries) shall be limited to an aggregate maximum out of the proposed
loan of US$3.0 million equivalent, regardless of the number of DFCs proposing
to make investments therein. These limits are intended to: (a) ensure a
reasonable degree of dispersion of loan funds; (b) reduce concentration of
credit in the largest enterprises; and Cc) allow a greater concentration of
peso-denominated subloans for the relatively smaller enterprises. Unlike
previous loans, and reflecting the prevailing difficulties in raising foreign
exchange on the international capital markets, a company's size would not
limit its access to the proposed Bank loan; however, a company's access to
adequate alternative sources of foreign financing has been included in BR's
statement of operating policies and procedures as part of DDC's criteria,
whereby DFCs' financing to those companies would be ineligible for financing
out of the proposed Bank loan.
46.       Within these limits, enterprises (and the respective DFCs) would
have an option to receive the first US$500,000 equivalent in the form of
loans denominated in Colombian pesos or US dollars; any financing in excess
of this limit would be denominated in US dollars. Exceptions would be
aLlowed in subloans for pollution control, technical assistance and
technology development/adaptation, and in loans to DFCs for equity invest-
mets, increasing the amount available in peso-denominated loans to the first
US$2.0 million of exposure. This arrangement is expected, on the average, to
result in relatively higher proportions of peso financing being available to
the smaller sized firms. At the same time, it avoids the complications
experienced in the past of trying to limit the access to peso-denominated
loans on the basis of firm size. It has been statistically observed that the
90-day CDT rate tends to compensate savers for current and expected levels of
both domestic inflation and devaluation of the Colombian peso (IBRD Report
No. 4444-Co). As a result of the acceleration in the pace of devaluation
over the past 18 months, lending rates based on the CDT rate have exceeded
the effective cost of borrowing in foreign currency (nominal interest rate
plus devaluation). Thus, during the life of the proposed subloans (about
eight years on average), the cost to industry of a -peso' subloan should be
about the same as a 'dollar- subloan. The purpose of the option to be
offered is mostly to meet the perception of risk among the smaller enter-
prises, which are generally less at ease with foreign currency movements.
For these reasons, this dual system would not entail unreasonable risks for
BR, especially since -peso- lending is not expected to exceed 50% of the
loan. This limit would be reviewed from time to time between BR and the Bank
and could be increased only by mutual agreement (Schedule 4, para. III.3,
draft Loan Agreement).
Onlendiag Terms
47.       Interest rates would be floating in both currencies, adjustable
every six months. The rates to the final beneficiaries on subloans denomi-
nated in US dollars would be set at the published London Interbank Offered
Rate (LIBOR) on 180-day deposits (currently in the 11.0 to 11.5Z range) plus
a charge of 2-1/2 percentage points. Peso-denominated subloans would bear
rates, also adjustable once every six months, equal to the index of the cost
of CDTs (para. 34) plus three percentage points. BR would lend funds to DFCs
following the same floating rate schemes, allowing for spreads of 3.0 per-
centage points in the case of dollar-denominated subloans, and 4.0 percentage



- 19 -
points in the case of peso-denominated subloans. Interest rates charged to
DFCs by BR on loans for equity investments would be identical to those
charged by BR on loans to DFCs for financing subloans in the respective
currency (Schedule 4, paras. II. 1-4, and III, 1 and 2, draft Loan
Agreement). Maximum subloan maturities would be 15 years, including grace
periods of up to three years, except that subloans for pollution control or
technology development may have grace periods of up to five years (Schedule
4, para. 11.5, draft Loan Agreement). The exception is justified in view of
the longer gestation period involved in some technology improvement programs
and the non-productive nature of pollution control investments.
48.       All subloans requiring more than US$3.0 million equivalent of Bank
funds in the case of Group A DFCs with 'full participation," or more than
US$750,000 equivalent in the case of Group B DFCs participating on a -limited
basis' (see paras. 59 and 60), would require the Bank's prior approval.
Equity investments in excess of US$650,000 equivalent would also require
prior Bank approval. Within the above limits, BR itself would delegate part
of its review responsibilities to the participating DFCs, depending on the
degree of their maturity, as outlined in BR's policy statement. These
arrangements should result in prior Bank review of about 10% of the number of
investment projects to be financed, accounting for 25-302 of the proposed
loan amount.
Technical Assistance Component
49.       The Government has committed itself to further strengthening of its
banking regulatory agency, the Superintendency of Banks. To this effect, it
will carry out a technical assistance program, in consultation with the Bank,
to enhance the capabilities of this agency to monitor and enforce the regula-
tions applicable to the financial sector. This technical assistance package
for the Superintendency would include assistance for improvements in the
areas of: (a) information systems to select and process data from financial
institutions under its control; (b) analysis and interpretation of data
received; (c) diagnostic and control techniques applicable to the different
categories of financial institutions; and (d) training of the inspectors and
financial analysts of the Superintendency. Assurances were received from the
Guarantor that a detailed action program to this effect would be presented to
the Bank for its comments within six months of loan signing and implemented
promptly thereafter (Section 3.01 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
50.       Likewise, to ensure smooth introduction of term transformation in
Colombia (para. 34), the staffs of DFCs and BR will need to be trained in the
application of the new techniques and their control. This will be done
through a special technical assistance component consisting of: training
courses and seminars for the professional staff of BR's DDC and of the parti-
cipating DFCs, emphasizing promotion and evaluation of investment projects
for credit and equity investments purposes, project supervision and term
transformation control. Financing for this component would be provided by
the borrower.
Investment Project Appraisal and Supervision
51.       The participating DFCs would be responsible for the appraisal and
supervision of investment projects. Appraisals would contain an adequate



- 20 -
analysis of the organizational, financial, marketing, technical and other
relevant aspects of the proposed investment projects. In addition,
appraisals of all projects for increases in productive capacity requiring
more than US$300,000 equivalent in Bank financing would include a calculation
of the project's FRR and ERR following guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and
the projects would be financed only if such rates exceed 11% in real terms;
for projects involving less than US$300,000 equivalent in Bank financing,
only an FRR would be calculated and financing would not be approved unless
the FRR equals or exceeds 11% in real terms (see Section 2.03, draft Loan
Agreement). Special guidelines for project evaluation would be used in the
case of pollution control and technology development sub-projects. They are
contained in BR's Development Credit Department's Statement of Operating
Policies and Procedures. Each DFC would supervise the projects financed by
it to see that subloans or equity funds are utilized for the purpose intended
and that the financial and other conditions affecting the project's perform-
ance are progressing satisfactorily. BR and the DFCs would have the right to
visit the enterprises as necessary and to request from them the relevant
information on the enterprise and the project. BR would be responsible for
supervising the performance of the participating DFCs and their compliance
with the conditions agreed in the proposed loan. To this end, BR would make
periodic visits to the DFCs and would receive quarterly reports from them on
their financial condition, status of portfolio and performance of loan com-
mitments. These understandings, reflected in Schedule 4, para. IV of the
draft Loan Agreement, will not be modified without the Bank's consent
(Section 5.01(h), draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
52.       Procurement procedures would be similar to those under the Seventh
and Eighth DFC Projects and conform with standard practice for DFC loans; BR
would monitor procurement to be financed out of the proposed Bank loan to
ensure that the items are reasonably priced and appropriate for their
intended purpose.
53.       The loan proceeds would be disbursed against:  (a) 100% of foreign
currency expenditures for goods supplied from outside the territory of the
Guarantor; (b) 100% of foreign currency expenditures (c.i.f.) on imported
equipment purchased off-the-shelf in Colombia, or 60% of the reasonable cost
of such goods, when the c.i.f cost cannot be ascertained; (c) 40% of the
ex-factory cost of domestically manufactured goods and of the reasonable cost
of locally supplied services and civil works; and (d) 100% of expenditures
for services required for technical assistance, and training. The above
percentages reflect estimated average foreign exchange costs of the respec-
tive expenditure categories, except in the case of technical assistance,
where the proposed disbursement percentage makes no distinction between
foreign and local consultants. Only expenditures made within not more than
180 days prior to the date of receipt by the Bank of the corresponding
financing requests would be eligible for reimbursement out of the proposed
loan-rather than the 90 days customary under the Bank's DFC-type loans, in
view of the administrative complexities and time lags involved in the two-
tier lending arrangement with participation of a large number of DFCs. The
Loan and Project Summary provides an estimated disbursement schedule, which
is based on the average disbursement profile for DFC projects in the LAC
Region. The closing date would be June 30, 1990. To cover the foreign



- 21 -
exchange requirements of participating DFCs for investments they will be
financing before this loan becomes effective, retroactive financing of up to
US$9 million, 10% of the loan amount, has been provided (Section 2.02(d) of
the draft Loan Agreement).
54.       In order to ensure timely payment of reimbursement claims, as a
condition of loan effectiveness, a Special Accounc in U.S. dollars would be
established in BR to cover estimated expenditures for thrae months. The Bank
would make an initial deposit of US$7.0 million into tbh  Special Account.  BR
would claim reimbursement of the Bank's share of expenditures from the
Special Account upon presentation of fully-documented withdrawal applications
forwarded to the Bank for replenishment of the Special Account. The Bank
would receive from BR a monthly statement of the Special Account which would
reflect transactions during the previous month. The Special Account would be
subject to the same audit procedures as the other project accounts (see
Sections 2.02(c) and 6.02 and Schedule 5, draft Loan Agreement).
Accounts and Auditing
55.       DFCs participating in the proposed project would be required to
maintain adequate records reflecting their operations and financial condi-
tion, and to submit annual financial statements audited by independent
auditors following principles satisfactory to the Bank. BR would maintain
adequate records concerning the progress of the project and to reflect,
separately from its other operations, the operations and financial transac-
tions of DDC. These accounts would be audited by independent auditors
following principles satisfactory to the Bank (see Sections 4.01 and 4.02,
draft Loan Agreement).
The Borrower
56.       Banco de la l rublica (BR), the proposed borrower, is Colombia's
central bank. As of DeLember 31, 1983, its paid-in capital and reserves were
Col$611.7 billion (US$6.9 billion equivalent). The Board of Directors is
composed of ten members, of whom three are appointed by the President of the
Republic, another four are appointed by the President upon nominations sub-
mitted by, respectively, consumers' groups, manufacturers and distributors,
exporters, and the Coffee Growers Federation, while the remaining three are
elected by Colombia's private banks. BR's General Manager is appointed by
the Board; the rest of BR's senior management is appointed by the Board, upon
the advice of the General Manager, and is often drawn from BR's middle
management and staff, a generally proficient body of career professionals,
now numbering about 1,700.
57.       In addition to its central banking responsibilities, BR carries out
several development banking activities entrusted to its DDC, which adminis-
ters the official lines of medium- and long-term credit available primarily
to agriculture and industry (FFAP, FFI, FIP), including Bank DFC loans. DDC
has achieved satisfactory proficiency in reviewing industrial projects
appraised by the DFCs, owing in part to a Bank-supported training program,
and has assigned to this task competent staff in adequate numbers. However,
the frequent transfer and promotion of high-ranking personnel in charge of
DFCs supervision has often affected its performance. During negotiations, BR
has agreed to maintain its unit within DDC which is exclusively concerned



- 22 -
with the supervision of DFC activities and to carry out the project in
accordance with a revised statement of operating policies and procedures
(Sections 3.01 and 4.04, draft Loan Agreement). The text of that statement
is included as an annex to the Staff Appraisal Report.
58.       In the first four DFC loans, BR played a rather limited role:  it
channeled the loan proceeds to the five participating DFCs and screened the
projects to make sure that they conformed to the Govenment's development
priorities. The original five DFCs (Colombiana, Nacional, de Caldas, del
Valle and del Norte), all counting IFC among their shareholders, conducted
their operations under close Bank Group supervision. They have gradually
achieved satisfactory standards of project appraisal and follow-up, and of
operational decision-making. In the context of Bank lending for the DFCs,
BR's functions have become much more substantial during the past ten years.
As additional DFCs joined the program, the function of guiding and assisting
them became the responsibility of BR, which reviews and approves all projects
appraised by the new DFCs and the large projects submitted by the original
five DFCs. BR is now intimately associated with the affairs of the particip-
ating DFCs, helping the new DFCs that join the program to upgrade their
appraisal and supervision capabilities as well as their disbursement
procedures.
Participating Intermediarie!
59.       All 23 DFCs legally constituted in Colombia would be eligible to
participate as intermediaries of the proposed loan, provided that they
satisfy the following conditions:
Group A DFCs - Full Participation
(a) ratio of total debt (including debt of the DFC's subsidiaries and
contingent liabilities) to equity not exceeding 10 to 1;
(b) minimum equity carital of Col$ 500 million;
(c) mediumr-4/ and long-term loans plus equity investments accounting
for not less than 55% of the DFC's total assets;
(d)  its  Statement of Operating Policies and Procedures- was approved by
the Bank; and
(e) its assets' composition, portfolio quality, income outlook and
technical capacity to appraise and supervise investment projects are
satisfactory to BR and the Bank.
DFCs which meet all the above conditions would have unlimited access to Bank
financing under the proposed project. Initially, seven DFCs are expected to
fulfill the above conditions.
4/ Nediur- and long-term loans are defined as the portion of all loans that
is not repayable within less than a 12 month period.



-23 -
60.       In line with the recomudacions of the Financlal Sector Report to
enu--rage the gradual evolution of an inceasnrg number of DECs into sound
term-lending institutions, DECs which are initially unable to meet the
requIrnL      ts in para. 59 preceding, but which are interested in complying
with them in the future, would be, nevertheless, allowed a lUnited degree of
participation (total couit.ents out of the proposed Bank loan not to exceed
the lower of two times such DFCs equity or the equivalent of US$10 million),
provided they meet all of the following requirements:
Group B D?Cs - Limited Participation
(a)  a ratio of total debt (including debt of the DFC's subsidiaries and
contingent liabilities) to equity not exceeding 10 to 1;
(b) minimum equity capital of Col$ 300 million, to be increased, at
least, to Col$ 500 million within 24 months from the date the DFC
is admitted to participate in the project;
(c)  medium- and long-term loans plus the equity investments accounting
for not less than 302 of the DFC's total assets on the date the DFC
is admitted to participate in the project; these percentages to be
increased to not less than 37%, 44Z and 502 within 12, 24 and 36
montrs, respectively, from such date;
(d) its assets' composition, portfolio quality, income outlook and
technical capacity to appraise and supervise investment projects
are s"tisfactory to BR and the Bank; and
Ce) the Bank has approved its -Operating Pblicies and Procedures.-
The Bank would annuatly review the progress made by each DFC in this second
category after it is admitted to participate in the project. Three Group B
DFCs are expected to be eligible at project start. Should any of these DFCs
be found in default, the Bank would have the right to suspend or terminate
both comitments and disbursements out of the proposed loan to the DFC in
question. Adequate arrangements concerning DFCs' participation have been
agreed with BR (see Sections 5.01 and 5.02 and Schedule 4, para. I, draft
Loan Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
61.       The credit component of the proposed project would finance effi-
cient industrial investment projects and would help fill a gap in term
financing needed for increasing or rstionalizing productive capacity in the
industrial sector. A total of 100-150 subprojects covering a wide range of
industrial activities and involving total investment costs on the order of
US$350 million equivalent are expected to be supported through subloans and
equity investments to be financed in part out of the proposed Bank loan and
in part out on other external sources. Based on past experience, these sub-
projects can be expected to have a significant employment impact, directly
creating an estimated 7,000-7,500 new job opportunities at an average invest-
ment cost of the order of US$45,000-50,000 equivalent per job in 1983 US
dollars. The projects financed can be expected to generate annual foreign
exchange earnings in the range of US$80-100 million equivalent through



- 24 -
increases in non-traditional exports. Based on previous experience, most
projects are expected to have high economic rates of return in the range of
15-30x. In selecting subprojects for lending, DFCs are guided by satisfac-
tory technical, managerial, financial and economic criteria (see para. 51).
62.       The tecbnical assistance components of the project would help the
Superintendency of Banks, BR and the DFCs to improve their performance in the
discharge of their respective responsibilities. The existing tern transform-
ation arrangements should help the DFCs to make available an increasing
amount of domestic resources for mediumr- and long-term financing of indus-
trial investments. Taken togetber, the technical assistance and the
strengthening of term transformation under the project would constitute a
substantial contribution toward the Government's goal of developing the DFCs
into a system of sound and viable termrfinancing institutions.
63.       The proposed project presents two risks. The first concerns the
possibility that demand for investment financing, although conservatively
estimated and in line with moderate economic growth, might be lower than
anticipated as a result of macroeconomic developments. In this event, a
decision would bave to be taken, in the light of prevailing economic condi-
tions toward the end of 1986, on whether to extend the coumitment and dis-
bursement periods or to cancel a portion of the loan. The second risk would
materialize if one or more DFCs in the second category (para. 60) failed to
achieve the agreed upon financial targets on time. The right of the Bank to
exclude such DFCs from further participation in the project would constitute
an adequate protection of the project's objectives.
PART V - LEGAL              - A   AU7hORM
64.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Banco de la
Republica, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Colombia and
the Bank, and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
65.       Special conditions of the loaa are listed in Section III of Annex
ITI.
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI -
67.       I recomend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
'ashington, D.C.
October 18, 1984



-25-
hAIA 1
TABLE  30.8G 
C TA                  -SOOAL -IDICAMM   -AJ
COIUA                              xzmum  G s cvISI          W53)M la
pesr -    uam) IA  -
uCr           a       xc                   im
A-  C2001MUM 3- 03)
TOTaL                             1138-9     1138.9    113.9
AQ1IC01123*1                      350.5       350QS      3205
cm P             6                   27tL Q      400       1460.0           2lOZ10                  234S.3
-ol  aongwn           Mcpl
(KXX2tAMS OF 0rL E;u11LMC)        355.0       49sso      60.              995.5                   1122
POULAT    a  W1UL S-S
PO9LATTONlIMD-IEAR CTIEA)   157540    21266-0    26985.0                     _ 
1365 1011tAT1  CE OF TOMaL)        482         59.5       64.9             68.5                    415
POPMAXION mROJEarIm
POICLATIO  IS  At 2000 (MIlL)                           37-5 _
SrTA?OFaZf POPMLATIOF C(MIL)                            81.7
POFUZATW  ONE                         _          _
POPOLIATIO DESITY
FM  1.                          13.8       15.7       23.2             35.7                     82.9
PU3 SQ. U. AURI LAND             45.0        80.7       82..4            92.4                    1559
POPLAXION AM STRUClCR CE).
0-5Q in                          4IJ        462        3_.2             39.9                     31-6
15.6  Ws                         50.3        51.1       60.3             56.0                    61.1
65 AS ABOVE                       2.9         2-8        3-4              4.1                      7.1
FPULATOUN GROWTH RATE C-)
TOZAL                              3.1        3-0        2-0              2- .4s
Gomm                              5.7         5-2        2-7              3_6                     3.7
*E  310 RATE (CPEt M )             47.2        33.8       2.9              31.3                    23.4
sE  DEATH RATE (PEI T)0)           17_'         9.7        7.4              5.1                     5A
C30SS 3EP30WDU15 RaTE               3_3        2Z3         1.5              2.0                     L.
FAMLY PIAIMI
ACCEPORS AIAL CM110S)              ._       115.4      192-8 _
0C51  CZE OF WAUI  W1M3)           ..          --       490              40.3                       --
LOOM OF uOa P300 MR CA
1909-71-1O0)                      100          99.0      124.0            114-3                   114-5
PE CAPUIA SlPilY OF
CARIES CEZ OF 3EQ310E3131)       9850        87.0      1.L0             110_6                    125.8
P3OTE12 (GRAMS PEM DAY)          54.0        C680       550             67.3                    59.7
OF Y9IEI ASNAL AND 1S           28_0       240        25.0 IC          34_1                     38.5
01 C(CES 1-4) DEATHE LaE           I_Z          6_0        4.0              5.7                     5.2
LUFE  PEfCT  Ar DIM  (1ARS)        53-1           ;       63.7             64.7                    87.6
3WAST HOlT. RATE (PER THOCS)       93.4          .6       53.9             60-6                    54.2
ACSS TO SAFE WAXER C:Pa)
TOTAL                             30.0 /a    63_0       64.0 Id          654                        __
RBAN                             54.9 7-    150         73.0 7;i         78_1
RUAL                              688 /.    25.0        4o0 72            622
ACCESS TO ECRErA DISPOSAL
(S OF POPCLATI)
TOTAL                              .         47.0       44.4 Id          52.9
0R3M                               _.        75.0       6o.o7i           67-0
RUAl.L                             .-         t.0       14-07;-          24.5
POPULATION PMR 15IC08            2640_0      Z330.0     17100 tf        1917-7                  1065.8
PW_. PER FDRSDIC  PERSON         4220.0       730.0   S 0O O                                      764.4
PO. PM HOSPITAL WED
TOTA                             360.0      450.0      510.0 if         367_2                    326.3
RALMm                               -       380.0      490.0 77         4115                   201.5
RURAL                              _3.                    _            Z1 238_3
ADISSIOIS  M  OPTAL BED             _     _   229         29J8 Ic          27J3                    20.0
AVERA  SIZE Of I*0EB3LD
TOUAL                              __         5_7 /b      _
URDA                                _         5_5th       _
RURA L,                                       5.9/b
AVERAG E0. OF PERSONS/0I
ToTAL                              ..          .afb
URsA.                             .-          1.6 rh
30MtA                              .          2.47
ACCESS TO Emn- t.. tOF 3inLlimcs)
TOML                              47.0 is    58.1 /b
JMS                              53.0 7;    57.5 7         -
RURAL                             S. 7       13.Z7 



- 26 -
AIR= 1
.am                   _        hnmoa   :su
NUtNA u15 CUE1N AVlU0g8) is
am? W1? UxS= P-
Ma(b    197a(b  mZua!         Ur. *AZCA a CaN 
1M     5ohL                    77.0     1w.0         o0               15.4                      01.1
7.0       107.0       12.0             106.3                   105.5
nUmZ                   77.0       :c         132.0             104.5                    96.7
SOMiAZ:z TO:                      12.0       25.0        46.0             43.2                     39.1
M1                      13.0       2m          45.0             62.3                    66.9
1311                    11.0       24.0       5.0              44.3                     50.6
V 3122L CS C1   _AU)                30.8       20.2        2:.6 c           33.6                    21.6
lazmn                             31&.0      31.0        31.0             30.1                     2.1
11.0       17.0       21.0              16.8                    20.5
AD=  =2UT  RU  CZ)                  62.5       m06p        U.0              79.5                     75.6
16       ODcffA/7      0             5.P7      1212        18.6 IC          4.0                     54.7
3*32     10                        1-5.1      104.3       116.3            225.6                    16.9
TV  sUUJS*30 la1                     9.5       36.1        36.9            107.2                    123
taf=CM   Coma
PM   S6    POPMA20                50.0      106.7        50.2              Ms                      96.3
C        L AhL..                                 ..         2.9      f       2.8                     2.9
LMM =
MZ. ZAOR 1M    CROM               4727.0     6353.0      910.0
131411 C1UC)                      19.2       24.8        2L.7             23.2                    34.5
WmLZ     C133)31                  51.4       37.9        25.8             31.5                     40.7
DN=$=   C(H3C)                    19.2       21.0        2.2              23.9                     23.3
30.0       29.9        34.1             32.2                    ;2.9
3*12                              48.6       45.1        51.2             49.3                     54.7
13142                             U11.5      14          16.8             15.2                     31.0
ICm    nt= D       R220              1.7        1.6         1.2              1.4                     0.9
nrO   or :NOQ
ucz    S or                       41.2 x  .k  31.9         .-
llDlm      or tJBDzDrns           C.. :      60.1          .
2QM=    cr sous IDS         2.1 Is.I   3.571        .
LU? 4m o           DS r8                     10.1 71? ..    ..-
- -
WM= Al5X              8OZ
gm                      zmcm2
..    ..      ~~214.0 le        288.2.
U*I.                                ..         - -      197.0            1"40
L1IM  MS PM  CAPIT)
1                                   ..         ..       267.0 Ic         522.8
AL                                  ..         ..       122.0 7          372.4
UDS ?U POP .  MnW 300
3038? 3m? LIAM  2.C)
inaz                                ..         ..        34.0/
10*                                 ..         .. .  ..
Mr 
a  n gsrp aoerage for feah indicator are population-wZShted  rit=t_Ic _9nU. COvqae of comrlae ano  the
indicators depeds - availability of data o  Le ot uniform.
Um hla   otbvL. Ootd               for 1960 rf r to any r " etame 1959 and 1961;  ata for 1370 be        1969
1971; .i dat for 'et Incet Zstl_a    beomn 1980   d 1982.
Jc  3977; Id 1976; le 16; If 3978; 1 1962; lb 3973; II 3979; L  ncludin  teahe  trainIn  at the third leel;
A e< ^, ~~-  _L
/IL leo smlcaly active Population.
.1=. 1584



I 
r1ViJlftSillilelA;ffiii:?
U    I 'j,i    1b i l,lSil#l



-28 -
R um  C-
m                        D      E590 m            so    m  _           m  a 
d~jUi~4  33   3.     M.W   a5 53    62    43    D             IO    D       D    ED mo xD
Am    Wm  sze   9o                 775 5Z       3. 7 36   323    16              2. 6 -
9.;    AnLr  Am       .J    62    65    23   37    2a          3    37    3D    3.6  Z3
12.57   DX    A,    =        5.9   72 51   A2   Q4                   47 C.1   4Cl S3
-mmpft              Z.W   3.81   3.J   3ID    5         66    43    7.      .l1   a2    2.7  219    Az   39
.=2001     aF   AN    AA&  9%           5.1   O3   7.6   AS   2D    7.8   32    7)2          8    237
Umifizzba           5O7   4JS   499   3.M    31    43    Li   56    112   A5   8.8   I3    u1s    S2
(fztsbadms        5^8   6.03   6.k   I4,       4.3   as    7.1   5.    82    316   83    83    862   11.
8fmM   WM    7.U    7,t9   52    56    36   l!U    SD    ES   36   2L.7   D.l    L2
B15    m       D  N5       M9  n        m e
mmmomElm ~ ~ ~ ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     amz~
1nhalwUFmcm          4= 34   S    3.      3.97   33    61    La   mD    nD   nI    ]MD   DID   MD    mo
_w                   ga w1         9      S3    -      .5   7.1      -    us5   aS   ll        7J   3S   1.5
fw                   26    2B      GB    *4     -      l    0.5     -    17VA     3   lZ.   8.    26    139
pT(U)        4.M  5.19 5.    4            35    2.1    23   ED   X        If    EWD   ID    mD    XD
ad  3   3    633 EN                            Z2A    l   6D           6 66   9 63
%Mh.=                T3 sa   e9                -2L    rID    6 .9   20     -      LD  1i6 X1    20    A2
r 1.h.   1.8I   2J                       1.d2w  I     -641    26     7    Q6   3.1   3L8    AD    3        38 3
Cdw              Z                  S2   zW    LB    56    .9   29    23    !.9   A2    V.            3    412
19 K          m      N7    As    Ng9   MID    Mb' Mbf   _br
BIMSD(MWW"
uftow                     M      Zlf s   M6    30    17.1    3J1 :3u         Sagw
Qu                        2.1    3.9   -3.7    3.    3L    A16 ;/3    5.5    U 01           9
-        -p*e2,          a,6  2SL5   3.8   597.9   2L2   033   7aL.    MO  tO"   WA
2*9    TIs  3MX2   359   4CO    32    MU1    MS   US   IJW
--1.7   LB    1 %.7 1u.n   17AS   2.6    119    lliO D39
1930     1975     IWZ       I98       1983
OA - C                                                    9.2       9.3      7.8       7.9      A2
O       -                                                       6.2       6.1       78       85        9.0
Szphi C(o) o dftcit (-                                          3.0       3.2        -      -0.6      -0.8
cmra1    -                                                       6.5      3.5       3.3      3.5       3.1
1F1x f1g U                                                      1.4      0.2       1.2      0.9       0.1
1960WO0    Ll970-5   1975-3
Q ipih ra CZ)                                                   5.10     6.40      4.13
S PV cF2m sth      (Z)                                         z.ao     4.OD      2.17
BW       a     l        (2)                                     5SOD    64.O       4.0
1= n                                                            3.5      3.70      7.46
Pkg;     o mn1W  b                                              0.13     014       0.16
3     -                                                         1.17     0.12      1.77
Ait -mt pczLm        m     at  pc        a  r t    and uU1 r &M bacm oEf _Jzilm oE mt 8idre      ad ssdii.
Qmm  sbwmesof omn=  Jai  td,t  azfr pig's~
qdX amO Ys
hi w-        V   dmtfr mw1npf1nmamc a Sam adt  Mokzt.
SWtmbw2. mIM



- 29 -
A_a                                                a,"
an fi                   1  09          8      S     9   19D ML   Es   _6       B9
afAEFBE
bpW       .d        wd        1MM   2,13  25  3.48   4t13  443   5.7  465  4Wi  4,33    4Wff   kWI  =.1   AM
4 f             a      d       2ZO   2,X   Z.    43,   40    VA   6M   62   6.3    53   5             6)    9,
nm      m                              is    a     a  l        719   a)  ,-2 X    -14          -W SV       -36 w
- 33  -  4-    J6    U         U    1        US  -W      5      3
llit=!B                         22     )     3     D    46    9       4 2        y             a      A      D     2
aU--nAMC                        -3r   -S    3)   4a   NW    2         11 -143w-Z       Z .7E  $m -L     -1.W    4W
Xrdbmfm Sp                       m     3t    F    43    a    123 5    ZB    D               ;         33    Z5    3D
fhint-adbm3iu(wg)               IF    a D    U    is      q    eV    E 5   cr3   1w             Aa   LB 3,         gs
apitnew             ca    GM   caw "                    (a   c           GAP   o      cm      o     .   aw asQSc
wph em=                        0)   (-a  (-1   (-3  (-30   (4)        )   CO   C39    31   C-=   (-)  GO    f=
wwagm                           -W     S  i2N 5 Zis -g 13    2!B   IN -3    -A                 -e2   -w
3D   Z   -13   -2B  -W    -a  -13  -1,9Y  41  Z              _ L5         -11'   -1
Mt touibmrLvmX (dBcW22    N   13   1                    2.4    43   .D    W      44    309    I3    41%  ,i3  ZZ2
ftsmAFvmftcr*p0 .    32   6D                        .    8J   MS  IL    L        6      .     u      25    26    Z7
(b _dEM     u}             33i   3      V    35   Z39   92            IN5   1 3B   1.
-3    43   43    2                                  fi    3i   AS    5i    3i    4
(4)   (41(4C0)    CZ)   Ca    (9)   CM    (7)   )e
3D3                           (-   (-)   (-3   (-3  (C-   (-3   (-3   (-3  (C-   (-)
0     QC  C  C)   CO   (6   (E   CY)  (31)  CO    01
_naoa                           9   35    ML   3D    B    ffi   9l  L2B   IJ!   5
a-%&    0at                  CS)  (ZR    CO5   0)    (a   (      (        )   an       )
]ED                           ( )   ()    )   ()    =i   (313)  CM)   (M    0    (=0
_bradcommL                   W    03   (C1)  C30        )   c(3    (AQ   as   as   an
ftbAft               em  cm   =                amo =  ( anD             m  (a)
L     cdif    " Y
Boa    4dihm                  2.1   Z32  ZPZ   ZOE   2AP  3IN)  4U0    AM             4
MffdiL    ]      .                 47.423   WM  1,.    21%   2 S         W   2 =    30
3D                          C     ()   (til   03   0)   (5   C) Gi)   0.30  0.
IDL                         US        (41Z 1)   CO   QZ    CZI  C,D   CM  0W    CO
n,w                        am   am       m. a=    83                a.2 1 a *  am   am   am
_rl                           5     O     6iS 92    az  IM L2    Z4   Z9E   3KB
at                      6   eaD   15   10)  LW    LO   2          2B 3AW   3m
-&dftowftpWm                2w    25   a3    35    3       65    So    62    U.   ME
aEwkbkumw                     IB   115    0      J39U 13    1  1   38 4z6D            96
ansm dlb63   V7   SW                             W    93   129      6   12.   7.0   MA
R_mu Q                         V.   1.8   L.8   L6    1J7  23    L6    L8    Z2   2.
AmW22mcnftq==w-       o CA     7.4  7.5   6.7   73   7S9  IL1   13   120   16   139
fffk-c.a              %Z~(804 (83 (76   (7-6  (7.0  (11.  (15J          Mg0(15   a97
A-dq   Ear3 (                        hLO 3    W1.9   W2  313   13.D   K6    Z9  31.6  1U
andd                 cmaL a"   CB$ (D* az    M              .   am0 a"   am
a-                           OM   (. n 34 .(3.    (9.5   MO  07.7  a(Q   CI  (M
inJEUD L3 D.7   D.2  3L6    7   29    .3   29    24   2.9
IUdb     uintm     d          ZL9   VA.  3.6  23.7  71.   11:3  3.5   R8  ZL5   314
iMswdntzddl                    W9   3.5   3.9 as   ag8  9.5  273 YD    3.5   33
EL=h=LND               LI   0.9   .9   Mg   C.8   0fi6       5    .4   CO3   03
'RAN -m.                       -     -     -     -      -     -     _    -       _     _
nd = Eis~~~~0.   0. 3    02   0.1   0.    01   0.1   0.    0.1    0
a~a



- 30 -
Annex II
Page I of 4
A. sTAZTMYET OF BNK LOANS AND rDA CREDITS IN COLOBIA (as of March 31, 1984)
(USS1lllon)
Loan                                                         Amount (les  Cancellation)
Number Year Borrower                        lpose Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
66 fully disbursed loans and one IDA credit                 1.406.1  23.5 1t    -
1163    1975  Colombia                       Agricuture        21.0              4.6
1352    1971 Colombia                        Rural Dev.        52.0             5.3
1357    1977 Banco de la Republica           Agrlcultural Cr. 64.0               1.1
1450    1971 Expresa Nacional de
Telecouicaciones             Co_icaton    58.3                 25.5
1471    1977  Colombia                       Highways       -  90.0              7.3
1487    1978  Colombia                       Nutrition         25.0              8.1
1558    1978 Colombia                        Urban Develop-
mnt             24.8            11.2
1582    1978  Interconexion Electrica, S.A. Power             126.0             20.1
1583    1978  Colombia                       Power             50.0             11.2
1593    1978 Zona Franca IndustrLal y        Industrial
Comercial de Cartagena         Export          15.0             4.5
1624   1979 Colombia                         Airports          61.0              1.9
1628    1979  Eapresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                    Power             84.0             2.0
1694    1979  Colombia                       Urban Develop-
ment            13.5            10.1
1697    1979  Eupresa de Acueducto y
Alcantarillado de Bogota    Water Supply       27.9             3.8
1725    1979  Interconlexion Electrica, S.A. Power             72.0            35.7
1726    1979  Instituto Nacional de Fomento
Municipal                    Water Supply      31.0             23.6
1737    1979  Instituto Coloubiano de la
Reforma Agraria              Agriculture Cr.  20.0              12.7
1/ Includes exchange adjustment of US$4.0 milion.
The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/TIDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 31 -
Aonezrl
Page 2 of 4
A. STATNT O  BjMSK LOANS AND IDA CRDIM   (as of March 31, 1984)
Number Year  Borrowcr                        Purpose           Bank  IDA   Undisbursed
1807    1980  E presa de Knergia Electrica
de Bogota                    Power              87.0            49.3
1825    1980  Empresas Publicas de Nidellin  Comunicatlous    44.0              11.3
1834    1980 Banco de 1 Republics           Industrial Cr.   32.0               2.2
1857    1980  Banco de 1s Republica          Industrial Cr.  150.0              85.9
1868    1980 Eapresas Publicas de Medellin Power               125.0            87.4
1953    1981  Empresas Publicas de Nedellin  Power              85.0            75.3
1966    1981 Colombia                        Rural Roads        33.0            18.2
1996    1981   nsctituto Coloubiano de
Hidrologia                   Irrigation         37.0            25.3
1999    1981  Corporacion Electrica de la
Costa Atlantics              Power              36.0            26.0
2008    1981  Empresa de Energia Electrics
de Bogota                    Power             359.0           294.3
2069    1981  Instituto Nacional de los
Recursos Naturales
Renovables y del Medio       Watershed
Ambiente                     management          9.0             7.8
2090    1982  Ferrocarriles Nacionales de
Colombia                     Railways           77.0            77.0
2121    1982  Fando Vial Nacional            Highway.          152.3           139.4
2174    1982 Colombia                        Rural Develop-
seat            53.0            52.2
2192    L982 Fondo del Ministerlo de
Educacion                    Rural Education   15.0             13.3
2303    1983  Instituto Colombiano           Agricultural
A*ropecuario                   Research         63.4            62.7
23491/  1983  Carbones de Colombia, S.A.    Coal
Exploration      9.5             9.5
23791/  1984  Colombia                       Earthquake Re-
construction    40.0            40.0
2401-k  1984  Financiers Electrica Nacional  Power Develop-
ment Finance   170.0           170.0
TOTAL                                          3,818.8  23.5
Of which has been repaid                         837.5  4.1
Total now outstanding                          2,981.3  19.4
Amount sold                         51.0           -
Of which has been repaid            51.0           -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                 2,981.3  19.8
- -
Total undisbursed                                              1,435.8
1/ Not yet effectie.



- 32 -
Annexzfl
Pags 3 of 4
B. STATEHENT OF nFC INVESrHMENS (as of March 31, 1984)
Fiscal                                          Ty7p of              Amount ia USS Million
Year                   Obllgor                   Business            Lan   Equity   Total
1959           Laminas del Caribe, S.A.          Fiber-board          .50               .50
1960-1965      Tndustriss Allmenticlas.
Noel, S.A.                    Food products        1.98    .08      2.06
1961           Envases ColombLanos. S.A.         Metal cans           .70      -        .70
1961-1968      Horfeo-Productos para *I
Hogar, S.A.                   Home furniture        .08    .09       .17
1961           Electromanufacturas, S .A.        Electrical equipment .50      -        .50
1962           Corporacion Flnanciera            Developmet
Colombiana                        financing           -   2.02      2.02
1962-1963      Corporacion Financier&            Development
Nacional                          financing           -   2.04      2.04
1963-1967      Compania Clolmbiana de            Textiles            1.98    .15       2.13
1968-1969        Tejldos, S.A.
1964-1970      Corporacion FLianciera de         Developmeat
Caldas                            financing           -    .81       .8i
1964-1968      Forjas de Colombia, S.A.          Steel forging          -   1.27       1.27
1966           Almacenes Generales de            Warehousing         1.00      -       1.00
DeposLto Santa Fe, S.A.
1966           Industria Ganadera                Livestock           1.00    .58       1.58
Coloumbiana, S.A.
1967-70-74     ENKA de Colombia, S.A.           Textiles             5.00   2.61      7.61
1969           Coupania de Desarrollo de         Tourism                -    .01        .01
Foteles y Turismo, Ltda.
(HOTURISNO)
1969-1973      Corporacion Financlera del        Development
Norte                            financing            -    .45       .45
1969           Corporacion Financiera del        Development
Valle                            financing            -    .43        .43
1970           Promotora de Hoteles de           Tourism              .23    .11        .34
Turismo Medeflin, S.A.
1970-1977      Pro-Hoteles, S.A.                 Tourism              .80    .24       1.04
1973-1975      Corporacion Colombians de         Housing                -    .46        .46
Ahorro y Vivienda
1974           Cementos Boyaca, S.A.             Cement              1.50      -       1.50
1975           Cementos del Caribe, S.A.         Cement              3.60      -       3.60
1976           Las Brisas                        Mining              6.00      -       6.00
1977           Promotors de la Interconexion
de los Gasoductos de la
Costa Atlantica S.A.          Utilities           13.00   2.00     15.00
1977           CompanLa Colombiana de Clinker,  Cement and
S.A.                             Construction
Material         0.97   1.76      2.73



- 33 -
Anne: I1
Page 4 of 4
S.  STATIEMT OF nFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1984) (Continued)
Fiscal                                           Type of              Amount in US$ Million
Year                   Obligor                   Business             Loan   Equity  Total
1981           Leasing Bolivar                   Leasing              9.00    .17      9.17
1981-1982      Petroleos Colombianos Ltd.        Chemicals and
Petrochemicals  12.15   3.86      16.01
1983           Frigorificos Colombianos, S.A.   Food Processing       1.00   0.54       1.54
1984           Cementos Rioclaro S .A.           Cement and
Construction
Material        21.91  5.00      26.91
1984           Carbones del Caribe S.A.          Mining              10.65  1.64     12.29
Total Gross Commitments                               93.55  26.32    119.87
Less cancellations, termina-
tLons, repayments and sales                       62.28   9.60      71.88
Total commituents now held by IFC                     31.27  16.72     47.99
-' 
Total undisbursed (including                          33.56   7.06     40.62
participants)



- 34 -
Annex III
Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:           8 months
(b)  Agencies which prepared project:         Banco de la Republica
Private Development Finance
Corporations
{c)  Initial request for Bank Financing:      June 24, 1983
(d)  Departure of Preparation Mission:       August 29, 1983
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:          October 26, 1983
(f)  Completion of negotiations:             August/Septembe, 1984
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:           January, 1984
Section II: Special Conditions
Assurances were obtained that:
(a) should term-transformation legislation be repealed or adversely
modified, the Bank will be entitled to suspend disbursements
Cpara. 34);
(b) lending will be: (i) subject to certain limits to reduce credit
concentration and foreign exchange risks for BR (para. 45); and
Cii) on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (paras. 47
and 48).
(c) participating DFCs will meet certain financial and operational
requirements to ensure that they are genuine term lenders (paras.
59-60);
(d) a program of technical assistance to the Superintendency of Banks
will be provided by the Government (para. 49);
(e) loan proceeds will be disbursed through a revolving fund at BR
(para. 54).
(f) funds repaid to BR prior to the maturities of the Bank loan will be
used for purposes similar to those of the loan (para. 43);
(g) eligibility of investment projects for Bank financing will depend
on their economic and financial rates of return (para. 51).



- 35 -
Annex III
Page 2 of 2
Section III: Conditions of Loan Effectiveness
(a) the Special Account would have been opened according to provisions
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 54);
(b) actions would have been taken to ensure that the payment of
interest based on the DTF will remain legal and enforceable in
Colombia (para. 34).
Section IV: Conditions of Disbursement
Each DFC would have entered Into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with
BR before disbursements are made in respect of such DFC (para. 43).



- 36 -
Annex IV
Page 1 of 2
Principal Actions on Financial Sector Reform
I. Measures already taken
1. Restrictions against interlocking ownership of financial/industrial
ownership, and limitations upon credit and portfolio concentration of
financial institutions. (Decrees 2920/82, 3227/82 and 3243/82)
(a) Abolition of parent company financing through ad-hoc subsidiaries
(Article 25, Decree 2920/82) (Companias de Auto Financiamiento);
(b) Prohibition of the use of resources mobilized from the public to
purchase control of other firms (Articles 1(c), (d), (g), 18 and 19,
Decree 2920/82);
(c) Limitations upon credit concentration (Article 1(b), Decree 2920/82
and Decree 3243/82);
(d) Limitations upon ownership concentration in financial institutions
(Article 28, Decree 2920/82 and Articles 2, 4 and 6, Decree 3227/82);
(e) Monetary Board Resolutions 42/83, 50/83, 55/83, 61/83 and 77/83
created the 'Cupo para la Democratizacion del Sistema Bancarioc to
help financing the sale of banks' equity shares to minority share-
holders.
2. Creation of a special fund for stimulating underwriting operations by the
DFCs
Resolution 16/83 of the Monetary Board created the "Fondo de Capitaliza-
cion Empresarial" helping finance underwriting by DFCs, (Article 14). This
"Fondo" also helps co reduce ownership concentration in non-financial firms.
3. Creation of an 1adex of the weighted average cost of 90-days certificates
of deposit (CDTs) issued by DFCs, and measures to incentivate its use in term
transformation
The Monetary Board started gathering the relevant informatio.- from the
DFCs as from November 14, 1983 (External Circular DC-No. 078 of 1983), dated
November 10, 1983.
Monetary Board Resolution No. 109, of December 21, 1983 (and its amending
Resolution No. 2, of January 18, 1984) authorize financial interx.diaries to
charge interest at index-based rates on the 10-15% non-rediscountable portion
of certain loans eligible for financing out of the official credit funds
managed by Banco de la Republica (BR). The pertinent mechanism has been
authorized since January 16, 1984 and is described in a communique (undated)
issued by BR to explain Resolution No. 109.



- 37 -
Annex IV
Page 2 of 2
4.  Otber Measures
(a) Reolurlon 1183 and 27/83 of the Monetary Board reduced legal
reserve requireients witboat ipoing any restrictions upon the
uses banks can make of their resulting additional lendable
resources.
(b)  Resolution 10/83 improved the spreads allowed to DFCs in credits
financed through the Official Financial Funds.
(c) Resolution 72183 of the Monetary Board created the -Cupo Ordinario-
for DFCs, improving their protection against liquidity problems.
(d) Law 9 of 1983 alleviated the effects of double taxation of divi-
dends declared by widely-held companies, and provided other incen-
tives for minority shareholders investing in those companies.
Also, the two funds mentioned in I. I(e) and 1. 2 provide financial
incentives to purchase minority packages of widely-held companies.
II Actions under Consideration as part of the Financial Reform Bill
Establisbment of the general principles governing further tightening of
restrictions required against interlocking ownership, credit and portfolio
concentration of financial institutions.
2.  Clearer definition of the roles, institutional identity and obligations
of the different categcries of financial institutions (under a specialized
mode of banking).
3.   Stengthening of the powers of the Superintendency of Banks and of the
National Securities Commission to facilitate stricter enforcement of regula-
tions applicable to the different categories of financial intermediaries.



fl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ouua .                                                    39V1s
I'  -c= 
COLOMBIA                                                    * -
A- _^;T'Ct @  }    *  's  --'-r -
I -'
-:  \  %  Y~~~~~~ I  ~ ~   ~                       -~~,aou~~~~.BRAZIL
PANAMAJV
-    -.1 c -- A                                             ?\   VENEZUELA
U,bc- 2ovlc.c-  - cf Co-.w T /n    io'-SJ/
rV -- ..  .i- ,                    -
~~ECU ADOR                                    ;W   _;, --:-S-                                                 I.E} ;-_V        
j00 c -'0    -                                                       - _                      c -    _0_25
I '-~- Z2                                t.000>-                                                                  w 
!--50.000                                                                             I
o C.'..s m'd To... .f, Poo.*ce,.. 0... 40000
Q. E  CP   E   R   U                                                -
I....,'.e
t  98 /-       ..,fa.a Boo.ndo: ':    - - 
' -   5C   o            9                                        |    B  R  A   z  g t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
7..1Cclv                                                   -     -     ' 



