      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      AR APL2 Urban Flood Prev.&Drainage (P093491)



                                                                                                                    Report Number : ICRR0020024


1. Project Data



 Project ID                                              Project Name
 P093491                                                 AR APL2 Urban Flood Prev.&Drainage

 Country                                                 Practice Area(Lead)
 Argentina                                               Water



  L/C/TF Number(s)                                       Closing Date (Original)                                        Total Project Cost (USD)
  IBRD-73820                                             31-Mar-2011                                                                91,570,000.00

  Bank Approval Date                                     Closing Date (Actual)
  06-Jun-2006                                            31-Dec-2014

                                                               IBRD/IDA (USD)                                                      Grants (USD)

  Original Commitment                                              70,000,000.00                                                             0.00

  Revised Commitment                                               68,704,029.01                                                             0.00

  Actual                                                           68,704,029.01                                                             0.00




 Sector(s)
 Flood protection(70%):Sub-national government administration(16%):Other social services(6%):Housing construction(4%):Urban
 Transport(4%)

 Theme(s)
 Biodiversity(33%):Land administration and management(33%):Water resource management(17%):Improving labor markets(17%)

 Prepared by                          Reviewed by                          ICR Review Coordinator               Group
 Santhadevi Meenakshy                 Fernando Manibog                     Christopher David Nelson             IEGSD (Unit 4)




2. Project Objectives and Components


a. Objectives
    The objective of the Project was to reduce the Participating Provinces’ vulnerability to flooding, through: (a) the strengthening of their flood
    emergency and risk reduction capacity; (b) the implementation of a housing program for the benefit of the lowest-income population living in
    urban flood-prone areas; and/or (c) the strengthening of flood defenses in geographic areas with strong economic activity and vulnerability to
    recurrent flooding. (Schedule 2, p. 20, Loan Agreement 2007)
    The operation is a follow-on project to an earlier APL1, which had the objective of reducing Borrower’s vulnerability to flooding through the
    improvement of the level of protection of the Borrower’s drainage system and the implementation of a risk management program (Loan
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                             Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          AR APL2 Urban Flood Prev.&Drainage (P093491)



     Agreement Schedule 2 p.17 and Project Appraisal Document – PAD p.13). Henceforth, the earlier project is referred to as PPI (Proyecto de
     Protección para Inundaciones) in this ICR Review.
     The project was restructured four times. The project development objective was not revised. As part of the second restructuring in March
     2011, two project development objective (PDO) indicators were adjusted and one new PDO indicator was added. The target value of PDO#1
     was changed to better reflect the revised implementation plan and PDO#2 was re-worded to better reflect the risk-mapping exercise. The
     third newly added PDO indicator allowed for capturing the total beneficiaries of the project. These changes as part of restructuring did not
     substantively changed the associated outcome targets.




b. Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
     No



c.   Components


      The project had four components that were not revised during the project duration.
      Component 1: Non-structural Measures (Appraisal estimate US$ 2.773 million and actual cost US$ 0.870 million). This component
      intended to support provincial institutions with flood risk management instruments to assist with the implementation of specific
      institutional development activities. These activities were accompanied by communication actions, implementation plans,
      and/or institutional actions to involve provincial agencies in the use of the risk management instruments and to further the advancement
      of these activities. In this context, technical assistance was to be provided to: (i) develop and implement provincial or municipal
      contingency plans to prepare for emergencies; (ii) propose regulations for the Land Use Laws approved during the previous project; (iii)
      prepare an environmental program for the participating municipalities; and (iv) develop and disseminate the next steps of flood
      prevention investments.
      Component 2: Emergency Social Interventions (Appraisal estimate US$ 13.87 million and actual cost US$ 10.162 million).This
      component was to support housing in safe areas for families resettled from locations that were flood prone and required works. Under
      the component, communities were provided with funding to self-construct the houses and purchase construction materials. In addition,
      selected beneficiaries and representatives of municipalities were trained in the sector and were provided with non-formal environmental
      education.
      Component 3: Development of Key Defense Facilities (Appraisal estimate US$ 72.36 million and actual cost US$ 54.09 million).This
      component aimed to support works to protect important urban areas against flood effects. It consisted of minor rehabilitation of existing
      schemes and strengthening of flood defenses in geographic areas with strong economic activity and high vulnerability to repeated flood
      damage. Works were expected to concentrate on the improvement and construction of drainage channels, embankments, raising
      bridges, small flood control works, and urban drainage.
      Component 4: Project Implementation and Administration (Appraisal estimate US$ 2.39 million and actual cost US$ 4.69
      million).This component intended to support technical assistance to help implement the project. The implementation units
      were integrated into existing national and provincial structures and were divided into provincial and national-level implementation units.
      There were eight staff at the provincial level and twelve at the central level . The implementation units were financed from the loan
      proceeds.
      Restructuring The project was restructured four times (08/06/2009; 03/29/2011; 08/01/2012 and 02/03/2014).
      a) 08/06/2009: The first restructuring allowed the provinces to provide the construction material, while the beneficiaries provided the
      labor, instead of them providing both construction materials and labor as earlier agreed in the project.
      b) 03/29/2011: The second restructuring comprised the following: (i) extended the loan’s closing date for eighteen months from March
      31, 2011 until September 30, 2012 to enable the completion of the ongoing contracts and the preparation of additional subprojects; (ii)
      created a new category of disbursement for operating costs, and reallocated loan proceeds to enable payment of office space rent and
      other administrative costs related with Project management; and (iii) updated the Project’s Results Framework based on
      implementation experience.
      c) 08/01/2012: The third restructuring included the following: (i) extended the loan’s closing date for eighteen months from September
      30, 2012 until March 31, 2014 to enable completion of ongoing contracts and preparation of additional subprojects; (ii) reallocated loan
      proceeds to enable funding for project management at central and provincial level; and (iii) increased the percentage of expenditures
      up to 100% to be financed by the loan for Categories 1 and 2 set in the Loan Agreement.
      d) 02/03/2014: The fourth restructuring: (i) extended the loan’s closing date for nine months from March 31, 2014 to December 31,
      2014 to ensure that the Resettlement Plan in Resistencia, Chaco would be completed in compliance with the Bank’s safeguard policy
      O.P. 4.12; and enable the completion of ongoing contracts; and (ii) reallocated loan proceeds to reflect changes in demand (higher for
      structural works and lower for consultancy) and recorded the dropping-out of Entre Rios province.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       AR APL2 Urban Flood Prev.&Drainage (P093491)




d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates
    Project Cost:
    Total actual project cost was US$ 86.63 million, while the total project cost estimated at appraisal was US$ 91.57 million.
    Financing:
    The total actual financing was from IBRD for a sum of US$ 68.27 million.
    Borrower Contribution:
    The Borrower contribution decreased from US$ 21.57 million at appraisal to US$ 18.35 million.
    Dates:
    The closing date of the project was extended three times for a total of 44 months. The project closed on 12/31/2014 instead of
    03/31/2011 as originally planned




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design

a. Relevance of Objectives

   The PDO was and remains relevant to the national priorities and the Bank’s development agenda in Argentina.
   During the conception phase, Argentina was among the top ten emerging economies with the highest flood hazard exposure according to the
   world’s second-largest reinsurer Swiss-Re. Out of the eleven major floods in Argentina since 1957, at least five have caused direct damage in
   excess of US$1 billion each: US$1.5 billion in 1983, US$2 billion in 1985, US$2.5 billion in 1998, US$3.3 billion in 2001, and US$1.2 billion in
   2003. Flood prevention and drainage, thus remained as the top priorities at the national and provincial levels in Argentina, as heavy
   precipitation and flooding regularly affected the country, particularly the Parana-Paraguay river basin. Governments at both the National and
   Provincial levels remained committed to promoting the country’s move from a disaster response to a risk prevention approach.
   The overall PDO and its specific objectives were consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussed by the Board on April 15,
   2004 and the subsequent CAS of June 6, 2006, at the time of project conception and preparation. The earlier CAS sought to reduce the extent
   and severity of poverty in Argentina by focusing on: (i) sustained economic growth associated with social equity in order to reduce poverty, (ii)
   greater emphasis to fostering social inclusion, and (iii) increased efforts to improve governance with major improvements projected in the
   efficiency of public administration. The latter CAS sought to improve governance at both national and sub-national levels through institutional
   strengthening.
   At closure, the PDO was relevant to the Bank’s 2015-2018 Country Program Strategy (CPS). Specifically, the Project aligns fully with Results
   Area 7 of the CPS - “Reducing exposure to extreme flooding in Chaco, Corrientes, and Buenos Aires.” The Project itself was also directly
   referenced on several occasions within the 2015-2018 CPS. More broadly, the Project’s results continue to remain highly relevant to the
   current program of Bank engagement in Argentina, reflecting a longstanding commitment to improving resilience, with an emphasis on
   infrastructure that reduces the hazard for people living in and transiting through flood-prone areas




   Rating
   Substantial


b. Relevance of Design

   There was no change to the design as part of restructuring, except adjusting the results framework to better reflect the revised implementation
   plan and on-the-ground realities, hence the revised design has not been revalidated in this section. Both the original design and the revised
   design are rated substantial.
   The Project was designed to reduce vulnerability to flooding by targeting flood prone areas and country’s poorest in the least-developed areas.
   The Project locations were appropriately chosen to ensure achieving the development outcome (e.g., Resistencia and Gobernador Virasoro).
   The scope of the four components was adequate to achieve the PDO. The components integrated activities to strengthen institutions involved in
   flood emergencies and prevention, promote investment schemes, and provide the necessary technical assistance to implement the project.
   The Project design endorsed a demand-driven approach and allowed subprojects to be dropped and replaced, offering flexibility to achieve the
   development outcome. For example, though subprojects were selected based on compliance with PPI's environmental and economic
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               AR APL2 Urban Flood Prev.&Drainage (P093491)



       standards, the project document endorsed the listed sub-projects as not final with the option to amend to accommodate cancellation and
       replacements in event of technical and financial issues. And, according to the ICR, this was a major contributory factor to project success
       towards the later stages.
       The amended results framework demonstrated that the inputs were relevant, necessary and sufficient to lead to the outputs and intended
       outcomes. The causal chain between the Bank funding, component inputs, outputs and intended outcomes are clear. The results framework
       also provided the needed platform to capture the results of the activities that were pending from the earlier PPI phase in the existing
       environment.
       The design also put in place plans to integrate long-term sustainability of the subprojects by requiring each province to develop a O&M plans
       for infrastructure with assigned responsibilities, unless it already had an O&M plan in place.
        However, the project design was not tailored to be compliant with the existing requirements of the demand-driven approach as it was founded
       on compliance with the environment and economic standards of its precursor project. This required redoing engineering designs, economic
       evaluation and social and environment analysis to be compliant with the existing requirements and this constituted a major effort. In some
       cases, new substituting works had to be identified, checked for eligibility, and assessed. As indicated earlier, the project allowed the flexibility to
       make the needed amendments.




       Rating
       Substantial




   4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 1

    Objective
     The Project’s objective was to “reduce the Participating Provinces’ vulnerability to flooding, through: (a) the strengthening of their flood
     emergency and risk reduction capacity; (b) the implementation of a housing program for the benefit of the lowest-income population living
     in urban flood-prone areas; and/or (c) the strengthening of flood defenses in geographic areas with strong economic activity and
     vulnerability to recurrent flooding”. ( Schedule 2 p. 20 Loan Agreement 2007)

     Efficacy is validated based on the achievement of the three sub-objectives that fall under the over-arching objective of reducing
     vulnerability to flooding of the Participating Provinces, as follows:
     1. To strengthen their flood emergency and risk reduction capacity
     2. To benefit the lowest-income population living in urban flood-prone areas through the implementation of a housing program; and/or
     3. To strengthen flood defenses in geographic areas with strong economic activity and vulnerability to recurrent flooding.

     The project has to a large extent achieved its higher-level objective of reducing vulnerability to flooding. In total, the Project directly
     protected 445,000 people (exceeding the target of 400,000) and 4,570 ha of land (exceeding the target of 3,124 ha) against flooding,
     through the construction of drainage infrastructure, control works, and pumping stations, including both stand-alone elements and others to
     complement existing infrastructure built under the previous PPI project. It also supported approximately 3.6 million people from Santa Fe,
     Chaco, Corrientes and Entre Rios Provinces to develop land use and risk management tools and thus strengthened their flood emergency
     and risk reduction capacity. The flood risk provincial contingency plans reached 3,194,000 people, exceeding the increased target of
     2,500,000 established during the project's restructuring. Lastly, the project resettlement plan benefitted 932 urban poor living in flood prone
     areas in the city of Resistencia; 207 families were also rehoused to flood-safe zones in Resistencia, Chaco.

     Objective 1. To strengthen flood emergency and risk reduction capacity
     Substantial


    Rationale
    Most outputs exceeded their original targets and expected outcomes were achieved.
    Outputs
    1) 8 municipalities now include risk mapping in their land use planning (target was 5 municipalities; achieved 160%)
    2) 3 provinces or municipalities are equipped with contingency plans (target was 4; achieved 75% due to the dropping out of Entre Rios
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                            Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               AR APL2 Urban Flood Prev.&Drainage (P093491)



    province)
    3) 8 municipalities published ordinances with information on risk and land uses (target was 5 municipalities; achieved 160%)
    4) 18 communication campaigns for municipal stakeholders (target was 9 campaigns; achieved 200%)
    5) 3,194,000 people covered by flood-risk municipal or provincial contingency plans (target was 2,500,000; achieved 127%)
    Outcomes
    A series of significant non-structural measures, including legal norms for land use planning and planning tools, were developed. All three
    provinces were equipped with contingency plans (at the provincial level in Santa Fe, at the municipal level for two municipalities in
    Corrientes, and for each works subproject in Chaco). Institutions, businesses and communities in Chaco, Corrientes, Entre Rios, and Santa
    Fe were better prepared for: (i) improved urban planning and development; and (ii) preventing, mitigating and responding to flooding.
    Beneficiaries exceeded target numbers as the project covered densely populated areas (Annex 2 of the ICR).




    Rating
    Substantial

PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 2

    Objective
     Objective 2. To benefit the lowest-income population living in urban flood-prone areas by implementing a housing program
     Modest

    Rationale
    Outputs recorded in the results framework were achieved or more than achieved. Additional outputs are reported in Annex 2, Matrix 2.3, p.
    25 of the ICR. Evidence on outcomes is insufficient. There is no reference to the implications of resettlement in Laguna Avalos,
    Resistencia, Chaco; and/or of the resettlement process prepared in Goya, and Corrientes (Annex 2, Matrix 2.3, p. 25 of the ICR).
    Outputs
    1) 932 people re-housed in safe areas with low flooding risk (target was 1800; achieved 52% due to the dropping-out of Entre Rios
    province)
    2) Resettlement was carried out in Laguna Avalos, Resistencia, Chaco (78 of 207 families involuntarily, using auto-construction process)
     3) Resettlement process was prepared in Goya, Corrientes, and Entre Rios
    Outcomes
    The resettlement plan in the City of Resistencia benefitted 932 urban poor living in flood-prone areas. Two hundred and seven low-income
    families have been rehoused in a flood-safe zone in the urban area of Resistencia, Chaco. A draft Borrower evaluation of the process,
    including a beneficiary survey, showed 54 percent of beneficiaries very satisfied with their new housing, 43 percent were satisfied, and only
    three percent were dissatisfied (ICR, Section 3.2, p. 13). However, though a similar resettlement intervention was planned for Entre Rios
    province, it did not materialize due to the province’s financial difficulties relating to purchase of land in flood-safe areas to undertake the
    resettlement.




    Rating
    Modest

PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 3

    Objective
     Objective 3. To strengthen flood defenses in geographic areas with strong economic activity and vulnerability to recurrent flooding
     Substantial

    Rationale
    Outputs
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       AR APL2 Urban Flood Prev.&Drainage (P093491)



 1) 445,000 people are with reduced flood vulnerability as a result of proposed works in participating provinces (target was 400,000;
 achieved 111%)
 2) 4,570 hectares are protected by the proposed works in the selected provinces (target was 3,124; achieved 146%)
 3) 2 monitoring systems are in place for drainage and wastewater effluent quality (target was 2; achieved 100%)
 4) 52,000 meters of drainage network were constructed (target was 48,077; achieved 108%)
 5) 8 physical works were completed (target was 12; achieved 67% due to the dropping -out of Entre Rios province)

 In the area of Greater Resistencia, Chaco, the Project contributed to increasing the system’s capacity by funding construction of the
 following flood defense structures:
 a) second stage of works in Canal Soberania, consisting of a pumping station system of 16 m3/s of capacity;
 b) 2,200 m of storm drains in Los Hacheros Street;
 c) 3,800 m of storm drains in Clayton Street;
 d) 780 m of a storm drainage canal in Laprida Street;
 e) pumping station for Prosperidad pond of 7.5 m3/s of capacity; and
 f) pumping station for Avalos pond of 19 m3/s of capacity
 Outcomes
 There was an increase in the system’s capacity to protect the Greater Resistencia Metropolitan Area, the major economic engine of the
 province of Chaco, against flooding.
 Flooding was reduced in the city of Gobernador Virasoro with the highest rate of industrial growth in the province of Corrientes through
 construction of drainage works. Sanitary conditions were improved with the extension of the sanitation network by doubling the number of
 sanitation connections, benefiting 2,700 new families.
 The ICR also notes that the project benefitted the city center of Cayasta through undertaking fluvial defense works as well as the adjacent
 archeological park, a cultural heritage site and tourist attraction with about 53,000 visitors per year. However, the ICR does not substantiate
 on the measures taken and its implications.




 Rating
 Substantial



5. Efficiency

 Ex-ante and ex-post economic evaluation was undertaken for the project. While the ex-ante economic internal rate of return (EIRR) was noted
 as 29% at appraisal, the ex-post analysis was estimated at 21.6%. The same method of analysis--avoided damage cost method--was used to
 calculate EIRR at appraisal and closure. During appraisal, EIRR was calculated based only on four infrastructure investments in Chaco. But,
 during completion, EIRR was calculated based on four infrastructure investments in Chaco and subproject in Cayastá, Santa Fe, where the
 investments were divided into those that were targeted to protecting the city of Cayastá and those that were targeted to protecting the
 archeological park. While the former used the avoided damage method to estimate the benefit, the latter used travel cost method to estimate
 the benefits. The ex-post analysis of the selected subprojects covered 66% of the total Project costs.
 At closure, the EIRR of the individual sub-projects ranged from 6.75% (for the coastal protection of the Archeological park in Santa Fe) to
 29.7% (in the storm drains in Clayton street in the metropolitan area of Resistencia, Chaco). In this context, if the non-use benefits of the
 subproject in Santa Fe were considered, the EIRR for the subproject would be higher than the current estimate.




Efficiency Rating
Substantial


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and/or Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the re-estimated
   value at evaluation:

                                              Rate Available?             Point value (%)                    *Coverage/Scope (%)
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         AR APL2 Urban Flood Prev.&Drainage (P093491)



                                                                                                              88.00
 Appraisal                                                                 29.00
                                                                                                              Not Applicable

                                                                                                              66.00
 ICR Estimate                                                              21.60
                                                                                                              Not Applicable

* Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome

The relevance of the project's objective is substantial. The relevance of its design is also substantial. The efficacy of objectives 1 and 3 are
substantial. However, the efficacy of objective 2 is modest, given the failure of the resettlement intervention in Entre Rios province, which is a
significant shortcoming. Efficiency is substantial. Overall outcome is rated moderately satisfactory.



a.     Outcome Rating
       Moderately Satisfactory



7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating

Two risks to the Project’s development outcome are: (i) uncertainties in the O&M of municipality-led works and (ii) deterioration of the national
political situation. While risk management is well institutionalized at the provincial level and local budgets have allocated funds for O&M, there is
unpredictability on maintaining O&M allocations, as well as institutional risks for the municipality-managed works. The country has had a long
history of political instability and O&M is subject to political risks from administration changes. These pose a critical risks to sustaining
development outcome.



a.     Risk to Development Outcome Rating
       Substantial


8. Assessment of Bank Performance

a. Quality-at-Entry
     In preparing the Project, the Bank team took into full account the experience with earlier projects. The knowledge, tools and capacity
     developed over the long-term partnership between Argentina and the Bank on flood risk management was well utilized during preparation.
     These include basin-wide strategy formulation, design of regulatory frameworks for risk management, and development of skilled
     professionals, among others.
     The implementation plan of the subprojects were based on each Province’s priorities for flood protection and management, as expressed in
     their respective Provincial Master Plans. A large portion of the subprojects were identified and evaluated under the previous Flood Protection
     Project (PPI). The selected sub-projects considered engineering designs that were concluded previously and were already compliant with
     PPI’s environmental and economic standards. For those not evaluated under PPI, these criteria were again applied under Programa de
     Prevención de Inundaciones y Drenaje Urbano (PIDU). O&M plans were specific to each province and were required to include at a minimum:
     i) responsibility for O&M of works; ii) options for infrastructure-protection management; and iii) annual audits to ensure proper O&M. However,
     given that the project largely included incremental improvements or additions to existing flood risk management schemes, some of the
     institutions responsible for O&M were already in place, with sufficient capacity to undertake satisfactory O&M.
     Project preparation also considered a low-risk implementation framework supported by a clearly defined management framework. As such,
     project management was integrated into existing public administration structures for flood risk management, in accordance with the new Bank
     guidelines for Argentina at the time of appraisal. This structure comprised a national-level Project Management Unit (the UEC, Unidad
     Ejecutora Central) and province-level SUEPs (Sub Unidades Ejecutoras Provinciales). The structural and non-structural measures to improve
     resilience were selected not only through physical investments and increased protection levels, but also followed a risk prevention approach
     based on sector experience.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       AR APL2 Urban Flood Prev.&Drainage (P093491)



   The Project addressed gender and poverty aspects in flood-prone areas where the poorest people disproportionately resided, and included
   female-headed households as beneficiaries of resettlement in flood-safe areas in Resistencia, Chaco, although no specific gender impact was
   planned for the project. The Bank team adequately addressed safeguards aspects.
   While the overall preparation was well configured, the preparation team inadequately gauged the implication for implementation efficiency of
   (I) the new bureaucratic approval process at the national and provincial levels, (ii) lengthy public consultation processes, and (iii) delays in
   procurement processes. This resulted in extending the closing date three times for a total of four years in order to complete a large
   percentage of the activities and disbursement of loan funds. The project implementation thus required a much longer period of eight years
   from signing the loan agreement.



   Quality-at-Entry Rating
   Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision
   Supervision missions were every six months and the midterm review was carried out as planned. The supervision missions addressed issues
   as they emerged and were proactive. For instance at the time of the midterm review (November 2011), implementation was weak, only 35
   percent of loan funds were disbursed and 53 percent were committed. The Bank team proactively managed counterpart financing challenges
   for works and bottlenecks in the resettlement process in Entre Rios and Chaco. The action plan agreed upon with the Borrower at the time of
   the third restructuring successfully speeded up implementation and the project extension allowed for the completion of project activities
   Also, the Bank supervision team supported the client in some environmental decisions such as developing water quality monitoring plans to
   protect water sources for the city of Virasoro, and terms of reference (TORs) for solid waste management strategies were
   successfully implemented in the province of Corrientes. As planned, the Bank team communicated closely with the UEC, which was then
   responsible for regular supervision and for providing technical assistance to the SUEPs.
   However, the Bank did not maintain continuity in the leadership of the project. Frequent changes in Bank task team management (the project
   saw seven different Task Team Leaders over eight years of implementation) led to shifts in focus and changes to the activity lists. This
   complicated and delayed implementation. However, given that day-to-day technical assistance and implementation support to the provinces
   was the responsibility of the UEC, the provinces were insulated to some degree from the shifts in the Bank’s Project management.
   The Bank was also unable to effectively address the effects of the peso devaluation on the Project. As the loan value appreciated significantly
   during implementation, some provinces came closer to their respective debt limits than expected, limiting their capacity to take on more debt to
   execute planned activities. Additionally, as contracts were signed in pesos and executed during a period of rapid devaluation, the value in
   dollars of some works contracts fell during execution, leading to unexpected under-commitment of loan resources and some undisbursed funds
   (1.85 percent of the loan amount) as of Project closing.



   Quality of Supervision Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance

a. Government Performance
   The Government’s priority on addressing the flooding issue remained unchanged throughout the project duration. The Government
   demonstrated strong ownership of the Project at both the national and provincial levels by working towards adapting the Project’s scope to
   local and national priorities and integrating activities within the existing risk management agenda. While the provinces were from different
   political parties, and were openly in opposition to the governing national Government, there was no stalling on the project implementation,
   except in cases of fiscal lags. For instance, some works in Santa Fe were already completed with Borrower funds due to economic growth,
   while counterpart funding was not easily available in Entre Rios for the land acquisition. No political interference derailed the project.
   Despite a significant delay in project implementation, many of the factors affecting it were beyond the reach of the Federal or Provincial
   Governments (elections in 2007, implementation of the 2004 fiscal responsibility Law) (ICR, Section 5.2a, p. 19). The Government was
   forthcoming during all the four Project restructuring events. Commitment by national and federal institutions continued to be strong
   throughout the implementation period. However, though the implementation continued, there was lack of commitment by some municipal
   governments due to various reasons, such as: (i) belonging to political parties that were openly in opposition with the governing national
   government; (ii) dropping out owing to fiscal reasons; and (iii) stalling subprojects such as in Entre Rios due to Province’s lack of capacity
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       AR APL2 Urban Flood Prev.&Drainage (P093491)



   to purchase the required land for resettlement.



   Government Performance Rating
   Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance
   SUEPs (Sub Unidades Ejecutoras Provinciales) were responsible for facilitating the preparation and implementation of large flood defense
   works and the central unit, the UEC (Unidad Ejecutora Central), was in charge of overall Project coordination and quality control.
   Both the UEC and the SUEPs were committed to the Project’s implementation. Despite initial implementation delays, their overall
   performance improved after the Mid- Term Review. There were no issues in terms of coordination between the national and local project
   management units and/or communication between the Bank and UEC teams.
   Although monitoring and evaluation of results indicators by the SUEPs were very weak, frequent (in general monthly) supervision missions
   undertaken by the UEC appear to have successfully monitored implementation of structural works. Although the province of Entre Rios did
   not finally construct the subproject, the SUEP was able to handle all the processes necessary for the resettlement plan to the satisfaction of
   the Bank. This included generating links, maintaining the dialogue with beneficiaries, procuring for the necessary studies, and managing
   contracts for those studies.
   Technical assistance provided by the UEC to the provinces was geared towards resettlement and structural works, with limited support for
   non-structural measures. However, SUEPs fell short of knowledge sharing. Apart from a Bank-organized seminar, which led to continuing
   cooperation between the Santa Fe and Corrientes provinces, there was limited cross-support and knowledge-sharing among provinces.



   Implementing Agency Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization

a. M&E Design
   The Results Framework was appropriate in terms of indicators that were simple to use and measure based on easy-to-gather information.
   Baselines were available at the start of the project.
   As part of restructuring: (i) the target value for PDO Indicator No. 1 was updated from 2,630 ha to 3,099 ha, based on the revised
   implementation plan; (ii) PDO Indicator No. 2 was re-worded to include elements that need to be present in a risk-mapping exercise; and (iii) a
   new PDO indicator No. 3 was introduced to permit tracking of total project beneficiaries. However, the drop-out of Entre Rios province was not
   taken into consideration during the revision of the target values.




b. M&E Implementation


    Progress reports were prepared by the UEC and furnished to the Bank each semester in accordance with Bank requirements. The
    Progress Reports were based on information provided by the SUEPs, or gathered directly by the UEC during supervision visits, generally
    on a monthly basis.
    At the provincial level, M&E arrangements and prioritization were weak. The SUEPs themselves were not familiar with the Results
    Framework indicators, and did not carry out regular or systematic monitoring of project outcomes. Continuing M&E arrangements were
    limited to monitoring of runoff water quality.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       AR APL2 Urban Flood Prev.&Drainage (P093491)




c. M&E Utilization
   No information




   M&E Quality Rating
   Modest


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards
   According to Project Appraisal Document, the project triggered the following safeguard policies: 1) Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01); 2)
   Natural Habitats (OP 4.04); 3) Cultural Property (OP 11.03); 4) Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12); and 5) International Waterways:
   (OP/BP 7.50).
   The ICR reports only on compliance of Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01) and Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12).
   Environment:
   The Project was a category B project and triggered safeguard policy OP 4.01 on Environmental Assessment. An Environment Assessment
   was undertaken; environmental data sheets for all sub-projects included in the APL2 were revised; and an updated and enhanced Regional
   Environmental Management Plan (REMP) was developed based on the ex-post evaluation. The Plan laid out a regional, multidisciplinary
   approach for coordinated environmental programs, including flood defenses, improved site conditions, urban plans, site-specific
   environmental assessments, education, creation of buffer areas and parks, and restoration of wetlands/new protected areas. For works
   construction, contractors were required to submit project-specific environmental management plans based on the corresponding
   Environmental Impact Assessments. The SUEPs supervised contractors’ compliance with these plans, as well as with the environmental
   manual for construction, and the UEC supervised the SUEPs. The quality of the implementation of the environmental management
   plans differed among the different jurisdictions, with some cases of very good performance and others, with partial implementation of
   mitigation and/or environmental risk management measures.
   Social:
   The project triggered OP 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement. A resettlement framework (RF) was developed during preparation to address
   the need for resettling the families in the flood-prone areas. Resettlement was undertaken only in Resistencia, Chaco, where 207 families
   (940 inhabitants) were safely resettled in the Laguna Prosperidad area.
   Starting with a communications and consultation process, the resettlement plan was sensitive to the existing social networks. Factors such
   as regularization of land title, quality of housing construction, and basic utility service connections were included, which contributed towards
   improving the social and environmental conditions of the beneficiaries and minimizing the exposure to flood risks.
   However, the self-construction methodology adopted under the previous project was not successful. Beneficiaries were unable to divert
   from employment towards construction and those who were resettled were not inclined to move ahead with self-construction. This delayed
   the house construction intervention. As a means to combat this weakness, modifications were made to the Involuntary Resettlement Plans
   to include construction of houses by a contractor in order to conclude resettlement (ICR, Annex 7).




b. Fiduciary Compliance
   Financial Management:
   Audits did not report any significant issues impacting the project, although there were some delays in submission of audit reports to the Bank.
   These delays were due to issues at the level of the National General Audit Office, and not to the Unidad Ejecutora Central (Central Executing
   Unit) itself. According to the task team leader: “The project presented six annual audit reports, from 2008 to 2013. Project audit was carried out
   by Auditoria General de la Nacion (AGN). The external audit opinions were unqualified. None of them reflected ineligible expenditures or
   accountability issues. FM arrangements were adequate both in terms of human resources, institutional arrangements between provincial and
   central PIU. FM Staffing had acceptable knowledge on Bank policies and procedures".
   Procurement:
   Procurement, despite initial delays, did not reflect any issues. Standard procurement documents approved by the Bank were used for all
   provinces to streamline contracting.
        Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
        AR APL2 Urban Flood Prev.&Drainage (P093491)




c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
   None.




d. Other
   None.




12. Ratings
                                                                                                                 Reason for
Ratings                                   ICR                                  IEG
                                                                                                                 Disagreements/Comment
Outcome                                   Moderately Satisfactory             Moderately Satisfactory            ---
                                                                                                                 Taking into consideration the
Risk to Development Outcome               Modest                              Substantial                        uncertainty of maintaining O&M
                                                                                                                 allocations and political instability.
Bank Performance                          Moderately Satisfactory             Moderately Satisfactory            ---
                                                                                                                 Performance of government is
                                                                                                                 rated satisfactory and that of the
Borrower Performance                      Satisfactory                        Moderately Satisfactory
                                                                                                                 Implementing Agency is
                                                                                                                 moderately satisfactory.
Quality of ICR                                                                Substantial                        ---


Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.


13. Lessons

The ICR provided a number of useful lessons, presented here with some adaptation:
Replicating Best Practice is not always smart – context matters. Replication should be based on strategic analysis of the existing
environment, as in many cases the context shifts, particularly in countries where political instability is prevalent. The subject project adopted the
same design as the previous Project and considered the new regulatory framework with some adjustments, without undertaking various
scenario analysis to better pin down the differences of the participating provinces. With a new fiscal regulatory framework in place, the added
changes in legislators and context were significant and led to years of delay in effectiveness.
Strategic assessment of proposed resettlement procedures is highly critical, given the complexity of resettlement. While self-
construction of resettlement housing by beneficiaries is successful, it cannot be replicated without fully considering the context. It is found to be
feasible when beneficiaries have sufficient time to devote to construction; and when the timeline for construction of works is not dependent on
completion of resettlement. The Project was unable to replicate its predecessor’s approach in self-construction, given that the involuntarily
resettled persons on average had neither the time nor the inclination to complete construction within the strict timeline of the Project
intervention .
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                             Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       AR APL2 Urban Flood Prev.&Drainage (P093491)



14. Assessment Recommended?

No


15. Comments on Quality of ICR

The ICR is concise and consistent with OPCS guidelines. The quality of analysis is sound. It also provides an adequate and accurate account
of project preparation and implementation. Lessons are evidenced-based and derived from project experience. Results are appropriately
captured and well supported by quantitative and qualitative data.
Stakeholders are well defined. Poverty, gender and social issues are adequately reported. The ICR does not include a borrower ICR but
provides comments from the borrower in the main ICR text.
Two minor shortcomings are noted in the ICR. They include overlooking to report whether monitoring and evaluation results were utilized and
factoring in the implications from political instability while assessing the risk.




a.   Quality of ICR Rating
     Substantial
