Report No. PID6476
Project Name                     Colombia -Youth Development Project
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Social Protection
Project ID                       COPA50576
Borrower                         Republic of Colombia
Implementing Agency              Vice Ministerio de la Juventud
Ministerio de Educacion Nacional
Sante Fe de Bogota
Colombia
Tel: 571-3157399
Fax: 571-3157366
Appraisal Date                   March 1, 1998
Board Date                       July 1, 1998
1.      Main Issues
The lives of youths in Colombia are a reflection of the tremendous social
and economic upheaval of past decades, characterized by massive rural-to-urban
migration, high rates of unemployment, a disintegration of traditional forms
of social cohesion and a rise in violence. Against this difficult setting
there are four main interrelated issues which warrant highlighting:
- High levels of school drop out. For younger adolescents (10-14) the main
policy concern is preventing premature entry into the labor force. While
Colombia has made important strides in expanding educational coverage, the
goal of universal coverage (9 years) remains to be realized. The secondary
enrollment rate is only 50 percent, which represents over 2.5 million children
who are not attending school. As women increasingly work outside the home and
as single parent families become the norm in Colombia's slums, youths are
forced to fill adult roles and supplement family incomes. Early entry into
the labor force is an important factor that tends to adversely affect school
attendance and human capital formation. An empirical analysis carried out as
part of project preparation illustrated the importance of lack of community
and social capital on school drop out. The analysis showed that neighborhood
conflict and drug problems, lack of access to reading materials and abuse and
drug problems (proxies for social capital) are among the most important
factors associated with school drop out. The results suggest that increased
investment in human capital (education, health) is critical but not
sufficient. Failure to address the community and social effects on individual
attainment will limit the benefits of the investments, underscoring the
importance of complementary interventions to strengthen social capital and
promote conviviencia.
- Lack of employment opportunities. For older adolescents (15-19) the
inability to find employment presents a major problem. In 1992, the
unemployment rate for youth under twenty was 25 percent while that for twenty
to twenty-nine year olds was 15 percent, with the female unemployment rate
nearly double that of their male counterparts. Of particular concern is the
sizable proportion of youth (one quarter of 12 to 24 year-olds) who do not
work or attend school, representing a measure of idleness.



- Rising levels of violence, teenage pregnancy, and drug addiction. The
morbidity and mortality pattern in adolescence is characterized by the
predominance of violence related homicides (which represent about 76 percent
of all deaths among youth), accidents and traumas for males and by
reproductive health problems for females (i.e. teenage pregnancy and sexually
transmitted diseases). With the rise in drug trafficking during recent
decades, some youth have become easy prey for gang leaders and drug lords who
offer alternative role models and easy opportunities for quick rewards. These
gangs have emerged in slums where residents are condemned to the world of
informality with the rights and obligations of citizenship often lacking.
Drawing on results from household surveys, the social capital paper analyzed
the importance of these issues. In Bogota, for example, violence (e.g. gang
activities, robberies) was reported by families of 29 percent of children aged
7 to 17 years, ranging from 14 to 43 percent across alcaldias. Considering
urban areas as a whole, the proportion of children aged 7 to 17 years whose
families reported neighborhood problems with gangs was close to 40 percent.
For teenage girls, adolescent parenthood has staggering personal costs, even
though it is often regarded as a way of raising their status in society. With
the rise in teenage pregnancy from 21 percent in 1976 to 32 percent in 1986
this is an issue which warrants attention.    Drug addiction also requires
attention as it represents not only an immediate health danger but involves
long-run damage.
- Fragmentation, limited capacity, and poor access to existing youth
programs. Youth serving programs are delivered both through the government
(e.g. Presidency, ICBF, Ministries of Health and Education) and non-
governmental organizations (NGOs such as Fundacion FES, Fundacion Sociale,
Fundacion Servicio Juvenil), which have a long standing tradition of working
with Colombian youth. Key activities/programs include: (i) curriculum reform,
to integrate sex education and drug and crime prevention themes; (ii)
employment generation; (iii) health service delivery to deal with teen
pregnancy, STDs and AIDS; and (iv) democratization and citizenship building
initiatives, to build self esteem and facilitate the integration of
marginalized youth into society. As found in other countries, youth-serving
programs in Colombia tend to suffer from: (i) a heavy focus on single themes
rather than integrated actions; (ii) limited implementation capabilities and
scope of activities, reaching small numbers of youth; (iii) variable quality;
and (iv) a bias in favor of curative care rather than prevention (i.e. most
programs focus on children already suffering from teen pregnancy, sexual
abuse, violence, and drug abuse rather than preventing these problems in the
first place). The successful programs include the following features: strong
private sector participation (NGOs, businesses), flexible entry and exit
points, and youth participation in the design, implementation and evaluation
of the programs.
2.      Project Development Objective
The project development objective is to test and evaluate alternative
multi-sectorial and participatory approaches to developing and delivering
services and providing activities for low-income youth.
3.      Project Description
National Component: Institutional Strengthening This component would support
the establishment of a national institutional framework to: (i) deliver
-2 -



technical assistance for the design and evaluation of local multi-sectorial
programs for low-income youth through the Vice Ministry of Youth and its
collaborators (NGOs, research organizations, foundations); (ii) operate a
learning network to disseminate best practices; and (iii) support the
establishment of a national evaluation system, including design of
instruments, protocols and indicators, provision of technical assistance to
municipal teams, and design and introduction of strategies to feed the results
from the evaluation system into the learning network. This component would
fund: (a) technical assistance and training to design and operate the
evaluation system and the learning network, and to assist municipalities with
various aspects of program design, implementation and evaluation; (b)
seminars, publications, and communication strategies to disseminate results
from the evaluation and learning activities; and (c) goods, equipment,
supplies, materials, and logistical support for carrying out studies and
surveys and establishing the learning network.
Municipal Component This component supports the design and implementation of
the service integration schemes at the local level. The municipal component
consists of the following two sub-components:
Network Establishment: The Network Establishment Sub-Component would support
the establishment of Consejos Municipales (Municipal Councils), which will be
responsible for developing an implementation plan for service integration,
formalizing terms of agreement among local service providers and overseeing
the monitoring, evaluation and learning activities. Project financing would
be used for: (i) workshops and focus group discussions for the activities of
the municipal councils; (ii) technical assistance and training for the
preparation of the implementation plans and for the evaluation and learning
activities; and (iii) seminars, publications, communication strategies and
logistical support for disseminating best practices. Municipal councils would
include representatives of local agencies working on youth issues (e.g.
schools, health facilities, social services), business and private sector
leaders, and civil society (e.g. NGOs, youth, parents). The specific
composition of the councils would be driven by the types of service
integration schemes to be designed in each municipality.
Service Provision & Youth Activities: This sub-component would support the
execution of the implementation plan for improved and/or new services and
activities for low-income youth. Integrated services would be implemented
using the following types of service delivery strategies: (i) providing
multiple services in a pre-existing location using a one-stop shopping
approach; (ii) co-locating services in multiple sites; or (iii) establishing a
linked network of youth services through joint referral and programming
activities and a co-sponsored transportation system for getting youth from one
service provider to the next. The services to be funded would not replace or
substitute services that are already provided by traditional service sectors
(e.g. education, health, employment). The municipal sub-projects, to be
carried out through contractual agreements with local public and private
service providers, would include the following types of interventions as part
of the service integration schemes:
(a) School Retention and Educational Support for Out-of-School Youth or Youth
at Risk of Dropping out of the Formal Education System:
-Systems for identifying youth who may be at increased risk for school drop-
out.
-Alternative diploma systems that allow out-of-school youth to receive high
school equivalency degrees and/or remedial education instead of returning to
- 3-



the formal school system.
-Tutoring and counseling for youth to assist them to stay in school.
-Student government and other means for youth to feel more connected to the
public education system and their school.
(b) Employment Promotion:
-Information on vocational training options, and job opportunities in their
local community.
-Job orientation provided as part of the secondary school curriculum.
-Vocational counseling and orientation for out-of-school youth.
-Agreements with the local private sector to provide on-the-job training, job
shadowing and other avenues for low-income youth to become familiar with the
formal workplace.
(c) Health Prevention and Promotion:
-Life skills training to learn problem solving and assertiveness.
-Health outreach services.
-School-based services.
-Peer mentoring for disseminating health messages in settings most frequented
by youth.
(d) Civic Participation, Community Service and Youth Participation:
-Youth involvement in the community, including holding local fora for youth on
community needs.
-Opportunities for youth to plan and carry out their own projects in community
service.
-Activities in which parents, families and youth participate jointly, such as
local cultural events.
4.      Project Financing
The total project cost is estimated at US$7.8 million, of which the Bank
loan would consist of US$5.0. Out of the total local costs, the central
Government would contribute 20 percent and the participating municipalities
roughly 16 percent.
5.      Project Implementation   The executing agency is the Vice Ministry of
Youth Affairs of the Ministry of Education.
6.      Project Sustainability
Attention has been given to ensuring that the project design is
consistent with the technical, financial, and institutional capabilities of
the implementing agencies, and thus sustainable beyond the life of the
project. Sustainability of the project depends on several factors: (i)
participating municipalities buying into the project and having the political
will to invest their own funds in continuing project activities; (ii) NGOs and
local governmental agencies being able to generate sufficient resources
through government and private sector channels to sustain the project; and
(iii) municipalities and the Vice Ministry of Youth acquiring the ability to
promote and sustain intersectoral collaboration at the national and municipal
level and service integration at the local level. The project was designed
to maximize the probability that these conditions would materialize. By
enlisting the support of youth and community members from the initial stage of
project design through the implementation phase this should facilitate
sustainability of the project. Likewise, by avoiding infrastructure
construction and investing in the long-term institutional capabilities of
-4 -



local youth-serving actors --NGOs, schools, public agencies working in health
and vocational training-- the project increases the chance of being
sustainable in the long-run. Ultimately, the chances for sustainability will
rest on the willingness of local actors to collaborate, and to
institutionalize that process.
7.       Lessons Learned
- Project design reflects lessons learned through the design and
implementation of similar youth-serving programs in international settings.
Key ingredients of success include:
- Promoting community-wide multi-agency collaborative arrangements, which tap
resources available within communities to take advantage of potential
economies of scale and multiplier effects. Project proposes to use this
strategic approach, supporting community-based interventions, which tend to be
more flexible, responsive and accessible.
- Fostering strong ties to private sector, both to generate higher placement
rates and to raise additional funding.
- Ensuring early involvement of youth and their families/communities at
design and planning stage has been shown to be critical to enlisting their
support and facilitating sustainability.
- Promoting use of peers as role models and mentors, which has been
instrumental in increasing acceptability of program messages in other
settings.
- Using a one-stop shopping approach, which provides access to services
through one site but not necessarily under the same roof. As discussed above,
the approach being used is to operate programs out of existing community
facilities (e.g. after-school hours where feasible; community centers, where
available, etc) with referral mechanisms to other service providers.
- Supporting interventions which strengthen family and community social
capital, with a view to reducing the probability of school dropout and reaping
the maximum benefits of schooling as well as building trust amongst
stakeholders.
- Setting realistic goals, which can be attained in the medium-term.
International experience with youth-serving programs has shown that the types
of organizational and behavioral changes which are required for service
integrated schemes require up to 3 years to get up and running and to ensure
broad based acceptability of the new ways of doing business.
- Having a dynamic central coordinating unit, which maintains political
support for project, raises funds, and sets minimum criteria for local sites.
Valuable lessons have also been generated through the implementation of
the Bank's social sector portfolio (i.e. 6 education and 5 health/nutrition
operations). Key lessons include: (i) incorporating monitoring and evaluation
components in project design, (ii) locating project facilities in poor
neighborhoods to facilitate access and acceptability, (iii) ensuring
simplicity in design; and (iv) minimizing complex inter-institutional
arrangements. The project design addresses the first two lessons by
incorporating a first rate evaluation system and by operating at the community
level with high levels of participation. On the latter issues, the intrinsic
nature of the service integration approach involves complex inter-
institutional arrangements, which are viewed as high risk/high reward.
- 5 -



8.      Environmental Aspects
No adverse environmental impact is expected, as project is unlikely to
involve civil works.
9.      Program Objective Categories: The primary category is institutional
building.
Contact Point:                    The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending June 5, 1998.
- 6 -



