Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17904-CO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5.0 MILLION
TO
COLOMBIA
FOR A
YOUTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
July 10, 1998
Colombia, Ecuador and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Human Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 30, 1998)
Currency Unit = Peso
US$1.00 = 1368 Pesos
FISCAL YEAR
January - December
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CQ             Consultant Qualifications
DNP            National Department of Planning (Departamento Nacional de Planeaci6n)
ERR            Economic Rate of Return
FES            Fundacion de Estudios Sociales
IBRD           International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
ICBF           Colombian Institute of Family Welfare
IERR           Internal Economic Rate of Return
LCS            Least Cost Selection
LIL            Learning and Innovation Loan
NCB            National Competitive Bidding
NGO            Non Governmental Organization
PCU            Project Coordinating Unit
PHRD           Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PPF            Project Preparation Facility
QBS            Quality Based Selection
QCBS           Quality Cost Based-Selection
SENA           Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje
SOEs           Statement of Expenses
SSS            Single Source Selection
STDs           Sexually Transmitted Diseases
TA             Technical Assistance
UNFPA          United Nations Fund for PopulationActivities
VMJ            Vice Ministerio de Juventud
Vice President                       Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director                     Andres Solimano
Sector Director                      Xavier Coll
Sector Leader                        Constance Corbett
Task Manager                         Miriam Schneidman



Colombia
Youth Development Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective ..................................................................3
1. Project development objective and key  performance  indicators ..............................................                                      3
2.  Appropriateness for adaptable lending  ..........................                               ........................................          3
B.  Strategic  Context .................................................................                                                              4
1.  Sector-related CAS  goal supported by the project .................................................................. 4
2.  Main issues and Government strategy  ..........................                                 ........................................        4
3.  Issues to  be addressed  by the project ........................                              ..........................................        6
C. Project Description Summary ..................................................................7
1. Project components ..................................................................7
2.  Key policy and  institutional reforms supported by the project ..........................                                  ..................... 8
3.  Benefits and target population  .................................................................                                               9
4.  Institutional and  implementation  arrangements ..................................................................                              9
D. Project Rationale .................................................................                                                              12
1. Project alternatives considered  and reasons for rejection  ......................................... ..............    12
2.  Major related  projects financed  by the Bank and/or other development agencies ..........                                             .......    14
3.  Lessons learned  and reflected  in proposed  project design  .........................................                           .............    15
4.  Indications of borrower commitment and ownership  .............................................................                                  16
5. Value added  of Bank  support in this project ........................................................                             .........    16
E.  Summary  Project Analyses .................................................................    16
1. Economic .................................................................                                                                        16
2. Financial .................................................................                                                                       17
3. Technical .................................................................                                                                       17
4. Institutional .................................................................                                                                   17
5.  Social .................................................................    18
6.  Environmental assessment .................................................................                                                       18
7. Participatory  approach .................................................................                                                        18
F.  Sustainability  and  Risks .................................................................    20
1. Sustainability .................................................................                                                                 20
2. Critical risks .................................................................                                                                 21



G. Main Loan Conditions ........................  22
1. Effectiveness conditions ........................  22
2. Other ........................                                                    22
H. Readiness for Implementation ........................  22
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ........................                            23
Annexes .........................                                                   24
Annex I   Project Design Summary .24
Annex 2    Detailed Project Description .30
Annex 3   Estimated Project Costs .34
Annex 4       Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary    35
Annex 5  Financial Summary .37
Annex 6       Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements.                             3 8
Table A       Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements .41
Table Al  Consultant Selection Arrangements .42
Table B     Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review .43
Table C   Allocation of Loan Proceeds .44
Annex 7       Project Processing Budget and Schedule .45
Annex 8   Documents in Project File .46
Annex 9    Selection of Municipalities .51
Annex 10  Implementation Arrangements .54
Annex 11  Implementation/Evaluation Plan .57
Annex 12      Operating Manual for Social Assessment .60
Annex 13  Statement of Loans and Credits .87
Annex 14  Country at a Glance .88



Colombia
Youth Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Colombia, Ecuador and Venezuela Country Management Unit (LCC4C)
Human Development Department (LCSHD)
Date: July 10, 1998                                 Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Miriam Schneidman
Country Manager/Director: Andres Solimano           Sector Manager/Director: Xavier Coll
Project ID: CO-PE-     Sector: Multi Sector         Program Objective Category: Poverty Reduction
50576
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan    Program of Targeted             [X] Yes  [ ] No
Intervention:
Project Financing Data              [X] Loan        [  Credit       [  Guarantee      [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US$5.0 Million
Proposed termns:                       [    Multicurrency     [X] Single currency, specify
Grace period (years):  3         [    Standard Variable  [XI Fixed           [    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: .75%
Service charge: N/A
Financing plan (US$m):
Source
Government                                                   2.8
Cofinanciers
IBRD                                                         5.0
IDA
Other (specify)
Total           7.8
Borrower: Government of Colombia
Guarantor:
Responsible agency(ies):
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):  1999      2000       2001
Annual      2.2        3.0         2.6
Cumulative      2.2        5.2        7.8
For Guarantees:  N/A                           []   Partial credit    [] Partial risk
Proposed coverage:
Project sponsor:
Nature of underlying financing:
Terms of



financing:
Principal amount (US$)
Final maturity
Amortization profile
Financing available without guarantee?:            [    Yes               [    No
If yes, estimated cost or maturity:
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee:
Project implementation period: 3 years Expected effectiveness date: 10/15/98 Expected closing date: 12/31/2001



3
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The project development objective is to test and evaluate alternative multi-sectorial and
participatory approaches to developing and delivering services and providing activities for low-income
youth.
Key output indicators for the 3-year pilot phase include:
* A learning network is formned amongst various stakeholders (Government, NGOs, academics) and is
actively sharing experiences of pilot interventions and disseminating best practices.
*  Organizations form inter-institutional networks aimed at creating mechanisms of linkage, referral and
collaboration.
*  Programs adopt a more participatory approach by expanding involvement of youth in design and
implementation of interventions.
•  Youth increase their attendance in programs which provide comprehensive services appropriate to their
needs.
Key outcome indicators to aim towards in the medium to long-term include:
*  Improvement in school retention and/or increase in re-insertion rates for school drop outs.
- Increased employment in older youth.
-  Increased youth participation in community activities.
-  Reduction in juvenile delinquency, intra-family and/or community violence.
2. Appropriateness for Adaptable Lending and LIL Strategy The proposed project represents
pioneering work for the Bank and is consistent with the renewed focus on human and social capital and a
people-centered approach to sustainable development. The operation is expected to have an important
multiplier effect, to the extent that the lessons learned in the project areas would be replicated on a larger
scale in Colombia. Its experimental nature makes it highly suitable for the new adaptable lending
instruments as the project design fulfills the key criteria for the new Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL):
*  Strengthen long-term institutional capacities, involving behavioral and organizational changes, working
in broad based partnerships with government and non-governmental organizations.
*  Pilot test innovative schemes which are expected to generate promising results but where there is
limited experience on which specific interventions will be most viable technically, socially and
financially.
*  Launch a potentially good development effort where the analytic underpinnings have been established
and where there will be locally-deternined processes and participatory decision making.
The specific questions to be addressed through the LIL can be summarized as follows: (i) what are
alternafive models for service integration and under which conditions do they yield the best results? (ii)
does service integration represent a cost-effective means for attaining results expected? and (iii) how to
build the state's institutional capabilities to foster the development and use of service integration
approaches? The details of these questions and the trigger points for determining the follow-up steps are



4
presented in Annex 1, along with the logical framework.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 17107-CO    Date of CAS discussion: November 6, 1997
The proposed Youth Development Project will contribute to the CAS objectives of developing human
capital and promoting peace and development in Colombia. The project aims to set in place the conditions
necessary for youth from vulnerable households to develop the necessary human capital to generate the
income necessary to improve their individual welfare. Given that youth are both perpetrators and victims
of crime, the proposed project would also have a direct impact on the peace and development objective by
funding interventions which develop conflict resolution skills, promote conviviencia (civic coexistence), and
foster behavioral changes. Thus, investment in youths would generate not only individual benefits but
substantial spillover benefits to society (e.g. curtailing juvenile delinquency and violence).
2. Main issues and Government strategy:
Main issues The lives of youths in Colombia are a reflection of the tremendous social and
economic upheaval of past decades, characterized by massive rural-to-urban migration, high rates of
unemployment, a disintegration of traditional forms of social cohesion and a rise in violence. Against this
difficult setting there are four main interrelated issues which warrant highlighting:
* High levels of school drop out. For younger adolescents (10-14) the main policy concern is
preventing premature entry into the labor force. While Colombia has made important strides in
expanding educational coverage, the goal of universal coverage (9 years) remains to be realized. The
secondary enrollment rate is only 61 percent, which represents over 2.0 million children who are not
attending school. As women increasingly work outside the home and as single parent families become
the norm in Colombia's slums, youths are forced to fill adult roles and supplement family incomes.
Early entry into the labor force is an important factor that tends to adversely affect school attendance
and human capital formation. An empirical analysis carried out as part of project preparation
illustrated the importance of lack of community and social capital on school drop out. The analysis
showed that neighborhood conflict and drug problems, lack of access to reading materials and abuse
and drug problems (proxies for social capital) are among the most important factors associated with
school drop out. The results suggest that increased investment in human capital (education, health) is
critical but not sufficient. Failure to address the community and social effects on individual attainment
will limit the benefits of the investments, underscoring the importance of complementary interventions
to strengthen social capital and promote conviviencia.
* Lack of employment opportunities. For older adolescents (15-19) the inability to find employment
presents a major problem. In 1992, the unemployment rate for youth under twenty was 25 percent
while that for twenty to twenty-nine year olds was 15 percent, with the female unemployment rate
nearly double that of their male counterparts. Of particular concern is the sizable proportion of youth
(one quarter of 12 to 24 year-olds) who do not work or attend school, representing a measure of
idleness.
* Rising levels of violence, teenage pregnancy, and drug addiction. The morbidity and mortality
pattern in adolescence is characterized by the predominance of violence related crimes (which represent
about 76 percent of all deaths among youth), accidents and traumas for males and by reproductive



5
health problems for females (i.e. teenage pregnancy and sexually transmitted diseases). With the rise in
drug trafficking during recent decades, some youth have become easy prey for gang leaders and drug
lords who offer alternative role models and easy opportunities for quick rewards. These gangs have
emerged in slums where residents are condemned to the world of informality with the rights and
obligations of citizenship often lacking. Drawing on results from household surveys, the social capital
paper analyzed the importance of these issues. In Bogota, for example, violence (e.g. gang activities,
robberies) was reported by families of 29 percent of children aged 7 to 17 years, ranging from 14 to 43
percent across alcaldias. Considering urban areas as a whole, the proportion of children aged 7 to 17
years whose families reported neighborhood problems with gangs was close to 40 percent. For teenage
girls, adolescent parenthood has staggering personal costs, even though it is often regarded as a way of
raising their status in society. With the rise in teenage pregnancy from 21 percent in 1976 to 32
percent in 1986 this is an issue which warrants attention. Drug addiction also requires attention as it
represents not only an immediate health danger but involves long-run damage.
Fragmentation, limited capacity, and poor access to existing youth programs. Youth serving
programs are delivered both through the government (e.g. Presidency, ICBF, Ministries of Health and
Education) and non-governmental organizations (NGOs such as Fundacion FES, Fundacion Social,
Fundacion Servicio JuveniO, which have a long standing tradition of working with Colombian youth.
Key activities/programs include: (i) curriculum reform, to integrate sex education and drug and crime
prevention themes; (ii) employment generation; (iii) health service delivery to deal with teen pregnancy,
STDs and AIDS; and (iv) democratization and citizenship building initiatives, to build self esteem and
facilitate the integration of marginalized youth into society. As found in other countries, youth-serving
programs in Colombia tend to suffer from: (i) a heavy focus on single themes rather than integrated
actions; (ii) limited implementation capabilities and scope of activities, reaching small numbers of
youth; (iii) variable quality; and (iv) a bias in favor of curative care rather than prevention (i.e. most
programs focus on children already suffering from teen pregnancy, sexual abuse, violence, and drug
abuse rather than preventing these problems in the first place). The successful programs include the
following features: strong private sector participation (NGOs, businesses), flexible entry and exit
points, and youth participation in the design, implementation and evaluation of the programs.
Government strategy To address the concerns enumerated above, the Vice Ministry of Youth
was established in August 1994 as part of the Ministry of Education to emphasize the importance attached
by the Samper Government to youths and to address these issues in an integrated manner. This statutory
body is expected to play a pivotal coordinating and policy making role, working closely with municipalities
which have the ultimate responsibility for service delivery. Key accomplishments of the relatively young
Vice Ministry include: elaboration of the Government's national youth policy (Politica de Juventud) and
establishment of the legal framework (Ley de Juventud); creation of 25 municipal youth offices (Oficinas
de la Juventud), which are responsible for elaborating youth plans and overseeing youth activities; and
establishment of close to 60 youth centers (Casas de la Juventud), which provide a physical space in
municipalities for youth to congregate and to organize various activities. The Ley de Juventud recognizes
the needs that youth have beyond formal schooling and commits the state to ensure the fulfillment of these
needs. The law is also notable for the fact that it makes youth development an issue to be shared by all
branches of the government and civil society. The Government's policy aims to integrate youth activities
into the various social sector plans with a view to: (i) complement and strengthen formal education and
training activities; (ii) strengthen employment opportunities; (iii) expand access of youth to social services;
(iv) improve social and political integration; and (v) consolidate institutional capabilities.
The Government proposes a three-fold strategy following the completion of the LIL:
* Continue with the activities initiated in the original participating municipalities of the LIL where



6
substantial progress has been attained but which may require additional time to make the service
integration schemes fully operational.
* Support a select number of the most successful municipalities in expanding service integration schemes
to other localities within their municipality in order to consolidate and institutionalize the service
integration approach.
*  Replicate service integration schemes to other municipalities in Colombia with conditions identified
during the LIL as favoring successful implementation. This would be done either by using original
pilot municipalities as demonstration sites and as potential sources of technical assistance and/or
involving department youth offices as collaborators in multiplying the pilot interventions
3. Issues to be addressed by the project:
This demonstration project proposes to test alternative approaches to service integration in the
delivery of youth-serving programs. This will be done through a decentralized and community-based
approach, which uses a highly participatory process to youth development. The range of youth issues to be
addressed in the service integration schemes are: (i) learning outcomes: strengthening collaboration
between schools, other service providers and communities by opening up school spaces to local
communities, putting in place support systems for students with learning and personal difficulties, and
promoting parent education; (ii) school to work transition: job orientation and placement; employment
information services; (iii) health promotion: promotion of healthy lifestyles; and (iv) social capital
reinforcement: conflict resolution skills, cultural and recreational activities, life skills activities, and
interventions aimed at strengthening community relations.



7
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component               Category      Cost Incl.   % of    Bank-        % of
Contingencies   Total  financing    Bank-
(US$M)               (US$M)   financina
National Component:
Institutional Strengthening      Institutional        1.30      17.0       .90       18.0
Building
Municipal Component:                                  6.25      80.0       3.85      77.0
Network Establishment            Institutional        1.35
Building
Service Provision & Youth Activities                  4.90
Institutional
Refinancing of PPF:               Building             .25       3.0       .25        5.0
Total          7.8                  5.0
_________________________________________ ____________   100.0                   100.0
National Component: Institutional Strengthening This component would support the establishment of a
national institutional framework to: (i) deliver technical assistance for the design and evaluation of local
multi-sectorial programs for low-income youth through the Vice Ministry of Youth and its collaborators
(NGOs, research organizations, foundations); (ii) operate a learning network to disseminate best practices;
and (iii) support the establishment of a national evaluation system, including design of instruments,
protocols and indicators, provision of technical assistance to municipal teams, and design and introduction
of strategies to feed the results from the evaluation system into the learning network. This component
would fund: (a) technical assistance and training to design and operate the evaluation system and the
learning network, and to assist municipalities with various aspects of program design, implementation and
evaluation; (b) seminars, publications, and communication strategies to disseminate results from the
evaluation and learning activities; and (c) goods, equipment, supplies, materials, and logistical support for
carrying out studies and surveys and establishing the learning network.
Municipal Component This component supports the design and implementation of the service integration
schemes at the local level. The municipal component consists of the following two sub-components:
Network Establishment: The Network Establishment Sub-Component would support the establishment of
Comites Municipales (Municipal Committees), which will be responsible for developing an implementation
plan for service integration, formalizing terms of agreement among local service providers and overseeing
the monitoring, evaluation and learning activities. Project financing would be used for: (i) workshops and
focus group discussions for the activities of the municipal committees; (ii) technical assistance and training
for the preparation of the implementation plans and for the evaluation and learning activities; and (iii)
seminars, publications, communication strategies and logistical support for disseminating best practices.
Municipal committees would include representatives of local agencies working on youth issues (e.g.
schools, health facilities, social services), business and private sector leaders, and civil society (e.g. NGOs,
youth, parents). The specific composition of the committees would be driven by the types of service
integration schemes to be designed in each municipality.



8
Service Provision & Youthl Activities: This sub-component would support the execution of the
implementation plan for improved and/or new services and activities for low-income youth. Integrated
services would be implemented using the following types of service delivery strategies: (i) providing
multiple services in a pre-existing location using a one-stop shopping approach; (ii) co-locating services in
multiple sites; or (iii) establishing a linked network of youth services through joint referral and
programming activities and a co-sponsored transportation system for getting youth from one service
provider to the next. The services to be funded would not replace or substitute services that are already
provided by traditional service sectors (e.g. education, health, employment). The municipal sub-projects, to
be carried out through contractual agreements with local public and private service providers, would
include such interventions as those listed below as part of the service integration schemes:
(a) Learning Outcomes and Educational Support:
-Use of school spaces for youth and community activities with the participation of the school community
(comunidad escolar).
-Community and/or institutional support systems for youth with academic and/or personal difficulties.
-Community service activities to enhance learning process for students.
-Student government and other means for youth to feel more connected to the public education system and
their school.
(b) Employment Promotion:
-Information on vocational training options, and job opportunities in their local community.
-Job orientation provided as part of the secondary school curriculum.
-Vocational counseling and orientation for out-of-school youth.
-Agreements with the local private sector to provide on-the-job training, job shadowing and other avenues
for low-income youth to become familiar with the formal workplace.
(c) Health Prevention and Promotion:
-Life skills training to learn problem solving and assertiveness.
-Peer mentoring for disseminating health messages in settings most frequented by youth.
-School-based or school-linked services.
-Promotion of environmental sanitation activities.
(d) Civic Participation, Community Service and Youth Participation:
-Youth involvement in the community, including holding local fora for youth on community needs.
-Opportunities for youth to plan and carry out their own projects in community service.
-Activities in which parents, families and youth participate jointly, such as local cultural events.
-Conflict resolution and mediation skills and citizenship education.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project would contribute to institutionalizing the Ley de Juventud by giving the Vice Ministry
of Youth an opportunity to implement specific items of the Law. It will also contribute to a shift in policy
focus from a social work approach that concentrates only on youth problems (e.g. abandonment, substance
abuse, juvenile delinquency) to a more holistic and preventive approach to youth development.
The key institutional reform supported under the project is the establishment of networks of service
providers, representatives of civil society and beneficiaries, which will inter alia: (i) commit to collaborate;
(ii) conduct community assessments and develop a common knowledge base; (iii) define shared vision and
goals; and (iv) formalize interagency relationships, promoting a collaborative culture.



9
3. Benefits and target population:
Project benefits are expected at three levels:
* Youth: Increased access to high quality services and creative activities aimed at completing basic
education, facilitating the transition from  school-to-work,  promoting cultural and recreational
activities and raising opportunities for community and political participation.
* Local and Municipal Levels: Local governmental and non-governmental agencies will have the
opportunity to strengthen their institutional capacities by working in broad based partnerships, which
foster behavioral and organizational changes. These agencies will have increased access to technical
assistance in adopting innovative methodologies and in strengthening services. Local agencies will also
benefit from improved evaluation systems, staff training, and a better knowledge base (e.g. acquired
through baseline surveys and sharing of information across regions). Participating municipalities
would have an opportunity to improve their management and evaluation of youth programs, to play a
catalytic role in information sharing, and to take critical decisions about scaling up.
* Central Level: For the Vice Ministry of Youth , the project offers the benefit of a concrete initiative
through which to implement the recently enacted National Youth Law, a chance to develop strong
monitoring and evaluation capabilities, and the opportunity to strengthen its relationship with
municipalities, which are its chief partners in program implementation. The project also presents an
opportunity to boost the credibility and technical expertise of the relatively young Vice Ministry.
The target population for the project consists of vulnerable youth ages 10-25 in selected low-
income neighborhoods (strata 1/2) of participating cities with populations over 100,000. Participating
municipalities would decide on the specific age range which to be targeted, to differentiate the services to
be provided to younger adolescents (10-14), older ones (15-19) and young adults (20-25) based on their
specific developmental needs. In the case of younger adolescents, it will be critical to reach out-of-school
youth through innovative strategies while for those still in school, relying on the educational system. To
this end, there are considerable synergies and complementaries to be explored during project
implementation between this operation and other Bank-funded education projects in Colombia.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
* Project Coordination:
O National: The Vice Ministry of Youth is expected to play a pivotal coordinating function by
establishing eligibility guidelines, setting standards, and facilitating information sharing and technical
assistance. A Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) would be established within the Vice Ministry of
Youth, reporting directly to the Vice Minister.  During the entire duration of the project, the
Government would commit to staff the unit with the following essential staff with qualifications
satisfactory to the Bank: Project Coordinator, Financial Management Specialist, Evaluation Specialist,
and Youth Development Specialist. The specialties of other part-time experts would be driven by the
work program and by the nature of the municipal projects. The unit would be comprised of two
sections: a technical section and an administrative one. Integration of the technical and administrative
functions will be achieved through the joint involvement in the quarterly planning and reporting of
project activities and related costs. The financiaVadministrative section would be responsible for the
accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements, and for providing technical assistance to
municipalities in financial and administrative matters, as discussed below. The technical section would
have the following functions: (a) facilitating the provision of technical assistance, (b) organizing



10
training and workshops, (c) monitoring and coordinating the evaluation plan; (d) coordinating the
activities of the learning network; (e) programming activities; and (f) working closely with the technical
branches of the Vice Ministry of Youth. The Project Coordinating Unit would be gradually integrated
into the formal structures of the Vice Ministry of Youth. In the initial pilot phase (i.e.3 years) it will be
critical to endow the Unit with the necessary support and resources to carry out its work in a flexible
and autonomous fashion. At the same time, the Unit will have to ensure coordination both within the
Vice Ministry of Youth and with key external partners participating in the learning process. A
National Commission comprised of representatives of key stakeholders (Health, Employment, Culture,
DNP, National NGO Confederation) would be established to assist initially in the selection of
participating municipalities and subsequently to learn from the process.
O  Municipal: A Municipal Committee would be established by each mayor with representatives of
service providers, NGOs, youth and the private sector. This committee would be responsible for
preparing the implementation plans, programming activities and budgetary resources, overseeing
implementation and evaluation of the municipal projects, and disseminating results. The Oficinas de
Juventud (municipal youth offices) would act as the technical secretariats of the Committees and would
coordinate the day to day implementation of the project. Where institutional capabilities exist, the
financial management functions would be carried out by the relevant sections of the municipal
administrations. In other cases, it may be necessary to establish an independent structure with trained
staff. In all cases, the UCP at the central level will need to organize training in Bank procedures and
guidelines. In order to adapt the project to local conditions, it was deemed necessary not to have a blue
print but rather criteria which have to be fulfilled to ensure efficient and effective use of the project
funds. The anteproyectos (project proposals) to be submitted by the municipalities to the central level
would detail how the project is to be carried out and how sustainability is to be ensured (see Site
Selection section below).
*  Executing Agencies: Public and private service providers in participating municipalities will be the
key executors of the project.  Municipalities will carry out sub-projects through contractual
arrangements with these local service providers (e.g. schools, health facilities, SENA, NGOs). One of
the key implementation strategies will be to tap the creative potential of NGOs, which are essential
partners in the execution of sub-projects at the local level, given their familiarity with local conditions,
closeness to beneficiaries and long standing experience in similar programs.
*  Monitoring and evaluation arrangements:
0  The monitoring and evaluation plan consists of a three-pronged approach. First, during the first 2 years
of the LIL, the team would concentrate on process evaluation. This would aim to verify that: (a) the
Vice Ministry of Youth is effectively supporting municipalities in initiating service integration schemes;
(b) the municipalities are promoting and supporting projects at the local level; (c) projects begin
functioning at the local level; and (d) youth participate in planning and project development and use the
new or improved services. Second, towards the end of the second year, the Government team would
develop feasible methods for determining project impact on youth outcomes. These methods would be
ready to use, and would be put into action, once the trigger points for project continuation are met
(Annex I), and when a second group of municipalities begins work on designing local projects.
Assessing project impact on youth would be done through comparison groups of non-project youth.
Third, the project team would also prepare an economic analysis, assessing the costs and expected
benefits of the proposed project, and a cost-effectiveness analysis, to determine whether the service
integration approach produces improved outcomes for youth who participate (in comparison to those
who do not) at the same or reduced cost or whether they produce better outcomes for the same cost (see
section E. 1 below and Annex 4).



11
O  Evaluation and monitoring of the project consists of several types of activities: (i) baseline surveys in
participating localities, which provide information on the situation of youth in these communities and
on the type, cost and availability of services; (ii) follow-up studies to assess progress in terms of
outputs; (iii) client satisfaction surveys to provide feedback to service providers and monitor changes in
attitudes of key stakeholders (e.g. youth, service providers, community members); and (iv) analysis of
service agency data to assess impact on youth.. The evaluation plan is based on the premise that these
activities would be carried out by institutions (e.g. universities, foundations, specialized technical
agencies) with strong technical capabilities, familiarity and experience with youth development
programs, and the ability to ensure a transfer of knowledge. The use of an independent body would
assist in ensuring objectivity, so that the dilemma of playing both judge and jury is avoided. The
Government's implementation/ evaluation plan is presented in Annex 10.



12
Accounting,financial reporting and auditing arrangements:
Arrangements would be made to administer both the proceeds of the Loan and the Borrower's
counterpart funds through UNDP. A project management agreement would be signed between UNDP
and the Vice Ministry of Youth for handling the financial management activities, processing payments
of eligible expenditures, maintaining accounting records, and preparing financial reports in accordance
to Bank procedures for the National Component (Institutional Reinforcement). Separate agreements
would be signed between UNDP and each participating municipality, detailing the arrangements for
administering the funds earmarked for the Municipal Component (Network Establishment and Service
Delivery). The justification for contracting of UNDP is based on the modest capabilities of the
relatively young Vice Ministry of Youth, the specialized financial and administrative capabilities of
UNDP, and the knowledge of the Youth Development Project as a result of administering the project
preparation funds (US$250K of PPF funds and US$900K of PHRD funds). The draft terms of the
agreement with UNDP were discussed during negotiations. It was agreed that the Vice Ministry of
Youth would incorporate the Bank's comments and resubmit the agreement for Bank approval prior
to loan effectiveness.
= Project accounting maintained by UNDP would facilitate the preparation of project financial
statements, showing clearly the linkages between project components and activities, disbursement
categories, and sources of funding. The Project Chart of Accounts would be structured accordingly.
The presentation, content and periodicity of these reports will be discussed between the Government
and UNDP and subsequently reviewed and approved by the Bank.
Programming and budgeting of project activities would be performed by the Project Coordinating
Unit. The PCU has recruited a financial management expert. UNDP would process payments only of
eligible expenditures included in approved budgets submitted by the PCU.
=> UNDP would prepare and the PCU would approve the quarterly and yearly Project Consolidated
Financial Statements in accordance with Bank guidelines, including those for disbursements supported
by Statements of Expenditures (SOEs).
=> Auditing: An independent auditor would be recruited before effectiveness and its contract renewed at
the beginning of the fiscal year if found satisfactory. TORs of audit would be reviewed by the Bank.
The yearly audit report would be submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the close of the
fiscal year.
=  Counterpart financing would cover 36 percent of the total project cost, of which the central
Government would contribute 20 percent and the participating municipalities 16 percent.
Counterpart funding would follow  Government of Colombia procedures.  Loan withdrawal
applications would be prepared by UNDP following Bank procedures and signed by authorized
signatories at the PCU. Supporting documentation for eligible expenditures would be maintained by
UNDP and the participating municipalities, as applicable, and be made available for review by Bank
staff and independent auditors.
=> During negotiations the draft operational manual, detailing these financial and technical
arrangements, was discussed and comments were provided to the Colombian delegation. The final
version of the operational manual would be submitted to the Bank for approval prior to loan
effectiveness.
=> Prior to effectiveness, the PCU would also put in place an adequate financial management system
satisfactory to the Bank.
Site Selection The Vice Ministry of Youth has made an initial pre-selection of 16 municipalities based
on: (i) population size, giving priority to larger municipal areas where the project can have a
substantial impact, (ii) need (e.g. incidence of poverty) and, (iii) demonstration that they possess the
needed technical ability to carry out the project. Out of the original 16 municipalities, 8 would be



13
selected as demonstration sites, benefiting fully from the project; the remaining eight would have
access to information generated by the learning network, technical materials, and select training
activities, which would permit them to mount comparable service integration schemes using their own
resources. In order to determine which municipalities have the best potential to pilot test the new
participatory and integrated approach to working with youth, all 16 would be requested to submit
anteproyectos to the Vice Ministry of Youth, which would be responsible for the technical evaluation.
The proposals would have to address the following key criteria as described in Annex 9: diagnosis of
key issue(s) affecting youth; integrated and participatory approach; financial and technical viability;
and sustainability. Following evaluation by a technical group of the Ministry of Education, eight
municipal proposals would be selected, ensuring that they have the best chance of success and together
would represent a diverse but complementary set of interventions. Subsequently, the results of the
technical analysis would be submitted to an inter-ministerial committee, comprised of other key
stakeholders (e.g. Health, Employment, Culture, DNP, national confederation of NGOs), which would
review the technical evaluation. Within each participating municipality, the municipal and/or local
committees would choose one local area (comlnas in urban areas and veredas in rural zones) where
the project will be implemented.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
During project preparation the following alternative options were considered and rejected:
(i) Focusing on single themes: A traditional approach to youth development, consisting of single theme
programs (e.g. teen pregnancy, drug abuse or violence prevention) was considered and rejected. These
types of programs have been shown to generate limited results since they do not address the multiple needs
of youths and their families and neighborhoods. Therefore, the Vice Ministry of Youth has opted for a
holistic approach as the best way to prevent long-term youth problems and promote positive youth
development. This approach is being implemented in comparable international settings with promising
initial results. The integration approach emphasizes three facets: need to provide a full range of services
(comprehensiveness); to ensure sufficient service levels; and the ability to assure that clients receive the
services needed irrespective of the service provider (service integration).
(ii) Establishing new youth centers: The Vice Ministry of Youth rejected this possibility for several
reasons: (a) avoiding the generation of unsustainable levels of recurrent funding; and (b) tapping existing
community infrastructure, particularly given that a reasonably strong but uneven array of youth services
already exist in Colombia and should be strengthened rather than creating new facilities; and (c) sending the
right signals to funders and participants of the importance attached to behavioral, organizational and
cultural changes rather than to physical infrastructure.
(iii) Adopting a comprehensive school-based approach: The option of creating school-based centers in
Colombia appears to have more drawbacks than benefits and has also been discarded. While recognizing
that schools play an essential and integral part in local communities, given the challenges already facing the
formal education system in Colombia, the Vice Ministry team believed it unwise to add additional
responsibilities on the sector. Instead, by creating parallel, support services for out-of-school youth and
youth at-risk of dropping out of school, the Vice Ministry will respect and support the ongoing education
reform process in Colombia without adding additional burdens on the system. For example, the project
would support a shift in emphasis from didactic health education messages to a participatory and
empowering life skills approach.
(iv) Using a centralized approach: The Vice Ministry of Youth also considered and rejected program



14
models that were excessively centralized, particularly taking into account the regional diversity in needs
and capabilities in Colombia and the Government's overall decentralization strategy. The team opted for a
decentralized model that allows local communities to decide on priorities for youth while at the same time
requiring municipalities to meet certain minimum requirements and to integrate services in the areas of
educational support, vocational training, health promotion, and civic/political participation. At the same
time, the Vice Ministry team realized that to be able to ensure program integrity and to have a national
impact, there is a need to establish a coherent framework with a core set of services that would be available
in every participating community.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned):
Sector Issue                      Project            Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Human Capital                          Antioquia Education]            S                S
Pasto Education    ]            S                S
Secondary Education             U                S
ESCARJI3E                Under preparation
Rural Education          Under preparation
Peace and Development                  Magdalena Medio           Under preparation
Other organizations
Vice Ministry of Youth                 Sex and drug education prev.  on-going
Colombian Foundations (Fundacion       -Sex and drug education and   on-going
Social, FES, Servicio Juvenil)         crime prevention.
Employment generation.
Dcmocratization and
citizeniship building
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (IHighly Unsatisfactory)



15
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Project design reflects lessons Icarned through the design and implementation of similar youth-
serving programs in international settings. Kcy ingrcdients of success include:
0  Promoting community-wide multi-agency collaborative arrangements, which tap resources available
within communities to take advantage of potential economies of scale and multiplier effects. Project
proposes to use this strategic approach, supporting community-based interventions, which tend to be
more flexible, responsive and accessible.
0  Fostering strong ties to private sector, both to generate higher placement rates and to raise additional
funding.
0 Ensuring early involvement of youth and thcir families/communitics at design and planning stage has
been shown to be critical to enlisting their support and facilitating sustainability.
0  Promoting use of peers as role models and mentors, which has been instrumental in increasing
acceptability of program messages in other settings.
0  Using a one-stop shopping approach, which provides access to services through one site but not
necessarily under the same roof. As discussed above, the approach being used is to operate programs
out of existing community facilities (e.g. after-school hours where feasible; community centers, where
available, etc) with referral mechanisms to other service providers.
0  Supporting interventions which strengthen family and community social capital, with a view to
reducing the probability of school dropout and reaping the maximum benefits of schooling as well as
building trust amongst stakeholders.
0 Setting realistic goals, which can be attained in the medium-term. International experience with youth-
serving programs has shown that the types of organizational and behavioral changes which are required
for service integratcd schemes require up to 3 years to get up and running and to ensure broad based
acceptability of the new ways of doing business.
0 Having a dynamic central coorclinating uinit, which maintains political support for project, raises
funds, and sets minimum criteria for local sites.
Valuable lessons have also been generated through the implementation of the Bank's social sector
portfolio (i.e. 6 education and 5 health/nutrition operations). Key Icssons include: (i) incorporating
monitoring and evaluation components in project design, (ii) locating project facilities in poor
neighborhoods to facilitate access and acceptability, (iii) ensuring simplicity in design; and (iv) minimizing
complex inter-institutional arrangemcnts.  The project design addresses the first two lessons by
incorporating a first rate evaluation systcm and by operating at the community level with high levels of
participation. On the latter issues, the intrinsic nature of the service integration approach involves complex
inter-institutional arrangements, which arc viewed as high risk/high reward.



16
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government of Colombia has demonstrated its commitment to and ownership of the project in
various ways. First, the Vice Ministry of Youth, which has taken the lead in conceptualizing the project,
has made a concerted effort to mobilize broad based political and financial support amongst the new
municipal administrations. In spite of tight fiscal constraints and numerous other human resources
priorities, commitment to the project at both the central and municipal levels is reflected in the assignment
of budgetary resources, which will facilitate the start-up during 1998. Second, the Government has
assigned competent professionals, tapping some of the most experienced experts working in the area of
youth development in Colombia. Finally, it should be noted that the Colombian Government has shown a
long standing concern with the well-being of low-income youth, which dates back to the establishment of
the Consejeria para la Juventud, la Familia y la Muijer during the previous administration. The transfer
of these programs to the Ministry of Education and the establishment of the Vice Ministry of Youth was
seen as a way of strengthening the ties to the formal education system. During the project preparation
phase, representatives of various levels of Government (DNP, Education, pilot municipalities) have
acknowledged the importance attached to this operation, which is expected to contribute to the
Government's overarching goal of promoting peace and coexistence.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project: The value added of Bank support is three-fold. First, in
comparison to other areas of Bank involvement in Colombia, funding is actually a relatively important
factor for the poorly endowed Vice Ministry of Youth and for the organizations and groups which the
project is targeting. Moreover, Bank funds will play a catalytic role in attracting additional funding,
particularly from municipalities. Second, the Bank is playing a pivotal role in the transfer of cutting edge
information and experiences from international settings, which has been instrumental at the design stage
and appears to be highly valued by Colombian counterparts. Third, the Bank's participation also provides
the Vice Ministry with increased visibility, and introduces a high level of analytic rigor in the design and
implementation of youth-serving programs, particularly in areas that have not been traditionally addressed
(e.g. monitoring and evaluation, cost-effectiveness analysis, economic impact).
E: Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic (Annex 4):
Rationale for public financing of youth development interventions in Colombia There are two
compelling economic arguments for investing public resources in Colombia's youth. First, such investment
will significantly promote equity and alleviate the consequences of poverty, since many of the problems that
the proposed project would address are confined to the poorest segments of the population. Second,
investments in Colombia's youth have multiple payoffs, both in terms of direct and indirect costs associated
with violence, delinquency and school drop out. Moreover, as described below, violence in Colombia
represents a significant obstacle to continued economic development.
The economic and social costs associated with violence in Colombia are staggering. With one of the
highest homicide rates in the world (92 per 100,000 inhabitants in comparison to 20 in Brazil and 5 in
Argentina), development prospects in Colombia are hindered by both the direct (e.g. destruction of physical
assets and human lives, diversion of scarce resources to deal with criminal justice, incarceration, and
treatment of injured and disabled) and indirect costs (e.g. foregone investment opportunities) of violence.
Studies by researchers in Colombia suggest that the previous decade of violence resulted in a 2 percent
reduction in average annual growth. The economic and social costs associated with school drop out, youth
violence and drug abuse place a substantial burden on society. The economic analysis of the proposed
project (described in Annex 4) aims to compare the costs of the interventions to be supported under the



17
operation in comparison to the expected medium to long-term benefits of these activities. The potential
benefits from preventing vulnerable youth from dropping out of school (e.g. higher eamings and
public/private nonmarket benefits), engaging in criminal activity (e.g. foregone costs associated with
criminal justice and incarceration; foregone earnings of criminals), and getting involved in drug abuse (e.g.
foregone costs related to: lost productivity of drug users, drug rehabilitation, medical costs) will be
quantified. The Bank is providing technical support to the Colombian Government to develop and apply
this methodological approach.
The economic analysis is expected to serve two fundamental purposes. First, it establishes an ex ante
framework to assess the potential medium to long-term benefits of the project and to analyze these benefits
in comparison with other projects.  By viewving youth issues for the first time from  an economic
perspective, this analysis is expected to strengthen the credibility and visibility of the Vice Ministry of
Youth, strengthen its hand in mobilizing national resources for these critical issues, and attract other
donors. Second, the framework serves as a monitoring and evaluation tool by which policymakers can
evaluate the medium to long-term benefits expected from the project in comparison to a pre-defined set of
indicators.
The economic analysis will be accompanied by a cost-effectiveness (C/E) Analysis which will aim to assess
the costs of youth services before and after the service integration schemes are introduced. A
methodological framework would be designed by the consulting firm sub-contracted for the economic
evaluation and specific indicators would be proposed and incorporated into the Logical Framework.
[ Cost-Benefit Analysis : NPV=US$        million; ERR=    %  [ Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
[  Other (Specify)
2. Financial N/A
Fiscal impact: The fiscal implications of follow-up activities will be assessed in conjunction with the
economic analysis. As the project does not include civil works, the recurrent costs would be primarily
related to the additional staff which may be required to sustain the service integration schemes. Part of
these additional costs are expected to be offset by the efficiency gains stemming from service integration.
3. Technical: N/A
4. Institutional
a. Executing agencies
Institutional capabilities are variable but generally acceptable, and technical assistance and training would
be provided to further strengthen these capacities. The project would contribute to strengthening the
pivotal implementation role of municipalities in youth programs and the oversight and coordinating
function of the Vice Ministry of Youth. Given the project's focus on creating and sustaining integrated
services for youth at the local level, it will be critical to reinforce the technical, financial, management and
oversight capabilities of municipalities. The municipal Oficinas de Juventtud will be expected to continue
playing a critical role in executing youth policies and programs, and to assume responsibility for
coordinating project activities. Since there is tremendous variation in the clarity of goals and technical
capabilities of these municipal youth bureaus, the project would support activities to strengthen their ability
to coordinate the project. The staffing structure of the Vice Ministry of Youth, which is relatively small,
young, and flexible, is appropriate for the proposed project design, which does not require large in-house



18
capabilities. For the purpose of this project, the Vice Ministry of Youth would be expected to strengthen
its capabilities in setting guidelines, facilitating the exchange of information and lessons learned, and
ensuring the provision of technical assistance. The challenge for the VMJ is to play a role as facilitator,
articulator, animador and a clearinghouse of information while deferring to municipalities autonomy in
decision making concerning project implementation.
b. Project management:
The decentralized, inter-sectorial and participatory nature of the proposed operation implies that
project managerial capabilities need to be considerably strengthened both on the financial and technical
side. Likewise, the VMJ team and their municipal counterparts will need to be trained in Bank procedures
and guidelines. A special effort will need to be made to tap the impressive experience in the youth
development area of universities, NGOs, and individual technical consultants in Colombia. A number of
individual NGOs working with youth in Colombia and several initiatives in youth development are
considered model programs by the Pan American Health Organization, UNFPA and other international
agencies. The National Plan for Sex Education managed by the VMJ, the Yoluth Committees as a model
of youth participation, and the national research projects with youth such as Proyecto Atlantida place
Colombia at the forefront of Latin America in terms of program development and technical expertise in
working with youth. A number of individuals and agencies that have participated in these initiatives have
been involved as consultants in this project.
5. Social Assessment:
The social assessment has involved a two-pronged approach. First, baseline surveys were carried
out as part of the preparation process in the original prescreened municipalities (i.e. Manizales,
Bucaramanga, Ibague). These surveys provided valuable information for shaping the project design by
assessing the needs, concerns and views of key stakeholders. The baseline surveys established the social,
cultural and institutional conditions of young men and women. Using a combination of secondary data and
qualitative methods, the sample survey collected information on the following: (i) characteristics of youth;
(ii) views, perceptions and expectations of youth; (iii) quality and quantity of youth services; and (iv)
concerns of service providers. The analysis takes into account gender, urban-rural, and socio-economic
factors, including differences between subpopulations of youth with and without links to formal
institutional services. The project management team with the assistance of the Resident Mission designed a
tool kit of instruments and a methodological approach for carrying out the social assessments and preparing
the participation plans (see Annex 12). These instruments were tested in Manizales and subsequently
revised. The instruments will also be tested in a different municipal setting prior to finalizing the tool kit.
During the second phase of the social assessment it is expected that the information generated through the
baseline survey will be instrumental in shaping the design of sub-projects at the local level.
6. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category [ ] A   [ ] B    [x ] C
No adverse environmental impact is expected, as project is unlikely to involve civil works.
7. Participatory approach
Project Preparation: The preparation of the baseline surveys provided a good opportunity to share
information, and to emphasize consultation in the search for alternative options for addressing the needs of
youth.  At three of the prescreened municipalities, a core group of relevant stakeholders was



19
organized to identify issues. This team worked in close collaboration with the central project preparation
team and with the research group conducting the baseline surveys.
Project Implementation: Building on lessons learned from similar settings, the project design has
adopted a highly participatory approach for the life of the project. In fact, broad based participation of
stakeholders is an essential feature of this operation and a key assumption to ensuring the success of the
service integration approach. Youth participation is viewed as both a means and an end in itself. The
importance of youth participation in political, social and economic life has been well documented and will
be promoted through many of the activities supported under the project, building on initiatives already
underway. For example, the Ley de Juventud makes provision for the creation of Municipal Youth
Councils (Consejos Municipales de Juventud) which give youth an active voice in public decision making.
As shown in the logical framework, the project aims to expand youth participation both in terms of
program attendance and involvement in public civic activities. The project also makes provision for on-
going participation of other relevant stakeholders through such means as (a) veedurias (oversight
committees) in specific services and (b) learning networks designed to share and disseminate the experience
from pilot sites. As part of project implementation, each locality will prepare a stakeholder analysis, a
participation plan and an assessment of the social viability of municipal projects based on the instruments
and methodology described above.
Primary beneficiaries and other key stakeholders:
The table below summarizes the key beneficiaries and stakeholders of the project and their
expected level of participation in three critical aspects: information sharing (IS), consultation (CON), and
collaboration or joint decision making (COL).



20
Preparation             Implementation
IS     CON   COL            IS     CON   COL
Primary Beneficiaries:
Youth                       X      X                    X      X       X
Service Providers           X      X                    X      X      X
Vice Ministry Staff         X      X      X             X      X      X
Other Stakeholders:
Municipal Authorities       X      X      X             X      X      X
Parents                     X                           X      X
NGO Staff                   X      X                    X      X      X
Academics                   X      X                    X      X
F: Sustainability and Risks
Attention has been given to ensuring that the project design is consistent with the technical,
financial, and institutional capabilities of the implementing agencies, and thus sustainable beyond the life of
the project. Sustainability of the project depends on several factors: (i) participating municipalities buying
into the project and having the political will to invest their own funds in continuing project activities; (ii)
NGOs and local service providers being able to generate sufficient resources through government and
private sector channels to sustain the project; and (iii) municipalities and the Vice Ministry of Youth
acquiring the ability to promote and sustain intersectoral collaboration at the national and municipal level
and service integration at the local level. The project was designed to maximize the probability that these
conditions would materialize. By enlisting the support of youth and community members from the initial
stage of project design through the implementation phase this should facilitate sustainability of the project.
Likewise, by avoiding infrastructure construction and investing in the long-termn institutional capabilities of
local youth-serving actors --NGOs, schools, public agencies working in health and vocational training-- the
project increases the chance of being sustainable in the long-run. Ultimately, the chances for sustainability
will rest on the willingness of local actors to collaborate, and to institutionalize that process.



21
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating      Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
*  Rapid staff turnover and lack of continuity          -Maintain a strong and autonomous
in decision making and commitment.    Substantial    PCU and promote participation of a
broad based number of stakeholders
to ensure continuity.
-The lack of a blue print design
implies that local communities will
have considerable autonomy and
flexibility in determining the project
design.
*  High drop out rates ofyouth from           Low       -Expand involvement of youth in
programs.                                           decision making, provide attractive
developmental opportunities and
mobilize parental and community
support.
*  Resistance to change and entrenched views   Modest  -Support continual mobilization
of staff to youth participation in local            efforts to work with service
agencies.                                           providers in adoption of new modes
of operation.
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
*  Fiscal constraints, which may lead to      Modest  -Control size and scope of project to
shortages of counterpart funding.                   the availability of funds. The cost
sharing arrangements involve a
relatively small share of Government
funding, which should be feasible to
achieve. Mobilization of municipal
authorities are expected to facilitate
their commitment to the operation,
which should translate into adequate
budgetary allocations.
*  Lack of solid commitment to new ways of              -Carry out focus group discussions
doing business through service provider    Substantial    to generate on-going support to
networks.                                           change among stakeholders and
provide incentives for collaboration.
*  Problems in identifying and organizing     Low       -Provide support for establishing a
expertise in service integration and                data base of national and
evaluation.                                         international experts, which would
be made available to municipal and
local authorities.
Overall Risk Rating
Substantial



22
In addition to the risks noted above, there are two exogenous factors which need to be highlighted.
First, the forthcoming changes in administrations at both the municipal (early 1998) and central (mid
1998) levels. This potential risk may actually serve as an opportunity for getting the new municipal
administrations on board early in the project design, using the LIL to get a better match between the project
cycle (3 years) and the three-year life of the municipal administrations. Second, the complex political and
social context under which the project will be implemented may limit the effectiveness of the interventions.
The incidence of violence, in particular in some project areas may hinder project implementation both
literally and figuratively. In environments which reward immediate returns (e.g. emphasis on the here and
now), where families and schools have lost their socialization powers and the drug lords and gang leaders
have promoted and legitimized alternative value systems, it will be most challenging to instill a sense of
personal and civic responsibility. This potential risk may be partly mitigated by using local interventions to
promote conflict resolution skills and strengthen community relations.
"For the children ofMedellin, drug trafficking brings thefantasy of wealth and the reality of death1. First it becomes normal to
witness killing and dying... then, to kill and to die. "Alonzo Salazar
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
0  Agreement between the Vice Ministry of Youth and UNDP has been executed in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.
O The model of a municipal agreement to be used between participating municipalities and UNDP has
been reviewed and found satisfactory by the Bank.
O The operating manual has been issued by the Vice Ministry of Youth in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.
0 An accounting system acceptable to the Bank has been introduced.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]:
N/A
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [x ] Not applicable.
[] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation. N/A
[X1 The Implementation/Evaluation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[  The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):



23
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x ] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ]   [The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. N/A. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.]
Miriam Schneidman, Task Manager                       Andres Solimano, CMU Director
Xavier Coll, Director, LCSHD



24
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Colombia: Youth Development Project
Sector-related CAS Goal
* Improve human capital    * 5% increase in schools           . Municipal and      * Political stability.
development and promote    completions.*                     local statistics from   * Stable external
peace.                   * 5% increase in youth employment    existing databases.    environment.
* Improve the quality of life    among                        . Special project-   * Sound financial
for low-income youth by    18-25 year-olds.*                  based surveys,       and
improving their chances of * 5% increase in youth participation  interviews.       macroeconomic
completing education,     in community activities.*                                policies.
entering the labor market,  * 2% reduction in youth crime and
and establishing good      violence.*
interpersonal and
community relationships.   *Medium-term goals for youth in
neighborhoods where local project
focus on this objective.
Pro2ram Development
Obiective
*  Facilitate nationwide use                                                         Multi-sectorial
of multi-sectorial                                                               approach
approach to working                                                              implemented
with low-income youth.                                                           successfully
nationwide.
Proiect Develomment
Obiective                  * 10% increase in numbers of youth   * Municipal and    * Solid commitment
who use services and attend       local statistics from    to and sufficient
* To test and evaluate       activities.                        existing databases.    resources for an
alternative multi-sectorial   * All municipal committees have at   * Records of    integrated service
and participatory         least 15% active youth members.     training, technical  approach which
approaches to developing   * All municipal committees have    assistance, and      yields promising
and delivering services    active participants from 80% of    learning netwvork.   results to justify
and providing activities   major service sectors.          * Special project-      replication on a
for low-income youth.    50% of requests handled by learning  based surveys,       larger scale.
network come from people other than    interviews.
those directly involved in pilot
projects.



25
Outputs                      * Technical assistance is in place and  * Institutional records  * Continuity in
1. Improved national           responding adequately to 80% of       and reports and        decision making
capacity to assist          requests for assistance.              interviews with key     and commitment
municipalities in         * Evaluation expertise contracted to    actors.                 at all levels.
establishing multi-          conduct national evaluation and                           * Continued youth
sectorial services and       supervise local evaluators.        * Examination of          participation.
activities for youth.     * Evaluation plan in place and all      budgets and other    * Staff have
local evaluations proceeding         commitments.            developed
according to plan.                 * User feedback           positive attitudes
* Learning network in place and         surveys.               toward youth.
disseminating best practices       * Records of training   * Continued
through electronic, paper, and       sessions.               political support
conference modalities.             * Records of             at local levels.
dissemination
activities.
2. Functioning municipal     * At least 3 municipal networks in    * Management
networks that consist of     place and operating.                 reports  from
committees that plan and   * At least 5 additional municipal      municipal
develop multi-sectorial      networks in process of               committees.
services and activities for  development.                       * Case studies by
low-income youth in local  * At least 6 local projects designed.  local evaluators.
communities and           * At least 3 local projects fully     * Interviews with key
provider agencies which      implemented.                         actors.
deliver services and
support activities.
3. Availability of and access   * 50% of institutions offer        * Quarterly case
to improved and/or new       comprehensive services approp.ate    study reports,
integrated services and     to the needs of youth.                including records
activities for low-income   * 5% of institutional budgets (e.g.,  of decisions made.
youth, including those       school, health) devoted to         * Budget documents.
aimed at promoting          assessment and referral and to      * Client records of
school retention,           improved and/or new multisectorial    assessments and
employment readiness,       activities withlin existing           services received.
health, conflict             institutions.
resolution, and civic     * 10% of service delivery or
participation.               organization of activities is done by
youth (e.g., peer counselors)



26
Proiect Components          * 80% of requesters rate technical  * Quarterly reports by  * Timely
1. Establishing the           assistance materials as enough,    the responsible        availability of
institutional framework    appropriate, and helpful.           parties.              funds.
needed at the national   * 80% of requests for local experts    * Surveys of technical  * Commitment to
level to:                  filled, and requesters report that  assistance and        multi-sectoral
a. Deliver technical       experts werc knowledgeable and      learning network      approach at all
assistance to design    helpful.                            users.                levels (political
and evaluate local    * Adequate electronic and other     * Budget documents.    leadership,
multi-sectorial         means of communication and       * Surveys and            service providers,
programs for low-       dissemination available to project.    interviews of key  youth).
income youth;         * Adequate evaluation expertise       informants by       * Availability of
b. Operate a learning      identified and contracted to work   evaluation team       knowledge and
network to              on project.                         with respect to       expertise related
disseminate best                                            activities,           to service
practices for                                              timetables, and        integration and
integrated service                                          expenditures.         evaluation.
development and
delivery to a broad
base of participants
including government
and private entities,
NGOs, academic
groups, and youth;
c. Collect information at
the national and
municipal levels to
monitor and evaluate
local projects.
2. Developing municipal     * 80% of council meetings have     * Records of
committees with broad      broad sectoral and youth            municipal
sectoral representation,   representation.                  X committees.
that will:               * 50% of relevant staff in         * Case study by local
a. Create an               participating agencies attend       evaluation team
implementation plan     training and teclnical assistance   documenting
for integrated services    sessions.                        municipal and local
at the community      * All draft and final implementation  activities, timetable,
level;                  plans completed and of high         and expenditures.
b. Identif technical       quality.                          * Surveys and
assistance and        * 80% of necessary terms of           interviews with
training needs;         agreement in place according to     municipal council
c. Formalize terms of      implementation plans.               members, youth,
agreement among       * Local evaluation team in place and  and other key
local service           working in all participating        actors.
providers;              municipalities.
d. Assure participation  * Youth represent at least 15% of
and empowerment of      representatives of municipal
youth in all planning   committees.
activities; and
e. Oversee evaluation



27
plan.                l                                    l
- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  'A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.:.. .......  
3. Providing enhanced and    * 50% of participating service       * Surveys and
integrated services and     agencies in the project              interviews of
activities to youth, that   neighborhood and at least 50% of     service staff who do
are accessible and          their staff are engaged in changing  and do not
appropriate to their        assessment and service delivery      participate in
needs, and in which         practice toward more                 institutional
youth have significant      integrated/holistic approach.        change.
roles in service design                                          Surveys and
and delivery.                                                    interviews with
youth who do and
do not participate in
project development



28
STRATEGY FOR LEARNING AND INNOVATION LOAN
What does the Government expect to learn from the LIL?
The pilot intervention tested through the LIL is expected to provide the Government important insights to
the following themes:
What are alternative modelsfor service integration?
*  What are the conditions under which service integration yields best results (political commitment, strong
institutional and implementation capacities, willingness to collaborate)?
*  What are the types of youth problems whichi can be addressed most effcctively through service integration?
*  What are the conditions under which service integration fosters greater utilization of services and improved
satisfaction?
*  What levels of effective youth and community participation are possible under service integration?
*  What are the minimal necessary activities which are necessary to establish service integration schemes?
*  What are the necessary incentives to encourage service providers to move from a single sector approach to
integrated service schemes?
*  What are the best administrative and financial modalities for carrying out service integration schemes?
Does service integration represent a cost-effective meansfor attaining the results expected?
*  What is the cost per youth of existing services at the initiation of the municipal projects?
*  What is the cost per youth associated with the service integration schemes?
*  What are the incremental costs associated with service integration in relation to the benefits generated?
* What is the cost per youth under the altcrinative service integration models developed in participating
municipalities?
How to build the state's institutional capabilities to foster the development and use of service integration
approaches?
*  Under what conditions can the VMJ strengthen its normative, policy and coordinating functions?
*  Under what conditions can municipalities strengthen their capacities to establish service integration schemes,
and to mobilize various stakeholders?
*  What are the incentives necessary to sustain broad based participation of the private sector and civil society?



29
Key Trigger Points:
National Level:
An institutional framework has been established:  (i) to provide technical assistance to participating
municipalities in the design and inmplementationt of local service integration scheme; and (ii) to design and
sustain a national learning network.
0  Technical assistance in place, and positive feedback has been received from  80%  of participating
municipalities.
0  A learning network is in place, including an information data base, and disseminating best practice in service
integration through seminars, technical documents, and consultations.
0  Evaluation plan in place and proceeding on schedule.
Municipal Level:
Of the total participating municipalities, at least three have functioning netwvorks in place and are including
youth in the design of their implententation pl(n and at least 5 more have netivorks in process of development.
0  Municipal networks in place and consisting of: (a) municipal committees which have developed
implementation plans that imply joint programming and establishing terms of agreement for local service
integration schemes; and (b) major servicc sectors (education, hcaltli, employment) and other stakeholders.
0  At least 15 percent active youth participation on municipal committees and their views are taken into account
in the design of the implementation plans.
Of the total participating institutions, 50 percent offer conmprehensive services appropriate to the needs of youth.
0  New or improved multi-sectorial activities are undervay, a referral system is functioning and 5 percent of
institutional budgets are devoted to the service integration sclhemes.
0  Positive feedback is received from users from at least one municipality in terms of meeting the needs of youth
in a holistic fashion.
0  System ofjoint record keeping has been implemented in at least one municipality.



30
Annex 2
Youth Development Project
Project Description
Project Component 1: Establishment of National Institutional Framework (US$1.30 million)
This component would support the establishment of a national institutional framework to: (i)
deliver technical assistance for the design and evaluation of local multi-sectorial programs for low-income
youth through the Vice Ministry of Youth  and its collaborators (NGOs, research organizations,
foundations); (ii) establish and operate a learning network to disseminate best practices; and (iii) design and
management of an evaluation system to monitor and assess results, and provide elements for scaling up.
The following are specific activities to be carried out as part of this component:
0  Development and Delivery of Technical Assistance: Financing would be provided for the Vice
Ministry to facilitate the provision of technical assistance to participating municipalities. This would
include developing a roster of consultants and firms specialized in service integration and youth
programs (e.g. educational support, school retention, cultural promotion, civic participation, health
promotion, violence prevention, and employment promotion), producing technical support documents
for participating municipalities, communities and youth-serving organizations, and delivering the
technical assistance. The Project Coordinating Unit set up within the Vice Ministry of Youth would
thus serve as a clearinghouse for technical assistance targeted to participating municipalities and
would, as necessary, organize training sessions and seminars to strengthen the ability of municipalities
and communities to work with low-income youth.
0 Establishment of Learning Netivork: The Vice Ministry of Youth and its partners would spearhead a
major effort to establish a resource base of national and international projects that use holistic,
integrated approaches to working with youth. This would involve collecting or developing publications
of best practices, with a particular focus on service integration experiences, methods to promote youth
participation in program design and implementation, strategies for promoting decentralization of youth
services and convivencia (coexistence) at the community level. Dissemination would be carried out
through a learning network of government and private entities, including youth-serving organizations,
NGOs and research organizations to exchange experiences and lessons learned. Various seminars will
be organized for exchanging lessons learned betwveen youth-serving professionals and researchers
working on the project at the national level, and between participating municipalities. To facilitate
these activities, financing would be provided for information technology to connect selected
municipalities (e.g. computers, modems, telephone equipment), workshops, seminars, and publications
to disseminate best practice, and study tours.
0  Monitoring and Evaluation System: Financing will allow the Vice Ministry of Youth to support the
establishment of a national evaluation group comprised of universities, foundations and technical
experts. This group will be responsible for: design and overall management of a national evaluation
system, including: (i) designing instruments, protocols and indicators to be agreed upon with technical
members of the municipal teams; (ii) providing technical assistance and training to the municipal
evaluation teams in developing their local evaluation plans; (iii) designing and carrying out strategies
(e.g. disseminating publications, carrying out seminars) to feed the results from the evaluation system
into the learning network; (iv) preparing status reports for the central and municipal teams on the
advances of the evaluation system and on the relative advances of each municipality.
Project Component 2: Municipal Component (US$6.25 million)



31
The Municipal Component supports the establishment of learning networks consisting of:
municipal committees (comites municipales) which plan, implement, and disseminate best practice on the
service integration schemes, and (ii) service provider agencies which deliver the new and/or improved
services to low-income youth. Specific activities to be carried out would include:
Network Establishment (US$1.35 million) The Network Establishment Sub-Component aims to:
O Establish Municipal Committees for Service Integration: A municipal committee (comite municipal)
would be formed and consist of representatives of government (i.e. municipal agencies working on
issues related to youth), private sector, and civil society (e.g. NGOs, youth, parents). The composition
of the municipal committees would be driven by the types of service integration schemes to be designed
in each municipality. The municipal council would select the local communities for participation in the
project, develop an implementation plan, and provide oversight for implementation of the municipality's
service integration scheme.
O  Develop an Implementation Plan for Integrated Services at the Community Level: The municipal
council would design collaboratively and in a participatory fashion a detailed implementation plan for
the service integration scheme, fleshing out the anteproyectos submitted to the Vice Ministry of Youth
to determine participation in the project. In designing the implementation plans, municipalities would
have access to technical assistance both from the VMJ and other experts (e.g. universities, consultant
firms, NGOs). Special attention would be devoted to how youth would be empowered and how
participation would be promoted in the planning and implementation of the integrated services. The
plan would cover both improvements to existing services and/or new services/activities, as deemed
necessary by the local community.
O Formalize Terms of Agreement among Local Service Providers: Based on the municipal plan, local
service providers would enter into formal agreements which spell out the conditions for collaboration,
including referral mechanisms and information requirements.
O  Manage the Monitoring and Evaluation System: Financing will allow the Municipal Committee to
support the establishment of a small municipal evaluation group comprised of representatives of local
universities, NGOs and technical experts to design and manage the municipal evaluation plan. This
group would spearhead the following activities: the social assessment, baseline research on the
diagnosis of the situation of youth and availability of services, application of instruments and
protocols agreed upon with the national group, project monitoring, and disseminating lessons amongst
youth and staff of the service network and other interested audiences.
Project financing would be used for workshops and focus group discussions for the consejos
municipales; technical assistance for the preparation of the implementation plans and for the evaluation
system; and seminars, workshops, and materials disseminating best practices.



32
Integrated Service Provision and Youth Activities (US$4.9 million)
The Integrated Service Provision and Youth Activities Sub-Component would support the
implementation of the municipal plan for improved and/or new services and activities which use an
integrated and participatory approach to addressing youth needs in the target community in the areas of
intervention noted below. Integrated services would be implemented using one or more of the following
delivery strategies:
O  Providing multiple services in a pre-existing location using a one-stop shopping approach by
mobilizing existing service delivery organizations. This strategy would work by getting local service
providers (health clinic, SENA) to attend to youth in a community facility, such as a secondary school
in its after-school hours. For example, in a given community, SENA or NGOs that work in vocational
education would offer vocational training in a local secondary school. In this same school, the local
health clinic, and/or local NGOs working in health education with youth, would offer health education
and counseling.
O  Co-locating services in multiple sites. Under such an arrangement, a range of services would be
provided at more than one site. For example, a local health center may provide health education
activities at local school or community center.
O  Establishing a linked network of youth services by providing a system of transportation, referral and
joint programming of activities.
The exact nature of the local service integration scheme would be determined by the participating
municipality, but at a minimum would include one or more of the following activities:
* Joint staff training and other activities to share and exchange information on their activities and
services, to promote greater understanding of the needs of youth, and to provide new instruments for
working with low-income youth.
Joint programming in which youth from various service providers are brought together for activities
and services.
* Joint record-keeping and referral systems by which youth receiving services at one agency would be
referred for appropriate services at other participating agencies.
Based on the needs of youth in participating communities, and as identified in the baseline needs
assessment, the municipal plan would involve the improvement of existing services and/or implementation
of new services. The services to be funded would not replace or substitute services that are provided by
traditional service sectors (e.g. health, education and employment/vocational training). The municipal sub-
projects would be carried out through contractual agreements with local public and private service
providers. The following are the types of interventions that would be funded as part of the local service
integration schemes:
(i) Learning Outcomes and Educational Support:
-Use of school spaces for youth and community activities with the participation of the school community
(comunidad escolar).
-Community and/or institutional support systems for youth with academic and/or personal difficulties.
-Community service activities to enhance learning process for students.



33
-Student government and other means for youth to feel more connected to the public education system and
their school.
(ii) Employment Promotion:
-Information on vocational training options, and job opportunities in their local community.
-Job orientation provided as part of the secondary school curriculum.
-Vocational counseling and orientation for out-of-school youth.
-Agreements with the local private sector to provide on-the-job training, job shadowing and other avenues
for low-income youth to become familiar with the formal workplace.
(iii) Health Prevention and Promotion:
-Life skills training to learn problem solving and assertiveness.
-Peer mentoring for health outreach campaigns.
-School-based or school-linked health education.
- Promotion of environmental sanitation activities.
(iv) Civic Participation, Community Service and Youth Participation:
-Youth involvement in the community, including holding local fora for youth on community needs.
-Opportunities for youth to plan and carry out their own projects in community service.
-Activities in which parents, families and youth participate jointly, such as local cultural events.
-Conflict resolution and mediation skills and citizenship education.



34
Annex 3
Youth Development Project
Estimated Project Costs
Proiect Comnonent                                 Government a/        Bank           Total
-------------------US $ million---
National Component: Institutional                 .40             .90            1.30
Reinforcement
Municipal Component:                              2.40            3.85           6.25
Network Establishment
Service Provision & Youth Activities
Sub-Total                                              2.80            4.75           7.55
Refinancing of PPF                                                      .25            .25
Total Proiect Cost                                     2.8              5.0            7.8
36%             64%            100%
a/ Out of the total local costs, the central Government would contribute 20 percent and the
participating municipalities roughly 16 percent.



35
Annex 4
Youth Development Project
Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
This annex presents the proposed approach to the economic evaluation of the project. The economic
analysis of the LIL serves two fundamental purposes. First, it establishes an ex ante framework to assess
the potential medium and long-term benefits of the project and to analyze these benefits in comparison with
other projects. By viewing youth issues for the first time from an economic perspective, this analysis is
expected to strengthen the credibility and visibility of the Vice Ministry of Youth, strengthen its hand in
mobilizing national resources for these critical issues, and attract other donors and organizations. Second,
the framework outlined in this annex serves as a monitoring and evaluation tool by which policymakers can
evaluate the medium and long-term benefits generated by the project in comparison to a pre-defined set of
indicators.
The analysis of the proposed Youth Development Project focuses primarily on the reduction of social costs
associated with violence in Colombia. The analysis uses several indicators of the social costs associated
with violence to determine the potential impact of the project. The potential benefits to the project are then
compared with the costs of the types of interventions to be supported under the operation.
Rationale for public financing of youth development interventions in Colombia
There are two compelling arguments for investing public resources in Colombia's youth. First, such
investment will significantly promote equity and alleviate the consequences of poverty in the country, since
many of the problems that the proposed project would address are confined to the poorest segments of the
population. Second, investments in Colombia's youth have multiple payoffs, both in terms of direct and
indirect costs associated with violence and delinquency in Colombia (e.g. reduction in incarceration costs
and a reduction in mortality). Moreover, violence in Colombia is a significant obstacle to continued
economic development.
Summary of Estimated Costs and Benefits
The economic and social costs associated with violence in Colombia are staggering. With one of the
highest homicide rates in the world (92 per 100,000 inhabitants compared to 20 in Brazil and 5 in
Argentina), development prospects are hindered by both the direct (diversion of scarce resources to deal
with criminal justice, incarceration, and medical treatment of injured or disabled) and indirect costs (higher
dropout rates leading to lower earnings lcvels). Studies by researchers in Colombia suggest that the
previous decade of violence resulted in a 2 percent reduction in average annual growth.
The economic analysis of the proposed project considers the following benefits: (i) potential benefits from
preventing youth from dropping out of school (e.g. higher earnings and public/private nonmarket benefits);
(ii) a reduction in costs associated with criminal activity (e.g. incarceration and additional costs to criminal
justice system); (iii) the indirect costs associated with a reduction in mortality associated with youth
violence; and (iv) reduction in direct costs associated with drug use, including drug rehabilitation, medical
costs, and lost productivity. In terms of the costs of implementation, the analysis considers the investment
costs of the proposed project, and any recurrent costs to be incurred as a result of extending the proposed
interventions.
Discount Rate
A discount rate of 12 percent is used for the analysis.



36
Summary of Sensitivity Analysis
Youth Development Project
N/A
NPV                     IERR
Type of Sensitivity Analysis        :       (US$million)                 0
Scenario 1:
Base Case
2-year delay
3-year delay
20% reduction in benefits
40% reduction in benefits
20% reduction in benefits and 2-year delay



37
Annex 5
Youth Development Project
Financial Summary
N/A
Years Ending
(Indicate currency, units and base year)
Implementation Period                    Operational Period
Prjgect Costs
Investment Costs
Recurrent Costs
Total
Financing Sources (% of
total proiect costs)
IBRD/IDA
Co-financiers
Government
Central
Local
User Fees/Beneficiaries
Others
Others
Others
Others
Others
Total
Main assumptions:
Note: Recurrent cost analysis underway.



38
Annex 6
Youth Development Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
A. Procurement Arrangements
Procurement of services, goods and works as well as the contracting of consultants would be
carried out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD loans and IDA Credits
(January 1995, revised in January and August 1996, and September 1997), Guidelines for Selection and
Employment of Consultants (January 1997, revised in September 1997), and the provisions stipulated in
the Loan Agreement. The procurement arrangements are summarized in Table A below.
The Borrower will hire UNDP with its own resources to administer all project funds on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. An agreement would be signed with UNDP stipulating the terms for
adninistering the funds for the Institutional Strengthening Component, which wvould be carried out by the
Vice Ministry of Youth and those to be funnelled through UNDP to Municipalities. Additional agreements
would be signed by each participating municipality, detailing the arrangements for administering its
participation in the Municipal Development Component. An Operational Manual is under preparation,
which would include the procurement procedures and standard bidding documents to be used, and the
financial and disbursement procedures. The Operational Manual would also provide information on
supervision, reporting and auditing requirements to ensure the transparent and efficient use of resources.
Municipal Sub-Projects Each municipality would receive an average of about US$600,000 to
support the design and execution of local sub-projects. Contracts estimated to cost less than US$100,000
equivalent, up to an aggregate amount of US$600,000 per municipality, would be contracted through
public and private entities according to the procedures established in the Operational Manual agreed with
the Bank; such procedures would require in each case that acquisitions be made on the basis of comparison
of price quotations allowing for sole sourcing when shopping is not feasible (ref. para. 3.15 of the Bank's
Guidelines). The sub-project agreements would include provisions regarding the procurement procedures
to be used by the eligible entities, which would include written quotations from at least three qualified
contractors or suppliers of goods, works, and services. The Bank would carry out procurement audits
annually to assure that established procedures are being followed.
Civil Works The project does not foresee civil works except any minor rehabilitation of
community facilities which might be carried out according to the procedures detailed in the operational
manual for the municipal sub-projects.
Goods Goods to be procured under the project include: (i) computers, (ii) audiovisual equipment,
(iii) training materials, and (iv) supplies and materials, according to the following procedures:
(a)   International Competitive Bidding (ICB) wvould be used for goods estimated to cost
US$150,000.
(b)    National Competitive Bidding (NCB), acceptable to the Bank, vould be used for other
goods estimated to cost more than US$50,000 but less than US$150,000 cquivalent up to an aggregate



39
amount of US$300,000.
(c)   International or National Shopping procedures, as determined by the borrower, would be
used for smaller purchases valued at less than US$50,000 equivalent up to an aggregate amount of
US$100,000.
Consulting Services and Training The services to be financed by the project would include
consultant assistance and training in the design and implementation of the monitoring and evaluation plan
and learning network activities, delivery of technical assistance to municipalities to prepare, implement, and
monitor their service integration schemes, and preparation of publications and communication services.
Consulting services and training would be procured following QCBS (Quality Cost Based Selection) except
as noted below. For consulting services regarding monitoring and evaluation and learning network
activities, Quality Based Selection (QBS) would be used; the project anticipates that this option will be the
one normally applied. For consulting services regarding facilitation of focus group discussions and
workshops, and drafting of collaborative agreements, estimated to cost less than US$75,000 Consultant
Qualifications (CQ) would be used. The short list of consultants under QCBS may be comprised of only
national firns if the estimated cost of the services is less than US$100,000. Individuals will be hired up to
an aggregate amount of US$400,000.
Procurement Revieiv Prior review by the Bank would include (i) all ICB procurement; (ii) first
two contracts for goods procured through NCB procedures; (iii) first two contracts, each year, using
shopping for goods; and (iv) for consultants, all terms of reference, as well as technical evaluations and
contracts over US$50,000 for individuals, and up to US$100,000 or more for firms, and all contracts for
firm under US$100,000. To facilitate this process, the Vice Ministry of Youth would submit to the Bank,
a plan for the recruitment of consultants, with terms of reference and estimated costs. Bank supervision
missions will conduct random ex-post reviews, including assessments of procurement documentation.
Additionally, the systematic review of the first two contracts of each type would monitor quality and
consistency in the application of Bank Guidelines and procurement procedures. A procurement specialist
will be part of the Bank supervision missions, as deemed necessary.  I
A Procurement Plan satisfactory to the Bank for the three-year life of the project would be
elaborated. A project launch workshop to familiarize the Project Coordinating Unit with procurement,
disbursement, reporting and auditing requirements would be organized at an early stage in project
implementation.
B. Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed over a period of about three years and be completed
by June 30, 2001. The project closing date would be December 31, 2001 (six months after the completion
date).
Disbursements would be made against the following categories of expenditure:
(a) Goods - computer and audiovisual equipment, training materials, and other goods not included
in the Municipal Sub-projects (100% of foreign expenditures and 65% of local expenditures)
(b) Consultant Services, Training, and Seminars - including individual services, technical
assistance, publications and communication services (100%).



40
(c) Municipal Sub-projects - (65% of cost of each sub-project).
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs):
Disbursements would be made on the basis of full documentation for all expenditures made under
contracts requiring prior review by the Bank, as described above.  For all other expenditures,
disbursements would be granted against SOEs for which supporting documents would be maintained by the
Vice Ministry of Youth and UNDP, and made available for examination by Bank staff during supervision
missions. All other disbursement requests will be fully documented. In addition, other technical and
financial data regarding Municipal sub-projects will be available from the Vice Ministry of Youth and
UNDP.
Audits:
An independent auditor would be recruited before effectiveness and its contract renewed at the
beginning of each fiscal year if found satisfactory. TORs of audit would be reviewed by the Bank.
Certified copies of the yearly audit reports will be furnished to the Bank within six months after the close of
the government's fiscal year. In addition, auditors working with the municipalities would undertake semi-
annual physical audits of a sample of municipal sub-projects, with the size of the sample acceptable to the
Bank, following acceptable accounting norms and procedures. Auditors would review individual contracts,
ascertain compliance with terms of contracts, reconcile the physical progress with financial expenses
incurred, and verify that procurement guidelines are being respected. The findings of the auditors will be
included in progress reports submitted to the Bank.



41
Annex 6
Table Al: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$million equivalent)
Total Cost
Expenditure Category                 Procurement Method                 (including
__________  contingencies)
ICB        NCB        Other     N.B.F
1. Goods                                                        _
Computer & Audiovisual                 .3          .8                     1.1
Equipment & Training       (.3)       (.3)        (.1)                   (.7)
Materials
2. Consultant Services,
Training and Serninars\a                          _
Training, Publications &   X                       1.8                    1.8
Communication Services
3. Municipal Subprojects \b                             4.9                     4.9
(2.85)                 (2.85)
4. Refinancing of PPF                                  (.25)                   (.25)
Total                                     .3         7.5                     7.8
____________________________     (3)         (.3)      (4.40)                  (5.0)
Notes: N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
The Project does not foresee any Civil Works, except those which might be carried under the
municipal subprojects.
a/ Consultant services would be contracted as shown in Table A2.
b/ Municipal subprojects would be prepared and executed at the local level in participating municipalities.
Contracts estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent up to an aggregate amount of
US$600,000 per municipality would be contracted through public or private organizations or
entities.



42
Annex 6
Table A2: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(in US$million equivalent)
Consultant
Services               Selection Method              Total Cost (including
Expenditure                                              contingencies)
Category
QBS      QCBS      CQ       Other
A. Firms and        .5    .2        .1                         0.8
NGOs           _  _  __              _   _ _   _  _
B. Individuals                                .4               .4
Total      .5    .2                   .4               1.2
Note: QBS = Quality-Based Selection;
QCBS = Quality Cost Based Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines)



43
Annex 6
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure             Contract Value        Procurement     Contracts Subject to
Category               (Threshold)            Method            Prior Review
US $ thousands                            US $ millions
1. Goods                                                            i
Computer &                    >150                  ICB                 All
Audiovisual
Equipment & Training      50<NCB<150               NCB               First two
Materials                    <50                Shopping        First two each year
2. Consultant Services,
Training and Seminars
Firms/NGOs                    >100              QCBS, QBS               All
<75                  CQ                  All
Individuals                    >            _ _ l   __ __ >50  X  l     All
<50                               Bi-annual program
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  and     all  T O R s
3. Municipal Subprojects    ________________ _
All procurement                     <100              3 quotations:      Ex-post audits
operational manual



44
Annex 6
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category                Amount in       Financing Percentage
US$million
Goods                                              .70            100% of foreign
expenditures
65% of local
expenditures
Consultant Services, Training,                     1.20               100%
and Semninars
Municipal Subprojects                              2.85         65% of cost of each
subproject
Refinancing of PPF                                 .25
Total         5.0



45
Annex 7
Youth Development Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget                                  Planned               Actual
105K            85K (year to date)
(FY98 revised
budget)
B. Project Schedule                                Planned                Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months) a/                           7 months
Identification mission                                                  8/15/1997
Appraisal mission departure                       3/15/1998              3/08/98
Negotiations                                       7/9/98
Planned Date of Effectiveness                     10/15/98
a/ This figure somewhat underestimates the time spent in preparing this operation,
as some time was already spent in previous fiscal years in the context of another
operation which was subsequently dropped.
Prepared by: Vice Ministry of Youth , Ministry of Education
Preparation Assistance: PPF: 250K; PHRD Grant: 900K
Bank Project Preparation Team:
Name                                       Specialty
Miriam Schneidman                              Task Leader
Constance Corbett                         Country Sector Leader
Roberto Cucullu                                 Lawyer
Issam Abousleiman                          Disbursement Officer
Jairo Arboleda                       Social Assessment/Participation
Martha Laverde                           Institutional Assessment
Livio Pino                             Financial Management
Maria Lucy Giraldo                         Procurement Specialist
Marta Ospina                             Procurement Analyst
Harry Patrinos                                Economics
Martha Burt                     Monitoring and Evaluation (Consultant)
Gary Barker                        Youth Development (Consultant)
Jose Weinstein                     Non-formal Education (Consultant)
James Cercone                           Economics (Consultant)
Paula di Mauro                              Task Assistant



46
Annex 8
Youth Development Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project/Implementation Evaluation Plan: See Annex 11
B. Bank Staff/Consultant Assessments
(i) Study Tour Report of Integrated Youth Services, Gary Barker (July 1997)
(ii) The Importance of Family and Community Social Capital in the Creation of Human Capital in Urban
Colombia, Felicia Marie Knaul and Harry Anthony Patrinos, Executive Summary (August 1997)
(iii) Mission Report, Jose Weinstein (September 1997)
(iv) Financial Management Mission Aide Memoire, Livio Pino (Aide Memoire, September 1997)
(v) Social Evaluation and Participation Report, Jairo Arboleda (November 1997)
(vi) Evaluation Mission, Martha Burt (November 1997)
(vii) Economic Analysis: Methodological Framework, James Cercone (November 1997).
(viii) Institutional Assessment, Martha Laverde (January 1998)
(ix) Procurement Mission, Marta Ospina (January 1998)
C. Government Sector and Project Reports:
Adolescentes: Sexualidad y Comportamientos de Riesgo para la Salud. Segun Encuesta de Conocimientos
Actitudes y Practicas. IV Seguro Social, PROFAMILIA. Santa Fe de Bogota, Julio de 1994.
Arias, G. M. L., Arbelaez de Yepes, A. C., et al (1992) Timidez y agresividad en la escuela. Serie
Alegria de Ensefnar. Vida Escolar en Colombia. Segunda Edici6n. Fundaci6n FES.
Arias, R.M.E., Bueno, G.L., et al (1993) La Autocracia Escolar: Reglamento,Disciplina, Justicia y
Castigo. Fundaci6n FES. Abril.
Aguirre, M. F., Gonzalez V., et al (1995) La Evaluacion Escolar. Serie Vida Escolar Fondo Resurgir-
FES Caldas. Colombia.
Asociaci6n Salud con Prevenci6n, Analisis cle la Situaci6n del Adolescente Colombiano, Conclusiones de
la Reuni6n de los Expertos, May, 1994.
Becher, J.C., Rizo, G. A., (1994) Reproductive Health Services for Adolescents in Colombia. University
of Colorado Health Sciences Center.
Benposta Naci6n de Muchachos - Colombia Programas de Formaci6n Integral para Nifios, Nifias y
J6venes.
Bohada, N., Lozano, Z. Garz6n, D., Molina, F. La Fuga de la llusi6n FES, 1993.
Bland6n, G.M.A., Patinlo, G.M.I, Yusti, D., L. N. (1991) Cumplen los castigos una funci6n educativa?.



47
Vida Escolar en Colombia Serie: Alegria de EnsePlar. Fundaci6n FES.
Cajiao, R.F. (1994) Poder y Justicia en la Escuela Colombiana. Vida Escolar en Colombia Serie: Alegria
de Enseniar. Ensayo Fundaci6n FES.
Castaflo, H.L. (1993) Educaci6n, Empleo y Desempleo en Colombia. Formacion para el Trabajo
Relaciones entre Educaci6n, Capacitaci6n y Producci6n Medellin: Fundacion FES Memorias-Foro: 76-89.
CINDE,PAHO/WHO,I.I.N., UNICEF. Hacia el Fortalecimiento de Aciones e Interacciones en Favor de la
Niniez Informe Primer Encuentro sobre redes de NiFlez de America Latina y el Caribe. Santa Marta,
Colombia, Agosto, 1993.
Ciudad Don Bosco " Hogar de J6venes, Futuro de Hombres". 30 Afios
Duque, A., Molano, R., D., et al (1995) Tres Miradas al Mtndo Escolar: El Espiritu Cientdfico,
Proyectos de Vida e Imagen del Maestro. Fondo Resurgir-FES Tolima.
El Dramna de la Niniez Maltratada en Colombia (1992) Primer Encuentro sobre la Prevenci6n y
Tratamiento del Maltrato al Menor. Asociaci6n Colombiana para la Defensa del Menor Maltratado.
Florez, C.E., Knaul, F.M., y Mendez, R. (1994) Un analisis cuantitativo del trabajo infantil y juvenil en
Colombia. Desarrollo y Sociedad. Bogota: Centro de Estudios sobre Desarrollo Econ6mico (CEDE).
Facultad de Economia. Universidad de los Andes, 34,179-225.
Forero, A. R., Ortiz, G.M., et al  Es facil la comunicaci6n con los nin7os?: Hacia un maestro
Democrctico. FES, 1994.
Franco, S. (1994) La Violencia en Colombia. Serie: Temas y Tecnicas. Asociaci6n Colombiana para la
Defensa del Menor Maltratado (ACDMM). Bogota: Comite de Publicidad y Divulgaci6n 3: 1-13.
Fundacion para la Educaci6n Superior. (1995) Tres Estudios Ineditos Sobre los Menores Infractores en
Colombia. Primer Documento. El Tratamiento del Menor Infractor en Bogota.
Garcia R.E., Cardona, J.M.M. (1994) El lenguaje de la sextalidad en tu adolescencia: PROFAMILIA:
Centro para j6venes. Medellin (Col):Alas Libres Editorial.
Garz6n, S.L.M., Ojeda, G.O. (1993) Estudio sobre conocimientos, actitudes y comportamiento sexual de
los adolescentes en seis ciudades de Colombia. Direcci6n de Planeaci6n e Investigaci6n: PROFAMILIA.
Bogota.
Garz6n, S.L.M., Ojeda, G.O. Estudio sobre educacion sexual, salud y planificaci6n familiar con
adolescentes en tres ciudades de Colombia. Bogota: Direcci6n de Planeaci6n e Investigaci6n:
PROFAMILIA, 1994.
G6mez, A.I., Burgos, L. F., et al Armero: paraiso perdido. Fondo Resurgir-FES Tolima (Abril 1995.)
Instituto Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar. Subdirecci6n Operativa de Protecci6n. Carta de Derecho de
Familia No. 32 y No. 33 Santa Fe de Bogota, 1994.
Instituto Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar. Subdirecci6n Operativa de Protecci6n Especial . Divisi6n de



48
Atenci6n al Menor de y en la Calle y Otras Poblaciones Vulnerables: Casa de Atenci6n en Programas de
Desintoxificaci6n de Sustancias Psicoactivas a los Menores de y en la Calle. Santa Fe de Bogota, 1993.
Instituto Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar. Subdirecci6n Operativa de Protecci6n. Ministerio de Trabajo.
Proyecto: Casa para el Menor Trabajador. Santa Fe De Bogota, 1994.
Instituto Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar. Subdirecci6n Operativa de Protecci6n Divisi6n de Atenci6n al
Menor de y en la Calle y Otras Poblaciones Vulnerables. Centro de Recepci6n y Remisi6n de Menores
Pobladores de la Calle. Santa Fe de Bogota, 1994.
Instituto Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar. Ministerio de Salud. Lineamientos Tecnicos y Administrativos
para la Constituci6n y Ordenamiento de las Instituciones Prestadoras de Servicios de Rehabilitaci6n e
Integraci6n Social. Documentos de Trabajo. Grupo Tecnico Interinstitucional del Comite Nacional para la
Protecci6n del Menor Deficiente, Santa Fe De Bogota, 1995.
Instituto Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar. Subdirecci6n Operativa de Protecci6n Divisi6n de Atenci6n al
Menor de y en la Calle y Otras Poblaciones Vulnerables. Plan "Regale a un Niilo un Bono No le de
Plata. " Santa Fe de Bogota, 1994.
Instituto Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar. Subdirecci6n Operativa de Protecci6n. Divisi6n Menor
Abandonado o en Peligro. Propuesta Pedagogia para las Instituciones de Protecci6n. Santa F6 de Bogota,
1994.
nstituto Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar. Subdirecci6n Operativa de Protecci6n. Divisi6n Menor
Abandonado o en Peligro. Protecci6n Especial a Menor en Situaci6n Irregular y la Familia Atenci6n al
Menor Abandonado o en Peligro Atenci6n en Medio Familiar Santa Fe De Bogota, 1995.
nstituto Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar. Ministerio de Salud. Resoluci6n No. 1267 de 1994. La
Direcci6n General del Instituto Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar.
Isaza, R.C.C. (1994) El Matrato Psic6logico: Diagn6stico y Tratamiento. Serie: Temas y Tecnicas.
Asociaci6n Colombiana para la Defensa del Menor Maltratado (ACDMM). Bogota: Comite de Publicidad
y Divulgacion 1: 1-9.
J6venes, Cultura y Sociedad. Nomadas. Santa Fe de Bogota. Fundaci6n Universidad Central. Num. 4.
Marzo, 1996.
Knaul, F.M. (1995) Child and Youth Labor Force Participation in Colombia: Evolution and
Transformation.
Knaul, F.M. (1995) Learning and Earning: Payoffs and Tradeoffs of Early Entry into the Labor Force in
Bogota, Colombia. Harvard Center for Population and Development Studies and Harvard Department of
Economics. Cambridge, MA.
Knaul, F.M.(1995) Young Workers, Street Life and Gender: The Effect of Education and Work Experience
on Earnings in Colombia. Thesis. Harvard Center for Population and Development Studies and Harvard
Department of Economics. Cambridge, MA.
La revista para maestros y padres, Alegria de Enseilar. Colombia: Ministerio de Educaci6n Nacional.
Fundaci6n Antonio Restrepo Barco. Tecimpre, S.A. Bogota 22, Enero-Marzo, 1995.



49
Lozano, M.V., Cajiao, F. (1995) Serie Vida Escolar, Fuentes de Investigaci6n. Valores Ciudadanos en la
Escuela. Antologia de la cotidianidad escolar.Colombia: Fundaci6n FES.
Me respeto: Educaci6n Sexual Integral y Vida Familia (1993)Educacion Basica Secundaria: Santa Fe
(Bogota). 8, 11; Guia del Maestro.Voluntad.
Monsalve,B. (1994) Aspectos Psicol6gicos de Riesgo en el Embarazo. Serie: Temas y Tecnicas.
Asociaci6n Colombiana para la Defensa del Menor Maltratado (ACDMM). Bogota: Comite de Publicidad
y Divulgaci6n 4: 1-18.
Monsalve,B. (1994) Aspectos Psic6logicos de Riesgo en el Embarazo. Serie: Temas y Tecnicas.
Asociaci6n Colombiana para la Defensa del Menor Maltratado (ACDMM). Bogotat: Comite de Publicidad
y Divulgaci6n 4: 1-18.
Navas, R., Vargas, C., L6pez, G. (1994) Adolescentes Preguntas y Respuestas Sobre Sexualidad:
PROFAMILIA: Centro para j6venes, Bogota (Col): Printex Impresores LTDA.
Plan Nacional de Educaci6n Sexual: Ac1olescencia y Sexualidlad I, HI; Prevenci6n del Embarazo en
Adolescentes; Prevencion de las Enfermeclades Venereas en Adolescentes. PROFAMILIA: Centro para
j6venes. Medellin (Col): FNUP & PROMOVER.
Prada-Salas, E., Florez N.E., Mendez, R.H. (1995) Violencia Sexual y Embarazo No Deseado en la
Adolescente: Estudio Exploratorio para la ciuidad de Bogotca.Colombia: Centro de Estudios Sobre
Desarrollo Econ6mico (CEDE) Doc: 098.
Politicas y Programas. CINDE. Colombia, Abril ,1994.
Proyecto Atlantida: Estudio sobre el Adolesccnte Escolar en Colombia, La Cultura Fracturada Tomo I,
FES, Septiembre, 1995.
Proyecto Atlantida: Estudio sobre el Adolescente Escolar en Colombia, Todo lo que nos gusta se evapora
Tomo II, FES, Septiembre, 1995.
Proyecto Atlantida: Estudio sobre el Adolescente Escolar en Colombia, La Ciudad nos habita, Tomo III,
FES, Septiembre, 1995.
Proyecto Atlantida: Estudio sobre el Adolescente Escolar en Colombia, Tomo IV, FES, Septiembre, 1995.
Proyecto Atlantida: Adolescencia y Escuela: Una Mirada desde la Optica de los Adolescentes de Educaci6n
Secundaria en Colombia. Informe Final. Fundaci6n FES, Santa Fe de Bogota, Octubre, 1995.
Que Significa Tener 15 anios en Bogota?. COMPENSA.R, la. Ed., Santa Fe de Bogota, 1995.
Reina, M., Gutierrez, V.M., Moritz, A., Olga P. Alumnos problema o maestros problema? FES, 1991.
Rubiano, B.N., (1994) Ministerio de Trabajo y Seguridad Social. OIT - PREALC. Politicas de Empleo y
Modernizaci6n Econ6mica. Proyecto: Politicas y Programas de Empleo para J6venes Vulnerables.
Primera y Segunda Parte. ProyectoCol /90/007. Programas Nacionales de Generaci6n de Empleo de



50
Ingresos para J6venes. 32, 3-49.
Sandoval, R,P. , Jaramillo, B., Gonzalez, O.L. (1987) Ausencia de Futuro: La Juventud Colombiana
Selecci6n Cultura Colombiana. CEPAL Segunda Edici6n. Plaza & Janes, Colombia. 69-92.
Sanchez, T.F.J., Nufiez, M.J.A., (1995) Porque los niilos pobres no van a la escuela? (Determinantes de
la asistencia escolar en Colombia) Archivos de Macroeconomia. Republica de Colombia 39
Departamento Nacional de Planeaci6n. Unidad de Analisis Macroecon6mico.
Tenjo, J. (1990) Opportunities, Aspirations, and Urban Unemployment of Youth: The Case of Colombia.
Economic Development and Cultzural Change: Volume 38, No. 4: 733-763.
Torne de V. F., Lizcano, G.C. (1995) Para Salvar las Barreras. El Sistema de Aprendizaje Tutorial - SAT.
Fundaci6n para la Aplicaci6n y Ensefianza de las Ciencias -FUNDAEC. Cali.
Tres Estudios Ineditos Sobre los Menores Infractores en Colombia. Fundaci6n Para la Educaci6n Superior,
FES. Santa Fe de Bogota, 1994.
Vargas, T.E., Mejia deC.S., et al (1994) Disenio, Implementaci6n y Evaluaci6n de un Modelo de
Intervenci6n para la Prevenci6n Primaria del Maltrato a los Ninos y Nifias en el Contexto Familiar.
Reporte Final. Bogota: Asociaci6n Colombiana para la Defensa del Menor Maltratado. Instituto
Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar; Fundaci6n FES.
*Including electronic files.



-51
ANNEX 9
SELECTION OF MUNICIPALITIES
PROCESO DE SELECCION DE MUNICIPIOS Y CRITERIOS DE ELEGIBILIDAD DE LAS
PROPUESTAS
Proceso de selecci6n
Actualmente existen 16 Municipios preseleccionados para participar en el Proyecto de Servicios
Integrados para Jovenes. Estos Municipios fueron elegidos por el Viceministerio de Juventud en funcion de
3 caracteristicas: tamaJfo (mas de 100.000 habitantes), pobreza (medida de acuerdo a las necesidades
basicas insatisfechas y al indice de calidad de vida) y capacidades institucionales en materia de acci6n
para y con la juventud. El listado es el siguiente: Florencia, Quibd6, Santa Marta, Cartagena, Medellin,
Bucaramanga, Cali, Manizales, Pereira, Ibague, Popayan, Palmira, Pasto, Sogamoso, Cucuta, y
Barrancabermeja.
Para la pr6xima etapa del Proyecto se trabajara a plenitud con 8 Municipios, mientras que los 8
restantes tendrAn una participaci6n menos intensiva. A los primeros se les denominara Municipios
Demostrativos, mientras que a los segundos Municipios Participantes. Esta decisi6n de centrarse en un
n6imero mas restringido de Municipios se debe al carActer mismo del Proyecto, que desea, en esta fase,
experimentar para extraer modelos exitosos e identificar sus factores de exito, lo que obliga a un acucioso
monitoreo y analisis de las experiencias.
La selecci6n de los 8 Municipios demostrativos se efectuarA a partir de la convocatoria a los 16 a
presentar sus propuestas de servicios integrados. Se espera que los 3 Municipios (Manizales, Ibague y
Bucaramanga) que ya Ilevan trabajando un tiempo con el Proyecto de Servicios Integrados, materialicen en
la calidad de sus propuestas el apoyo tecnico que ya han recibido de parte del Viceministerio de Juventud.
Estas propuestas seran anteproyectos y no proyectos completamente terminados, que identificarin
solamente los aspectos esenciales de lo que desea realizarse (que, d6nde, con quienes, con qu6 resultados,
etc.). Su presentaci6n permitirA conocer el nivel de desarrollo y potencialidades de acci6n actuales en
relaci6n a los servicios integrados de j6venes de cada Municipio, pero al mismo tiempo no exigira una
elaboraci6n prolongada ni generarA expectativas dificiles de controlar posteriormente, como ocurriria con
proyectos terminados.
Estas propuestas seran evaluadas en terminos de su potencialidad para el Proyecto de Servicios
Integrados para J6venes por parte de profesionales del Ministerio de Educaci6n, de diferentes dependencias.
De este modo se contara con una evaluaci6n tecnica, vAlida y confiable, de cada una de las propuestas
postuladas.
El Proyecto prepararA los terminos de referencia para la convocatoria de los municipios, y los
sometera a revisi6n por parte del Banco y del DNP. Una vez cumplida esta etapa, se remitiran a los
municipios los terminos de referencia para que elaboren las propuestas. El Viceministerio de Juventud
constituira un comite calificador quien hara la evaluaci6n y propondra una selecci6n de acuerdo con los
criterios y procedimientos establecidos.
El Ministerio de Educaci6n, Viceministerio de la Juventud hara una invitaci6n institucional a



52
distintas entidades de gobierno y de diferentes sectores, en la cual solicitara la designaci6n de un
representante tecnico de las oficinas o divisiones que mayor relaci6n tengan con los temas de organizaci6n
de servicios locales, descentralizaci6n y juventud. Estos representantes constituiran un comite t6cnico cuya
funci6n sera avalar la propuesta de selecci6n de municipios resultante de la calificaci6n tecnica realizada
por el Ministerio de Educaci6n.
El Ministerio de Educaci6n invitara a este comite tecnico a constituirse en permanente para
convertirse en una instancia de aprendizaje.
Los 8 Municipios participantes, que no seran apoyados directa y financieramente en sus
propuestas, seran considerados en otros ambitos:
* Participaran de la Red de Aprendizaje nacional, que se conformara entre los 16 Municipios, y que
tendra actividades de capacitaci6n e intercambio de experiencias y conocimientos;
* Recibiran todos los materiales escritos (folletos, cartillas, etc.) producidos por el Proyecto; y
* Tendran mejores condiciones para postular a la continuidad del Proyecto, en caso de verificarse con
posterioridad al desarrollo del Proyecto.
Las propuestas presentadas por los 16 Municipios deberan presentarse en un plazo breve, de
manera de posibilitar el buen cumplimiento de la programaci6n de actividades existente. Despues de la
misi6n de evaluaci6n el equipo central del Proyecto realizara una labor informativa dirigida a todos los
Municipios participantes, orientada a que cuenten con todos los antecedentes necesarios para formular
adecuadamente sus propuestas.
Un aspecto de diferenciaci6n entre las propuestas refiere al tamafno de los Municipios. En efecto
dado que 3 de los Municipios presentes tienen un niumero de habitantes en situaci6n de pobreza muy
superior al resto, a saber Medellin, Cali y Cartagena, y que, por ende, es muy probable que sus propuestas
especificas tengan una poblaci6n objetivo de j6venes mas amplia, ellas podran postular a recibir un mayor
aporte de recursos financieros que el resto.
Caracteristicas de las propuestas
Los Municipios deberan presentar sus propuestas en un formato estandarizado que les proveera el
Proyecto, que destacara por centrarse en lo esencial y su simpleza de presentaci6n.
Las propuestas deberan cumplir con los siguientes requisitos:
*  Identificar y describir con claridad un problema central. Este problema deberA ser relativo a las
condiciones de vida de los j6venes y su enfrentamiento debera conducir a mejorar sus oportunidades
de desarrollo integral. Este problema focal debera ser relevante en el pais y ser posible de ser abordado
intersectorialmente. Tambien debera identificarse claramente la poblaci6n que presenta con mayor
severidad este problema focal, en terminos de edad, g6nero u otra variable.
*  Integrar a dos o mds servicios destinados a los j6venes. Esta integraci6n debera verificarse mediante
la participaci6n formal y documentada de los dos o mas servicios publicos involucrados (educacion,
salud, empleo, cultura, etc.) en la postulaci6n.



53
*  Brindar un servicio, o combinaci6n de servicios, que actualmente no se entregan a los j6venes. Podra
plantearse la realizaci6n de nuevos servicios o prestaciones intersectoriales, o bien la articulaci6n de
servicios existentes que se plantea articular mediante su coordinaci6n.
*  Focalizar un territorio del Municipio. Se debera focalizar la intervenci6n en una comuna o vereda que
sea de particular interes y proyecci6n en funci6n de la propuesta planteada. En este sentido la comuna
o vereda debera caracterizarse por su situaci6n de pobreza, por estar fuertemente presente el problema
focal elegido y por contar con los servicios participantes. En caso que un servicio no este fisicarnente
emplazados en la comuna o vereda debera lograrse la vinculaci6n del prestador del servicio que
atienda a los j6venes de la comuna o vereda en cuesti6n.
*  Ser viable. Esta viabilidad se refiere a distintos aspectos de la propuesta. Tecnicamente, la opci6n
planteada debe ser adecuada al avance y abordaje del problema seleccionado. Financiera y
temporalmente, debe corresponder a las restricciones existente. Finalmente, en terminos institucionales,
debe contarse con el respaldo decidido del Municipio y particularmente de la estructura referida a
juventud (Oficina de Juventud), pero involucrando tambien a los otros actores interesados.
*  Haber sido generada participativamente y contar con el respaldo de los principales actores
involucrados. Debe existir evidencia de consulta y apoyo tanto de los servicios puiblicos, como de las
organizaciones comunitarias y especialmente de j6venes, afectados por la propuesta. En este sentido la
propuesta es presentada por el Municipio pero con la participaci6n del resto de los actores. Igualmente
la propuesta debe especificar como se asegurara la participaci6n futura, en la ejecuci6n y evaluaci6n,
de la propuesta y como conformara su Consejo Directivo. Este debera considerar al menos a la Oficina
de Juventud, a los servicios publicos involucrados, a organizaciones comunitarias y juveniles, y a otras
organizaciones de la sociedad civil (iglesia, ONG, universidades, etc.) relevantes para abordar el
problema seleccionado.
-  Ser apropiado por el conjunto de la acci6n hacia y con los j6venes que se desarrolla en la
Municipalidad. La propuesta no s6lo debe involucrar a los servicios y organizaciones de la comuna o
vereda directamente involucrada, sino que debe ser conocida, monitoreada y apropiada por el conjunto
de los actores (servicios publicos, organismos tecnicos de apoyo, organizaciones comunitarias y de
j6venes, etc.) operantes en el territorio del Municipio y que trabajen con j6venes. Es necesario que se
programe la formaci6n de una red de aprendizaje en este nivel municipal.
*  Debe considerarse que la propuesta debera considerar una fase de desarrollo tecnico y otra de
implementaci6n propiamente tal. Esto es que debera preverse tiempo y recursos para que el
anteproyecto se convierta en un proyecto detalladamente definido, asi como se deberan explicitar
acciones especificas a realizar en dicha fase (por ejemplo, confecci6n de linea base, constituci6n de
redes, concretizaci6n operativa de la propuesta en terminos de actividades, costeo y cronograma, etc.).



54
ANNEX 10
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
Organizaci6n del Proyecto en el nivel nacional
El Proyecto de Servicios Integrados para J6venes es de responsabilidad del Ministerio de
Educaci6n, y estA inserto en el Viceministerio de Juventud. El Proyecto sera gestionado por una Unidad
Coordinadora especialmente creada para estos efectos, que reportara directamente al Viceministro de
Juventud.
La Unidad Coordinadora debera tener una vinculaci6n permanente y sistematica con el resto de la
estructura regular del Viceministerio. En particular buscara socializar sus aprendizajes, infornar
regularmente de sus avances y dificultades, articularse con las directrices generales y politicas del
Viceministerio e intentar coordinar sus acciones con las de los otros programas en ejecuci6n.
Con lo anterior se preservara que la Unidad trabaje bajo las directrices de la Direccion superior del
Ministerio de Educaci6n Nacional, pero poseera la autonomia que le permitira gerenciar el Proyecto y
garantizar el cumplimiento de los objetivos propuestos en los tiempos y terminos establecidos.
Esta coordinaci6n entre la Unidad Coordinadora y el resto del Viceministerio debera proyectarse
con una progresi6n en el tiempo de desarrollo del Proyecto. En efecto, con posterioridad a la ejecuci6n de
esta fase del Proyecto, de una duraci6n de 36 meses, es necesario que esta iniciativa se institucionalice
plenamnente al interior del Viceministerio de Juventud, evitandose cualquier paralelismo institucional. La
(eventual) nueva fase del Proyecto, desde el 2001 en adelante, debera ejecutarse desde una Unidad que este
instalada en el Grupo de Programas del Viceministerio y funcione de acuerdo con sus procedimientos
regulares. Para que esto sea viable deberA diseniarse un progresivo paso desde un enfasis inicial en la
informaci6n hacia la creciente corresponsabilidad en la ejecuci6n de actividades especificas del Proyecto
La Unidad Coordinadora tendrA las siguientes funciones:
*  Programar y organizar las acciones necesarias a realizar para la eficiente gesti6n del Proyecto.
* Asegurar la asistencia tecnica general a los Municipios participantes. Entre los ambitos principales al
respecto se cuentan los de: transmisi6n y apropiaci6n del enfoque general del Proyecto, capacitaci6n en
los instrumentos de gesti6n administrativa y financiera operantes, aprendizaje del uso de los
instrumentos de monitoreo y seguimiento, y entrega de elementos tecnicos para la contrataci6n de
asistencia tecnica especifica por parte de los propios Municipios.
* Asegurar el monitoreo y evaluacion del Proyecto en general, sistematizando la informaci6n resultante
de los propios Municipios y la que recogerA adicionalmente el nivel central (o nacional).
* Gestionar financiera y administrativamente los recursos del Proyecto con la asistencia del PNUD. Esto
implica tanto la adecuada gesti6n de los recursos directamente administrados por el nivel central
(correspondientes al componente 1) como la fiscalizacion de los recursos administradas por los
Municipios (correspondientes al componente 2). Lo anterior supone el disefno del Manual de
Operaciones del Proyecto, instrumento que orientara el cumplimiento de las normas y procedimientos



55
del Banco y el pais.
*  Difindir los conocimientos emergentes de la ejecuci6n del Proyecto mas alla de los Municipios
involucrados, tanto al nivel de otros Municipios y organismos publicos como en otros organismos
pertinentes de la sociedad civil. Esto incluye la animaci6n del Consejo Nacional del Proyecto (descrito
en el Anexo sobre el proceso de selecci6n).
*  Articular el desarrollo del Proyecto con las politicas y orientaciones del Viceministerio de Juventud.
En su organizaci6n interna la Unidad Coordinadora del Proyecto contara con un maximo de 14
personas, de los cuales 11 seran profesionales, los cuales trabajaran ya sea por productos segun
necesidades, tiempo completo o tiempo parcial. La Unidad sera conducida por el Coordinador Nacional,
que reportara directamente al Viceministro de Juventud, y bajo cuya dependencia estara un equipo tecnico
de 8 miembros. Estos profesionales seran animadores de las propuestas de servicios integrados que se
desarrollaran en cada Municipio, siendo asignado uno a cada uno de ellos. Su labor de animaci6n consistira
principalmente en hacer un monitoreo de lo realizado, extrayendo los aprendizajes respectivos, asi como en
informar a los responsables municipales de las directrices del Proyecto y ser un recurso de apoyo t6cnico
para sus eventuales demandas. Es relevante que estos profesionales provengan de diferentes sectores
(educaci6n, salud, empleo, cultura, participaci6n comunitaria, etc.), de manera que, mAs alla de su
asignaci6n territorial especifica, formar un equipo interdisciplinario. Por otra parte, tambien existira un
pequeflo equipo encargado de la gesti6n administrativa y financiera, compuesto por 1 profesional
(admninistrador publico) y dos tecnicos de apoyo. Por ultimo se contara con una secretaria y un mensajero
para asegurar el buen funcionamiento cotidiano del Proyecto.
Esta Unidad de Coordinaci6n podra subcontratar en organismos tecnicos especializados y en
expertos aquellas tareas de alta complejidad tecnica que no sean posible o conveniente de realizar por si
misma.
El Viceministerio de Juventud presentara al Banco Mundial una propuesta tecnica para operar
administrativa y financieramente a trav6s del PNUD, garantizando el flujo agil de fondos tanto al nivel
central como municipal, la adecuada y oportuna rendici6n de cuentas, y un sistema de auditoria de los
procesos administrativos, financieros y contables del Proyecto.
Estructuraci6n de las funciones de coordinaci6n a nivel municipal
La responsabilidad administrativa, legal y politica del proyecto especifico de servicios integrados
en cada municipio serA de el Alcalde. En sus decisiones deberA tener en consideraci6n las orientaciones del
Consejo Directivo, instancia que se describe a continuaci6n, excepto en aquellos casos en los cuales pueda
demostrar que sus opciones son tecnica y legalmente mas razonables. En caso de desacuerdos entre
Consejo y Alcalde la diferencia debe ser arbitrada por el nivel nacional.
Cada proyecto tendra un Consejo Directivo que debe ser constituido formalmente por el Alcalde.
En el estarAn representadas las partes interesadas en el proyecto: instituciones de prestaci6n de servicios del
nivel local y municipal, representantes de los j6venes y de la comunidad. En la propuesta que presentara el
Municipio establecera cual sera su composicion particular y de que manera se garantizara su caracter
representativo y plural, asi como los procedimientos de sustituci6n de sus miembros.



56
Las funciones del Consejo son:
*  Programaci6n de actividades del Proyecto, incluyendo la asignaci6n de los recursos respectivos.
* Veeduria y vigilancia del desarrollo del Proyecto.
*  Seguimiento y evaluaci6n del Proyecto, extrayendo los aprendizajes resultantes.
Debe considerarse como una instancia para poner intereses en comun. Es el organismo en el cual
se materializa la alianza que da origen al Proyecto, no solo representando intereses institucionales en
general sino la forma en que esos intereses se manifiestan en la comuna donde se interviene.
La funci6n de gerencia general del Proyecto estara radicada en el Municipio. La entidad encargada
de juventud (Oficina de Juventud Municipal), gestionara las actividades del Proyecto y tambien actuari
como secretaria tecnica del Consejo. La organizaci6n de la gesti6n estara en manos del jefe de la oficina de
juventud o secretario de juventud con los apoyos profesionales que este requiera
El manejo del fondo o cuenta donde se depositaran los recursos, asi como todas las funciones
administrativas y financieras seran asumidas por los 6rganos competentes de la administraci6n municipal.
Solo excepcionalmente, en aquellos casos en los cuales la manifiesta debilidad de esos 6rganos, sera posible
que una unidad externa asuma todas o parte de esas funciones. En ese caso el Municipio se comprometera
a tomar las disposiciones necesarias para que al final del proyecto haya desarrollado esa capacidad. En
todo caso las estructuras paralelas deben ser estrictamente provisionales y el municipio al presentar su
propuesta debe explicitar como va a hacer la transici6n hacia las estructuras permanentes.
En los terminos de referencia para que los Municipios presenten su propuesta se estableceran los
criterios a los cuales se debe responder y no formulas concretas para hacerlo. La coherencia, viabilidad y
adecuaci6n a tales criterios forman parte de la Viabilidad Institucional del proyecto.



ANNEX 11
Municipal Timeline (whenever it starts)
It is realistic assumming that: (1) the municipality is at the basic level of preparedness as described in the terms of referecne document and
(2) that the VMJ and national evaluation team do what they are supposed to, when they are supposed to.
MESES                                                                            1     4      7     10    13    16    19    22    25
Establish planning group                                                        _      =      =     =     =      =     =     =      =
Plan local project                                                  _==                                           =
Develop commitment to project among institutions, staff, and residents of selected locality   =                       __= =
Decide new services & activities and put them in place
Develop practical ways for staff and youth to access new & old services & activities
Develop evaluation capacity                                                                              _      _           __=   =
Do baseline study                                                                   _        _            _                 _
Maintain evaluation activities
Train staff and evaluators
Start services=                                                                        =     =      =_                 _      _     _
Work with technical assistance people from VMJX                                              _                         _  
-Work with national evaluation group__ ____
1_                                                                          I     I      I-                   _     _1  I



Project Timeline
YEARS                                                               1                     _              2                              3       4      5
MONTHS                                                            Mo.1  Mo.2-3  Q2    03    Q4    QI    02    03    04
World Bank Project Begins
VMJ Activities
1. Establish budget and commit pesos                               _                           .__
2. Finish World Bank proposal                                                                                                 ____
3. Write terms of reference for municipaliies and establish:
a. Criteria for basic level and other levels
b. Expectations for project activities
c. Expectations for municipal commitments
Ln~
4. Distribute invitations and terms of reference and request responses     _
5. Select municipalities and identify their 'levels'
6. Establish national evaluation contact
7. Develop technical assistance capacity and make R available
a. Wrtre planbudge
b. Hire staff                                                          =      =       =       =      ==
c. Create communication system_                                               _       _ 
d. Maintain communication support |__-_
e. Identify and collect or create technical assistance documents _ _I  __
f. Work wfRh municipalRties _l    1 l 
g. Publicity &dissemination _g   
8.MonRtor budgets =======



Project Timerlne
YEARS                                                             1                                    2                            3      4       5
MONTHS                                                          Mo.1  Mo.2-3  02    03    04    Q1    Q2    Q3    Q4
MuniciDal Activities (see municipal timeline - worksheet #11)
1. Submit proposals
2. Develop capacities up to basic skills
3. For municipalities at Basic levels, see Annex Timeline for municipaliies
a. First three____m_ml _
b. Next group_ l l _
c. Next group
Evaluation Activities
1. Establish national evaluation group                           _       ====                                               ==
2. Develop approach for working with municipal evaluation
3. Develop evaluation methods and instruments
4. Provide technical assistance on evaluations for localities
5. Work with local evaluators, oversee progress
6. Monitor trigger points                                              ____X
7. Provide method of sharing among municipalities



60
ANNEX 12
0. INTRODUCCION
El presente manual es un compendio de los elementos basicos necesarios para que cada uno de los
Municipios interesados en participar en el proyecto Servicios Integrados para J6venes pueda
adelantar la evaluaci6n de las condiciones sociales y para la participaci6n existentes en el area de
intervenci6n de su subproyecto municipal, como parte del proceso de preparaci6n y disefio de sus
respectivos subproyectos.
0.1. ZQu6 es Evaluaci6n Social?
* La Evaluaci6n Social (ES) -dentro la metodologia propuesta por el Banco Mundial- ofrece un
marco integrado y participativo que permite recoger, analizar, priorizar e incorporar informaci6n
sobre el contexto social y la participaci6n en los Municipios.
* La ES es uno de los elementos constitutivos de la fase de disefio y elaboraci6n de los subproyectos
Municipales.
* La ES reconoce la existencia de muchas variables sociales que puedcn afectar el 6xito del
proyecto, y asume como principio qzie la gente es la razon de ser y el medio para el desarrollo.
* La ES permite a los involucrados en el proyecto avanzar en el reconocimiento de las condiciones
del contexto social y de los procesos de participaci6n que pueden afectarlo.
* La ES permite prever los niveles y formas de participaci6n de los actores "Clave" del proyecto en
sus diferentes momentos (diseno, ejecuci6n y evaluaci6n)
0.2 LPorqu6 se hace la ES?
Se espera que, a partir de la evaluaci6n social, los promotores y los diversos actores vinculados a los
proyectos municipales y en el Viceministerio de la Juventud puedan contar con los suficientes
elementos de juicio para garantizar la viabilidad tanto del proyecto nacional, como de cada uno de los
proyectos municipales desde el punto de vista de las variables sociales y la participaci6n. La ES
ofrece el punto de partida del proyecto en relaci6n con las variables sociales.
En este sentido, la ES se realiza para responder tres preguntas centrales:
* LCuales son los actores sociales mas afectados por el proyecto? LQuienes podrian ganar o perder
con el? [,Quienes seran los beneficiados, que tipo de beneficios pueden obtener y de qu6 manera
los conseguiran?] [Quienes pueden ser perjudicados? Qu6 tipo de perjuicios podrian tener? j,C6mo
se podria mitigar el efecto de estas consecuencias negativas del proyecto?]



61
* ,Cuales actores sociales podrian afectar positiva o negativamente la marcha del proyecto; es
decir, cuales son los socios y aliados potenciales? 6Cuales los oponentes o detractores posibles?
* L,CuMles son los asuntos que el proyecto debera tener en cuenta para garantizar que los diferentes
actores sociales relacionados con el proyecto puedan integrarse positivamente a el?
0.3 UC6mo se desarrolla la Evaluaci6n Social?
La evaluaci6n social implica el trabajo sobre cuatro elementos basicos estrechamente inter-
relacionados en su desarrollo y de enorme importancia en la construcci6n de los proyectos
municipales:
1. cparticipaci6n
La evaluaci6n social debera ser un proceso construido de manera participativa, en este sentido, los
equipos municipales deberan contar con la participaci6n de los interesados en los diferentes
momentos del proceso. Se buscara que la participaci6n sea tan representativa como sea posible en
cada una de las municipalidades
0.4.Conceptos basicos
En el proceso de la ES del proyecto Servicios Integrados para J6venes, se deben tener en cuenta y
hacer explicitas las dos estrategias basicas que le dan su identidad; la Integraci6n de Servicios y la
ampliaci6n de la partcipaci6n de los actores involucrados. Participaci6n e integraci6n son dos
medios de intervenci6n que el proyecto nacional privilegia y a los cuales se debera referir el disefno de
cada uno de los subproyectos municipales, por tanto el anAlisis social debera tener los medios para
hacer visible su situaci6n actual y las condiciones para su desarrollo
En lo que se refiere a la propuesta de trabajo del proyecto con los j6venes; participaci6n e integraci6n
son dos estrategias complementarias y mutuamente reforzantes a mayor participaci6n mayores
posibilidades de integraci6n de los j6venes a la vida social legal; y a mayor integraci6n mayores
oportunidades y posibilidades de participaci6n
a. LA PARTICIPACION es un concepto polisemico; su etimologia tiene que ver con sentidos
diversos ; desde "dar parte, comunicar", hasta "hacerse o sentirse parte", "tomar parte",
"colaborar", "cooperar". En cuanto elemento central del proyecto, la Evaluaci6n Social debera
mostrar la situaci6n actual de la participaci6n de los diversos actores; los niveles y momentos en
que participan, y las condiciones que tienen para participar.
Los Niveles de la participaci6n.
Los diversos actores sociales pueden tener diversas posibilidades de hacer parte del proyecto; desde
solamente estar informado, hasta avanzar en procesos de consulta, decisi6n compartida, autonomia
social y capacidades de opci6n. En medio de esos polos existiria una gradaci6n en la que ubicamos
diferentes posibilidades de la participaci6n. Es importante sefialar que cuando se habla de niveles no
se estA haciendo referencia a una gradaci6n progresiva y ascendente; la participaci6n -como veremos-
debera planearse y desarrollarse de acuerdo con las posibilidades de cada uno de los diferentes
actores,  con   el  tipo   de   decisiones   que   deban   ser  tomadas   y   con  los



62
momentos precisos de las decisiones. Proponemos los siguientes niveles para comprender y promover
la participaci6n:
* Informaci6n: Las partes interesadas son informadas acerca de sus derechos, responsabilida-des,
opciones y decisiones que pueden afectarlos. Se da a traves de procesos de comunicaci6n
unilateral por diversos medios; Radio, Tv, Impresos, etc.
* Consulta: Las partes interesadas tienen oportunidad de expresar sus opiniones, sugerencias e
intereses, respecto a temas y problemas que los afectan, pero sin garantia de que sus
contribuciones serin utilizadas en las decisiones. Es una comunicaci6n de doble via a traves de
medios tales como encuestas, audiencias publicas, cuestionarios, etc.
* Decisi6n conjunta: Las partes interesadas pueden incidir -desde sus respectivos intereses y a
traves de procesos de concertaci6n con los demas implicados- en las decisiones que definen la
marcha del proyecto. Es una relaci6n de largo plazo que implica equilibrio de poder entre las
partes, responsabilidad compartida y distribuci6n de riesgos.
* Autonomia: Las partes interesadas, a traves de la organizaci6n con sus pares y de condiciones de
contexto posibilitadoras, son capaces de promover programas y proyectos surgidos de su
iniciativa y sobre los cuales tienen una amplia posibilidad de control.
Condiciones para desarrollar la participaci6n
La participaci6n no se desarrolla de manera espontanea y silvestre. La participaci6n exige la
existencia de un conjunto de condiciones sin las cuales puede convertirse en un mero formalismo o
ritual vacio de efectividad, o en un medio de manipulaci6n negativo en la promoci6n del desarrollo
social Una participaci6n eficaz de los j6venes y demas actores involucrados dentro del proyecto
implica la existencia actual y/o construcci6n en el corto plazo de las siguientes condiciones minimas:
* Sistemas de informaci6n y conocimiento objetivo, riguroso y sistematico sobre las condiciones y
los problemas que afectan a los j6venes meta del proyecto y las dinamicas econ6micas, politicas y
culturales con las que ellos se relacionan, y que al ser afectadas podrian mejorar su vida.
* Formas organizativas de las partes interesadas de tal manera que garanticen una
representatividad adecuada de sus intereses y expectativas en los ambitos de decisi6n, y procesos
de transparencia y rendici6n de cuentas ante los representados.
* Recursos para la participaci6n. La participaci6n se desarrollara en la medida que existan
recursos tales como espacio, tiempo, capacitaci6n y recursos financieros  adecuados para
promoverla.
* Procesos sistematicos de gesti6n de la participaci6n. Como hemos sefialado la participaci6n no
es un fen6meno espontAneo que se desarrolla independientemente de la voluntad y la orientaci6n
hunmana. Promover la participaci6n es mas bien una acci6n intencional, que debera fundarse en
saberes especificos y especializados en el tema, con metodologias y procedimientos probados, por
ende con recursos suficientes.
b. LA INTEGRACION dentro del proyecto es un elemento central que hace referencia a las



63
diferentes posibilidades y niveles de interacci6n entre las instituciones sociales el proyecto esta
interesado en promover dos tipos basicos de integraci6n:
* La integraci6n intra e interinstitucional de programas y proyectos, de tal manera que al integrar
sus recursos y sus acciones puedan generar sinergias potenciadoras de las oportunidades para
estos j6venes .
* La integraci6n de las instituciones y programas juveniles a los planes de desarrollo local,
regional y nacional
Niveles de Integraci6n de intra e inter institucionales y a programas de desarrollo local
La integraci6n intra e interinstitucional, y con referencia al desarrollo local puede ser observada a
partir de las siguientes caracteristicas de la interacci6n inter-institucional:
* Reconocimiento mutuo: Las instituciones que trabajan con j6venes conocen mutuamente lo que
cada una hace, sus planes y programas especificos, pero no existe otro nivel de interacci6n.
* Colaboraci6n Coyuntural: Unas instituciones prestan apoyo a otras en acciones puntuales que en
general obedecen a actividades reactivas frente a un problema de alguna gravedad; por ejemplo,
jornada de vacunaci6n en una escuela para prevenir una epidemia.
* Articulaci6n sistematica y Coordinaci6n: Acciones sincr6nicas basadas en decisiones
concertadas y planeadas conjuntamente por dos o mas servicios Por ejemplo, planes de educaci6n
sexual coordinados escuela-centro de salud, Programas de capacitaci6n para el trabajo en fabricas
que se coordinan con las escuelas, sistemas de remisi6n de escolares a servicios medicos o
psicol6gicos, de centros de protecci6n a escuelas, etc.
* Alianzas estrategicas: Definici6n concertada de prop6sitos y metas a ser alcanzadas a traves de
programnas y proyectos en donde existen acciones desarrolladas conjuntamente y una
responsabilidad compartida. Pueden darse para: mejoramiento de los servicios solamente, o en una
perspectiva de integrar a los servicios a los procesos de desarrollo local
0.5 ,Que es el manual operativo para la Evaluaci6n Social?
* El manual operativo para la evaluaci6n social del proyecto Servicios Integrados para J6venes es
la herranienta metodol6gica y operativa que orienta el trabajo, que cada uno de los Municipios
participantes en el proyecto, debera desarrollar en el proceso de preparaci6n y disefno de su
respectivo proyecto.
0.6. ,Cual es el contenido del manual de evaluaci6n social?
El manual propone orientaciones, metodologias, procedimientos e instrumentos que, esperamos,
puedan servir de soporte al trabajo que los municipios deberAn desarrollar.
El manual toma cada uno de los elementos de la ES [el estudio de partes interesadas, el analisis
social, la validaci6n de modelo de intervenci6n del proyecto nacional, y la elaboraci6n del plan de
participaci6n] y lo desarrolla como una guia de trabajo en la que se encuentran: i)el significado del



64
componente ii) los terminos de referencia, iii) los instrumentos, metodologia y formatos de
presentaci6n de los resultados de cada uno de los elementos constitutivos de la evaluaci6n social que
se realizara en cada una de las municipalidades;. El contenido del manual podria visualizarse en el
siguiente cuadro:
Contenido del Manual Operativo.
Areas de la ES     1. Analisis de         2.                3.               4.
Elementos de la        Partes       Analisis Social    Validaci6n del      Plan de
ES                  Interesadas                           disefio       Participacion
Terminos      de
Referencia
Instrumentos
Metodologia
Formato    para
resultados
0.7 Utilidad del Manual Operativo de la Evaluaci6n Social para los Municipios y el
Viceministerio de la Juventud
El manual establece las pautas centrales para que cada una de las municipalidades pueda realizar su
propia evaluaci6n social, construir el "mapa" social del contexto del proyecto y establecer su plan de
participaci6n. Se espera que este manual sea una herramienta util para aprender sobre las dinamicas
sociales que actualmente estan afectando la vida de los j6venes en diferentes contextos locales.
El manual, ubicado en la perspectiva de un proyecto en el que el aprendizaje tiene gran relevancia,
busca definir procesos, instrumentos y formatos de presentaci6n unificados, de tal manera que los
resultados obtenidos en la evaluaci6n social en cada uno de los Municipios, puedan ser comparados
con los resultados de los otros. Los elementos comunes y las diferencias existentes permitiran una
mejor comprensi6n del papel de las diversas variables sociales en contextos especificos, una
asistencia tecnica mas adecuada a cada contexto, y unos procesos de monitoreo, seguimiento y
evaluaci6n desde referentes particulares y genericos.



65
Guia # 1
1.Terminos de Referencia
1.1 Significado: El Analisis de Partes Interesadas es una herramienta vital para entender el contexto
social e institucional del proyecto. Aporta los cimientos y las estructuras necesarias para
optimizar la participaci6n de los actorcs involucrados en el proyecto a traves de todas las etapas
del proyecto (diseno, implementaci6n, monitoreo, y evaluaci6n).
Durante esta parte de la ES se definen como partes interesadas a las personas, grupos, o instituciones
que seran afectados (positiva o negativamente) por el proyecto o que pueden afectar (positiva o
negativamente) los resultados del proyecto. Por medio de este analisis se identifican los actores
sociales interesados a nivel local, sus conocimientos, sus motivaciones, sus intereses e influencia,
sus roles, y las actividades que el proyecto va a realizar para lograr su apoyo.
El analisis de partes interesadas pretende resolver tres preguntas centrales, estas son:
- t,Cuales son los actores sociales mas afectados por el proyecto? 6Quienes podrian ganar o perder
con el? [Z,Qui6nes seran los beneficiados, que tipo de beneficios pueden obtener y de que manera
los conseguiran?] [Quienes pueden ser perjudicados? Que tipo de perjuicios podrian tener? Z,C6mo
se podria mitigar el efecto de estas consecuencias negativas del proyecto?]
- ,Cuales actores sociales podrian afectar positiva o negativamente la marcha del proyecto; es
decir, cuales son los socios y aliados potenciales? ,Cuales los oponentes o detractores posibles?
* ,Cuales son los asuntos que el proyecto debera tener en cuenta para garantizar que los diferentes
actores sociales relacionados con el proyecto puedan integrarse positivamente a e
1.2 Objetivos: El Analisis de Partes Interesadas se realiza para:
* Identificar a cada uno de los actores sociales intcresados en el proyecto y sus intereses,
* Determinar la importancia y la influencia de cada una de las partes interesadas;
* Identificar las acciones que el proyecto debe realizar para lograr el apoyo de las partes
interesadas;
* Aportar las bases para la estrategia de participaci6n del proyecto (descripta en la Guia # 4 Plan de
Participaci6n); y
* Servir como linea de base a ser utilizada peri6dicamente (semestral o anualmente) para realizar el
monitoreo y la evaluaci6n de los efectos del proyecto a nivel de la participaci6n y la integraci6n .
Los grupos de interesados a quienes el proyecto debe convocar para informaci6n, consultas y
colaboraci6n son los niveles del gobierno, los beneficiarios y otros grupos de interes . El esfuerzo del
ejercicio deberA centrarse en esta etapa inicial sobre los niveles municipal y local de gobierno



66
(alcaldes, concejales, ediles, personeros), lideres comunitarios, hombres y mujeres jovenes de estratos
1 y 2 y sus familias, los agentes institucionales de las entidades prestadoras de servicios en los
municipios piloto (educaci6n y cultura, sistema ICBF, trabajo y empleo, policia y militares, justicia y
paz) , representantes de ONG's especializadas, sector privado interesado, y academicos.
1.3 Resultados esperados: Elaboraci6n de un documento municipal de Analisis de Partes
Interesadas en las que se incluyan los resultados de los eventos participativos en los cuales se
trabajaron los tres instrumentos de este analisis.
1.4 Actividades: En Analisis de Partes Interesadas sera elaborado de manera participativa a traves
de eventos participativos (talleres de trabajo, reuniones, etc) con las presencia de los actores
sociales interesados e id6neos.
2. Instrumentos:
Los instrumentos del Analisis de Partes Interesadas son:
1. El "mapa" de identificaci6n y caracterizaci6n de todos los actores sociales involucrados
positiva o negativamente con el proyecto. Estos grupos pueden ser personas, organizaciones, o
instancias del Gobierno. Se solicita a los participantes del taller que dibujen en un papel un
grafico de tres circulos concentricos en los que ubiquen a los afectados por el proyecto.
En el circulo central se escriben los mas directamente afectados, en el siguiente los medianamente
afectados y el el tercero los tangencialmente relacionados con el proyecto.
Es importante sefialarle al grupo que al referirse a grupos de personas deben ser desagregados de
acuerdo a sus caracteristicas sociales, econ6micas y culturales. Si fuera necesario, las
organizaciones/instituciones deben ser desagregadas de acuerdo a sus distintas dependencias o
funciones. Despues del ejercicio individual se pasa a un trabajo de grupos y finalmente a una
plenaria en la que es deseable llegar a acuerdos sobre lo que el grupo considera es el "mapa" de
actores involucrados. En este momento se debe definir un nombre para cada uno de los actores
acordados, este nombre se pasa a la matriz niimero 1 primera columna y con ese listado se
trabajara en las siguientes etapas del ejercicio.
2. Matriz 1 de Clasificaci6n de los actores de acuerdo a las categorias Gestor, Beneficiario y
Afectado. Los actores de la primera columna se clasifican las categorias sefialadas: Gestor
(personas o grupos que tienen alguna responsabilidad en los procesos de planeacion y ejecuci6n
del proyecto ), Beneficiario (personas, grupos o instituciones hacia los que se dirige
prioritariainente el proyocto), y Afeclados (personas diferentes a las anteriores que pueden ganar o
perder con el proyecto). Aunque algunos actores podrian quedar cobijados por mas de una
categoria es fundamental aclarar en el ejercicio que debe caracterizarse cada uno en una sola
categoria, aquella que le sea la mas pertinente.
3. Matriz 1 de Identificaci6n de intereses y motivaciones de los involucrados. Una vez
clasificadas las partes se procede a describir las necesidades, motivaciones o aspiraciones que
tiene cada una de las mismas en el proyecto. Es el momento para identificar quienes tendrian una
actitud favorable, desfavorable o indiferente frente al proyecto.
4. Matriz 2 Identificaci6n de la importancia e influencia de las partes interesadas. Una vez



67
identificados intereses y motivaciones de los involucrados en el proyecto se pasa a la Matriz # 2
de esta guia, alli es importante identificar el grado de importancia e influcncia de cada uno de los
actores. La importancia se define como el grado en que un actor social es relevante para el
proyecto, en ese sentido un actor puede ser Muy importante, importante, poco importante. La
influencia es definida como el grado de incidencia que un actor puede tener sobre la marcha del
proyecto; en esta linea, un actor pucde ser Muy influyente, Influyente, Poco influyente. Para esta
parte del ejercicio se recomienda trabajar con tarjetas de colores.ej: rosada para poca (importancia
o influencia) Azul para punto medio y verde para (alta influencia e importancia). Los
participantes escriben en un papel, cuales de los actores estan en cada categoria y luego van a las
taietas y escriben en cada una UN SOLO ACTOR.
5. Grafico 1 :Mapeo de influencia e importancia. Con las tarjetas ordenadas en cada una de estas
categorias se pasa al plano cartesiano en el que se correlacionan las dos categorias y se obtiene un
mapa interesante en el que claramente estAn ubicados cuatro tipos de actores, uno para cada
cuadrante del plano:
A      Estas partes interesadas son de al(a importancia para el proyecto aunque carecen de
influencia. Esto implica que se necesitaran iniciativas especiales para la protecci6n de sus intereses y
para que puedan ser "empoderados".
B      Estas partes interesadas tienen un alto grado de influencia y a la vez son importantes para el
dxito del proyecto. Esto implica son partes "Clave" y que scrA necesario mantenier buenas relaciones
de trabajo para lograr una alianza de intereses en favor del proyecto.
C      Como estas partes interesadas poseen bastante influencia pueden afectar los resultados del
proyecto aunque sus intereses no se cuentan entre los objetivos de la presente iniciativa. Esta
conclusi6n implica que pudieran representar un riesgo significativo, y es recomendable un cuidadoso
monitoreo y gesti6n.
D      Las partes interesadas ubicadas en este cuadrante tienen poca influencia sobre el proyecto y
no son de mucha importancia para el logro de sus objetivos, por lo tanto requieren niveles mas bajos
de monitoreo o evaluaci6n.
5. Teniendo en cuenta todo lo anterior se debe proceder entonces a identificar las acciones
estrat6gicas que el proyecto debe realizar para lograr el apoyo de estas partes interesadas clave.
Ultima columna de la Matriz # 1.
3. Metodologia.
El cuadro del Analisis de Partes Interesadas debe ser elaborada durante un(os) taller(es) de trabajo
local al que se debe invitar a representantes "claves" de los sectores clave para el proyecto a nivel
municipal. El listado de invitados y el disecno apropiado para este taller en cada localidad debe ser
hecho por un equipo de personas entre las cuales se recomienda incluir al menos a un miembro
idoneo del Viceministerio de la Juventud, a los integrantes del Comite Promotor del proyecto, y a la
persona que facilitara el taller en esa localidad.  Esta persona debe estar al tanto de los



68
antecedentes del proyecto y dcbe ser percibida por los participantes al taller como neutral y
transparente para asi poder facilitar genuinamente estos procesos participativos.* I
Este taller de trabajo consta de los pasos sefialados y exlicados en el punto anterior, en sintesis:
1. Identificaci6n y caracterizaci6n de las partes interesadas clave en Gestor, Beneficiario, Afectado
2. Una vez identificados y categorizados se procede a considerar sus posibles intereses.
3. Identificaci6n de la importancia y la influencia de las partes interesadas locales.
4. Mapeo de actores por cuadrantes del Grafico # 1
5. identificaci6n de las acciones estrategicas que el proyecto debe realizar con actores sociales
involucrados
4. Formato de presentaci6n de resultados del analisis de partes interesadas a nivel municipal
El Analisis de Partes Interesadas debe ser incluido en el proyecto municipal remitido al
Viceministerio de la Juventud y presentado de la siquiente manera:
1. El cuadro "Analisis de Partes Interesadas" para esa localidad replicando y completando el
formulario incluido en este Manual Operativo (Ver Matriz # 1
2. El cuadro "Identificaci6n de la Importancia e Influencia de las Partes Interesadas" para esa
localidad completando el formnulario incluido en este Manual Operativo (Ver Matriz # 2).
3. Grafico "Mapeo de la Relativa Importancia e Influencia de las Partes Interesadas" completando el
formulario incluido en este Manual Operativo (Ver Grafico # 1
4.  Descripcion de los procesos utilizados en el disefno y facilitaci6n del taller y de las
personas/instituciones responsables del mismo.
5.  Descripci6n del taller, incluyendo lugar, fecha, duraci6n y nombre y afiliaci6n de los
participantes.



MATRIZ # 1 PROYECTO "SERVICIOS INTEGRADOS PARA JOVENES"
ANALISIS DE PARTES INTERESADAS
IDENTIFICACION Y                      CATEGORIAS DE PARTES                    INTERESES/MOTIVACIONES DE  ACCIONES ESTRATEGICAS DEL
CARACTERIZACION DE LAS    INTERESADAS                                         LAS PARTES INTERESADAS                 PROYECTO
PARTES INTERESADAS CLAVES                                                     Identifique las necesidades,          Identifique las acciones que el proyecto
Identifique a los actores sociales    G: Gestor (responsable de la            motivaciones o aspiraciones que tiene   debe realizar con cada parte interesada
interesados con su nombre y           planeaci6n y ejecuci6n del proyecto)    la parte interesada. Su actitud seria  para lograr su apoyo.
caracteristicas .                     B: Beiieficiario (hacia quien           favorable (+), hostil (-)7 o indiferente
prioritariamen-te se dirige el Proyecto)  (0) al proyecto?
A: Afectado (diferente de los anteriores
que puede ganar o perder con el
provecto)
N°          Actores
_         _         _                   _        _         _                   _        ___                      I    ___
MATRIZ# 2



IDENTIFICACION DE LA IMPORTANCIA E INFLUENCIA DE LAS PARTES INTERESADAS
PROYECTO "SERVICIOS INTEGRADOS PARA JOVENES"
.,., , t;; ttEtS~~~~~~~.   .   .,      .    .,  . ... .... .. .         ........ ... ...... .                                                                                                              .........  .; C.. --. ....
..........MPOR-AN iA !Groado:en que  'iaate                                                                                 ]INLUENCIA: Grad   de; incidn iaqeIprt
viLg.-E !-i -R .......iElE EEEE -......,E  i  ....     .-  E .......  iD. iRi i .ER F.  ............ ..          . .,iRR. ,.~ ...,..., ..." .1 i :   ,# :-: :    E~  i ..   .-  I  .  I      i EE - E -   I., I ."   111
--gEEF 02;EEEE i- ~.. ... .  j- i t i k i; i  iE                                                                -                                               -                                                                         ... ...... .......  ...................... . ............... -  intE   d  'b    'I  i
....... ...tread                                                 s  elvnt   p r   ep.                      ct itresada   puede:nejergcfir sobre. las   orientaciones...y..
:1~  Po-a  impoitanciA                                                                   ....decisiones en  'el   r                   .... .. .t . .. ..
N. P.R.ES   IN.lmES AAo 2= Imptncia                                                                                                                                           1=oca Iuflcea
:. . .. .  ....   .  ....       E -EifiEi EE                    igi 7 Lj $ S : 7                                                                             .       - .     .. . . . ...  .   .   ....  .. ..  .. . . .
3=  Mucha   imNrta                                                          2.....encia.....
________________________                                                                                              3-  Mucha  Influencia~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aInlieici
..E EREEER 0iEEi f:t  i: f:iRE 0 Ei :: i EjiSE: ES : ::f i:; E7 E   fi   f :  iCjAiiSfiEi000 EEEE-E.E-, ELl!i EEREEEL gEEEi 2iE  



71
PROYECTO "SERVICIOS INTEGRADOS PARA JOVENES"
MAPEO DE LA RELATIVA IMPORTANCIA E INFLUENCIA
DE LAS PARTES INTERESADAS
IMPORTANCIA
ALTA
A                               B
MEDIA
D                               C
BAJA                _                 _                             _INFLUENCIA
EL EJE VERTICAL REPRESENTA LA IMPORTANCIA DE LOS ACTORES
PARA EL PROYECTO.
EL EJE HORIZONTAL REPRESENTA LA INFLUENCIA DE LOS ACTORES
SOBRE EL PROYECTO.



72
Guia#2
1. TERMINOS DE REFERENCIA
1.1. Significado : El analisis social tiene que ver con la investigaci6n sistematica que cada uno de
los Municipios debera adelantar en la fase de disenio del proyecto, con el fin de establecer los
factores demograficos, los determinantes socioecon6micos, la organizaci6n social, el contexto
sociopolitico, las necesidades y valores relacionados con el proyecto nacional de Servicios
Integrados y los arreglos institucionales que habria que adelantar con el fin de garantizar el
desarrollo exitoso del proyecto.
1.2. Objetivos.
* Identificar las variables socioecon6micas, politicas y socioculturales que pueden afectar de
manera directa o indirecta el desarrollo del proyecto en cada municipalidad.
* Dimensionar el papel que podria jugar cada una de las variables y prever los mecanismos para
garantizar su manejo dentro de la estrategia del proyecto.
* Tener una linea de base sobre el estado actual de las variables "Clave", de tal manera que se
garanticen las condiciones para la realizaci6n de una evaluaci6n en donde este claramente
establecido el punto de partida de la intervenci6n
1.3. Resultados esperados.
Elaboraci6n de un documento municipal de Analisis Social en el que se recolecte y/o construya
informaci6n rigurosa y sistematica respecto de los factores del contexto social que podrian afectar
el desarrollo del proyecto . Interesa que el documento presente informaci6n sobre los siguientes
asuntos:
* Las dimensiones y caracteristicas de la poblaci6n meta del proyecto.
* Los factores socio-econ6micos que pueden jugar un papel determinante en el desarrollo del
proyecto.
* Las especificidades de los procesos de organizaci6n social de la zona en la que actuara el
proyecto.
* Los tipos y niveles de participaci6n de las poblaciones con las que trabajara el proyecto
* El tipo y nivel de integraci6n de los servicios
* La capacidad institucional de la Alcaldia, de la oficina de la juventud y de las instituciones que
atienden a los j6venes
1.4. Elementos sobre los que debera producir informaci6n el Analisis Social
Factores demogr6ficos relevantes gue reclaman atenci6n dentro del provecto:
*  Numero y caracteristicas sociales y culturales de los j6venes y familias que hacen parte de la



73
poblaci6n meta del proyecto.
*  Necesidades, intereses y expectativas de la poblaci6n meta discriminadas por genero; edad,
nivel de escolarizaci6n, ser urbano o rural.
*  Relaci6n de los diversos tipos de j6venes con los servicios de Educaci6n, Salud, Formaci6n
para el trabajo.
Determinantes socioecon6micos gqe puteden influir en el provecto:
* Niveles de pobreza en los grupos y familias de la poblaci6n meta del proyecto
*  Cuantificaci6n y caracterizaci6n de j6venes que solo estudian, solo trabajan, estudian y
trabajan, ni estudian ni trabaja
*  Dimensiones, caracteristicas socio-econ6micas y ubicaci6n de la poblaci6n en mayor riesgo
Organizaci6n social reguerida por el provecto:
* t,Cual es la capacidad y disposici6n de los agentes institucionales y de las autoridades de
gobierno municipal, para garantizar las condiciones para el desarrollo de la participaci6n
promovida por el proyecto, hasta que niveles de participaci6n para cada uno de los actores se
estaria interesado en promover ?
*  ,Cuales son las condiciones de informaci6n, organizaci6n y representaci6n juvenil y los
recursos existentes para garantizar los niveles de participaci6n deseables por el proyecto?
* L,Cual es la capacidad y disposici6n de j6venes y sus familiares para participar a nivel familia y
comunitario (aprestamiento para la participaci6n)?
*   ,Cual es la percepci6n de los agentes institucionales de las entidades de servicios sobre los
intereses y necesidades de los hombres y mujeres j6venes ?
*  ,Cuales son los niveles actuales de integraci6n? ZCuMles las condiciones para avanzar en
procesos de mayor integraci6n?
*   ,Cuales son los incentivos que generarian un interes y motivaci6n suficiente en agentes e
instituciones para que se opere el cambio esperado en el proyecto?
Contexto socio-politico v culttural del diseflo v eiecucion del provecto:
* i,Que prioridad se da a los j6venes en la politica municipal comparados con otras prioridades
de la localidad, del municipio o de las entidades de servicios ( expresada en la cantidad de
recursos disponibles)?
* j,CuAl es el nivel de compromiso efectivo de autoridades, agentes institucionales, beneficiarios
con los objetivos y enfoque del proyecto ?
*   ,En que forma el conflicto armado y la violencia ciudadana afectan el desarrollo del proyecto?
*  La territorialidad (localidad, vereda, municipio, provincia, regi6n) como elemento cultural
facilita o dificulta el logro de los objetivos?
1.4. Actividades
Cada municipalidad:
* Acuerda con el Viceministerio de la Juventud los procesos de asistencia tecnica necesarios para
hacer el levantamiento de la informaci6n requerida por el Analisis Social .
* Define el equipo encargado, el enfoque, la metodologia y el cronograma para Ilevar adelante el
Analisis Social .



74
* A traves de las diferentes fuentes documentales se recolecta la informaci6n cuantitativa
existente sobre los t6picos en que esta es necesaria
* A traves de diferentes tecnicas (encuesta, grupo focal, entrevistas, etc.) indagaci6n con los
actores "Clave" para el proyecto en la municipalidad ; por ejemplo, oficina de la juventud
municipal, instituciones de servicios sociales para j6venes: educaci6n, salud, trabajo; Ongs que
trabajan con j6venes, representantes de j6venes, etc., respecto de las variables en que estos
puedan reportar informaci6n.
* Elaboraci6n de un informe preliminar del analisis social para ser valiado en un taller con los
actores municipales "clave" en el proyecto.
* Desarrollo del taller. Tiempo ideal una jornada de cuatro horas de trabajo, con un relator que
debera estarjugando el papel exclusivo de tomar atenta nota de los elementos necesarios para el
informe de los resultados del taller.
* Con las anotaciones senialadas y ajustes propuestos, elaboraci6n del informe final del Analisis
Social en el formato oficial del Viceministerio de la Juventud
2. INSTRUMENTOS.
* Fichas de analisis documental
* Sistemas de recolecci6n de informaci6n cuantitativa y cualitativa existente
* Tlcnicas de indagaci6n social para producir la informaci6n requerida e inexistente
(Encuesta,entrevista, juego de roles, grupo focal, etc)
3. METODOLOGIA
Se deberan buscar las metodologias, tdcnicas e instrumentos mas adecuadas en cada uno de los
items y campos relevantes para esta parte del analisis social y para el proyecto. Teniendo en cuenta
las orientaciones que presentara el manual de la linea de base y las condiciones y recursos
municipales para desarrollar esta acci6n.
4. FORMATO DE PRESENTACION DE RESULTADOS DEL ANALISIS SOCIAL
Los resultados se presentaran en un documento que contendra los siguientes apartes:
I. INFORMACION BASICA SOBRE VARIABLES QUE PUEDEN INCIDIR EN EL
PROYECTO'
DemogrAfica
*  Niimero y caracteristicas sociales y culturales de los j6venes y familias que hacen parte de la
poblaci6n meta del proyecto.
*  Necesidades, intereses y expectativas de la poblaci6n meta discriminadas por genero; edad,
nivel de escolarizaci6n, ser urbano o rural.
*  Relaci6n de los diversos tipos de j6venes con los servicios de Educaci6n, Salud, Formaci6n
para el trabajo.
Socioecon6mica y Cultural
* Niveles de pobreza en los grupos y familias de la poblaci6n meta del proyecto
' Esta no es una lista exhaustiva de datos requeridos. La lista se debera adecuar segun las necesidades especificas del
subproyecto municipal.



75
* Cuantificaci6n y caracterizaci6n de j6venes que solo estudian, solo trabajan, estudian y
trabajan, ni estudian ni trabaja.
* Nivel educativo de los padres
* Tipo de conformacion familiar
*  Dimensiones, caracteristicas socio-econ6micas y ubicacion de la poblaci6n en mayor riesgo
* Que papel juega la territorialidad (localidad, vereda, municipio, provincia, regi6n) como
elemento cultural que facilita o dificulta el logro de los objetivos del proyecto?
* 6En que forma el conflicto armado y la violencia ciudadana de la municipalidad afectan el
desarrollo del proyecto?
Condiciones de Vulnerabilidad en la poblaci6n juvenil por atender:
* Embarazo precoz
* Indices de delincuencia
* Indices de mortalidad juvenil
* Indices de escolaridad
* Deserci6n escolar y repitencia.
11. INFORMACION BA4SICA S013RE EL ESTADO DE LA INIEGRACI6N Y LA
PARTICIPA CION EN LOS SER VICIOS
* La participaci6n:
* Actores que participaran del proyccto
* Tipos de participaci6n
* Nivel actual de participaci6n por actores
* La integraci6n
* Servicios que participaran en cl proyecto
* Tipos de integraci6n
* Niveles de integraci6n interinstitucional y de los servicios al desarrollo local



76
Guia # 3
1. TERMINOS DE REFERENCIA
1.1. Significado :La Validaci6n del "Modelo de Intervenci6n"' del proyecto nacional agenciado por
el Viceministerio de la Juventud, es una acci6n que debe ser realizada en cada Municipio con el fin
de que las partes interesadas en el proyecto puedan apropiarse de la propuesta de intervenci6n que
este plantea, lo cual significa que puedan comprender su l6gica interna, la pertinencia y relevancia
para la juventud en cada una de las municipalidades participantes y las condiciones de exito del
mismo en su propia localidad; asi como tambien presentar sus inquietudes, propuestas y
alternativas de ajuste frente al proyecto nacional.
La validaci6n del modelo hace parte fundamental de la Evaluaci6n Social puesto que sin la
comprensi6n del enfoque, el contenido y la estrategia de la intervencion propuesta a nivel nacional
no podrian identificarse los aspectos a contemplar en el analisis social, ni hacerse el estudio de
partes interesadas y tampoco definir los actores del plan de participacion.
1.2. Objetivos.
- Valoraci6n, por parte de los actores locales involucrados, del modelo de intervencion propuesto
por el proyecto nacional.
* Recolecci6n de preguntas, inquictudes, cuestionamientos y propuestas de ajuste al modelo de
intervenci6n por parte de los actores sociales "clave" de los Municipios participantes.
- Definici6n del marco referencial quc orientara la elaboraci6n del proyecto en el respectivo
Municipio
1.3. Resultados esperados.
Elaboraci6n de un documento municipal de Validacion del modelo de intervencion del proyecto
nacional en el que se establezcan las reacciones de los actores municipales respecto a:
* Las fortalezas, debilidades, posibilidades y riesgos del modelo de intervencion del proyecto
Servicios Integrados para Jovenes en el respectivo contexto municipal.
* Las variables que a nivel local podrian afectar la propuesta nacional facilitando o inhibiendo su
desarrollo.
* Las actitudes (favorables, desfavorables o de indiferencia) de los diversos actores frente a la
propuesta nacional.
1 El 'Modelo de intervencidn" hace referencia al todo integrado constituido por el enfoque y las hip6tesis basicas del proyecto,
a la poblaci6n meta hacia la que dirige su acci6n, a ia estrategia de acci6n, a los resultados esperados en el corto mediano y
largo plazo y a las variables externas que podrian afectar el desarrollo del proyecto.



77
* Las lineas de acci6n y propuestas concretas que los diferentes involucrados proponen
desarrollar respecto del modelo para avanzar en la construcci6n del subproyecto municipal.
1.4. Actividades
* Acordar con el Viceministerio de la Juventud su presencia para la presentaci6n de la propuesta
nacional, y la asistencia tecnica de un facilitador que oriente el taller de validaci6n.
* Convocatoria de los actores municipales "Clave" para el proyecto en la municipalidad ; por
ejemplo, oficina de la juventud municipal, institucioncs de servicios sociales para j6venes:
educaci6n, salud, trabajo; Ongs que trabajan con j6venes, representantes de organizaciones
juveniles, etc.
* Preparaci6n de las condiciones logisticas del taller de validaci6n; convocatoria oportuna, lugar,
implementos necesarios, etc.
* Desarrollo del taller. Tiempo ideal una jornada de seis horas de trabajo, con un facilitador
capacitado en el manejo de la "Discusi6n Enfocada".
* Elaboraci6n del informe final de los resultados del taller de validaci6n en el formato oficial del
Viceministerio de la Juventud
NOTA: Se considera importante la realizaci6n de tres talleres de validaci6n del modelo de
intervenci6n: uno por cada sector "Clave" involucrado en el proyecto; uno para representantes de
funcionarios y agentes de los servicios (maestros, medicos, personal paramedico, capacitadores del
Sena, educadores del ICBF), otro para funcionarios municipales (Alcalde, Secretaria de planeaci6n
municipal, Secretaria de desarrollo social, oficina de la juventud, etc.) y otro para j6venes, padres
de familia y comunidad.
- Deberan buscarse mecanismos de consulta sobre el modelo de intervenci6n que logren el mayor
nivel de representatividad posible por parte de los participes en los talleres de validaci6n
- La metodologia debera ajustarse al publico especifico. Preguntar a cada quien de tal manera que
pueda hacer el mejor aporte. No es conveniente preguntar a todos lo mismo. Los j6venes saben mas
de algunas cosas que los padres y los agentes institucionales tienen saberes diferentes que los
funcionarios de la alcaldia. De ahi la importancia de adecuar y concretar las preguntas de acuerdo
a la poblaci6n. Aca solamente se presenta un listado de ejemplo que debera ser revisado y ajustado
en cada caso.
2. INSTRUMENTO.
2.1. La Discusihn Enfocada; t6cnica a utilizar. Esta tecnica se utilizara con el fin obtener las
reacciones que las partes interesadas tiencn sobre el modelo de intervenci6n propuesto en el
proyecto "Servicios Integrados para J6venes ". Es una tecnica que tiene la ventaja de poner a la
luz, no solamente el conocimiento previo que tienen los interesados en el proyecto y la
argumentaci6n racional sobre las bondades y limitaciones de este, sino tambien, sus expectativas,
temores, motivaciones, riesgos, resistencias y los posibles compromisos que los actores "clave"
podrian asumir frente al desarrollo del proyecto en su respectivo Municipio.
Antes de iniciar la conversaci6n enfocada es fundamental que los participantes en el taller puedan
preguntar sobre sus dudas y asuntos no entendidos suficientemente. El facilitador deberia hacer
preguntas a los participantes sobre el contenido dcl modclo de tal manera que haya la certeza de
que todo el grupo ha entendido de que se trata el proyecto.



78
2.2. Formulario de preguntas que enfocarin la discusi6n
1. Respecto a la poblacion obietivo guie atenclera el provecto:
* Fase Reflexiva: ,Que sentimientos le provoca la seleccion de los j6venes a los que esta dando
mas importancia el proyecto?
* Fase Objetiva: ,Desde su punto de vista es adecuada la definici6n de la poblaci6n juvenil con la
que trabajara este proyecto
* Fase Interpretativa: j,CuAl es la importancia de este sector poblacional? ,Que papel podria
cumplir el dedicar esfuerzos a esta poblacion en el desarrollo del barrio y del Municipio?
* Fase Decisoria. En el contexto de 6ste proyecto: Z,Seria conveniente precisar o cambiar el tipo
de j6venes hacia los que se dirige cl proyecto?
2. La integraci6n de servicios como estraflegia de intervenci6n sobre la poblacion
* Fase Reflexiva: En el contexto de este provecto: ,Que sentimientos le provoca la propuesta de
integraci6n de servicios de educaci6n, salud, trabajo?
. Fase objetiva: ZQue niveles de integracidn entre los distintos programas se dan hoy en los
programas que trabajan con los j6venes en esta localidad?
* Fase interpretativa: Que implicaciones y efectos produciria la integraci6n de servicios en el
barrio, en el Municipio ?
* Fase decisoria ZiQue cambios pueden hacer ustedes para promover la integraci6n de servicios en
sus respectivas areas de trabajo?
3. La participaci6n como estrategia fitndacnental de intervencion para este provecto
* Fase reflexiva: t,Crmo se sienten ustedes respecto a las posibilidades reales de participar en las
decisiones de los servicios?
* Ease Objetiva : ,Que actores y que niveles de participacion de cada uno de ellos se dan hoy en
los programas que trabajan con los j6venes?
* Fase interpretativa: 4C6mo puede favorecer u obstaculizar la participacion el desarrollo de este
proyecto?
* Fase decisoria: ,Cuales son los primeros pasos deberemos dar en esta localidad para optimizar
la participaci6n en este proyecto?
4. Los resultados esperados
* Fase reflexiva : LC6mo se sienten ustedes respecto a las promesas del proyecto y a los
resultados que se espera pueda producir en los j6venes y en los servicios ?
* Fase Objetiva: ,Es realista esperar que los j6venes puedan integrarse con ayuda de este
proyecto, al mundo del trabajo, a la participaci6n ciudadana, a la convivencia pacifica?
* Fase interpretativa: L,De acuerdo a sus experiencias en el barrio y con las instituciones, cuales
podrian ser los problemas mas grandes que deberA afrontar el proyccto para alcanzar los
resultados previstos? 6Cuales son sus mejores posibilidades?
* Fase decisoria: 6Que decisiones deberian asumirse para garantizar el logro de los resultados
esperados con este proyecto?



79
3. METODOLOGIA
3.1. Preparaci6n de la sesi6n. La preparaci6n de la(s) sesi6n (es) de discusi6n enfocada estara
bajo la responsabilidad del equipo promotor municipal del subproyecto, la coordinaci6n tecnica
estara en cabeza de un facilitador' experto en el manejo de la tecnica y debera realizarse con la
participaci6n de uno de los funcionarios del equipo de coordinaci6n del Viceministerio de la
Juventud. El comite municipal del proyccto define el listado de convocados a la sesi6n, los asuntos
logisticos y operativos. Es en este comite en donde se define el numero de sesiones de validaci6n
del modelo de intervenci6n.
3.2. Desarrollo de la sesi6n. La sesi6n se desenvuelve en cinco momentos cada uno de los cuales
cumple un papel especifico
* Presentaci6n detallada del modelo de intervenci6n: su hip6tesis basica, sus metas y objetivos de
corto, mediano y largo plazo, los resultados esperados y la estrategia de intervenci6n.
* Fase Reflexiva: Es un momento para que los participantes expresen sus primeras reacciones
frente al proyecto nacional, la atcnci6n debcra centrarse en las reacciones afectivas que la
presentaci6n -a traves de la preguLnta dinamizadora- esta produciendo en los participantes;
aparecen las inquictudes, temores, resistencias, motivaciones y descos que el tema "Focal"
produce. Es el momento de identificar los aspectos emnocionales de adhesi6n, rechazo o
indiferencia con los que debera contar el proyecto municipal en su diseAo. Las respuestas de
cada participante deben iniciarse con "Me siento ........
* Fase Objetiva: Indaga por las ideas (ojala sustentadas en informaci6n objetiva) que los
participantes tienen sobre la pregunta que enfoca la discusi6n. Es el momento de identificar el
estado de conocimiento o de ignorancia de los participantes frente al tema especifico senalado
por la pregunta dinamizadora. Es cl momento de precisar lo que saben sobre el tema "Focal" los
actores municipales convocados .
* Fase Interpretativa: Es el momento en el que se pasa al analisis de los clementos y las
interacciones  dinamicas  constituycntes  del  objeto  focal  scialado  por  la  pregunta
"Focalizadora"; es un momento para establecer hip6tesis de lo que podria estar generando la
situaci6n actual y las implicaciones de realizar una intervenci6n orientada a su transformaci6n.
Es el momento del estudio de las causas de la situaci6n de hoy y las consecuencias de una
intervenci6n en ella.
* Fase Decisoria: Como su nombre lo dice, es un momento de prever acciones y asumir
compromisos. Frente a la situaci6n descrita, las emociones expresadas y la interpretaci6n
desarrollada los participantes se preguntan sobre lo que deberia hacerse y los compromisos que
deberan asumir frente al asunto "focal". Es cl momento de prever acciones y establecer
responsabilidades y compromisos.
4. PRESENTACION DE RESULTADOS DEL PROCESO DE VALIDACION
El proceso de validaci6n del modelo de intervenci6n del proyecto Servicios Integrados para
J6venes a nivel Local finaliza con la elaboraci6n de un documento escrito que tiene la siguiente
El Facilitador, debera ser un experto en manejo de tkcnicas de grupo, especialmente entrenado para facilitar esta tdcnica
partlelpativa especifica. Deberi entender sus fundamentos, y tener las habilidades personales y profesionales requeridas para
conducir grupos.



80
Tabla de Contenido
4.1 Introducci6n
Una sintetica presentaci6n del informe que brinda una visi6n de conjunto del proceso adelantado y
las principales conclusiones del proceso
1. Estado del conocimiento de los actores convocados sobre la problematica juvenil en el
Municipio.
2. Necesidad, pertinencia y adecuaci6n del modelo de intervenci6n a las caracteristicas especificas
de la municipalidad.
3. Las fortalezas, dcbilidades, posibilidades y riesgos del modelo de intervenci6n del proyecto
Servicios Integrados sefialadas por los participantes en el respectivo contexto municipal.
4. Las actitudes (favorables, desfavorables o de indiferencia) de los diversos actores frente a la
propuesta nacional.
5. Las lineas de acci6n y propuestas concretas que los diferentes involucrados proponen
desarrollar respecto del modelo para avanzar en la construcci6n del subproyecto municipal.
6. Conclusiones y recomendaciones hacia el modelo de intervenci6n. Aprendizajes derivados del
proceso de validaci6n para el equipo municipal



81
Guia # 4
1. Trminos de Referencia:
1.1 Significado:
El Plan de Participaci6n constituye el ejercicio final del proceso de Evaluaci6n Social del proyecto.
Este Plan es una herramienta de trabajo esencial para el diseno, implementaci6n, monitoreo, y
evaluaci6n de la dimensi6n participativa del proyecto a nivel municipal. Se concretizan en el plan
las aspiraciones, limitaciones y compromisos de las distintas partes interesadas para alcanzar los
niveles de participaci6n deseados. La funci6n del Plan es i) Hacer visible para los participantes en
el proceso de ES que la participaci6n no es algo espontaneo y silvestre, sino que por el contrario, es
una practica social que requiere planeaci6n rigurosa, conocimientos sistematicos, tecnologias de
intervenci6n, recursos suficientes, responsabilidades asignadas y ii) en el plan se operacionaliza lo
analizado en las etapas anteriores del proceso de Evaluaci6n Social y por tanto sirve como
elemento fundamental para cualificar la participaci6n en el proyecto.
1.2 Objetivos:
Con el prop6sito de involucrar a los interesados su participaci6n en el proyecto puede considerarse
a cuatro niveles: difusi6n de informaci6n (unidreccional), consulta (informaci6n compartida),
colaboracion (toma de decisiones conjunta), y autogestion (transferencia de control sobre
deciciones y recursos). Estos niveles se utilizan para:
* Delinear una estrategia de participaci6n del proyecto a nivel local estipulando los niveles de
participaci6n deseados a traves de las distintas etapas del ciclo del proyecto municipal; y
* Formular un plan de acci6n para la etapa en la cual se estuviera trabajando que incluya
consideraciones pertinentes, actividades, agentes responsables, y fechas.
1.3 Resultados esperados:
Por medio de procesos participativos se elaborara un plan de acci6n consensuado y sintetizado en
un documento municipal denominado Plan de Participaci6n el cual tendra que:
* Disefiar la estrategia de participaci6n del proyecto; y
* Elaborar el plan de acci6n que haga real, operativa y medible la dimensi6n participativa del
proyecto.
1.4 Actividades:
* En la etapa de disenlo del proyecto, se debe realizar un taller de trabajo con los actores claves
que han estado participando en las etapas previas de la Evaluaci6n Social (analisis de Partes
Interesadas, Evaluacion Social, y Validaci6n del Proyecto). Si fuera necesario pueden invitarse



82
este taller a personas adicionales, siempre y cuando se las prepare adecuadamente compartiendo
los resultados de las etapas previas para lograr una intervenci6n adecuada a las caracteristicas
del proyecto.
A medida que se inician las etapas subsiguientes del ciclo de proyectos (implementaci6n,
monitoreo, y evaluaci6n) se deberan realizar talleres adicionales. En estos talleres a realizarse
antes del inicio de cada una de estas etapas de actividades se deberan:
a.     revisar la estrategia local de participaci6n elaborada durante la fase de disenio del proyecto;
b.     cualificar el Plan de Participaci6n de la etapa anterior; y
C.     elaborar participativamente el Plan de Participacion para la etapa que va a iniciar.
2. Instrumentos:
En el taller de trabajo de elaboracion del Plan de Participaci6n se utilizara la siguiente secuencia
de instrumentos pertinentes (a ser sintetizados en sus respectivos formularios):
*  Se comienza por considerar la participaci6n deseada a traves del ciclo del proyecto local. Esta
informaci6n debe ser consensuada y sintetizada en el cuadro "Estrategia de Participaci6n de las
Partes Interesadas".
* El paso final de este taller de trabajo consiste en consensuar un plan de acci6n integrado para
cada parte interesada que identifica su funcion en el proyecto, las actividades que Ilevara a
cabo, los responsables de las mismas y el cronograma respectivo.   Esta infornaci6n se
sintetizara en el forrnulario "Plan de Participaci6n".
3. Metodologia /Procedimientos:
Se trabaja con los procedimientos para talleres de trabajo participativos, semejantes a los
senialados en la guia # 1 y # 3
4.Formato de presentaci6n:
El Plan de Participaci6n debe ser incluido en el proyecto presentado al Viceministerio de la
Juventud y debera hacerse de la siguiente manera:
1. El cuadro "Formulaci6n de la Estrategia de Participaci6n de las Partes Interesadas" para las
cuatro etapas del ciclo del proyecto: disenio, implementaci6n, monitoreo, y evaluaci6n. (Ver Matriz
# 4)
2. El cuadro "Plan de Participaci6n para la Etapa de Disefno del Proyecto" completando el
formulario incluido en este Manual Operativo (Ver Matriz # 5).
3.  Descripci6n de los procesos utilizados en el disefio y facilitaci6n del taller y de las
personas/instituciones responsables del mismo.
4.  Descripci6n del taller, incluyendo lugar, fecha, duraci6n y nombre y afiliaci6n de los
participantes.



MATRIZ #4
PROYECTO "SERVICIOS INTEGRADOS PARA JOVENES"
FORMULACION DE ESTRATEGIA DE PARTICIPACION DE LAS PARTES INTERESADAS
~~~~~~~~~~.. ........  i...  .    ... ..
',. ' -: ' .' ET.APA ,,N EN,,.   EL''': -: .....               NIVEL DE PARTICEPACION
.DEL PROYE.TO'..'.
DIFUSION DE                  CONSULTA                    DECISIvN                  AUTONOMIA
INFORMACION                                              CNUT
--..     .....   :..... r.I...... . 
..  :. :.   :  :......   ...... .....  ..   .   ::-.....rnNtldUl 
DISEfq6:O
IMPLEMENTACION
MONITOR
N........ .    .     ......
'  ---'.. ',A :



MATRIZ # 5 PROYECTO 'SERVICIOS INTEGRADOS PARA JOVENES"
PLAN DE PARTICIPACION PARA LA ETAPA DE DISENO DEL PROYECTO
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o             ......
T~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 'N  ._. ..'
A42~~TORES   PARTICIAIO            UNCIONES         ATVIASREOSALS                        ECA
e                                                                   .      __~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



85
VICEMINISTERIO DE LA JUVENTUD - BANCO MUNDIAL
TALLER DE VALIDACION DEL MANUAL OPERATIVO PARA REALIZAR LA EVALUACION
SOCIAL DEL PROYECTO "SERVICIOSINTEGRADOSPARA JbVENES" EN EL NIVEL
MUNICIPAL
Manizales, Marzo 4 y 5 de 1998
AGENDA
Objetivo:
* Presentar, analizar, ajustar y validar -con los actores "clave"l del equipo promotor del proyecto de
Servicios Integrados para J6venes en Manizales-, la propuesta metodol6gica e instrumental de
evaluaci6n social que hace parte del proceso de preparaci6n de los proyectos que se adelantara en cada
uno de los Municipios.
DIA 1
A.M.
Introducci6n .: Sentido del taller. 6Qu& es la evaluaci6n social?
* Objetivos, Metodologia y descripci6n de las cuatro sesiones que constituyen el taller.
* Resultados esperados del Taller
* Presentaci6n de los participantes.
Sesi6n # i "Validaci6n del modelo de intervenci6n del proyecto "Servicios Integrados para
j6venes" (Discusi6n Enfocada)
P.M.
Sesi6n # 2 "Validaci6n del instrumento para la elaboraci6n del Analisis Sociaf'
DIA 2
A.M.
Sesi6n # 3 "Validaci6n del instrumento para el Analisis de Partes Interesadas
P.M.
Sesi6n # 4 "Validaci6n del instrumento para la elaboraci6n del Plan de Participaci6n"
1 El nCimero ideal de participantes en 6sta reuni6n es de 12 personas del equipo municipal, en la medida de lo posible, conocedoras del
proceso realizado en la ciudad para la preparaci6n del proyecto



86
ANNEX 13
Statement of Loans and Credits
Amount in US$ million
(less cancellations)
Loanl           Fiscal|                                                                            Closing
Credit           Year    Borrower         Purpose            B      lk    IDA       Undisbursed      Date
Credits
1 Credit(s) Closed                                                                   24.48
Total Number of Credits = 0                                                              0            0
LoaMs
150 Loans(s) Closed                                                  6,305.15                      0.78
30100            1989               Ed. Sector                    100                       11.8   12/31/97
31130            1990               Small Scale Irrig.             50                       9.15   12/31/97
33360            1991               Mumic. Dev.                    60                       7.78   12/31/97
33210            1991               Ind. Restruct.             195.35                      11.79    9/30/97
3449A            1992               IFI-Rest. & Div.            55.49                      55.49   12/31/97
34530            1992               TIhird Nat. Roads            266                        9.06   12/31/97
36150            1993               Munic. Ilcalth Serv.           50                       41.1   6/30/01
36690            1994               Pub]. Finanic. MNgmt.          30                      17.13    6/30/00
36920            1994               Nat. Resource Mgi.             39                      28.85   12/31/99
36830            1994               Secondary Educ.                90                      71.57   12/31/00
38710            1995               Agric. Tech.                   51                      47.14   12/31/01
38270            1995               Energy TA                      11                       6.89   12/31/99
39530            1996               Santafe Water Sup.             87                      78.72    6/30/03
3954A            1996               Power Mkt. Dev.             104.3                     104.26   12/31/02
4021A            1996               Urban Transp.               59.59                      59.18   12/31/01
39520            1996               Santafe I Water Sup.           58                      50.34    6/30/03
39730            1996               Urban Envir. TA               20                       18.35    7/31/00
39550            1996               Power Mkt. D.v.               145                     133.01   12/31/02
41960            1997               Financ. Mkt. Dev. T'A          15            15    2/28/02
41380            1997               Reg. Ref TA                  12.5                       12.5   8/15/01
Total Number of Loans = 20                                           1,449.22                    789.11
Total***                                       7,804.37        23.48
of which                                       5,176.06        13.59
repaid
Total held by Bank & IDA                       2,628.31         9.89
Amount       50.99
sold                                                 _
of which     50.99
repaid
Total Undisbursed                                                          789.89



87
Colombia at a glance                                                              8/2/97
Latin  Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         America  middle-
Colombia   & Carib.  Income      Development dlamond
Prpulation mid-1996 (millions)                       37.4       485    1,125
GNP per capita 1996 (US$)                           2,190     3,710    1,750                Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions US$)                              81.9     1,799    1,967
Average annual growth, 1990-46
Populabon (%)                                         1.8       1.7      1.4      GNP                             Gross
Laborforce (,%)                                       2.7       2.3      1.8      per   I                        pri-ary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                           capita                       enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)             19
Urban populaton (% dototal ppulation)                  73        74       56
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       70        69       67
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               26        37       41              Access to safe water
Child malnutribon ({ o children unrder 5)              10        ..
Access to safe water (% of population)                 96        80       78
Illiteracy (% dfpopulation age 15+)                     9        13
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  121      110      104                Cola
Male                                                                   105                Lower-middleIncorme group
Female                                                                 101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975    1986       1995     1996
Economic ratios*
GDP (billions USS)                          13.1     34.9      78.1     87.3
Gross domestc investmenUGDP                 17.0    19.0       23.5    23.4               oenness of economy
Exportsofgoodsandservices/GDP               15.8     138       17.4    16.6
Grossdomesticsavings/GDP                    18.8    20.3       20.4    21.1
Gross national savings/GDP                  16.4    16.9       17.2    17.5
Current account balance/GDP                    ..    -4.6      -5.6    -5.5
Interest payments/GDP                        1.0      2.5       1.3      1.9     Savings                      Investment
Total debt/GDP                              28.7    40.8       32.1     33.3
Total debt service/exports                  14.3    40.0       25.0    41.9
Present value of debt/GDP                      ..      ..      24.6
Present value of debtlexports                 1.        .     131.4                          Indebtedness
1976-86  1986-96    1995      1996  1997-05
(fwe  -Wal growth)                                                                   -     Colombia
GDP                                 3.7      4.2      5.4       2.1      4.1
GNPpercapita                        1.1      2.9      1.6       2.0      2.8               Lower-middle-income group
Exportsd goodsandservices           3.1      8.7      2.7       5.2      3.6    _
ST#UCTURE of the ECONOMY
(%Of GDP)                                   1975    19SG       1995    199        Growth rates of output and investment (%3
Agriculture                                 23.9     17.0      18.9    15.9       so
Industry                                    29.2     34.6      23.0    19.5       40
Manufactunng                               23.2    21.7       188      15.5     20
Services                                    46.9     484       58.1    64.6       21
0
Private consurrption                        72.3     690       70 4     68.8    .10            92   93   94   95   9r
General government consumption               8.9    10.7        9.2    10.1                            1-
Importsofgoodsandservices                   14.0     125       20.0     19.0                     GO         GP
1975-85  1986-96     1996    1996
(average annual growth)                                                          Growth rates of exports and imports (%I
Agriculture                                  2.9      3.1       5.2      1.4      f0
Industry                                     3.3      3.0       3.7    -1.2
Manufacturing                               2.5     3.2        1.0     -225 40
Semces                                       4.3      53        6.1      3.6      20
Private consumption                          3.6      1.8       5.1     -2.2
General government consumption               6.4      69        55       110                   92   93   94  
Gross domestic investment                    5.0     11.9       98       2.6    .20
Imports of goods and services                5.9     11.8       7.5      0.5                    Export   imports
Gross national product                       3.2      4.8        3.5     3.5   L
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
*The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



88
Colombia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986      1996     1996
DomesUic pC                                                                        Inflation (%J
(X change)                                                                        *o
Consumer prices                              2,.9     24.0      20.9     21.6     30
Implicit GOP deflator                        22.9     24.9      20.8     21.2    20                              _
Govnmeinnt finance                                                                to
(% dfGDP)                                                                          a                               I 
Current revenue                                       20.3      30.4      31.5           9e   92   9s 3           95   96
Current budget balance                                 4 3       6.9       8.1                   GDPdet.   0      CPj
Overall surplus/deficit                               -4.6      -1.4      -2.9
TRADE
(milloisiSS)'                                         1986      1996     1SS6      Export and Import levels (milL USS)
Total exports (fob)                                  3,650    10,201   10,630      15 ooo
Coffee                                              1,702     1,832    1,577
Petroleum                                                     2,164    2,889
Manufactures                                                  5,160    4,879     10000
Total imports (cif)                                           12.921   12.755       s   -n
Food                                                   .          .        .       ,000     Ij
Fuel and energy                                      466       264      240                I   II
Capital goods                                       1,165     4,776    4,237          ____ _
Exportpriceindex(1987=100)                                       145      164            90  91  92  93  94  Us  9s
Import price index (1987=100)                                    267      260                   3 DExports    u Imports
Terms of trade (1987= 100)                                        54       63
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976     1986      1996     1996
(millions US$)                                                                     Current account balance to GDP ratio I%)
Exportsofgoods andservices                  2,105    4,642    13,771   14,545      t
Importsofgoodsandservices                   2,007    4,989    16,211   16,541
Resource balance                              98      -347    -2,439   -1,997
3
Net income                                   -318   -1,710    -2,750   -3,401
Ntetcurrent transfers                                 455        797      614
Current account balance,                                                              90   95
before ofcial capital transfers                 .1,602       4,393   -4,784   ||
Financing items (net)                                1.371     4,715    6,356
Changesinnetreserves                         Ill      231       -322   -1,572      6 I
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. USS)          633    2,202      B,458   10,041
Conversion rate (local/USS)                  30.9    142.3     944.5  1,036.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1974     1985      1856     1996
(millions US$)                                                                     Composition of total debt, 1996 (mill. US$
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        3,758   14,246    25,047   29,069                        A
IBRD                                       634    2,399      2,548    2,177               G       2177    B
IDA                                         23        18        11       10             58|4             10  o
Total debt service                            314    1,980     4,694    6,443                                  2787
IBRD                                        78      318        604      520                                     E
IDA                                          1         0         1        1                                   1738
Composition of net resource flows
Ofricial grants                              18       20        73
Official creditors                         111      938       -472    1,531
Private creditors                          216      392      1,109    1,592
Foreign direct investment                   37    1,023      2,501    3,253
Portfolio equity                             0         0       131      -21                       F
16473
World Bank program
Commdrients                                 88      490        207      334      A - IBRO                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                              1Q6      590        238      152      B-IDA    D - Orer mutilateral  F - Private
Pnncipal repayments                          34      165       415      351      c - IMf                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                    71      424      -177     -199    ___
Interest payments                            45      153       191      170
Net transfers                               27      271       -368     -369
Development Economics                                                                                               8/2897



MAP SECTION



IBRD 26153
AN Mntri;  '?;;78                                               74                            [A                           2 7
C°OEOCAUIA DO~J                                                                                                                      $ R  a     
o                          <        i  -!)                 KILOMETERSOLMEIA~  ~
i_o                                tm   B   R   A  ~~~~~~~~~~~BRZ I L -
<  ELEVATION  BOVEn~'~ 1000O~ MEES           
@  DPC  CAR                                              Pac
-5        OPTE                                            The boundaries, colors, denominations
OPDOB  c-                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nd any other informnation shawn an
/CORDO     j                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~this map do nat imply, an the part of
7                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~The World Bank Group, any judgment
1/                                                          a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n the legal status of any territory, or
(('  )                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~any endorsement or acceptance af"
such baundar
c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Aac
*Soniasedeuaviare        V  I U  A  D   A
CA A                                                                                994TA
ELEVATION~~~A  ABOEA000MEER
~~    DEPARTMENT CAPITALS                                                           Mit
>~  P  E  R V A                      
-.  DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES                                     ./~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MLE
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIESAM                          ZONA                                        KIOMETER
7B                     74  ,,)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRA                                                        
ELEVA71ON ABOVE 1 000 METERS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     UGUT 99



