                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                    Report No: 27438-CO

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                        (SCL-43830 PPFB-P2920)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                                IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5.0 MILLION

                                         TO THE REPUBLIC OF

                                              COLOMBIA

                                                 FOR A
                                  YOUTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                           December 16, 2003




Colombia and Mexico Country Management Unit
Human Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                            (Exchange Rate Effective December 2003)

                                   Currency Unit = Colombian Peso
                                        US$ 1.00 = 2870.2

                                         FISCAL YEAR
                                       January    December

                             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ASOJUCOM       Youth Association (Asociación de Jóvenes) in Cali.
Colombia Joven Presidential Youth Program (Programa Presidencial "Colombia Joven")
DAPR           Administrative Department of the Presidency (Departamento Administrativo de la
               Presidencia)
DNP            National Department of Planning (Departamento Nacional de Planeación)
DO             Project Development Objectives Rating
IBRD           International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IP             Project Implementation Rating
LIL            Learning and Innovation Loan
MC             Municipal Committee (Comité Municipal)
MCU            Municipal Coordination Unit
NGO            Non-Governmental Organization
PAD            Project Appraisal Document
PADEMER        Program to Support the Development of Small Enterprises in Rural Areas of the
               Ministry of Agriculture
PCU            Project Coordination Unit
PEI            Institutional Education Project (Proyecto Educativo Institucional)
PHRD           Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PPF            Project Preparation Facility
PSIJ           Youth Development Project (Proyecto Servicios Integrados para Jóvenes)
SENA           National Training Service (Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje)
SIL            Sector Investment Loan
SPSS           Statistical Package for the Social Sciences
TOR            Terms of Reference
UNDP           United Nations Development Programme
VMJ            Vice-Ministry of Youth (Vice Ministerio de la Juventud)



                                  Vice President:     David de Ferranti
                               Country Director:      Isabel M. Guerrero
                                Sector Manager:       Christopher Chamberlin
                             Task Team Leader:        Sandra Rosenhouse

                                         COLOMBIA
                               CO-YOUTH DEVELOPMENT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            16
6. Sustainability                                                                18
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 20
8. Lessons Learned                                                               22
9. Partner Comments                                                              24
10. Additional Information                                                       25
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             39
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             44
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             46
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             46
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             47
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                47
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            48
Annex 8. Government's Contribution                                               51

Project ID: P050576                                                  Project Name: CO- YOUTH DEVELOPMENT
Team Leader: Sandra Rosenhouse                                       TL Unit: LCSHH
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 22, 2003


1. Project Data
                   Name: CO- YOUTH DEVELOPMENT                                    L/C/TF Number: SCL-43830; PPFB-P2920
   Country/Department: COLOMBIA                                                           Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Other social services (61%); Sub-national government
                            administration (20%); Central government administration (19%)
                  Theme: Municipal governance and institution building (P); Civic
                            engagement, participation and community driven development (P);
                            Access to urban services for the poor (P); Social risk reduction (S);
                            Vulnerability assessment and monitoring (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/15/1997                                     Effective: 04/12/1999
     Appraisal: 07/10/1998                                         MTR:
      Approval: 08/03/1998                                      Closing: 12/31/2001                 12/31/2002



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Government/Ministerio de Educacion Nacional/Vice-ministerio de la Juventud:
                                           Replaced in 2000 by the "Colombia Joven"Program of the Administrative
                                           Department of the Office of the Presidency.
                      Other Partners:      Municipal Governments of Bucaramanga, Cali, Cartagena, Cúcuta, Ibagué,
                                           Palmira, Pasto and Quibdó. Other Public, NGOs, private and public institutions.

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Isabel M. Guerrero                             Andres Solimano
Sector Director:                Ana-Maria Arriagada                            Xavier Coll
Team Leader at ICR:             Sandra Rosenhouse                              Miriam Schneidman
ICR Primary Author:             Anna Maria Sant'Anna


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The objective of the project was to test and evaluate alternative multi-sector and participatory approaches
to developing and delivering services and providing activities for low-income youth in selected local areas,
which would lead in the long run, inter alia, to improved education and employment opportunities.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The project objective was not modified.

3.3 Original Components:

Component 1: National Component, Institutional Strengthening (US$ 1.3 million or 17 percent of total
project cost with contingencies). This component aimed to strengthen institutional capacity through three
subcomponents.

Subcomponent 1.1: Technical Assistance for the Design and Implementation of Services. The project
would finance technical assistance to participating municipalities for the design, implementation and
evaluation of multi-sector service integration schemes for low-income youth in the areas of intervention.
Technical assistance would be provided to municipalities, communities and youth serving organizations
including training and the production of technical support documentation to strengthen their ability to work
with youth.

Subcomponent 1.2:         Establishment of a Learning Network. A resource base of national and
international best practice experiences in service integration schemes benefiting youth would be developed.
Its contents would be disseminated through a learning network to include governmental, NGO and private
for profit entities through the carrying out of seminars, workshops, publications, internet, and study tours.

Subcomponent 1.3: Establishment of a Monitoring and Evaluation System. A national evaluation
group would be established comprised of universities, foundations and other technical experts to design the
instruments, protocols and indicators constituting the national evaluation system for the project, and
manage its overall operation. The M&E group would also provide training and technical assistance to
municipal evaluation teams in developing their local evaluation plans.

Component 2: Municipal Component (US$ 6.25 million or 80 percent of total project cost with
contingencies).    This component would support the design and implementation of service integration
schemes in selected local areas through the following subcomponents:

Subcomponent 2.1: Local Network Establishment (US$ 1.35 million or 17 percent of total project cost
with contingencies) Activities to be supported for the establishment of local networks consisted of the
creation of Municipal Committees responsible for the development of local service integration schemes and
mobilization of other institutions. These committees would consist of representatives of local government,
private and NGO sector, universities, youth groups and other civil society representatives. The Municipal
Committees would be responsible for developing an implementation plan in a participatory manner, through
focus groups and workshops, with the support of technical experts.              They would also provide
implementation oversight to local service integration schemes. Municipal committees would design and
manage the local evaluation plan, which would include a social assessment, baseline research, project



                                                     - 2 -

monitoring, and application of instruments agreed upon with the national group. This subcomponent would
also finance a communications strategy at the local level to disseminate best practice examples and the
objectives of the local service integration schemes.

Subcomponent 2.2: Provision of Integrated Services and Youth Activities in Selected Local Areas
(US$4.90 million or 63 percent of total project cost with contingencies). This subcomponent would finance
the carrying out of subprojects in each selected municipality, supporting the implementation of improved
and/or new integrated service schemes for low-income youth at specific local areas, based on prepared
implementation plans. The subprojects would include one or more interventions in four main areas: learning
and educational support, employment promotion, preventive health and health promotion, and civic
participation, community services and youth participation. Several specific interventions in these four areas
were suggested, such as: (i) the use of school spaces for youth and community activities with the
participation of the school community; (ii) community and/or institutional support systems for youth facing
academic and/or personal difficulties; (iii) community service activities to enhance the learning process for
students; (iv) student government and other means for youth to feel more connected to the public education
system and their respective school; (v) information on vocational training options and job opportunities in
the selected subproject areas; (vi) job orientation provided as part of the secondary school curriculum; (vii)
vocational counseling and orientation for out-of-school youth; (viii) agreements with the private sector to
provide on-the-job-training, job shadowing and other avenues for low-income youth to become familiar
with the formal work place; (ix) life skills training to learn problem solving and assertiveness; (x)
promotion of environmental sanitation activities; (xi) school-based or school-linked services; (xii) peer
monitoring for disseminating health messages in settings most frequented by youth; (xiii) youth involvement
in the community, including holding fora in selected local areas to meet youth or community needs; (xiv)
opportunities for youth to plan and carry out their own projects in community service in their respective
local areas; (xv) activities in which families and youth may be encouraged to participate jointly, such as
cultural or sport events; and (xvi) promoting citizenship education and conflict resolution skills. The
service delivery strategy was to co-locate multiple services for youth or to establish a linked network of
services where service entities would conduct joint planning and training exercises.

An allocation of US$0.25 was made at Appraisal for the refinancing of the Project Preparation Facility
(PPF)

3.4 Revised Components:

A first legal amendment was signed October 13, 2000, formalizing the change in the project executing
agency from the Vice Ministry of Youth (VMJ) at the Ministry of Education to the "Colombia Joven"
Program at the Administrative Department of the Presidency, reallocating the proceeds of the Loan
amongst disbursement categories as well as the creation of a new category to finance incremental
operational costs. A second legal amendment signed July 5, 2001 formalized the restructuring of the
project. The objectives of project restructuring were to: (a) strengthen municipal capacity to design and
implement subprojects through technical assistance; (b) reduce the scope of the learning network
component making its central focus the provision of information to facilitate project implementation and to
disseminate lessons learned; (c) reduce the role of Municipal Committees in monitoring and evaluation of
the subprojects, eliminating the concept of a national evaluation group by replacing it with an independent
evaluation carried out by an external agency; and (d) allow for the financing of Municipal Coordination
Units (MCUs) to assist in the day-to-day execution of the project.

As explained in Section 3.5 below, the justification for the restructuring of the project was that project
design was based on unfounded assumptions regarding the capacity of Municipal Committees to design and


                                                      - 3 -

implement subprojects and a local monitoring and evaluation plan, and their availability to carry out these
activities. In December 5, 2001 a third amendment provided for the extension of the Loan closing date by
one year, to December 31, 2002 and in December 13, 2002 the closing date was further extended to June
30, 2003.

The restructured project components are:

Component 1: National Component:               Institutional Strengthening:       The technical assistance
subcomponent was expanded to increase capacity building assistance to implementing partners for
subproject implementation.      Most technical assistance to prepare subprojects was provided from the
national component instead of the Municipal component (under Subcomponent 2.1) because of financial
constraints faced by municipal governments and their insufficient capacity to seek experts outside their
region. Given the inability by municipal committees to dedicate staff to coordinate project activities, local
Municipal Coordination Units (MCUs) were set up in each municipality for the duration of project
implementation. The local team comprised a coordinator to oversee all activities, a monitoring specialist,
and an administrative specialist trained in procurement and financial management. The scope of the
learning network subcomponent was reduced to include: (i) the compilation and dissemination of
experiences and best practices of subprojects through a website and the provision of internet services to
access that information; (ii) the exchange of information among the participating municipalities to discuss
lessons learned and identify joint solutions, through workshops and seminars; and (iii) development of
materials on subproject experiences, lessons learned, and evaluation and disseminate this information
through the internet, seminars, and publications. And, in the monitoring and evaluation subcomponent,
rather than establishing a National Evaluation Group, which proved exceedingly unwieldy and impractical,
the evaluation specialist in the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) would design a formal monitoring system
including instruments and indicators needed to monitor key subproject activities with inputs from PCU and
MCU staff. Data were to be collected by MCU staff, who would send regular summaries to the PCU
where they were to be consolidated. The project evaluation would also be contracted out, including baseline
and endline measurements, and special in-depth studies.

Component 2: Municipal Component

Subcomponent 2.1 Network Establishment: As explained in Sections 3.5 and 4.2 below, the role of
Municipal Committees was modified to one of participation in discussions on the preparation of
implementation plans (i.e. subprojects), assistance in the coordination of subproject implementation, and
consultation and community oversight on project monitoring. Discussions to prepare plans/subprojects
were led by technical experts who also prepared the subprojects. Municipal Committees would participate
in the monitoring of activities with the Municipal Coordination Unit, through a review of progress
indicators and visits to subproject activities.

Subcomponent 2.2 Provision of Integrated Services and Execution of Youth Activities in Selected
Local Areas: The original main areas of concentration of the subprojects were not modified, but two
sub-areas were added.         First, as part of preventive health and health promotion, school and
community-based activities designed to reduce family and school-based abuse was introduced. Second, as
part of civic participation, community service and youth participation, activities designed to encourage
group involvement in addressing local security problems such as youth violence were included.

The project closing date was extended twice for a total of a year and a half to June 30, 2003.

3.5 Quality at Entry:



                                                    - 4 -

ICR Rating: Unsatisfactory

Project design was based on some unrealistic assumptions and was not adjusted to the capacity of the
implementation team, and for this reason quality at entry is rated as unsatisfactory. However, project
design was very relevant to country needs in that it focused on youth, a growing source of concern for the
Government, called for municipal implementation, and adopted a participative approach. Moreover, it was
the first of its kind for both the Bank and the Government, an area that is rapidly gaining the attention of
Bank management. In addition, several quality studies were prepared throughout the protracted period of
preparation, including a good review of international youth programs, which were used to inform project
design and in the definition of youth policy at the national level.

However, some key aspects of project design were based on several untested assumptions: (a) Municipal
Committees (MCs) have the necessary capacity to design subprojects and their monitoring instruments; (b)
members of MCs can be fully dedicated to project activities; (c) intense participatory processes and a
"learning network" would provide MC members with the technical skills and expertise to design, coordinate
and monitor projects that they did not already possess.          But, these assumptions proved unrealistic.
Municipal capacity was found to be weak, MC members had only limited time left from their regular jobs
to dedicate to the project and, lacked the technical skills for the role assigned to them. More importantly,
the participatory learning network could not substitute for technical training and experience. Thus, the
resulting design was incompatible with some important aspects of municipal reality.

Second, the design (except in the case of monitoring and evaluation) was left too open, given the
implementation capacity of the new project team. This was complicated by the fact that the project was
declared effective before there was any clarity as to what the subprojects would focus on. The PAD
provided only a general framework. The National level component (Component 1) was very broadly
defined, and activities contained under its three subcomponents overlapped with activities financed under
the Municipal component (Subcomponent 2.1). And, the subprojects, the main focus of the project, had not
been defined. The PAD indicates that "implementation plans" (i.e. subprojects) for service integration were
to be "fleshed out" from pre-proposals (anteproyectos) submitted to select the 8 participating
municipalities. To prepare the pre-proposals, each municipality was to identify a central youth problem to
be addressed multi-sectorally. The proposals were to be generated in a participative manner, involve all key
actors, and be coherent with financial and temporal constraints. However, the pre-proposals submitted did
not focus on a key problem, but proposed multiple issues to be addressed, and many solutions proposed
were major interventions that went beyond the financing capability of municipalities, and the duration of
the project. Thus, at project start-up, an adequate blueprint for implementation was lacking. This seriously
delayed the implementation of Component 2 (Municipal Component).

Certainly, a LIL is designed to provide more flexibility, greater "space" for learning than traditional loan
formats. And, given that both the Government and the Bank were entering uncharted territory, this would
have been the optimal path. However, the lack of capacity and experience of the national and municipal
teams at the time would have made it highly unlikely that project development objectives would be met. The
Bank team followed an innovative participative approach to project design. However, the newly created
Ministry of Youth (VMJ) lacked experience not only with Bank projects, but procedures within its own
government, and lacked institutional support within the Ministry of Education.            Limited experience,
including on youth issues, together with the theoretical orientation of project staff, and frequent changes in
leadership at the Vice-Ministry of Youth (the Vice-Minister changed five times during preparation, with at




                                                     - 5 -

least as many changes in project coordinator and staff) made the preparation cumbersome and lengthy.
These factors also limited the team's ability to manage and take advantage of the inputs from the studies
and the mission teams.

Another factor contributing to the prolonged period of preparation was the switch from a traditional Sector
Investment Loan (SIL) to a LIL after a considerable amount of progress had been made. While the LIL
format presented several advantages, it was a newly developed instrument and the Bank team (and the Bank
as a whole) lacked experience in its application. Although LILs are designed to permit experimentation and
provide the flexibility for exploration, objectives have to be precise in order for activities to be focused and
provide for interpretable results. Moreover, experimentation should be backed by some working hypotheses
that can tested. In this case, the objectives were left too open (testing alternative multi-sectoral and
participative approaches to developing and delivering services for youth) without an indication as to what
kind of change was sought in the short term. Objectives focused on processes rather than outcomes. This
lack of specificity in the hands of an inexperienced team made it very difficult for the project to get off the
ground. LILs should only be implemented when objectives are clear and specific, with solid, experienced
teams. The inclusion of a robust monitoring and evaluation system was an indispensable component of the
project, even if its details had to be adjusted during implementation. However, the three year horizon that
the LIL imposes is far too short to observe significant impact of project results.

Thus, an additional phase of preparation was needed to complete the preparation of the subprojects after
effectiveness was declared. The Bank supervision team worked closely with PCU staff and municipal
coordinators, and directly with some of the Municipal Committees to assist them in focusing subprojects
and ensure activities to be implemented would address one or more of the development objectives of the
project. Each municipality selected one key problem faced by youth in the municipality and addressed it
multi-sectorally, as was supposed to be the case during the preparation of the pre-proposals. Once selected,
a specialist in that theme was contracted to prepare the subproject in close consultation with each MC. A
participative design was not feasible, but consultative design was.

As a result of these various shortcomings, official project preparation took 29 months (from March 1996,
identification, to July 1998, negotiations). However, because subprojects were not prepared, preparation
lasted until August 2000, when the first subproject was completed, i.e. another 24 months. Because
effectiveness was declared in April, 1999, this translated to a delay in implementation of approximately
one-and-a half years following Loan effectiveness. The restructuring of the project in 2001 corrected the
main design faults and permitted the project to proceed satisfactorily to completion a year and a half after
the original closing date.

Although the Bank helped the country secure a PPF in the amount of US$250,000 and a PHRD Grant in
the amount of US$885,287 to help finance project preparation, these resources were not used in the most
cost-effective way. A lack of clarity as to the focus of the subprojects and the inexperience of the
Government preparation team resulted in a number of studies and consultancies that did not contribute to
the final project design.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

ICR Rating: Satisfactory. Total project cost was US$ 5.46 million or 70 percent of total project cost
estimated at Appraisal at US$ 7.8 million. Five multi-sector service integration schemes targeting
low-income youth were piloted and evaluated in eight municipalities, thus satisfactorily achieving the main



                                                      - 6 -

objective of the Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL). Integrated service models benefiting youth were
developed, local capacity was strengthened, and management capacity was consolidated to permit the
replication of the models on a larger scale. Participation of youth in the subprojects reached 13,558,
exceeding by almost three times the target of 4,881. Approximately 84 percent of participating youth
received direct services, training and/or counseling. The remaining 16 percent had less intensive
participation, through large events. Most of the valuable lessons learned refer to observable outputs and
processes, rather than the impact of the subprojects on the ultimate goal of providing improved educational
and employment opportunities for low-income youth. This is so because the ultimate objective was
expected in the medium and long term and subprojects were implemented over a relatively short period of
time to test intervention models. Nevertheless, an evaluation of the impact of the intervention on youth and
participating entities was conducted, as well as on project implementation. It included baseline and end line
measures.

The most salient indicators of the project's achievements are:

(a) The project fully met its objective of testing participatory approaches to develop and deliver integrated
    services to low-income youth:

§        During preparation, all Municipal Committee members participated actively in discussions
regarding the focus of the subprojects and what each sector's role should be;
§        All MCs secured the active participation of the major service sectors that were pertinent to the
goals of the subprojects during preparation and implementation, including formal, informal, public, private
and mixed entities. As many as 282 entities were involved (of 159 projected), 69 percent public, 9 percent
private, 20 percent NGOs, and 2 percent joint ventures;
§        Inter-institutional networks were formed in each municipality to support subproject activities and
strengthen inter-sector links during implementation;
§        The great majority of MCs had youth representatives, and youth were involved in some aspects of
service delivery;
§        The degree of joint planning/implementation that was attained by some sectors towards the end of
the project led to the adoption of the project's approach by other sectors;
§        The participation strategy employed consisted of the MCU holding regular meetings with MC
members and implementing entities through the inter-institutional networks to inform them on project
progress, carrying out regular consultations on project implementation issues, and reaching decisions by
consensus on goals, implementation problems and operating strategies. The participative arrangements
were reflected in the formal inter-institutional agreements for the implementation of the subprojects. MC
members would also use these for a to bring up problems they or other community members detected in
project execution.

(b) The project fully met its objective of testing alternative multi-sector approaches to designing and
    delivering services and promoting activities for low-income youth.

§        All subprojects delivered integrated services and promoted youth activities through a network of
complementary public and private institutions working in articulated manner. Entities involved included
the local representatives of the various public sectors, universities, NGOs, youth groups, parent-teacher
associations, religious groups and the private-for-profit sector;
§        Integration occurred among institutions working in complementary sectors ­ such as education,
health, employment, social development and civic participation; among different sub-sectors in a given
sector, such as primary and secondary education; among national and sub-national governmental levels;
and among private and public organizations.


                                                      - 7 -

(c) The project promoted innovation and/or improvement of youth services and activities.

§        Six service integration schemes for youth that had not been tried before in the Colombian context
and/or with youth were supported;
§        The approach to joint planning, funding and management of subproject activities by the multiple
sectors involved proved to be very innovative in each of the 8 municipalities.

(d) The project contributed to improve educational and employment opportunities for youth, as
    indicated by the perceptions of participating youth regarding subproject outcomes as compared with
    control groups. In the case of subprojects focusing on youth employment, all had average improved
    opportunity indices that were at least twice as high as that of control groups. In the case of subprojects
    focusing on street violence, intervention groups were also much more likely to express increased
    opportunities to utilize public space without fear. Questions on improved opportunities were not asked
    of the control groups in Pasto, Cartagena and Tutunendo, but average improvement ranges from 53%
    in Cartagena to 74% in Pasto. Recognition of personal gains from the project went from a low of 34%
    in Pasto to a high of 98% in Cartagena. However, most have a perceived personal gain above 80%.

(e) The project monitoring system proved effective in capturing the specificity of the subprojects through
    indicators that were tailored to the specific objectives addressed in each case. Data were regularly
    collected and analyzed locally by the MCU and discussed with the MCs and PCU in order to solve
    problems identified.     Workshops including MCU staff from all subprojects were held to share
    experiences and problems with data collection and disseminate each other's results.

(f) The technical assistance provided was effective in supporting the design and implementation of
    subprojects and in strengthening the institutional capacity of municipalities. As a result, decentralized
    service provision for youth was possible at improved standards. The organizational and operational
    capacity of the participating institutions was improved, and had positive spillover effects in the work of
    other departments within the municipal service sectors.

(g) The project contributed to the advancement of the national youth policy by stressing the importance
    of linking service provision to the need of youth through integrated, participatory schemes.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Component 1: National Component Institutional Strengthening. ICR Rating: Satisfactory. (US$ 1.99
million or 36 percent of total project cost, 53 percent above the Appraisal estimate). The rating is justified
as indicated by the outcome of the subcomponents.

Subcomponent 1.1: Technical Assistance. ICR Rating:              Satisfactory. Overall, the PCU provided
pertinent technical assistance and training to the participating municipalities for the implementation of the
subprojects, albeit with delays. Given that the pre-proposals prepared during preparation lacked sufficient
focus, technical assistance initially centered on preparing subprojects. However, given the insufficient
experience in project preparation in the PCU, the technical assistance provided initially failed to address
this need properly, leading to delays in subproject design. The Bank team worked closely with the PCU on
the second supervision mission to focus subprojects, and improve the preparation of TOR for the selection
of specialists to work with the municipalities to prepare the subprojects. The technical assistance became
increasingly more effective and timely as the team gained experience and specialized consultants were
engaged. Once the subprojects were designed and approved, a systematic process was put in place to


                                                     - 8 -

support, guide and provide continued technical assistance in each municipality. This process resulted in
improved capacity of the participating institutions to provide pertinent services, and enhanced the ability of
youth to voice their needs. Although not envisioned in the PAD, the project was amended to include
financing to contract a small Municipal Coordination Unit municipality to coordinate subproject
implementation, monitor activities and carry out administrative tasks was instrumental in ensuring the
successful implementation of the subprojects. This led, in part, to increased estimated costs of this
component.      Another reason for increased costs was the need to strengthen municipal capacity to
implement.

Subcomponent 1.2: Establishment of a Learning Network. ICR Rating: Unsatisfactory. While the
concept of a learning network to construct knowledge and disseminate project results was innovative, the
PAD was vague about how this subcomponent should be implemented. And, given the team's inexperience,
the development of TOR for the design of the network was seriously delayed. Moreover, the resulting
proposal was over-dimensioned for the needs of the project. Because of the difficulties encountered, the
scope of this subcomponent was reduced and refocused when the project was restructured (see section 3.4
for details on restructuring).      As restructured, this subcomponent succeeded in developing and
disseminating information to key stakeholders, including policy-makers, Colombian youth, municipal civil
society and researchers, bringing visibility to the project and disseminating project results. A website has
been established to disseminate best practices and lessons learned from the subprojects, and adequate
electronic communication facilities were made available in all municipalities. Each has access to internet
and computers, providing both the MCU and local youth with access to the information.                  Project
information and results have been disseminated through a national televised campaign, workshops,
seminars and publications. A book discussing the project experience has been printed (See Annex 7). The
process developed ownership of the project among decision-makers at national and municipal levels, and
opened the possibility for replication on a larger scale.

Subcomponent 1.3: Monitoring and Evaluation System: Highly Satisfactory. An efficient monitoring
system was established at the national level and operated well with decentralized data collection for the last
two years of project implementation, and a comprehensive project external evaluation was carried out
including qualitative and quantitative instruments.

Monitoring System: The monitoring system initially designed during the first year did not permit the
consolidation of quantitative indicators at the national level to assess subproject progress. It was, however,
an effective tool to follow up on daily municipal subproject activities even though it did not lend itself to
easy manipulation and entailed so much information gathering that it left insufficient time for analysis. A
change in monitoring specialist led to a refocus of the system, improving on the usefulness of the data
collected at the local level, making the system more user friendly, and establishing a national monitoring
database. The Bank worked closely with the new specialist to ensure the new system contained the
necessary features. The new system was designed to permit the streamlining quantitative data collection
and processing, leaving enough time for analysis and qualitative observation of subproject activities in each
municipality. The indicators to assess subproject progress and processes to ensure the reliability of the
information were agreed with each MCU. The system provided for timely feedback, helping redirect and
adjust project activities during implementation. Through discussion groups in each municipality, the
monitoring specialists were able to work closely with the Municipal Committees and participating
institutions to share information and obtain feedback ensuring the correct interpretation of the data. At the
national level, the information was consolidated in an SPSS database which facilitated analysis and the
production of useful monitoring reports. The information was captured and processed since 2000 and
significantly contributed to the planning process at municipal level.




                                                     - 9 -

Evaluation: An external evaluation was commissioned to a private university research center, following a
competitive selection process, to evaluate the immediate impacts of the project. A quasi-experimental
design was employed, including baseline and endline surveys of beneficiaries and control groups for each
subproject. This information was complemented with information derived from the monitoring system and
systematic field observation. The surveys measured the impact of the project on youth and on participating
institutions, and assessed the effectiveness with which the project was implemented. The surveys were
carried out between May 2001 and November 2002. Survey questionnaires were applied to 4,742
beneficiaries and 715 youth in control groups (2,504 beneficiaries and 388 controls in 2001 and 1,860
beneficiaries and 347 controls in 2002). An attempt was made to post-test the same groups, resulting in a
panel of 1224 beneficiaries and 209 controls. These data were well used in the final evaluation report. The
evaluation assessed impact on youth beneficiaries and on participating implementing entities. It also
assessed the effectiveness of implementation, not only in terms of operational issues, but, with regards to
the extent to which services were integrated, and implementation was participative. Information on the
evaluation's findings is provided in Section 10.

Component 2: Municipal Component. ICR Rating: Satisfactory (US$ 3.26 million or 60 percent of
total project cost and 52 percent of the Appraisal estimate).

Subcomponent 2.1: Network Establishment. ICR Rating: Satisfactory. While Municipal Committees
(MCs) took a lead role in the implementation of the subprojects, their role was somewhat different than
what was envisaged in the PAD. The PAD assigned them a key role in the development of the pre-proposal
into a viable subproject, the coordination of activities during implementation and in managing the
monitoring and evaluation system. As noted above, because MCs had neither the capacity nor the time
available to fulfill the functions assigned, small MCUs were established to take on this role. However, MCs
remained key players in the coordination of subproject activities and ensured accountability. Experts to
prepare the subprojects were contracted centrally. MCs, however, were close partners throughout the
preparation of subprojects, and their implementation, representing the main avenue for coordination and
providing useful oversight and feedback.

MCs including representatives of relevant local government authorities, private sector and civil society
(youth, parents, school teachers, etc) were established in each of the eight selected municipalities. Each MC
was headed by a Project Director, appointed by the Mayor, in accordance with the profile agreed upon with
the PCU and the Bank. Because of the lack of focus of the subprojects initially, the composition of the
MCs included all entities working with youth. As the subprojects developed, MCs came to include
primarily stakeholders involved in the subprojects.

All eight participating municipalities established Municipal Committees early on. These were in full
operation throughout subproject implementation and were key partners in the coordination of activities
amongst participating entities. The established MCs had a membership of 8 to 23 participants. All included
youth representatives initially, but in two municipalities youth dropped out of the MC during
implementation. Approximately 60 percent of key sector institutions participated actively in the
committees. Committee members received training and attended several planning and technical workshops
promoted by the PCU during the preparation and implementation of the subprojects. A total of 253
institutions participated in the project (69 percent public, 9 percent private, and 20 percent NGOs and 2
percent joint ventures). The number of institutions varied from 5 in Quibdó to 59 institutions in the case of
Bucaramanga.        The intensity of institutional participation fluctuated according to the phase of
implementation of the subproject. In general, the institutions most central to the success of the subprojects
demonstrated sustained commitment and enthusiasm. MCs were responsible for providing feedback on
implementation, assist in the coordination of intersectoral issues and disseminate some of the lessons


                                                    - 10 -

of implementation. In some municipalities (Pasto, Cali, Ibagué and Palmira) a network of implementing
entities was also established to ensure coordination of subproject activities amongst providers. Some
members of these networks were also members of the MC.

Subcomponent 2.2: Provision of Integrated Services and Youth Activities in Selected Local Areas.
The eight municipalities that participated in the project were selected from among sixteen pre-selected
municipalities on the basis of population size (had at least 100,000 inhabitants), access to adequate basic
services, and existing institutional capacity to work with youth. The sixteen municipalities were invited to
present proposals for integrated youth services. Eight pre-proposals were selected on the basis of
pre-defined criteria and the quality of the proposals. Project beneficiaries were selected among low-income
youth (1 and 2 quartiles of the income distribution) between the ages of 10 and 26 years old in specific
neighborhoods. The income criteria for the selection of the target population were met through the choice of
subproject areas that were the poorest in each municipality.

Eight municipalities (Bucaramanaga, Cali, Cartagena, Cúcuta, Ibagué, Palmira, Pasto and Quibdó) carried
out subprojects with the general aim to test and evaluate multi-sector and participatory approaches to
promoting activities and providing services to low-income youth leading, in the long run, to improvements
in youth education and employment opportunities. Two subprojects (Ibagué and Quibdó) were in rural
areas and the other six in the main urban center of the municipality. Half of the subprojects were approved
in September 2000 and the last four in February 2001. Technically, all subproject implementation was
completed in the first quarter of 2003 and accounts closed on April 30, 2003. The implementation period
varied from 32 months (Ibagué) to 27 months (Cali).             The cost of the subprojects ranged from
approximately US$ 277,000 (Quibdó) to US$ 708,000 (Cúcuta) depending on the specific subproject
design. Funds supporting subprojects were: Municipal (24 percent), National (23 percent), and the Bank
Loan 4383-CO (53 percent). The size of the subprojects was constrained by availability of counterpart
funds at the both national and municipal levels. At Appraisal (PAD, Section 4), municipalities were
expected to provide 16 percent of total project cost, the national government 20 percent and the Bank 64
percent. In fact, municipalities contributed with US$0.78 million or 14.3 percent and the national
government with 19.2 percent of total project cost of US$5.46 million (See Section 5.4). The fiscal crisis
the Government was undergoing also limited availability of counterpart and loan funds during
implementation, introducing delays and a reduction in some planned activities. The performance of all
subprojects was satisfactory and their main outcomes are described below. Additional information on each
subproject is provided in Section 10.

Outcomes:

A successful learning process was associated with subproject implementation. As a result, five models of
integrated youth services have been tested and refined. With the necessary adjustments, these models can be
replicated elsewhere. The models tested are: (a) employment promotion (Bucaramanga and Cúcuta); (b)
lowering school dropout rates (Cartagena); (c) promoting civic participation/reducing youth violence (Cali
and Palmira); (d) preventing domestic violence (Pasto); and (e) promoting rural employment promotion
through sustainable environmental management (Ibagué and Quibdó). The activities carried out were
consistent with the key areas indicated in the Loan Agreement.

Coverage exceeded targets. The direct number of beneficiaries of the project totaled 13,558 youth, or
practically twice the coverage target of 4,881 youth; 9807 of the 13,558 were directly involved by receiving
training, conducting projects, etc. Coverage exceeded the planned targets in all cases except in Quibdó and
Ibagué.   Table 1 below presents key indicators for the eight subprojects, demonstrating satisfactory
performance with respect to coverage.


                                                     - 11 -

The main issues addressed by the subproject were important to the development of youth in
Colombia. Interviews carried out with youth as part of a poverty analysis conducted by the Bank in 2002
also identified employment and violence as the main issues concerning youth.                 Three subprojects
(Cartagena, Ibagué and Pasto) contributed to improved learning outcomes of students. Employment of
youth was promoted in Cúcuta, Bucaramanga, Quibdó, and Ibagué. Health promotion and environmental
sanitation was supported in Cartagena, Cali, Palmira, Ibagué, Quibdó, Pasto, Cútuca and Bucaramanga.
Civic and community participation of youth was promoted in Ibagué, Cali, Palmira, Pasto, Cartagena and
Quibdó. Teachers, parents and service providers received training to become active participants in
integrated youth development, and are currently carrying out some activities previously financed by the
project.

Table 1. Key Indicators of Subproject Achievements

   Subproject      Activities     Area Covered   Actual Coverage of Beneficiary Population (planned coverage)
                Executed (As %         (*)           Youth          Parents          Teachers    Institutions
                  of planned
                   activities)
 Bucaramanga         89.5         1 CM, 15 BR      431 (300)            -                -         59 (31)
 Cali               100.0          1 CM, 3 BR      965 (400)            -                -         35 (13)
 Cartagena           87.0         4 CM, 49 BR     1900 (1500)      350 (100)         121 (45)       17 (3)
 Cúcuta              84.8         1 CM, 15 BR     1390 (675)            -                -         46 (21)
 Ibagué              83.3         3 CG, 26 VR      500 (606)        10 (0)           77 (50)        27 (7)
 Palmira             93.9         1 CM, 22 BR     3455 (800)            -              2 (0)       38 (65)
 Pasto               89.1         3 CM, 47 BR     1066 (500)       471 (800)        150 (100)      26 (14)
 Quibdó              96.3             1 CG         100 (100)            -              3 (0)        5 (5)
 TOTAL               90.5        11 CM/CG 156     9807 (4881)      831 (900)        353 (195)     253 (159)
                                       BR
                                     26 VR
(*) The Municipal areas covered are: CM (Comuna) and CG (Corregimiento) which are administrative
subdivisions; BR (Barrio) is a neighborhood, and VR (Vereda) is a small cluster of houses.
Source: Programa Presidencial Colombia Jóven, Proyecto Servicios Integrados para Jóvenes. "Indicadores de
Monitoreo".

Strengths and Weaknesses of the Subprojects. All subprojects represent successful program models to
mobilize the participation of youth and articulated multi-sector institutional actors in delivering services
and promoting youth activities. While there are specific outcomes and lessons for each of the subprojects,
there are some derived from the approach taken by the project. The main strength of the project's approach
was the fostering of inter-institutional collaboration along common goals, representing a major break with
existing patterns where planning and analysis were done individually, on the basis of individual needs. And,
while individual subprojects had a limited geographic coverage, in all cases they served to demonstrate the
benefits of joint planning. This approach to planning has been adopted in other activities municipal
participants are involved with and is a lasting effect of the project. While all 8 subprojects focused on
either one of the two key issues concerning youth in Colombia (employment and violence), once the issue
selected was being addressed, interest grew towards addressing the second one. And, once employment and
violence were being addressed, six of the municipalities requested assistance in dealing with gender issues,
sexuality and reproductive health.




                                                     - 12 -

With respect to the design and outcomes of the models tested, the following aspects are highlighted:

Innovative methodologies were tested to promote peaceful coexistence and address problems of youth
violence in public urban spaces. In Palmira and Cali a model to promote the peaceful use of public parks
proved effective in reducing violence through the peaceful resolution of community conflicts by making
community parks free of violence. The physical improvement of community parks in Palmira by
community youth groups, directly contributed to improvements in social interactions in the community,
stimulating collaborative community action by youth and other actors, and consolidating civic pride
through public events organized by youth in the parks. Strategies were devised to involve youth in park
maintenance over the long run. Work with local authorities, including the local police brought them in as
team players and assumed a better-informed and participatory stance in preventing violence and
maintaining public security. One of the main difficulties with this model is that there is no natural
institutional home in any of the local government entities to house this program. This means that the
institutional base must be constructed, making strong leadership a key factor in its success. However,
finding this leadership in local government is not always easy, making replication more difficult. In this
case, Cali possessed the leadership, and thus an institutional base was constructed earlier in
implementation. The sustainability of the program is likely, given that an institutional base was developed
during implementation and the strengthened capacity of community youth to face daily risks of conflict and
to organize to maintain the parks in good physical and social conditions. While the project focused in
addressing community/neighborhood violence problems, it was not prepared to deal with organized crime
nor armed insurgency, both of which had important negative consequences for the youth participating in the
project. Thus, to the extent that these forces cannot be controlled, they could limit sustainability. Although
participating institutions were fully supportive of the integrated service approach and acquired instruments
to reduce youth violence, the model was weak in so far as it was not able to consolidate the model in such
short a time, and thus ensure that local service providers, on their own, would be able to provide youth
services with the quality and intensity that the subproject did.

Innovative methodologies were tested to address problems of domestic violence. In Pasto, where
domestic violence is widespread, adolescents and pre-adolescents in two low-income communities
participated in a novel program to prevent the problem and to assist victims. The program was based in
two schools, and had the active participation of parents and teachers. The strategy consisted of intensive
group training focused on recognizing abuse, fostering emotional growth, developing conciliatory practices
and raising community awareness on the issue. Both students and schoolteachers received training. This
was combined with professional case work for abused youth. As parents became aware of the program,
they also became involved, receiving training and professional consultation when requested.               Two
instruments were developed to sustain the program over time: first the formation of "Affection Manager
Networks" (Redes de Gestores Afectivos) and second, the establishment of a "Good Care Network" (Red
del Buen Trato) involving caretakers and professions in health, social services and the police who learned
to work together to address the problem. The methodology has been appropriated by a major local
hospital, which has incorporated the model in its family health and outreach program. Other local hospitals
have received information on the model. Although local financing is insufficient to sustain the intensive
group training process, the Municipality has funded two professionals in each school who have been trained
to apply the project's methodology to advise youth facing domestic violence and continue to train and guide
teachers in affective growth techniques. Twenty-six percent of the teachers are already using affective
growth techniques as part of the classroom. The model is likely to have positive spillover effects in several
aspects of young people's lives. However, interventions designed to induce a change in values with respect
to family dynamics and roles, and interpersonal relations in hostile settings need to be more long term to
have an effect, as they require changes not only in a person's own perceptions, but the perceptions of those
around them. Thus, while this


                                                     - 13 -

project initiated change, a longer term intervention is necessary to bring about permanent change. One
weakness identified in this model is that, in the absence of external financing, intensive training and
counseling to youth at risk might be substantially reduced and cover only victims of abuse, and thus would
fail to have a preventive focus.

A model to improve the quality of education in public secondary schools in low-income
neighborhoods was institutionalized with the aim to reduce student dropout rates. The objective of the
subproject in Cartagena was to improve the quality of education offered by the schools through: (a) the
strengthening of teaching competencies of local schoolteachers; (b) the introduction of innovative extra
curricular activities for students; and (c) the redesign of the school curriculum on the basis of the
experience gained from the introduction of the innovative courses/activities. The project was executed in
two phases, beginning with the provision of innovative artistic and creative after-school courses aimed at
motivating youth through dance, music, folklore and development of computer literacy, to remain in school
and take more interest in their academic work. Participation was conditional on obtaining passing grades in
their regular curricular activities. The extra curricular activities chosen are part of the cultural heritage of
the city, which were provided by specialized organizations external to the schools, elicited great enthusiasm
and participation among students. The second phase included a program to improve school management
and modernize teacher pedagogic skills. As part of the process schoolteachers and principals at each of the
three participating schools received training to improve their pedagogic competencies and on curriculum
development, analyzed the school's pedagogic and administrative problems, identified strengths and
weaknesses, and organized teams to reform the existing curriculum. Training for schoolteachers also
included conflict resolution skills and computer literacy. The curriculum designed focuses on the combined
development of basic academic competencies with job-skills, artistic and esthetic appreciation, civic values,
social and political participation, strengthening of self-esteem, computers and participatory school
management. The strategy to involve all key actors, led to successful institutional change that improved
student retention and education quality. Student attendance improved, as did their grades, and, school
authorities and teachers who were initially not very supportive of the program because they felt their jobs
were at stake, changed their attitudes once they started to notice the changes in their students. The fact that
the second phase was an investment in the human capital of schoolteachers, cemented their participation
and ownership of the process. However, had they been involved since the beginning, i.e. conducting phase
one and two simultaneously, distrust by schoolteachers would have been avoided. The improved curriculum
is being applied in the 3 participating schools and 15 additional schools. The subproject had some
unexpected positive effects in the community. Not only did it lead to a reduction in violence in the
neighborhood as gang members were eager to participate in the project, but schools, previously seen as
dangerous environments, became the center of community activities. One of the weaknesses of the manner
in which this model was implemented was that there were too many innovative activities provided at once,
limiting the activities each student could participate in, a factor which also made the intervention
unnecessarily more costly. However, fewer activities would have the same impact.

Youth were provided job skills for locally suitable initiatives focusing on sustainable environmental
practices. This integrated service model was applied in the rural areas of Ibagué and Quibdó. In the case
of Ibagué, the focus was on ensuring the sustainability of the watershed in the Canón del Combeima. For
youth attending the 18 primary and secondary schools in the area, basic elements of sustainable
management of the watershed were incorporated into the curriculum with the assistance from the University
of Tolima. As part of the process of construction of the curriculum, teachers received training on
curriculum development and on how to apply the new curriculum. Along with the curriculum, schools
received new equipment to operate school laboratories in the areas of soil conservation, agriculture,
preserves of fruits and vegetables, and cultivation of flowers. Youth not attending school, all of who were
engaged in farm activities, received small scholarships to permit them to take time off to study, received


                                                     - 14 -

food and lodging and intensive training (a total 16 weeks of training per cycle) on improved agricultural
practices that were "watershed friendly" and improved animal husbandry. Three cycles of courses were
provided, including the carrying out of small environmental projects to provide practical experience. Both
initiatives, targeting schooled youth and out of school youth, are likely to be sustained. In the first case, the
reformed curriculum for all primary and secondary grades has been institutionalized in the 18 participating
schools. Outreach and training for out-of-school youth will continue be provided through a new "Continued
Education Center" (Centro de Educación Permanente) created by the municipality in one of the local high
schools.

In the case of Quibdó, the rural community of Tutunendo, the poorest of the eight subproject areas, was
chosen with the aim to promote employment and generate income for youth in ways that were
environmentally sustainable, and in particular would help sustain biodiversity. The focus was to train youth
in creating small "green" enterprises and to support applied research on methods to sustain biodiversity.
All youth were schooled. The main outcome of this subproject was the creation of an eco-tourism
cooperative operated by 100 youth.         The sustainability of this enterprise is being promoted through
additional technical and financial assistance provided by a rural small-enterprise development program of
the Ministry of Agriculture (PADEMER).            Although the subproject managed to introduce youth to
entrepreneurial concepts and practices, the development of an entrepreneurial frame of mind requires more
time than what was available through the project. The main difficulty faced by this intervention model, both
in Ibagué and Quibdó, is that continued rural violence might ultimately undermine the sustainable
environmental program, since continued technical assistance is very problematic under these circumstances.
In the case of Quibdó, the lack of financing greatly reduced the scope of the subproject and it is likely that
it will make it difficult to sustain without outside financing.

Job-skills training and employment promotion. Two subprojects focused on developing an integrated
and participatory approach to job-skills training and employment promotion in the urban areas of the
municipalities of Bucaramanga and Cúcuta in areas that are more relevant to the local economy. The
project design included: (a) the establishment of a network of training institutions and entities interested in
employment promotion; (b) an "employment observatory" which consists of a forum to exchange and
disseminate information regarding local labor market needs and labor supply; (c) a communications
strategy to disseminate subproject objectives and information on the job market and training opportunities;
and (d) the provision of training for youth and internships in local firms. The observatory included
representatives from local industry, local education and family welfare authorities, public and private
training entities, NGOs, and the chamber of commerce. The observatory provided guidance on areas in the
local economy with greater labor needs and at the same time served to signal training providers to adapt
their training to local demand. Training for beneficiaries included, in addition to technical skills identified
by the observatory, the development of work competencies as well as human development and management
skills. Training entities were responsible for seeking internships in local firms for course participants.
While the projects were successful in bringing together institutions to work towards a common goal, and
provided training to youth, they were less successful in securing jobs for the youth trainees. The main
reasons for the less than satisfactory outcome were: (a) the participation of the private sector in the
network and observatory declined considerably with project implementation, which left the definition of
training needs primarily in the hands of training institutions, resulting in a supply oriented program; (b) the
assessment of the job market commissioned by the observatory was macro in nature and thus could not
identify immediate employment demand and the skills required; (c) the communications strategy used
promoted the consumption of training but gave little information about the job market, as the subproject did
not develop instruments to involve the private sector and to identify demand and skills required. The
training did include training on the development of labor competencies, a key ingredient of successful
programs. This training, however, could have been better focused. Because employers were not sufficiently


                                                       - 15 -

involved in the project, they agreed to brief internships without allowing beneficiaries to become involved in
the process of production. The project did have very favorable effects on bringing together public, private
and NGO sectors to solve community problems, to give a voice to youth, and to give visibility to
employment problems and to the fact that the solution must be a construction of all relevant sectors.
Although both municipalities have put in place institutional arrangements to sustain the training program
over time, it they need to be adjusted before they can be successfully replicated.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not Applicable

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not Applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:

ICR Rating: Satisfactory. The experience of designing and implementing this project gave Colombia the
know-how to address some of the main problems currently facing youth and further develop the country's
youth policy. Institutional capacity has been developed at the Office of the Presidency to provide timely
and pertinent technical assistance to municipalities interested in promoting youth activities and programs.
The national capacity to monitor and evaluate subproject activities and disseminate best practices has also
been strengthened. A repository of best practice experiences was established. Capacity building at the
municipal level helped consolidate local ability to design and deliver youth services, thus establishing the
basis for replication of decentralized, integrated schemes to improve education and employment
opportunities for youth. The establishment of networks and municipal committees forged a new modus
operandi for program management. While financial constraints is limiting the central Government's ability
to support an expanded program based on the successful models that were developed, the fact that
municipalities paid for 24 percent of the costs of the subprojects, supported many novel activities not
previously tested in the country, and created the conditions to sustain some of the key elements of the
program over time, are important indicators of local interest, willingness to adopt innovations, and capacity
to mobilize local resources. That difficult security situations in several of the municipalities did not limit
subproject activities is also evidence of commitment and ownership at the municipal level. The large
experience gained ­ both at national and local levels ­ in mobilizing a variety of institutions and in
establishing procedures for them to work together on behalf of youth, has a large potential to contribute for
the sustainable improvement of youth services country wide.           The participating institutions directly
benefited from the project through the provision of infrastructure and equipment, financial support, and
training.

The experience of designing and implementing this project gave Colombia the know-how to address some
of the main problems currently facing youth and further develop the country's youth policy. Institutional
capacity has been built at the Office of the Presidency to provide timely and pertinent technical assistance
to municipalities interested in promoting youth activities and programs. The national capacity to monitor
and evaluate subproject activities and disseminate best practices has been built. Capacity building at the
municipal level helped consolidate local ability to design and deliver youth services, thus establishing the
basis for replication of decentralized, integrated schemes to improve education and employment
opportunities for youth. Financial constraints may curtail the Government's ability to support an expanded
program based on the successful models that were developed. However, the fact that municipalities paid
for 24 percent of the costs of the subprojects, supported many novel activities not previously tested in the



                                                     - 16 -

country, and created the conditions to sustain over time some of the key elements of the program, are
important indicators of local interest, willingness to adopt innovations, and capacity to mobilize local
resources. The large experience gained ­ both at national and local levels ­ in mobilizing a variety of
institutions and in establishing procedures for them to work together on behalf of youth, has a large
potential to contribute for the sustainable improvement of youth services country wide. The participating
institutions directly benefited from the project through training of their staff, the provision of infrastructure
and equipment, financial support, and capacity building.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Throughout project implementation, Colombia faced severe economic and fiscal crises and experienced
successive surges of violence. These factors, which are largely outside the control of the Government, had
direct impact on the project. Lack of public security specially affected subprojects in rural areas, Ibagué
and Quibdó, both located close to areas occupied by armed insurgents. Cali and Palmira were also subject
to disruptions due to violence in periurban areas. Cúcuta, close to the border, also had some security
problems. In all cases except Cartagena, Bucaramanga and Pasto, security problems led to the canceling of
activities on numerous occasions and to a reduced intensity of field supervision. National teacher strikes
also affected school-based subproject implementation, affecting primarily subprojects in Cartagena, Pasto,
and to a less extent in Ibagué and Palmira. National and municipal counterpart funds were scarce during
most of the project life due to the fiscal crisis. The institutional capacity of the selected municipalities was
misjudged and was in fact weaker than originally expected. Frequent changes in municipal authorities led
to disruptions in project activities, as each newcomer had to be convinced of the benefits of the project. All
subprojects changed mayors at least once. In Palmira, for example, there were three mayors over a period
of six months. The project leadership at the national level was instrumental in securing the support of
Mayors in each municipality each time there was a change. Frequent changes of municipal administrations
were compounded, in the case of some municipalities, with difficulties in meeting their financial
commitments due to severe fiscal constraints. Notwithstanding these difficulties, all municipalities, except
Ibagué, met or surpassed their pledged share. Periodic changes in municipal authorities were reflected in
changes in the membership of Municipal Committee, generating the need to reinforce technical assistance
and training for the MC.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The choice by the Government to engage UNDP as project administrator resulted in recurrent problems
during project implementation (Agreements No. COL/96/029 and COL/98/016). UNDP was to administer
project accounts, and process consultant contracts. It charged a 3.5 percent fee applied to all project
transactions. UNDP was exceedingly inefficient, causing numerous delays. It could delay as much as three
to four months to prepare a contract. Moreover, it was insufficiently informed about Bank procurement
rules, and thus failed to ensure agreed processes had been followed. The Bank had to include UNDP staff
in procurement training for the project team to speed up implementation.              In the area of financial
management, account statements didn't follow the agreed format and thus, project expenditures could not
be linked to specific contracts. During project implementation, repeated attempts by the Government and
the Bank to discuss these issues with local UNDP staff did not succeed in substantially improving the
agency's performance until the last 6 months. Delays in complying with agreements on the part of the
agency generated administrative problems at the national and local levels, causing disruption in subproject
implementation, and requiring close follow-up on the part of the PCU and the Bank. In some cases, key
implementing entities initially mobilized to participate in the subprojects were discouraged by the delays



                                                     - 17 -

and abandoned the project (e.g. Quibdó, Cali, and Palmira).

During the period of project preparation, when the project was under the responsibility of VMJ (from 1994
through 1998), the frequent changes of Vice Minister of Youth (5 in four years) created a situation of
instability and lack of adequate institutional support for project preparation. Changes in Vice Minister were
accompanied by at least as many changes in project coordinator, making it difficult to establish a stable
dialogue and focused project preparation. Once the project became effective, and the project was moved to
"Colombia Joven", changes continued as "Colombia Joven" has had three different directors. However, the
same project coordinator managed the project from the end of preparation through project closing, allowing
the development of an institutional base and smooth project execution.

Another positive aspect is that the Government managed the shift in project executing agency extremely
well. The project was moved from the VMJ at the Ministry of Education to the Colombia Jóven Program
of the Department of Administration at the Office of the Presidency, when the VMJ was eliminated as part
of the Government's effort to reduce the size of government to achieve fiscal balance. The transition was
smooth, and the objectives of the project received the full endorsement and ownership at the Office of the
Presidency, where the project acquired higher saliency and political support than it had in its previous
institutional setting. Technical and operational consistency was maintained as the PCU technical team was
not changed. When the project director had to be changed due to the election of a new President, the new
Director became fully engaged and exercised a proactive influence, contributing to the success of the
project. The National Planning Department (Departamento Nacional de Planeación -- DNP) and the
Ministry of Finance followed project implementation closely and contributed to the resolution of
programming and financial problems it faced at various times.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

The PCU team became involved in the preparation and start-up of the project without prior experience in
project design nor implementation and no knowledge about Bank norms and procedures. As it happened, it
faced the responsibility of implementing a complex and not fully defined project without the necessary
resources and capabilities. This implied intensive support by the Bank supervision team not only to build
capacity on Bank procedures, but on project design and implementation. Project implementation suffered
significantly at first, experiencing considerable delays, leading to unsatisfactory IP and DO ratings for
several months. Implementation picked up rapidly once the specialists hired to prepare the subprojects were
finally hired. The performance of the PCU improved substantially over time, the design of the subprojects
was completed and subproject implementation began. At this point (2001) the project was formally
restructured, the Loan closing date was extended by a year, and project performance remained satisfactory
through completion. The learning process was a lengthy and rather difficult one, particularly because there
were long delays in recruiting the necessary experienced technical staff at the national level. The inclusion
of additional, more experienced staff, the experience acquired in Bank procedures, and its commitment to
the project permitted the PCU to improve its performance.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The total cost of project was US$5.46 million or 30 percent less than the US$7.8 million estimated at
Appraisal. Including US$225,000 from a Policy and Human Resources Development Fund grant (PHRD)
that was used, by special dispensation, to advance in the preparation of subprojects during the first few
months of implementation, the cost of the project was actually US$5.69 million, or 27% less than the
original estimate. The cost reduction was due to initial project delays in implementation of the Municipal
Component, and to the insufficient availability of counterpart funds. The cost of the National Component



                                                    - 18 -

(US$1.99 million) was 53 percent higher than the US$1.3 million Appraisal estimate. Taking into account
the PHRD funds increases the cost of the National Component to US$2.22 million, or 70% above the
original estimate. The substantial increase in the cost of the National Component was due to the increased
scope of technical assistance provided to municipalities for subproject preparation and implementation.
The cost of the Municipal Component at US$ 3.26 million was 52 percent of the US$6.25 million
Appraisal estimate. The reduction stems from three factors: (a) the size of each subproject was limited by
the availability of municipal counterpart funds at the time of subproject preparation; (b) the total
contributed up to the first project extension was only 91% of what had been in the original subproject
budgets; and, (c) initial delays in subproject implementation resulted in a budget execution of only 31%
(with the exception of Pasto and Cartagena which executed over 65% of their budget). However, the total
contribution (all of which was executed), was 14% greater than the original budget. The contribution of all
municipalities was greater than that budgeted with the exception of Ibagué. However, Ibagué had by far
the largest budget. Municipal contributions do not include in-kind donations.             In-kind contributions
included staff time of some participating entities, use of community or participating entity facilities and
furniture, and land for botanical and environmental projects.

As shown in Annex 2, the National Government financed slightly less than estimated at Appraisal (from 20
to 19.2 percent), as did Municipal Governments (from 16 to 14.3 percent), and the loan financed 66.5
percent, up from 64 percent originally estimated. A partial cancellation of US$ 1.27 million of Loan
4383-CO was made on January 14, 2003. The reduced loan of US$3.63 was fully disbursed by the project
closing date, including the refinancing of a Project Preparation Facility and fees totaling US$ 212,710. The
PPF balance of US$ 37,290 was cancelled when the Loan became effective. Disbursements were very slow
during the first two years of project implementation and only reached half of the original loan amount in
FY01, in part due to difficulties in starting up, and in part because of the availability of US$255,000 of the
PHRD grant.

The participating Municipalities signed a Program Agreement with Colombia Jóven and deposited their
share of subproject financing in the central UNDP account who, through individual UNDP municipal
accounts, disbursed loan and counterpart funds to each municipality. Funds for subproject implementation
were advanced according to quarterly implementation plans submitted by each municipality and were
replenished once 90 percent of expenditures were documented. The PCU trained the local teams on
administrative and financial management of subprojects, provided on-line advice through telephone and the
Internet, and carried out periodic field supervision visits, although fewer than originally planned.

External audits for 1999, 2000 and 2001 were unqualified and timely presented to the Bank. The final
external audit covering calendar year 2002 through June 30, 2003 was completed and the auditor's opinion
was unqualified. A Bank financial management mission in May 2003 confirmed that the PCU financial
management and accounting system fully met the needs of the project in terms of internal controls and
vigilance, and produced reports and financial statements that provided reliable information on the state of
the project accounts, satisfying the requirements of external auditors and of the Bank. At the project
closing date there were no audit observations or financial issues pending. The financial management team
at the PCU was considered fully competent in managing project accounts, in maintained appropriate files
and in producing reliable financial information.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

ICR Rating: Likely. The concept of sustainability used in this project pertains to the strengthened



                                                     - 19 -

institutional capacity of the municipalities and local organizations to continue providing participatory,
integrated services for youth according to the models developed, and the adoption of important strategies
and services piloted through the subprojects by municipal governments. Although fiscal constraints may
limit a more wide-scale expansion of the project, the PCU helped build and consolidate local institutional
capacity and the most successful subproject activities are likely to continue. Amongst the mechanisms
introduced by the project to ensure sustainability were the establishment of institutional networks, youth
associations, curricular reforms, training for youth and service providers, and the documentation and
dissemination of each of the 8 subproject experiences and their achievements.

Sustainability was attained at both national and municipal levels. At the national level, the monitoring and
evaluation system of the project has been adopted by Colombia Joven, and the M&E specialist of the
project has been contracted as part of the regular staff of Colombia Joven. Likewise, two other technical
staff members have been retained, helping Colombia Joven adjust its youth policy in view of the results of
the project and assisting in operationalizing the policy.

The sustainability of the most important elements of the subprojects was achieved in all eight
municipalities, as described below:

(a)      Bucaramanga: An Institute of Employment and Entrepreneurial Promotion was established by the
Municipality with the proceeds from a 5 percent tax on industrial and commercial activities in order to
carry out the activities of the project. It will include the "Employment Observatory", the functioning of the
training network and the training itself, and will make the necessary adjustments to include employers in the
observatory, the definition of training required and in job placement.

(b)      Cali: The institutional network comprising six core institutions will continue working with youth,
aiming to improve interpersonal relations in the low-income communities of the city. A youth organization
was created (Asociación de Jóvenes ­ ASOJUCOM), including several youth groups who want to continue
working with other community youth to reduce the incidence of community conflict. One NGO (Plan
Internacional) has invested resources to replicate the subproject in another community in the city,
employing some of the subproject staff. Finally, the municipality intends to continue financing some of the
subproject activities, such as the street cinema.

(c)      Cartagena: The curriculum guides developed during subproject implementation were adopted by
the three participating public schools, starting in school year 2003. These guides have been published and
disseminated by the Municipal Secretariat of Education to other public schools. The expansion of this
model began in 2003 with the distribution of the curriculum guides and provision of technical assistance
and teacher training to 15 additional public schools. The Municipal Secretariat of Education was able to
secure a physical space appropriate for the continuation of the artistic extra-curricular activities in one of
the secondary schools in the subproject area.

(d)      Cúcuta: An "Employment Observatory" created during project implementation will continue
functioning with municipal funds. Many of the institutions that provided job-skills training for youth will
continue to do so, as for example, SENA.




                                                       - 20 -

(e)     Ibagué (Cañón del Combeima): The 18 schools that participated in the subproject have adopted
a reformed curriculum (Proyecto Educativo Institucional ­ PEI) incorporating the sustainable management
of the watershed for primary and secondary education. Starting in 2003, the PEI has been operating in all
schools of the area. In addition, the municipality has decided to create a Permanent Education Center for
the Sustainable Management of the Watershed (Centro de Educación Permanente del Cañón del
Combiema en Gestión Sostenible de Cuencas) in one of the area high schools. This center is being
financed by SENA, private organizations, and the Municipality of Ibagué.             It will provide informal
environmental training to youth who are out of school and engaged in farm activities with financing from
the municipal budget. Contracts between farm youth and distributors of fruit and vegetable preserves have
been signed, providing new sources of income for the youth as well as for the farm community as a whole.

(f)     Palmira: A Peaceful Coexistence Unit was formed in the community, comprising six public,
private and community organizations and including the "City Builders Network" (Red de Constructores de
Ciudad) created by youth. This network is likely to continue carrying out public safety activities and
ensuring the maintenance of community parks. The municipality of Palmira has allocated some funds to
finance the continuity of sports and cultural activities with community youth in the parks and has formally
incorporated representatives of youth in its Municipal Social Political Council.

(g)     Pasto: The Municipal Secretariat of Education contracted two professionals (one social worker
and an educator) from the subproject team, to coordinate the follow-up of activities and assist teachers in
the three community schools to apply affective growth techniques in the classrooms. The "Healthy School
Program" (Programa de Escuela Saludable) of the Municipal Secretariat of Education is active in 21
schools and its staff will be training to expand the application of the affective growth model to additional
schools. The "Good Care Network" formed in the schools during subproject implementation with the
participation of education, health and police is likely to remain active in preventing youth abuse,
intra-family violence, and providing professional care for victims of abuse. The Municipal Secretariat of
Health institutionalized the model in the main city hospital (Hospital Civil de Pasto). The hospital is
working on preventing intra-family violence and caring for victims as part of its Integrated Family Health
and Outreach Program and is systematically monitoring families at risk. Twenty-three youth who were
trained as "affection managers" will work with the Municipal Health Secretariat in this program.
Documentation about the model has been prepared and disseminated to other hospitals in the expectation
that they would develop similar programs.

(h)     Quibdó (Tutunendo): An eco-tourism enterprise was formed by a youth cooperative in the
Tutunendo area. The cooperative was able to mobilize additional technical and financial assistance from
the Ministry of Agriculture to continue supporting the program ­ through the "Program to Support the
Development of Small Enterprises in Rural Areas" (PADEMER).

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

Although the objective of this project was to go as far as pilot testing alternative multi-sector approaches to
delivery services to youth, there was an understanding, to which the Government fully subscribed to, that
successful initiatives would be replicated in other parts of the country upon project completion. The
economic situation in Colombia, however, has changed dramatically since project preparation, and,
although DNP and Ministry of Finance are convinced of the benefits of the project's expansion, fiscal
constraints have forced the current government to cut spending drastically in many of its programs,
including an expansion of this project in the near future. Nevertheless, the Government is seeking other
options to continue to execute aspects of the project.




                                                     - 21 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

ICR Rating: Unsatisfactory
Bank performance during project preparation was less than satisfactory because the project design did not
take into account the implementation capacity of the implementing entity, and because it was based on
unrealistic assumptions, as indicated in Section 3.5 above, both of which seriously delayed the preparation
and implementation of subprojects. The Bank team had limited knowledge of municipal capacity, and
although it was fully aware of the VMJ and PCU team's deficiencies, did not adjust the project design
accordingly. Moreover, a change in lending instrument mid way not only led to further delays, but allowed
for the project design to be left loosely defined in the name of "learning and innovation", when the
implementing team did not have the experience to make the most out of that model. All of these factors
contributed to poor performance. Although four missions and several follow-up visits by consultants on
specific tasks were carried out from 1995 to effectiveness, these proved insufficient to provide the
necessary support to the local team, given the change in focus of the project from a Early Childhood and
Youth Development to Youth Development only, the change in instrument from SIL to LIL, and the
frequent changes in staff in the Government team.

7.2 Supervision:

ICR Rating: Highly satisfactory
Given the inexperience of the implementation team and the absence of subprojects, the task team had to
prepare and supervise the project simultaneously, on a supervision budget. The task team worked
intensively to build up the capacity of the Borrower ­ both at national and municipal levels, by holding
workshops, clarifying and codifying procedures, training them on the preparation of TOR, ensuring the
hiring of qualified technical skills and assistance and providing frequent reviews of subproject proposals.
The team made good use of Bank specialists in financial management and procurement and financed
specialized consultants who provided useful and timely advice. The task team was able to turn the project
around from an "unsatisfactory" status to surpassing its objectives in a relatively short time. The team also
provided constant and significant technical assistance for the development of the monitoring system, and
worked closely with the external evaluation group to ensure a robust and comprehensive evaluation, both of
which were achieved. A large scale evaluation of the project, including baseline and endline measurements
was carried out, resulting in several documents produced to disseminate project results. Supervision
missions were carried out twice a year and systematically included visits to the subprojects, despite security
problems in the country. The stability of the task manager through project implementation ensured
continuity and permitted decision-making to be based on in-depth knowledge of the project. At the request
of the task team, a Supervision Quality Enhancement Review was conducted in February 2001, to guide the
team on the actions that could be taken to improve project performance and provide guidance on the
restructuring of the project. The panel considered the project worth restructuring given its potential
implications for the welfare of youth in Colombia and elsewhere, and the lessons the project would provide
for future operations. The panel also indicated that project restructuring should shift emphasis and
resources to strengthening the role of the municipal governments in subproject execution, by building
capacity, delivering services, and extracting lessons, and recommended that an extension of the Loan
closing date should be contingent upon the upgrading of the project ratings.




                                                    - 22 -

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

ICR Rating: Satisfactory
Despite the shortcomings of project design, the overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory because
Bank assistance during implementation was an important factor contributing to the success of the project.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

ICR Rating: Unsatisfactory
The Borrower's performance during project preparation was less than satisfactory. Commitment to the
project and youth issues was weak as demonstrated by the weak institutional support, frequent changes in
leadership, and inexperienced preparation team.         Project preparation was entrusted to a small,
inexperienced team that developed an excessively conceptual design to the detriment of operational
specificity, and local reality.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

ICR Rating: Satisfactory
The Government through the DNP and the Ministry of Finance, fully supported the implementation of the
project. DNP staff even visited the 4 (Quibdó, Pasto, Cartagena y Bucaramanga) of the subprojects once
results were evident. The support provided by the Administrative Department of the Presidency (DAPR),
however, was weak during the first administration, leading to some delays in the allocation of funds.
During that period, DNP and the Ministry of Finance were instrumental in facilitating administrative
bottlenecks in DAPR. DAPR was considerably strengthened under the new Government. Although the
project faced periodic shortage of counterpart funds it was not unique to the project as all projects in
Colombia suffered from reduced counterpart funds due to the fiscal and economic crisis the country has
been experiencing.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

ICR Rating: Satisfactory
The PCU was significantly strengthened during project implementation and was able to take advantage of
the assistance provided by the Bank and external consultants to put in place an efficient financial
management and accounting system, a planning and management system capable to procure the necessary
goods and services, deliver relevant although not always timely technical assistance and training to the
municipalities, produce useful periodic reports, and operate a highly efficient national monitoring system.
As a result of the project experience, the PSIJ team at Colombia Jóven gained the necessary know-how to
scale up decentralized youth services and activities elsewhere in the country, thus contributing to the
development of the national youth policy.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

ICR Rating: Satisfactory
Once start-up difficulties were surmounted and the project was fully designed, the Borrower's overall
performance was satisfactory and conducive to the achievement of the project objectives.




                                                   - 23 -

8. Lessons Learned

·        While LILs are designed to be exploratory instruments, objectives must be precise in order
to obtain interpretable results. A failure to define clear objectives can result in unfocused interventions.
Moreover, it makes it more difficult to define useful indicators to monitor and evaluate.

·        A strong monitoring system and rigorous evaluation are indispensable to derive useful lessons
for future interventions. While this is a must for all projects, it is particularly important when the project
addresses a new area in which both the Borrower and the Bank lack experience. Data from the monitoring
system were utilized to design some of the survey instruments and were employed to interpret some of the
evaluation results. Moreover, there was regular discussion of results throughout implementation, allowing
the systematization of experiences and identification of lessons by the team as a whole.

·        If the purpose of LIL is experimentation, careful consideration must be given to project
duration as 3 years is very short to elicit and measure behavior change. LILs are expected to be
completed in approximately three years. However, if, as LIL documentation suggests, they are mainly used
in sectors or situations in which behavioral change and stakeholder attitudes are critical to progress, then
the three year horizon needs to be reassessed. Given the time it takes projects to begin disbursing
adequately, this means that LILs have a maximum of 2 years of activities in which to induce change.
Behavior is difficult to modify, specially in such a short time.

·        A participatory approach including all key actors and potential beneficiaries, particularly
peers, school teachers and parents increases the effectiveness and impact of youth services and
activities, by ensuring relevance, ownership and accountability. An intensive participatory process
involving all the actors, albeit extremely time consuming, increases the effectiveness of the interventions
particularly because it helps ensure relevance and continuity of activities, strong ownership, and ensures
accountability. Participation of all stakeholders not only protects the project from political and economic
instabilities, but also reduces opposition by specific groups who may feel their status quo may be
threatened or feel excluded (as did the school teachers and nearby gangs in Cartagena). Moreover, giving
youth a voice

·        Participatory approaches to design and implementation of programs are feasible but need to
be carefully directed and focused on clear objectives. The role of participation needs to be stated up
front. The goals of the participatory process need to be clear to both facilitators and participants so that
false expectations are not generated. If the rules and objectives of the participatory process are not made
clear in the beginning, participants begin to develop expectations that later cannot be met by the project.
This generates frustration and disillusionment and can lead to reduced participation in the future.
Moreover, the extent and nature of participation needs to be adjusted to the capacity of the different actors.
A failure to take these into account can lead to even lengthier design processes, and result in vague
conclusions, which may be of limited technical value. This is particularly so when the aim of the project is
to introduce innovation, change traditional ways of doing things and consolidate new service models.
Considerable effort is required to disseminate information among stakeholders and to put in place effective
feedback mechanisms. To maintain effective coalitions around a central objective is a labor-intensive task.
Thus, particularly with regards to community inputs on project design, where technical capacity is weak,
the role of participation needs to be carefully defined.

·        To be effective, service integration implies a break with past service delivery paradigms,
considerable coordination and joint planning, and a process of learning by doing. Although an
integrated approach to service delivery is time consuming and difficult to achieve, the project's experience


                                                     - 24 -

shows that it is an invaluable instrument of change, as it helps to introduce quality improvements and
increase the efficiency of social services. The involvement of several institutional actors also contributes to
the sustainability, accountability and transparency of the interventions. Each institution has its own rhythm
and interests, and there is considerable inertia to change. However, having participated in joint planning
and implementation events and putting what they learned into practice, allowed participating institutions to
put their differences aside for the common goal.

·        Building local capacity of Municipal Governments to execute subprojects and having
municipalities contribute with a share of the subproject financing proved effective. It ensured the
relevance of the intervention in the local context, promoted ownership, facilitated a decentralized learning
process, and contributed to the sustainability of improved youth activities and services.

·        Interventions seeking to change youth's aspirations and behavior require a much longer time
frame. For instance, instilling an entrepreneurial disposition/mentality cannot be achieved through short
training courses. Moreover, they require a learning by doing approach. In the case of delicate issues such
as domestic abuse, or attitudes towards schooling, the intervention needs to work on changing the attitudes
and behavior of all key actors in order for change to be sustained, and thus a long term framework is also
necessary.

·        Youth enter programs with different vulnerabilities, a factor which affects the extent to which
they can benefit from a less individualized approach. Youth with lower risk backgrounds can benefit
more fully from the type of services that can be offered to youth as a group. However, in cases of youth
with higher risks/problems, a more costly individualized approach will be necessary. Efforts must be made
to identify risks early on to ensure youth receive the appropriate care.

·        Although reproductive health/sexuality issues do not generally surface as one of the key
problems that concern youth, once the problems of employment and violence are being addressed,
they gain importance. The subprojects focused on the issue deemed to be the most pressing issue youth
faced in each municipality. None of the youth and other municipal participants mentioned reproductive
health and sexuality. However, once implementing, youth in six of the subprojects requested programs to
address these issues.

·        Programs addressing youth should not assume youth are already organized. Subprojects
delivering school or training center based interventions were able to work with a semi-captive audience.
However, subprojects working to reduce street violence had no "institutional" home and had to rely on
youth organizations. However, it was incorrect to assume youth would necessarily be organized, and much
less, organized for community change.

·        The schools are ideal vehicles to deliver youth services and promote youth activities involving
students and out-of-school youth. The project experience confirmed the central role that can be played by
schools in youth development and the capacity of schools to reach out to the community and to other
institutions in order to improve the services provided. In Cartagena, the schools became the center of the
community, leading to a reduction of gang activity outside the schools, and bringing them in to participate
in school-based activities. And, school teachers, if given the right incentives, can be excellent agents of
change. For this reason, it is important to involve teachers early on. Actual improvements in student's
performance are also powerful incentives to mobilize teachers.




                                                     - 25 -

·        Interventions addressing youth employment have to involve employers directly in the
identification of the skills they require, and training needs to be designed so as to strengthen those skills.
Technical training in the firm setting should be encouraged.          Training must also address personal
development and group dynamics in addition to technological training in order to be successful.

·        It is important not only to give youth a voice in service design, but to give them public
recognition. Public recognition of youth is important to themselves as well as for municipal institutions, as
it develops respect and trust. Allowing youth to participate in the public sector motivates them to take a
proactive stance and increases the legitimacy of the local government.

·        Project implementation is greatly aided by having the same Bank task manager throughout
the project life and a stable PCU team.            The stability of the task manager and of the national
implementation team responsible for coordinating project activities led to shared and thorough knowledge
of the history of the project, facilitated opportune interventions on the part of the Bank, made possible a
process of learning-by-doing which strengthened the implementation skills of the national team, allowed for
a more effective strengthening of knowledge of Bank procedures, provided smooth dialogue between
municipalities and the national government, and helped built mutual trust within government levels and
between the Government and the Bank.

Specific lessons derived from each of the subprojects are presented in Section 10.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

 The Borrower's comments to the draft ICR were incorporated into the text. The Borrower's own
contribution to the ICR is in agreement with the Bank's overall assessment of project performance, and is
included in Annex 8.

(b) Cofinanciers:

Not Applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

Not Applicable.

10. Additional Information

A. Main results of the External Evaluation

(a) Description of beneficiaries

Demographic Characteristics of the Beneficiary Youth: The age of project beneficiaries varied from 12
to 26 years, except in Pasto where 10-year old children enrolled in school also benefited. In all subprojects,
boys and girls were equally represented among project beneficiaries. Beneficiaries differed markedly with
respect to education level. Youth with completed secondary education ranged from 6 percent in Palmira to
87 percent in Quibdó. All youth beneficiaries were at the 1st or 2nd quartiles of the income distribution.
Targeting was ensured through geographic selection of low-income areas.




                                                     - 26 -

Youth vulnerability and risks: The vulnerability of youth was assessed in order to have a measure of the
handicap they started out with. Low-income youth face many structural risks that transcend the scope of
the project that are associated with poverty and violence. Urban youth living in low-income neighborhoods
experience high levels of family risk in contrast to rural youth who report relatively low incidence of family
risk. In rural and urban areas youth report a number of personal risks, including health problems, accidents
and unemployment. High-risk conditions negatively affect the performance of youth in the community, in
school and at work. About 40 percent of youth have to support themselves due to precarious family
conditions. Family support is also weak with respect to emotional support and some youth are no longer
living with their parents.

Educational aspirations: All beneficiaries have high education aspirations even though their real
conditions made these aspirations for the most part unrealistic. Over 50% expected to receive university
degrees. However, many had left school at age 11 and some are facing difficulties in completing high
school. About 21 percent expressed dissatisfaction with the school experience prior to project inception.

(b) Impact on beneficiaries

Impact was measured in two ways: through the perception of participants regarding the benefits derived
from project interventions, and through observed impact on the development of competencies with respect
to the area of intervention of the subproject. However, due to space concerns only the former will be
reviewed here. Tabulated results are included in Tables in Annex 1.

Changes perceived by youth as a result of the project: Youth were asked if they felt they had learned
about the issue/theme addressed by the subproject they participated in, and if they derived any personal
benefits from their participation.     Because these questions focused on benefits derived from the
intervention, only beneficiaries responded. Recognition of having learned from participating in the project
in the respective thematic area (school retention, domestic abuse, peaceful coexistence, job skills
training/income generation) was above 90 percent in all municipalities except Palmira and Cartagena.
Recognition of personal benefits derived from participation in the project is highest in Cartagena, with 98
percent, and lowest in Pasto with 34 percent and Palmira with 52 percent.

Youth in intervention areas and control areas were asked whether they perceived positive changes in their
personal situation with respect to the theme addressed by the subproject. The percentages reflect average
perceived positive change regarding several dimensions of the thematic area addressed. They were also
asked if their skills and abilities had improved with respect to the subproject theme, and whether they
thought opportunities for youth in their community had improved. Although all 8 groups had control
groups, much of the control group in Tutunendo could not be reached for the post test due to security
problems, and the control group for Ibague was inadequate as being a rural area, the only other youth that
could be included were the ones who didn't qualify for the training program and thus it is unclear to what
extent the project was responsible for the perceived changes.

Youth in Cali and Palmira not only perceived positive changes with regards to peaceful coexistence
compared with controls, but also perceived opportunities had improved for youth in their community. The
Cali and Palmira interventions took place outside of an institutional setting and thus had greater impact on
a broader group of young people. In the case of the two job skills training subprojects in urban areas
(Cúcuta and Bucaramanga) there no positive changes were perceived personally, but there was a perceived
improvement in opportunities for youth in the community, when compared with the control group. The
reason for this is that training courses took place late in the intervention and thus insufficient time had
transpired for youth to perceive changes in their personal situation. In the case of Pasto, youth perceived


                                                     - 27 -

an important change with regards to how they are treated by their parents and the affection they received,
although they did not consider they had gained any particular skills to manage abuse. Unfortunately,
Cartagena was the first subproject included in the baseline survey and failed to apply this part of the
instrument on the control group. However, 61 percent perceived positive changes with regards to their
school and their education, and 53 percent felt that opportunities to participate in school activities and to
study had improved for youth in their community. Ibagué and Tutunendo, also with lacking or inadequate
control group data, about 55 percent perceive improved opportunities for youth in the community.
However, perception of improved personal situation is higher in Tutunendo than in Ibagué. Overall, the job
skills interventions appeared to have a lower effect than the other interventions except in Tutunendo, where
youth were already organized into a cooperative and were more educated than the other job skills
intervention participants. While all the thematic areas require a much longer time frame for youth to
benefit in a more meaningful way, there is considerably more delayed gratification in the job skills
strengthening interventions as the likelihood of being hired depends on other factors beyond their control. It
appears gratification is much more tangible in the near term in the case of the peaceful coexistence and
domestic violence projects.

(c) Impact on participating institutions

Impact on institutions was measured in terms of the extent to which (a) youth issues and services were
given priority at the municipal level; and (b) the degree to which integration/intersectoral coordination was
achieved; and (c) the extent to which interviewed entities perceived benefits.

Priority given to youth issues and integrated services at the municipal level: Six of the 8 municipalities
assigned staff to work with you, 5 municipalities included integrated youth services in their municipal
development plans, and 3 actually included funds for youth services in their budgets, despite the fiscal
crisis they are facing. Five municipalities introduced youth policies with a focus on integrated approaches,
and 5 established administrative structures to manage integrated services in the community. However, staff
from participating entities noted some difficulties in the continued provision of youth services due to
scarcity of funds, and in some cases due to an insufficient transfer of the technical and conceptual aspects
of the models to municipal authorities.

Extent to which integration/intersectoral coordination was achieved:               All 8 municipalities had
multi-sector participation in the provision of services. Palmira involved the greatest number of sectors (for
a total of 10), and Cartagena, Pasto and Cúcuta involved the lowest, with only four sectors each. All but
one (Quibdó) had established inter-institutional networks for the coordination and provision of integrated
services. Close to fifty percent of the 181 entities interviewed said they conducted joint planning with their
executing partners. However, although about 30% felt they shared conceptual approaches to deal with
youth problems only 10 percent shared intervention approaches, suggesting service integration has only just
begun.

Perceived institutional benefits: All participating institutions reported enhanced capacity to address youth
problems; commended the integration of actions of private, public and community organizations; mentioned
the interchange of experiences among organizations as a newly acquired strength; and indicated that having
participated in the project helped improve their own organization. The value of the technical assistance
received in the areas of project management including administrative and financial aspects, institutional
development including support to work through inter-institutional networks, strategic planning, and
monitoring, and in technical areas relevant to each subproject, for their daily work was recognized.




                                                     - 28 -

Difficulties encountered by participating institutions: Economic and political factors were perceived by
implementing entities to have reduced the impact of the project. Insufficient funding and delays in accessing
available funds as well as insufficient adequate infrastructure were cited. On the political front, weak local
youth policies and insufficient political commitment by local authorities were identified as reducing
potential impact.

B. Summary Description of the Subprojects

The following information complements the description of the subprojects in section 4.2. After project
restructuring, all subprojects included institutional strengthening objectives for participating service
providers to strengthen the delivery of integrated services. Training provided strengthened joint strategic
planning and management, in addition to technical areas specific to each subproject such as curricular
redesign, modern teaching methodologies, etc. Because these were common to all subprojects, they will not
be addressed here. Their impact is included in the section above on impact on institutions.

BUCARAMANGA

General Objective: Contribute to increase employment opportunities for youth between the ages of 16 and
25, living in a low-income community in the city, by improving their labor competencies by adjusting
training to local labor market needs.

Implementation Period:           1/10/2001-4/30/2003 (28 months) ;      1  Implementation Performance:
Satisfactory; Coverage: 431 direct beneficiaries, including high school graduates and dropouts aged 16-25
and 68 indirect beneficiaries through complementary activities; 59 institutions; Sustainability: Likely;
Participating Institutions:    (a) Public ­INDERBU, Municipal Secretariat of Education, Municipal
Planning Corporation, Municipal Corporation for Recreational Parks, Ministry of Labor, SENA; (b)
Private ­ UNAB, Industrial Santander University, ISED, CAJASAN; (c) NGOs ­.FUNPROCEP,
CORPODER, Bucaramanga Emprendedora, Congregación Mariana, Nuevo Arco Iris Corporation,
Technological Corporation of the Orient, Centro Juvenil Amanecer, CORFAS; Network Membership: 33
entities.

Achievement of Specific Objectives:

l Job training entities adjust their training programs to respond to the local labor market. An
    "employment observatory" was established, consisting of a forum to exchange and disseminate
    information regarding the local labor market, including factors associated with both supply and
    demand. The observatory includes representatives from local industry, public entities, universities and
    training institutes. A network of training entities was formed to coordinate the supply of training and
    respond to the needs identified in the observatory. However, because the network of organizations
    participating in the observatory was dominated by training entities, the subproject essentially ended up
    with a supply oriented training program. No instruments were developed to reach local industry.
    Moreover, although ostensibly designed to train youth to develop skills relevant to local demand, the
    study conducted by the observatory assessed occupational trends rather than specific demand by local
    industry and the skills required.

l Youth and employers have more information about the labor market, and available training
    opportunities. The project developed and implemented a communications strategy but it primarily



                                                    - 29 -

      focused on promoting the project and increasing information on training opportunities. Again, here,
      employers were not sufficiently integrated into this activity, limiting its use to provide youth with
      information on potential job opportunities and more specific labor insertion assistance.

l Youth develop technical and personal competencies relevant to existing demand. Two 3-month
      training cycles were provided to a total of 431youth (121 first cycle, 310 second cycle), who represent
      77% of those initially registered. Courses included training in basic technical skills in the areas of
      clothing design and production, shoe production, electronics, informatics, sales and accounting, fast
      food preparation, baking, hair cutting and beauty salon skills, jewelry production, etc. Trainees also
      received instruction in the development of human (self-esteem, etc.), entrepreneurial and
      socio-occupational competencies. However, as mentioned above, it is unclear how pertinent the training
      was to filling existing vacancies, as actual demand was not assessed.

l Youth acquire work experience through internships. Training entities were responsible for seeking
      internships for course participants. Thus, upon receiving a certificate of completion of the training
      modules, trainees were placed in local firms to practice their newly acquired skills on-the-job. A total
      of 146 youth participated in internships. Because employers were not sufficiently involved in the
      observatory, obtaining their commitment to provide job-placements for project beneficiaries proved to
      be difficult.

Observations: Despite these difficulties, the project was successful in fostering strong inter-institutional
collaboration, although the participation of the private sector was lower than desired. The joint definition of
problems and solutions by all those involved has raised awareness of the links between all and the need for
joint action, and the project has opened communication channels for youth to involve them in social
processes that may define their future. Also the effort to provide youth with training to develop work skills,
rather than to learn an occupation should be noted. The level of satisfaction among trainees was high: 91
percent indicated that they have gained from participating in the program and 42 percent stated that they
are now better equipped to open their own business. The municipal government has established the Institute
for Employment and Entrepreneurial Promotion for the Municipality of Bucaramanga which will be
adopting the model, including the observatory, the network of training providers and the provision of
training, making the necessary adjustments to include the private sector to ensure relevance and
effectiveness.

Lessons:

l Job-skills training for youth should emphasize short courses focused on basic labor competencies.
l When the objective is inserting youth in the labor market, it is important to involve employers directly
      in the identification of needed skills, and to direct training to actual job vacancies. Technical training in
      the firm setting should be encouraged.
l Youth selected for job-skills training should be actively searching for a job, and relatively homogenous
      groups should be formed to receive training.

_____________________________________
1The start date corresponds to the date the Bank approved the design of the subproject design and the end date is the date of the administrative closing
of the subproject. The actual technical implementation period might have been in some cases shorter, due to start-up problems or technical closure
prior to the administrative closing of a subproject.




                                                                      - 30 -

CALI

General Objective: Promote peaceful coexistence and reduce community youth violence in public urban
spaces in low income areas.

Implementation Period: 2/2/2001-4/30/2003 (27 months); Implementation Performance: Satisfactory;
Coverage: 965 youth were directly involved through training or active participation in events, out of a total
of 1390 youth involved in the project, 35 organizations (including youth and community organizations);
Sustainability: Likely; Participating Institutions: (a) Public ­ Municipal Secretariats of Territorial
Development and Community Management, Health, Education, Recreations and Sports, and the Center for
Local Integrated Care (Centro de Atención Local Integrada); (b) NGOs ­.Foro Nacional por Colombia,
Asociación Cristina de Jóvenes, Habla Scribe, Corporación Juan Bosco, Plan Padrinos, Fundación Danza y
Vida, COMFENALCO; Network Membership: 12 entities.

Achievement of Objectives:

l Develop individual and group participation skills among youth. Youth received training on project
   preparation, team work, civic participation, assertiveness and self esteem, and conflict resolution. A
   "Dream Factory" initiative was implemented through which local youth form teams to develop project
   proposals and implement them as a team. A total of 22 projects were prepared and executed by 570
   youth, leading to the production of a number of public events including: cultural (10), sports (4),
   community development (5), environment (3), education (2) and health (2). These initiatives were
   supported by the institutional network.

l Improve the collective use of public spaces. Workshops and discussions were held with youth to
   identify community problems associated with violence and aggression, to identify public areas affected
   by violent behavior, the reasons why they were the focus of violence, and to reflect on processes of
   peaceful coexistence that were prevalent in their community. They were also taught inter-personal
   communications skills and to organize public events. Once sensitized to the issues, youth groups signed
   mutual coexistence agreements ("pactos de convivencia") to commit to non-aggressive use of space
   and to define the rules that would govern behavior in the public areas. Youth organized events to use
   public areas that were previously out of reach due to violence, slowly de-stigmatizing the areas.
   Several public places have been "re-claimed" through a peaceful and creative use of space. Youth
   groups made films and mini-documentaries about their community and the problems that affect them,
   as well as videos on dance and other activities, and presented these movies in the parks. The "Street
   Cinema" initiative was the most successful

l Strengthen the institutional services provided to youth to foster youth development.                   An
   institutional network of entities working with youth in the community was established and a plan of
   action was developed. The network will provide the technical assistance and support needed to
   continue the operation of the "Dream Factory". Several entities, including an international NGO, have
   committed financing and or technical assistance for the development and implementation of youth
   projects and to provide integrated services including cultural activities, sexual and reproductive health,
   training on project management, etc. The project provided training to institutional actors to work and
   plan in an integrated fashion.




                                                  - 31 -

Observations: The delivery of inputs to support youth initiatives was delayed due to administrative
problems. Security problems due to local operations of guerrilla and paramilitary groups curtailed some
initiatives.

Lessons:

l The subproject had incorrectly assumed youth in the community were already organized. This meant
     that the first phase of the subproject had to focus on bringing youth together, leading to some
     implementation delays.
l Because this subproject lacked an institutional "home" (there is no municipal authority dedicated to
     youth violence), the leadership manifested by the subproject coordinator was a determining factor in its
     success or failure.
l Working to "manage" community violence is not sufficient to counteract the effects of more macro
     sources of violence, like the paramilitaries and different guerilla factions, and drug trafficking.

CARTAGENA

General Objective:        Reduce school dropout rates among in three secondary schools located in a
low-income neighborhood in the Southern part of the city.

Implementation Period: 9/29/2000-4/30/2003 (31 months); Implementation Performance: Satisfactory;
Coverage: 1900 youth, 121 teachers, 350 parents and 17 institutions; Sustainability: Likely;
Participating Institutions:       (a) Public ­ 3 secondary schools, Municipal Secretariats of Education,
Participation and Community Development, and the National University; (b) Private ­ Chamber of
Commerce; (c) NGOs ­ Corpoeducación, PROFAMILIA, Indufrial, Candilé, Colegio del Cuerpo,
Cedehumi, Volver a la Gente, Amor Joven, Cardique, "Connections Project" at EAFIT University.
Network Membership: 13 entities.

Achievement of Objectives:

l Increase the variety and quality of courses provided to improve the perception that students,
     teachers and parents have of the school. To improve the quality of education offered by the schools,
     innovative extra curricular activities that would be attractive to local youth were introduced, as was a
     program to improve teacher competencies (discussed under the next objective). The courses included
     music, folklore, corporal expression, dance, informatics, environmental issues, reproductive health,
     social participation and citizenship, and were provided by 18 NGOs, universities and local cultural
     institutes. Participation in extracurricular activities was made conditional on attending class and
     obtaining passing grades. As a result, absenteeism among students was reduced and student grades
     have improved. While at first school authorities and teachers were not fully supportive of the program
     because they felt their jobs were at stake, and blamed the lack of attendance of students to laziness and
     "competing activities" their attitudes changed once they started to notice a reduction in student
     absenteeism and improvements in grade scores, and as the schools gained municipal saliency through
     the subproject. Schoolteachers came to realize they also needed to change. Even students who had
     already dropped out of school began asking to take part in the new activities. And, they asked to
     receive courses on informatics and other courses to keep up with their students. They are now the main
     force behind the curricular reform.




                                                      - 32 -

l Improve and modernize the teaching skills of schoolteachers towards the development of basic
    competencies.      The second avenue to improving the quality of education was to strengthen
    schoolteachers' skills on basic competencies, modernizing their teaching methodologies and training
    them on curricular development. As part of the process schoolteachers and principals at each of the
    three participating schools conducted exercises to analyze theirs pedagogic and administrative
    problems, identified strengths and weaknesses, and organized teams to reform the existing curriculum.
    Training for schoolteachers also included conflict resolution skills and computer literacy.

l Strengthen the institutional capacity to promote student retention in the school. After receiving
    training to improve their teaching methods and skills, both school principals and teachers participated
    in the redesign of the curriculum, in the introduction of improved learning achievement evaluation
    techniques and in devising new approaches to improve classroom practice. With assistance from the
    National University, the teams prepared new curriculum guides to institutionalize the improvements.
    The network guiding the process is made up of public, private and university entities working with
    youth. The new curriculum includes 8 modules, and incorporate elements of the courses provided in
    the first phase of the project. The new school curriculum now forms part of the municipality's
    Educational Plan, and is being implemented in the three participating schools and training was
    conducted for teachers in 15 other schools who are in the process of introducing the curriculum.

Observations. The main achievement has been that of securing the full collaboration of the school team,
including the teachers, students and parents in transforming school atmosphere and culture. Parents now
actively participate in school management. Moreover, gang violence in the vicinity was eliminated as gang
members were allowed to participate in some of the extracurricular activities. Violent behavior amongst
students was also reduced. The community also changed as these areas were off limits due to gang
activities, and with time, everyone became aware that youth responded positively when given the
opportunity. Several training entities noted that the level of aggressiveness of the students declined as the
courses progressed.      One of the weaknesses of the model is that the main achievement, i.e. the
transformation of school culture, is not easy to replicate. Not only are each of the three main elements
(provision of innovative courses, improvement of teacher competencies, curricular reform), time and
financing-intensive endeavors, but there is an element of chance that may not be replicated. The new
curriculum is a product of that change, but a reformed curriculum on its own, will probably not be
sufficient to generate the same momentum and impact. It will, however, improve the quality of education,
and hopefully increase attendance.

Lessons:

l Teachers can be excellent change agents in schools. For this reason, it is important to involve teachers
    early on. Actual improvements in student's performance are also powerful incentives to mobilize
    teachers.
l Artistic and esthetic activities can be useful avenues to motivate students to achieve their full potential
    in school and help retain students in school.
l Involving parents and the community in seeking solutions to problems faced by the schools can
    improve security conditions in and out of the school, and increase accountability vis-à-vis the education
    provided.




                                                    - 33 -

CUCUTA

General Objective: Contribute to increase employment opportunities for youth between the ages of 16 and
25, living in a low-income community in the city, by improving their labor competencies by adjusting
training to local labor market needs.

Implementation Period:           1/10/2001-4/30/2003      (28    months);   Implementation Performance:
Satisfactory; Coverage: 1390 youth; 46 institutions; Sustainability: Likely; Participating Institutions:
(a) Public ­ Gobernación, Municipality, SENA, Francisco de Paula Santander University, Solidarity
Network, DANE, Ministry of Labor, and Banco de la República; (b) Private ­ Chamber of Commerce; (c)
NGOs ­.Corporación Nuevo Arco Iris, Numen Ibarami Foundation, Promover; Network Membership: 33
entities.

Achievement of Objectives:

This subproject had the same specific objectives as the subproject in Bucaramanga so this description will
only include information specific to Cúcuta. The model implemented is the same.

l Job training entities adjust their training programs to respond to the local labor market. A
    network of 33 institutions were organized into a training network out of which 7 provided job training
    for youth. An Employment Observatory was created (Observatorio de Empleo), including 7 public and
    private entities. As in the case of Bucaramanga, rather than focusing on demand for specific skills, the
    observatory commissioned a study on employment trends. And, as in Bucaramanga, the observatory
    was dominated by training institutions, with the resulting training program being more focused on
    supply than demand. Thus it is unclear to what extent the training meet the demand of local employers.

l Youth and employers have more information about the labor market, and available training
    opportunities. The project developed and implemented a multi-media and internet communications
    strategy but it primarily focused on promoting the project and increasing information on training
    opportunities. Again, here, employers were not sufficiently integrated into this activity, limiting its use
    to provide youth with information on potential job opportunities and more specific labor insertion
    assistance.

l Youth develop technical and personal competencies relevant to existing demand. A total of 27
    courses were provided to 736 youth out of which 675 completed the full cycle, i.e a completion rate of
    92%. One cycle of training lasting about six months was provided. A total of 7 entities provided the
    training. Courses included training in basic technical skills in the areas of: repair and maintenance of
    computer equipment, automobile mechanics, clothing design and production, shoe production,
    electronics, sales and accounting, secretarial work, chef, legal assistant, alternative stockbreeding
    systems, etc. Trainees also received instruction in the development of human (self-esteem, etc.),
    entrepreneurial and socio-occupational competencies. However, as mentioned above, it is unclear how
    pertinent the training was to filling existing vacancies, as actual demand was not assessed.

l Youth acquire work experience through internships. A total of 640 of the 675 who completed their
    training also went through a brief internship program. Given that a total of 736 participated in the
    training, this implies a completion rate of 87%. Because employers were not sufficiently involved in




                                                     - 34 -

    the observatory, obtaining their commitment to provide job-placements for project beneficiaries proved
    to be difficult.

Observations: Satisfaction on the part of trainees was high, but job insertion was low. At program
completion, 12 percent were working and 6 percent were working and studying. However, it is unknown if
the jobs were related to the training they received. A large number of trainees (61 percent) said they have
better opportunities to open their own business as a result of the program. This subproject had a very late
start due to local administrative problems and was only able to execute one cycle of courses.

Lessons:

l The lessons from the Cúcuta subproject are very similar to those from Bucaramanga and thus will not
    be repeated here.

IBAGUÉ

General Objective: Teach sustainable watershed management to schooled and unschooled youth between
the ages of 10 and 22 with the aim of modifying productive, social and environmental practices of youth to
sustain the watershed, while at the same time increase their work opportunities in the local area.

Implementation Period: 8/1/2000-4/30/2003 (32 months); Implementation Performance: Satisfactory;
Coverage: 500 youth, 27 institutions, 10 parents, 77 teachers; Sustainability Rating:                 Likely;
Participating Institutions: (a) Public ­ Universidad del Tolima, Municipal Government Secretariats of
Youth, SENA, UMATA, Colegio Técnico Ambiental College, Colegio Mariano Melendro, 16 Primary
Schools; (b) Mixed ­ PACOFOR (Reforestation), CORTOLIMA; (c) NGOs: SEAGRO; (d) Private:
Chamber of Commerce. Network Membership: 23 entities, community leaders and representatives of
community organizations.

Achievement of Objectives:

l Design a curriculum to teach students at 18 schools of the area (2 secondary and 16 elementary
    schools) the basic elements of the sustainable management of the watershed. The main result has
    been development of a reformed curriculum for all grades, which introduced sustainable watershed
    management contents. This was achieved with technical assistance from the University of Tolima. As
    part of the development of the curriculum, participating teachers were trained on curriculum design,
    courses on environmentally sustainable agricultural production techniques were developed and tested
    on a cohort of students, field trips with students and teachers were organized to become acquainted
    with local flora diversity, and visits were made to successful watershed management projects. The new
    curriculum incorporates pedagogic initiatives implemented with schooled and unschooled youth and
    schoolteachers as part of the subproject.

l Develop and apply a non-formal education pilot program for out-of-school farm youth on
    sustainable management of the watershed and improved agricultural practices. Unschooled youth
    received small scholarships, bed and board to received training during a period of 16 weeks on
    environmentally sustainable agricultural practices. A total of three cohorts of youth were trained,
    including a total of 126 participants who completed the program (out of 149 who were initially
    included, i.e. a dropout rate of 15 percent). The program for unschooled youth was defined and
    implemented jointly by eight local institutions working in the agricultural sector. The informal training



                                                    - 35 -

    courses covered personal development skills as well as environmentally sustainable agricultural
    practices. A permanent training center ("Centro de Educación Permanente") will continue providing
    these services. Follow-up was provided to 103 of the participants to keep them involved in project
    activities and verify whether or not they were utilizing the skills obtained. As indicated in the responses
    to the survey administered at end of the program, practically all youth recognized that they had learned
    from the project; 75 percent indicated that they now had better opportunities to live in the municipality
    and 64 percent said it was more likely that they would organize activities to preserve the watershed.

l Ensure the long-term adoption of initiatives aimed at sustainable management of the watershed.
    Once the new curriculum was designed, all teachers were trained on the application of the new
    curriculum, including the development of new areas of applied research, computers and access to
    internet, and equipment for laboratories and tools to conduct soil and agricultural research were
    provided. The curriculum began to be applied in all 18 schools in 2003 and will continue to be applied.
    Thus, this ensures the sustainability of activities targeting schooled youth. With regards to unschooled
    youth, sustainability is being attained by the establishment of the "Centro de Educación Permanente",
    which continues to provide training and outreach to local farm youth on a permanent basis. In addition,
    the municipality is organizing "business agreement sessions"(ruedas de negocios) bring together youth
    and entrepreneurs to develop productive projects. The latter is partly curtailed however, due to the
    incidence of violence in the area which limits outreach to farming areas. Specific dissemination
    activities were also introduced, including a radio program to transmit information on sustainable
    management of watersheds.

Observations: The short implementation time of the subproject (17 months) and its complexity, resulted in
the reduction of some planned activities, especially applied research. The University of Tolima needed
more time than originally envisaged to complete the new curriculum, which started to be applied in 2003.
The violence in the area has made farm visits almost impossible, suggesting the need for a different strategy
to disseminate information to unschooled youth.

Lessons:

l Youth became aware that they would earn income while helping to improve environment management.


l Local government and participating institutions recognized the need to support sustainable
    environmental management through working with youth.
l Training must also address personal development and group dynamics in addition to technological
    training in order to be successful.

PALMIRA

General Objective: Promote the peaceful coexistence and reduce community youth violence by directly
involving youth in making community parks focal points free of violence.

Implementation Period:           9/27/2000-4/30/2003       (30   months);    Implementation Performance:
Satisfactory; Coverage: 5588 youth out of which 3455 received direct interventions, 87 members of youth
organizations,38 institutions including 12 youth 20 community organizations in 23 low-income
neighborhoods; Sustainability: Likely; Participating Institutions: (a) Public ­ Casa Cultural, Valle
University, CVC, ICBF, SENA, the Mayor's Office and the Municipal Secretariats of Urban Development,
Planning, Social Development, Public Works; (b) Private ­ Recrear, Raquel Sofía Amaya Producciones y



                                                     - 36 -

Cía, Chamber of Commerce, Juan Bosco Foundation; (c) NGOs ­ FUNPRESOV, TAE y CELA,
PROFAMILIA; Network Membership: 12 entities.

Achievement of Objectives:

l Create trust and generate agreements amongst local actors to work together to ensure the
    peaceful use of public parks. Agreements for the peaceful use of public space ("ethics contracts")
    were arrived at among youth and between them, the participating institutions and community members.
    Contracts specified the rules by which each group would abide. Contracts were drawn through a series
    of public discussions (mesas de concertación) to reach consensus on their content. A contract was
    agreed upon, including local security forces and the police, to guarantee security in the community.
    This led to a redefinition of community's security policy.

l Re-claim public space as a strategy to promote peaceful coexistence in the community.             Mesas de
    concertación were organized to agree on the areas that were to be "re-claimed" for peaceful public use
    and the design for each of them. Two bicycle routes and 9 public parks were selected. The design
    process for park improvements involved youth from 7 schools, with a total of 368 youth working
    together with an architect to produce the final designs. Youth participated in the rehabilitation of the
    re-claimed areas.       The municipality provided topographic maps and built new sewerage
    system/drainage systems in the park areas. The rehabilitation of 9 public parks in the community was
    completed. The construction of bicycle paths was also completed and 8 races have already taken place.
    They were also responsible for the maintenance of the physical and social conditions of the parks,
    through the collective efforts of participating youth. To prepare youth for this role, they received
    training on conflict identification and resolution, park maintenance, organization of public events and
    health promotion (through the "Healthy School Program" (programa de Escuela Saludable) which is
    being carried out in community schools). One of the products of this effort was the creation of "social"
    and "physical" construction networks. The physical park improvements directly contributed to the
    improvement of social interactions in the community. The staging of community events organized by
    youth ensure the social maintenance of the areas. People are using the parks and adopting strategies to
    take care of them. The municipality is considering building more interconnected cycle-circuits in the
    city. Several public events have been held in the rehabilitated parks and are likely to continue.

l Construct an institutional base to support "coexistence" activities.             Local youth groups were
    strengthened and expanded. They were organized to form 11 cooperatives to work in recreational and
    environmental projects linked to the reclaimed areas. Several of them now have solid links with
    institutions in the city (e.g. the theater and puppets groups are connected and receiving help from the
    Fine Arts and the city's Theater Workshop). A "City Builders Network" (Red de Constructores de
    Ciudad) was formed by 100 youngsters to articulate the various groups and to position them in the
    municipality. On the institutional side, a Coexistence Unit (Unidad de Convivencia) was established,
    including all key sectors working with youth in the community, such as health, family welfare, and
    justice, to form a referral network for prevention, detection and care of youth with problems.

Observations: The planning of public events by consensus (mesas de concertación) has been accepted as
a regular practice among youth. Relations between youth groups of different neighborhoods improved.
Police practice now allows for citizens participation in improving public security and joint efforts are being
made to reduce the carrying of arms in the area. The image of the neighborhoods has improved. However,
gender problems persist in youth groups, something which became very evident in the process of developing
"ethics" contracts. During the first year of implementation, there were problems in changing police
practices and in integrating the activities of the participating institutions. There were problems in the


                                                     - 37 -

provision of opportune technical assistance to the newly created youth cooperatives, delaying their
participation.

Lessons:

l The instruments used ("ethic pacts" and "consensus tables") proved effective in helping youth carryout
    daily interpersonal relations on conciliatory rather than conflictive basis. Through these experiences
    and the organization of public events, youth acquired more flexible behavior, learned participatory
    decision-making, and gained a concept of social responsibility. Youth learned that they can organize
    and contribute to public wellbeing.
l An important motivation for youth to change behaviors and attitudes was the physical rehabilitation of
    parks.
l Public recognition of youth is important to themselves and to municipal institutions.       Palmira has
    included youth as part of its Municipal Social Political Council. Allowing youth to participate in the
    public sector motivates them to take a proactive stance and increases the legitimacy of the local
    government.
l The lessons listed under the Cali subproject also apply here.


PASTO

General Objective: Reduce domestic violence affecting adolescents and pre-adolescents (youth between
the ages of 10 and 16) who attend 13 schools in two communities in the city of Pasto.

Implementation Period:          9/15/2000-4/30/2003     (31   months);    Implementation Performance:
Satisfactory; Coverage: 2191 youth (out of which 1066 received training), 471 parents, 150 teachers and
26 institutions; Sustainability Rating: Likely; Participating Institutions: (a) Public ­ 13 schools,
Health, Education and Community Development Municipal Secretariats, University of Nariño, ICBF,
Family Commissariat, National Comptroller's Office, National Police, Hospital Civil; (b) Private: Mariana
University; (c) ONGs ­ Sol de Invierno Foundation, Luna Aparte Foundation, and the project-specific
"Red del Buen Trato" and "Cooperación en la Ejecución de Acciones". Network Membership: 20.

Achievement of Objectives:

l School teachers learn to detect abuse and tools to address cases of abuse as a first level of care. A
    team of social workers and psychologists received training on a methodology (Mossavi) to address
    problems of domestic abuse. School teachers participated in the training so that they would be able to
    work together with the social workers to provide the necessary support in the classrooms. Training
    included a diagnosis of factors affecting adolescents in the prevention of sexual abuse and conflict
    management techniques. It also provided school teachers with skills to be able to detect cases of
    domestic abuse in the classroom and refer them to the social workers. Seventeen of the school teachers
    were also trained as "affection managers" to conduct peer activities with teachers of other schools as
    part of their daily routine.

l Youth and parents learn to identify abusive behavior and learn conflict and emotion management
    techniques to deal with it. Workshops with youth and parents were held to sensitize them to the issue
    of domestic abuse. They were taught to recognize violent behavior and to learn conflict resolution
    skills and constructive strategies to deal with conflict in school and in the family setting.     The
    workshops were conducted by the team of social workers and psychologists working in the subproject,



                                                   - 38 -

    and involved exercises on affective growth, methods to manage conflict and emotions and the adoption
    of conciliatory practices. In addition, social workers/psychologists provided psychosocial services to
    youth, and to their parents when requested. They also conducted home visits to follow-up. Support
    networks of "affection managers" were established amongst youth and parents, teaching them how to
    work with peers, and communication techniques. Affection managers were taught to work with their
    peers helping them to express if they were subject to abuse, and referring them to psychosocial
    services. They also facilitated communication in the classroom during "affective" exercises. These
    groups became sources of energy to improve interpersonal relations in the community. Sexuality was
    one of the themes most discussed by parents and older youth, and thus specific materials were
    developed to address this issue.

l The community becomes aware of the problem of domestic violence. A communications strategy
    was designed and implemented to give visibility to the problem of domestic abuse in the community
    through local media, with the aim to highlight the manifestations of the problem, disseminate the
    concepts adopted by the project, and provide information on the services available. In addition, a
    diagnosis of community risk factors was conducted by the family health program. A total of 5400
    families were evaluated with respect to the levels and types of risk they face. As a result of this
    strategy the number of cases referred and treated increased.

l A system is established to prevent domestic violence and to detect, refer and provide care for
    domestic abuse victims. A permanent system to address domestic abuse that incorporates prevention,
    referral and care has been established. To address the prevention of abuse, "Affection Manager
    Networks" (Redes de Gestores Afectivos) will continue to function amongst youth, parents and
    teachers. The Municipality will continue training teachers to strengthen their classroom practices
    affective growth techniques, and they, in addition to two social workers hired by the Municipality, will
    continue to coach youth and parent affection networks. The prevention and referral network has also
    been strengthened by the project's membership in the "Good Care Network" (Red del Buen Trato),
    part of a nation-wide program executed at the municipal level designed to bring together all public
    entities working on abuse, to coordinate activities and permit a more targeted approach to abuse in the
    community. Seven out of the 13 schools participating in the project became part of the Red del Buen
    Trato. As part of that network, school teachers will participate in the process of evaluation of family
    risk, and home visits, with the support of the social workers. And, on the curative side, agreements with
    the main local hospital (Hospital Civil) have been made to provide a second level of care to victims of
    abuse. The two social workers recently hired by the municipality will coordinate the program with the
    hospital.

Observations: The logistics for the participation of parents was complex because of their work schedule;
meetings were problematic even on weekends. The work with teachers was hampered in 2001 by frequent
strikes. Initially there were problems in obtaining an opportune response from institutions providing
professional care to victims of abuse.

Lessons:

l Youth well-being is a good indicator of family health.
l Current teacher training does not prepare them to use artistic expression and play techniques as a tools
    to work with youth, and thus are generally unprepared to focus on the emotional growth of their
    students.
l A longer time period is necessary to properly address complex problems such as youth abuse. Effort
    must be made to seek to identify risks and devise interventions that mitigate risks and care for victims.


                                                    - 39 -

l To consider domestic violence as part of family health care and outreach program is an important step
    towards ensuring that effective preventive and curative services are delivered.

QUIBDÓ

General Objective:       Promote employment and income for local youth by training them to create
productive enterprises that promote sustainable biodiversity in the community. The subproject is targeted
to youth between the ages of 12 and 25, at school or out, living in the rural community of Tutunendo in
Quibdó.

Implementation Period: 2/2/2001-4/30/2003 (27 months); Implementation Performance: Satisfactory;
Coverage: 100 youth, 20 institutions, 3 teachers; Sustainability: Likely; Participating Institutions: (a)
Public ­ Municipal Secretariats of Education, Finance and Planning; UMATA, Chochó Technological
University, SENA, Colegio Cristo Rey, Inspección Corregimiento de Tutunendo, INVIAS; (b) Private ­
Institutio de Investigaciones Ambientales del Pacifico (Pacific Environmental Research Institute); No
network established.

Achievement of Objectives:

l Youth learn to create environmentally sustainable productive "Green Enterprises". A 18-month
    training program was designed to teach 110 youth on the management of green enterprises which
    included theoretical and practical training on the management and protection of biodiversity,
    ecotourism, and environmentally sustainable agriculture. The training was provided by participating
    entitities. In addition to a structured training program, youth visited successful enterprises in other
    parts of the country, conducted an inventory of the eco-touristic potential of Tutunendo, identified and
    evaluated the feasibility of alternative enterprises, and designed and implemented their own pilot
    ecotourism enterprise. Thus, an ecological tourism cooperative ("Paraíso Verde") was created by
    youth which has secured the technical and financial support of the Ministry of Agriculture after the
    project ends, through PADEMER (Program to Support the Development of Small Enterprises in Rural
    Areas).

l Youth learn to carry applied agricultural research on sustainable use of local natural resources to
    protect biodiversity. Youth identified and prioritized research and technological development topics
    relevant to Tutunendo, assessing demand and feasibility. Three demonstration crop parcels were set up
    to provide youth with practical experience. Youth also conducted a biodiversity expedition in the area
    to learn about the biodiversity that surrounds them, and designed and operated a botanical garden. The
    subproject facilitated training and logistics for the University of Chocó and the Pacific Environmental
    Research Institute to work together to organize and implement the applied research program.

l Foster the sustainability of the training program for sustainable management of biodiversity.
    Youth were trained in photography, radio, and image editing to disseminate their newly acquired skills,
    provide information on local ecology and youth ecological projects. A Newsletter is being posted in
    strategic places in the community and radio programs were produced. With the support of PADEMER,
    the ecological enterprise created by youth in Tutunendo is receiving financing and technical support to
    become operate.

Observations: Tutunendo is the poorest of all project areas and is located near guerrilla and paramilitary
controlled areas. Lack of security and violence in the project area limited some activities. Moreover,



                                                     - 40 -

municipal capacity was the weakest. Shortage of municipal funds severely delayed several subproject
activities and procurement of basic inputs was delayed; youth became very skeptical in view of the delays
experienced by the subproject and some dropped out.

Lessons:

l The lessons from the Tutunendo subproject are similar to those from Ibagué.
l A much longer time frame is necessary to generate an entrepreneurial mentality and new approaches to
    work.

ICR Team

Sandra Rosenhouse (ICR Task Leader)
Anna Maria Sant'anna (Consultant)
Maria Virginia Hormazábal (Project Assistant)

Comments provided from:

Bank:

Mark Hagerstrom (Country Sector Leader)
Suzana Abbot (Lead Operations Officer)
Mariangeles Sabella (Counsel)
Miriam Schneidman (Sr. Health Specialist, TM Project Preparation)
Jairo Arboleda (Sr. Social Development Specialist, Preparation)

Borrower:

Nicolás Uribe, Director, "Colombia Joven"
Jaime Jaramillo, Senior staff, Colombia Youth Development Project.




                                                  - 41 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                  1
                Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                           Actual/Latest Estimate
Test and evaluate alternative multi-sector and
participatory approaches to developing and
delivering services and promoting activities
for low-income youth.

- 10% increase in the number of youth who      Fully met. Youth beneficiaries totaled 13,588 Fully met
use services and attend activities.            or 278% of the 4,881 target.

- All municipal committees have at least 15% The average Municipal Committee (MC) had Not fully met.
active youth members.                          8 % active youth members.

- All municipal committees have active         All Committees have at least 80% active          Education: 7 MC
participants from 80% of major service         participation of the sectors relevant to the     Health: 4 MC
sectors.                                       subproject.                                      Community Development: 7 MC
                                                                                                SENA: 3 MC

- Half of requests handled by learning         Not applicable to the restructured project.      N/A
network come from people other than those
directly involved in pilot projects.


Output Indicators:
                                                                                  1
                Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                           Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Improved national capacity to assist
municipalities in establishing multi-sector
services and activities for youth.

- Technical assistance is in place and         Fully met.                                       Fully met.
responding adequately to 80% of requests for
assistance.
                                               Evaluation expertise was contracted.             Evaluation expertise was contracted.
- Evaluation expertise contacted to conduct    Supervision of local evaluation is not pertinent Supervision of local evaluation is not pertinent
national evaluation and supervise local        to the restructured project.                     to the restructured project.
evaluators.

- Evaluation plan is in place and all local    The national evaluation plan was fully carried The national evaluation plan was fully carried
evaluations proceeding according to plan.      out, as per restructured project.                out, as per restructured project.

- Learning network is in place and             Fully met.                                       Fully met.
disseminating best practices through
electronic, paper, and conference modalities.


2. Functioning municipal networks that
consist of committees that plan and develop
muti-sector services and activities for
low-income youth in local communities and
provider agencies which deliver services and
support activities.

- At least 3 municipal networks in place and   All municipal networks are in place and          All municipal networks are in place and
operating.                                     operating.                                       operating.

- At least 5 additional municipal networks are All municipal networks are in place and          All municipal networks are in place and
in process of development.                     operating.                                       operating.

- At least 6 local projects are designed.      All 8 subprojects were designed.                 All 8 subprojects were designed.

-At least 3 local projects are fully           All 8 subprojects were fully implemented         All 8 subprojects were fully implemented
implemented.                                   (minus cancelled activities).                    (minus cancelled activities).




                                                                   - 42 -

3. Availability of and access to improved
and/or new integrated services and activities
for low-income youth, including those aimed
at promoting school retention, employment
readiness, health, conflict resolution, and
civic participation.

- 50% of institutions offer comprehensive     100% of institutions do so.                   100% of institutions do so.
services appropriate to the needs of youth.

- 5% of institutional budgets are devoted to  Improved and new multi-sector services have Improved and new multi-sector services have
assessment and referral and to improved       been provided. Municipal budgets covered      been provided. Municipal budgets covered
and/or new multi-sector activities within     24% of subproject costs.                      24% of subproject costs.
existing institutions.


Project Components:

1. Establishing the institutional framework
needed at the national level to:
(a) Deliver technical assistance to design and
evaluate local multi-sector programs for
low-income youth;
(b) Operate a learning network to disseminate
best practices and deliver to a broad base of
participants, including government and
private entities, NGOs, academic groups,
and youth.
(c) Collect information at the national and
municipal levels to monitor and evaluate local
projects.
                                                                                            Fully met.
89% of requesters rate technical assistance   Fully met.
materials as enough, appropriate, and
helpful.

80% of requests for local experts filled, and Fully met.                                    Fully met.
requesters report that experts were
knowledgeable and helpful.

Adequate electronic and other means of        Fully met.                                    Fully met.
communication and dissemination are
available to the project.

Adequate evaluation expertise identified and  Fully met.                                    Fully met.
contracted to work on the project.


2. Developing municipal committees with
broad sector representation, that will:
(a) Crate an implementation plan for
integrated services at the community level;
(b) Identify technical assistance and training
needs;
(c) Formalize terms of agreement among
local service providers;
(d) Assure participation and empowerment of
youth in all planning activities; and
(e) Oversee evaluation.

- 80% of council meeting have broad sector    All Committees have at least 80% active       All Committees have at least 80% active
and youth representation.                     participation of the sectors relevant to the  participation of the sectors relevant to the
                                              subproject.                                   subproject.

- 50% of relevant staff in participating      All Committees have at least 80% active       All Committees have at least 80% active
agencies attend training and technical        participation of the sectors relevant to the  participation of the sectors relevant to the
assistance sectors;                           subproject.                                   subproject.

- All draft and final implementation plans    Fully met.                                    Fully met.
completed and of high quality.



                                                                  - 43 -

- 80% of necessary terms of agreement in     100% of agreements in place.                 100% of agreements in place.
place according to implementation plans.

- Local evaluation team in place and working Not applicable to the restructured project.  Not applicable to the restructured project
in all participating municipalities.

- Youth represented in at least 15% of       The average Municipal Committee (MC) had Not fully met.
representatives of municipal committees.     8 % active youth members.

- 50%of participating agencies are in the    Fully met.                                   Fully met.
project neighborhood and at least 50% of
their staff is engaged in changing
assessment and service delivery practice
towards more integrated/holistic approach.

1End of project
                                Demographic and Attitudinal* Indicators by Subproject


                                                              BUCARAMANGA                        CUCUTA
 VARIABLE                                                                           CONTROL                             CONTROL
                                                             BENEFICIARI (%)                    BENEFICIARI (%)
                                                             ES (%)                             ES (%)
 Age
 10 to 18 years old                                                    35               46                38                 96
 > 18                                                                  65               54                62                 4
 Gender
 Female                                                                51               57                53                 41
 Education
 Primary and less                                                      26               53                48                 9
 Secondary and more                                                    74               45                52                 90
 Recognition of learning through the Project                           91                -                95                  -
 Recognition of personal benefits derived from                         69                -                86                  -
the Project
 Perception of positive changes regarding work                         13               31                32                 38
opportunities
 Self-perception of improved skills                                    43                -                43                 20
 Perception of improved opportunities for youth                        48               23                70                 33
 Sample size of "pre" and "post" test (N)                    130                69      46               483                 46
                                                                                        42               218                 49




                                                                - 44 -

                                               IBAGUE             TUTUNENDO
VARIABLE                                                   CONTROL            CONTROL
                                               BENEFICIARI (%)    BENEFICIARI (%)
                                               ES (%)             ES (%)
 Age
10 to 18 years old                                  100       69       55        56
> 18                                                 -        29       45        44
Gender
Female                                               45       31       36        39
Education
Primary and less                                     84       90       13         -
Secondary and more                                   16       10       87        100
Recognition of learning through the Project          98       -       100         -
Recognition of personal benefits derived from        79       -        87         -
the Project
Perception of positive changes regarding work        48       35       62        20
opportunities
Self-perception of improved skills                   29       44       53         -
Perception of improved opportunities for youth       54       25       58         -
Sample size of "pre" and "post" test (N)       93       52    12  39       23    50
                                                              23                 30



                                               CALI               PALMIRA
VARIABLE                                                   CONTROL            CONTROL
                                               BENEFICIARI (%)    BENEFICIARI (%)
                                               ES (%)             ES (%)
 Age
10 to 18 years old                                   46       80      100        98
> 18                                                 54       20        -         2
Gender
Female                                               44       55       38        65
Education
Primary and less                                     51       33       48         3
Secondary and more                                   49       67       52        97
Recognition of learning through the Project          98       -        64         -
Recognition of personal benefits derived from        88       -        52         -
the Project
Perception of positive changes regarding work        70       26       66        44
opportunities
Self-perception of improved skills                   63       28       32         -
Perception of improved opportunities for youth       77       10       64        40
Sample size of "pre" and "post" test (N)       51       69    33  55       47    35
                                                              26                 42




                                               - 45 -

                                                                       PASTO                                   CARTAGENA
VARIABLE                                                                                        CONTROL                    CONTROL
                                                                      BENEFICIARI (%)                          BENEFICIARI (%)
                                                                      ES (%)                                   ES (%)
 Age
10 to 18 years old                                                              100                   91            96        95
> 18                                                                              -                    -             4        5
Gender
Female                                                                          48                    45            51        54
Education
Primary and less                                                                60                     -            18        11
Secondary and more                                                              40                   100            82        89
Recognition of learning through the Project                                     95                     -            40        -
Recognition of personal benefits derived from                                   34                     -            98        -
the Project
Perception of positive changes regarding work                                   70                    25            61        -
opportunities
Self-perception of improved skills                                              63                    60            24        -
Perception of improved opportunities for youth                                  74                     -            53        -
Sample size of "pre" and "post" test (N)                                        391                   84           1355       94
                                                                                321                   64           1113       94
* The responses focus on each Subproject's area of intervention as follows:
·         Bucaramanga, Cucuta, Ibague, Tutunedo: job skills training / income generation;
·         Cali, Palmira: peaceful coexistence;
·         Pasto: domestic abuse; and
·         Cartagena: school retention.
 ** The indicator refers to domestic abuse in the case of Pasto, and school retention in the case of Cartagena.




                                                                        - 46 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                     Component                            US$ million   US$ million
National Component                                           1.30            1.99             153
Municipal Component                                          6.25            3.26              52
PPF                                                          0.25            0.21              84

Total Baseline Cost                                          7.80            5.46
                        Total Project Costs                  7.80            5.46
                  Total Financing Required                   7.80            5.46


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.30              0.30         0.20         0.00          0.80
                                  (0.30)           (0.30)      (0.10)         (0.00)       (0.70)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00         1.80         0.00          1.80
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (1.20)         (0.00)       (1.20)
4. Subprojects                    0.00              0.00         4.90         0.00          4.90
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (2.85)         (0.00)       (2.85)
5. Incremental Operational        0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
Costs                             (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. PPF 292                        0.00              0.00         0.25         0.00          0.25
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.25)         (0.00)       (0.25)
   Total                          0.30              0.30         7.15         0.00          7.75
                                  (0.30)           (0.30)      (4.40)         (0.00)       (5.00)




                                                - 47 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                 ICB              NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                            Other
1. Works                                 0.00              0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
2. Goods                                 0.00              0.00              0.09             0.00              0.09
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.06)            (0.00)           (0.06)
3. Services                              0.00              0.00              1.95             0.00              1.95
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.60)            (0.00)           (1.60)
4. Subprojects                           0.00              0.00              3.00             0.00              3.00
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.72)            (0.00)           (1.72)
5. Incremental Operational               0.00              0.00              0.21             0.00              0.21
Costs                                  (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.04)            (0.00)           (0.04)
6. PPF 292                               0.00              0.00              0.21             0.00              0.21
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.21)            (0.00)           (0.21)
   Total                                 0.00              0.00              5.46             0.00              5.46
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (3.63)            (0.00)           (3.63)

 1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

 2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
   of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
   managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                  Appraisal Estimate              Actual/Latest Estimate              Percentage of Appraisal
Compone                                                                                       Estimate
    nt        Bank     National Municipa         Bank      National Municipa        Bank      National Municipa
                         Govt.       l Govt.                 Govt.     l Govt.                 Govt.      l Govt.
National
Compone        0.90       0.40          --        1.70        0.29         --         189        73           --
nt
Municipa
l              3.85       1.15         1.25       1.72        0.76       0.78         45         66          62
Compone
nt
PPF (*)        0.25       0.00          --        0.21         --          --          --        --           --
TOTAL          5.00       1.55         1.25       3.63        1.05       0.78         73         68          62
Percentag
e of          (64%)      (20%)       (16%)       (67%)       (19%)      (14%)
Project




                                                       - 48 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

An economic analysis of the project was not carried out at the time of Appraisal. Similarly, an ex-post
economic analysis was not carried out.

Qualitative indicators show that investments on the project were cost-effective compared to the benefits
produced.




                                                   - 49 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              08/15/1997                4    YOUTH DEVELOPMENT
                                             SPECILIST (1); EDUCATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1); SOCIAL
                                             SECTOR SPECIALIST (1);
                                             COMMUNITY
                                             PARTICIPATION SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              11/07/1997                1    CONSULTANT (1)
              11/15/1997                1    CONSULTANT (1)
              01/15/1998                1    PROCUREMENT ANALYST
                                             (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              03/17/1998                3    TASK MANGER/HEALTH
                                             SPECIALIST (1); SOCIAL
                                             SECTOR SPECIALIST (1);
                                             COMMUNITY
                                             PARTICIPATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              10/10/1998                1    DISBURSEMENT ANALYST
                                             (1)

 Supervision
              07/02/1999                2    TASK /HEALTH                     S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             OPERATIONS
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              11/06/1999                2    TASK MANGER/HEALTH               S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              06/27/2000                3    TASK MANAGER/HEALTH              U               U
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT (1)
              03/28/2001                4    TASK MANAGER/HEALTH              S               U
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); COUNTRY SECTOR
                                             LEADER/LEAD EDUCATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1); SR. SOCIAL
                                             DEVELOPMENT & CIVIL
                                             SOCIETY SPECIALIST (1)
              02/06/2002                1    TASK MANAGER/HEALTH              S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1)



                                              - 50 -

               08/21/2002              3    TASK MANAGER/HEALTH               S    S
                                            SPECIALIST (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1); LABOR CONSULTANT (1)

 ICR
               05/24/2003             2     TASK
                                            MANAGER/HEALTH
                                            SPECIALIST(1);
                                            LABOR/EDUCATION
                                            CONSULTANT (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation              n/a                    126,056.47
  Appraisal/Negotiation                   n/a                          0.00
  Supervision                          57.09                     304,443.04
  ICR                                      0                           0.00
  Total                                57.09                     430,499.51




                                            - 51 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
        Youth Development
           Social Risk Reduction
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA
Management social services for
youth




                                                    - 52 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 53 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

World Bank. Project Appraisal Document. "Colombia: Youth Development Project". Report No.
179-4-CO. Washington DC: July 10, 1998.
_____________. Japanese Grant Agreement. "Child and Youth Development Projects". TF No. 29606.
Washington DC: December 31, 1996.
_____________. Colombia ­ Youth Development Project. "Loan Agreement". Washington DC: August
12, 1999.
_____________.Colombia ­ Youth Development Project. "Guarantee Agreement". Washington DC:
August 12, 1999.
_____________.Colombia ­ Youth Development Project. "Amendment". Washington DC: September 27,
2000.
_____________.Colombia ­ Youth Development Project. "Amendment". Washington DC: June 11,
2001.
_____________.Colombia ­ Youth Development Project. Supervision Mission Reports, including PSR.
Aide Memoire and post-mission letter, for the following mission dates: June 1999; October 1999; June
2000; October 2000; March 2001; June 2001; January 2002; PSR Update of May 2000.
_____________.Colombia ­ Youth Development Project. "Supervision Quality Enhancement Review".
Washington DC: February 21, 2001.
Viceministerio de la Juventud. Proyecto de Servicios Integrados para Jóvenes. Perea, Carlos Mario.
"Juventud en cifras". Bogotá: Julio, 2000.
_____________. INVAMER-GALLUP. "Encuesta Nacional de Juventud 2000". Abril 15, 2000.
Programa Presidencial Colombia Joven. Proyecto Servicios Integrados para jóvenes. Castañeda, Elsa y
Camargo, Marina. "Análisis de 20 experiencias significativas con jóvenes". Agosto, 2000.
_____________.Página Web. Agosto 2002
_____________.Giraldo, Marcela y Pontón, Amparo. "Libro de memorias del Proyecto Servicios
Integrados para Jóvenes". Septiembre 30, 2003.
_____________.Niño, Jairo Aníbal. "Ocho relatos del Proyecto: Tolima, Rio de oro, La fábrica de
sueños, En la bella Palmira esto sucede, Tutunendo, Las hojas de la vida, El astronauta, Bonita". Agosto
8, 2003.
_____________.Pradilla, Natalia y Roca, Juanita. "Levantamiento de una línea de base en tres áreas:
Ibagué (Cañón del Combeima), Bucaramanga (Comuna 9) y Manizales (Comuna 11)". Septiembre, 1997.
_____________.Económica Consultores. "Evaluación de los beneficios potenciales de proyectos
destinados a la juventud". Agosto, 1998.
_____________.TV Factory y Consorcio Optima y Silva Publicidad. "Nueve documentales del Proyecto".
Mayo 12, 2003.
_____________.Universidad Externado de Colombia. "Líneas de base de los ocho Subproyectos y el
Nível Nacional". Marzo 7, 2002.
_____________.Universidad Externado de Colombia. "Evaluación de impacto de los ocho Subproyectos y
el Nivel Nacional". Bogotá: Julio 4, 2003.
_____________.Asociación Dimensión Educativa. "Sistematización de los ocho Subproyectos y el Nivel
Nacional". Agosto 12, 2003.
_____________. "Informe de Avance Agosto 1998-Diciembre 1999". Diciembre 15, 1999.
_____________. "Informe de Avance Diciembre 1999-Julio 2000". Agosto 10, 2000.
_____________. "Informe de Avance Julio-Diciembre 2000". Diciembre 20, 2000.
_____________. "Informe de Avance Diciembre 2000-Julio 2001". Agosto 10, 2001.
_____________. "Informe de Avance Julio-Diciembre 2001". Diciembre 20, 2001.




                                                   - 54 -

_____________. "Informe de Avance Enero-Junio 2002". Julio 3, 2002.
_____________. "Informe de Avance Julio-Diciembre 2002". Diciembre 15, 2002.
_____________. "Informe de Cierre". Bogotá: Julio 23, 2003.

Bucaramanga:

Fundación para la Promoción de la Cultura y la Educación Popular ­ FUNPROCEP. "Documento
memoria sobre la Red de entidades de capacitación". Julio 30, 2001.
Fundación para la Promoción de la Cultura y la Educación Popular ­ FUNPROCEP. "Base de datos con
información referida a ubicación, programas ofrecidos, carácter de la entidad, estructura de las
instituciones participantes en la Red". Junio 30, 2001.
Fundación para la Promoción de la Cultura y la Educación Popular ­ FUNPROCEP. "Estudio de
Tendencias Ocupacionales en el Mediano plazo para la ciudad de Bucaramanga y su área metropolitana".
Octubre 20, 2001.
Corporación para la Investigación y el Desarrollo Regional - CORPODER. "Documento memoria sobre
qué es un Observatorio Local de Empleo". Mayo, 2001.
Corporación para la Investigación y el Desarrollo Regional - CORPODER. "Modelo de gestión para la
contratación de cursos de capacitación laboral de jóvenes". Septiembre 25, 2001.

Cali:

Varios autores. "Videos divulgación de actividades". Septiembre, 2001.
Grupo Comunicaciones. "Portafolio promoción de servicios de los grupos juveniles". Septiembre, 2001.
Grupo Comunicaciones. "Video Promoción Asociación de Jóvenes de la Comuna 1". Junio, 2002.
Prosis. "Sistema de Información". Marzo, 2003.
Prosis. "Manual del usuario para el sistema de información". Marzo, 2003.

Cartagena:

Asesores de Corpoeducación y docentes de las instituciones educativas de San Felipe Neri, Nuestro
Esfuerzo y la Victoria del Distrito de Cartagena de Indias. "Guía Curricular de Matemáticas". Bogotá:
Marzo, 2003. 63 pp.
Asesores de Corpoeducación y docentes de las instituciones educativas de San Felipe Neri, Nuestro
Esfuerzo y la Victoria del Distrito de Cartagena de Indias. "Guía Curricular de Educación Artística".
Bogotá: Marzo, 2003. 30 pp.
Asesores de Corpoeducación y docentes de las instituciones educativas de San Felipe Neri, Nuestro
Esfuerzo y la Victoria del Distrito de Cartagena de Indias. "Guía Curricular de Ciencias Sociales".
Bogotá: Marzo, 2003. 46 pp.
Asesores de Corpoeducación y docentes de las instituciones educativas de San Felipe Neri, Nuestro
Esfuerzo y la Victoria del Distrito de Cartagena de Indias. "Guía Curricular de Ciencias Naturales".
Bogotá: Marzo, 2003. 42 pp.
Asesores de Corpoeducación y docentes de las instituciones educativas de San Felipe Neri, Nuestro
Esfuerzo y la Victoria del Distrito de Cartagena de Indias. "Guía Curricular de Informática". Bogotá:
Marzo, 2003. 42 pp.
Asesores de Corpoeducación y docentes de las instituciones educativas de San Felipe Neri, Nuestro
Esfuerzo y la Victoria del Distrito de Cartagena de Indias. "Guía Curricular de Educación Física".
Bogotá: Marzo, 2003. 26 pp.
Asesores de Corpoeducación y docentes de las instituciones educativas de San Felipe Neri, Nuestro
Esfuerzo y la Victoria del Distrito de Cartagena de Indias. "Guía Curricular Preescolar". Bogotá: Marzo,


                                                   - 55 -

2003. 53 pp.
Fundación Restrepo Barco. Castañeda, Elsa y Magallanes, María del Carmen. "Reconstrucción
Cualitativa del proceso pedagógico". Marzo 28, 2003.

Cúcuta:

Corporación Nuevo Arco Iris. "Documento sobre la Red de entidades de Capacitación". Diciembre 18,
2001.
Corporación Nuevo Arco Iris. "Base de datos con información referida a ubicación, programas ofrecidos,
carácter de la entidad, estructura de las instituciones participantes en la Red". Diciembre 18, 2001.
Cámara de Comercio. "Documento memoria sobre el Observatorio Local de Empleo". Noviembre 28,
2001.
Cámara de Comercio. "Base de datos con información sobre las instituciones que podrían pertenecer al
Observatorio Local de Empleo". Noviembre 28, 2001.
Niño Granados, Rosa Margarita. "Estudio de Tendencias Ocupacionales en el Mediano plazo para la
ciudad de Cúcuta y su área metropolitana". Julio 30, 2002.
PROMOVER. "Modelo de gestión para la contratación de cursos de capacitación laboral de jóvenes".
Agosto 16, 2002.

Ibagué:

Universidad del Tolima. "Diversidad florística de la cuenca alta del río Combeima". Marzo, 2003.
Universidad del Tolima. "Diseño teórico metodológico del proyecto educativo institucional común
orientado a la gestión sostenible de cuencas hidrográficas". Diciembre, 2002.
Universidad del Tolima. "Programa de formación de educadores. Competencias comunicativas". Junio,
2001.
Universidad del Tolima. "Capacitación en autoevaluación institucional mediante el empleo de indicadores
de diagnóstico educativo en el Canón del Combeima". Noviembre, 2001.
Universidad del Tolima. "Educación ambiental y pedagogía". Agosto, 2002.
Universidad del Tolima. "Cartilla para la participación política y social de los jóvenes en Ibagué, Tolima".
Septiembre, 2002.

Palmira:

Cuellar, Freddy León. "Cartilla carta de convivencia". Septiembre, 2002.
Raquel Sofia Amaya y Producciones. "CD Concurso Municipal ComUNAnota". Julio, 2002.
Raquel Sofia Amaya y Producciones. "Videos Campaña de Comunicaciones ComUNAnota". Septiembre,
2002.
Varios autores. "Videos: Divulgación de Actividades". Noviembre, 2001.

Pasto:

Dirección de Seguridad Social en Salud. Secretaría de Educación y Cultura Municipal San Juan de Pasto.
"Prevención, Detección y Atención del Maltrato Juvenil en el Espacio Familiar: Crecimiento Afectivo de
Jóvenes para Jóvenes". Enero, 2003.
Dirección de Seguridad Social en Salud. Secretaría de Educación y Cultura Municipal San Juan de Pasto.
"Prevención, Detección y Atención del Maltrato Juvenil en el Espacio Familiar: Crecimiento Afectivo
Padres y Madres". Enero, 2003.
Dirección de Seguridad Social en Salud. Secretaría de Educación y Cultura Municipal San Juan de Pasto.


                                                     - 56 -

"Prevención, Detección y Atención del Maltrato Juvenil en el Espacio Familiar: Crecimiento Afectivo
Educadores". Enero, 2003.
Dirección de Seguridad Social en Salud. Secretaría de Educación y Cultura Municipal San Juan de Pasto.
"Prevención, Detección y Atención del Maltrato Juvenil en el Espacio Familiar: Crecimiento Afectivo
Pre-Adolescentes". Enero, 2003.
Dirección de Seguridad Social en Salud. Secretaría de Educación y Cultura Municipal San Juan de Pasto.
"Prevención, Detección y Atención del Maltrato Juvenil en el Espacio Familiar: Crecimiento Afectivo
Adolescentes". Enero, 2003.
Subproyecto Pasto. "Familia y Buen Trato claves para crece afectivamente. I Encuentro de experiencias
significativas de la red del buen trato". CD. Abril, 2002.
Universidad Nacional de Colombia. De Peña, Pilar Amaya. "Riesgo Familiar Total de Familias de
Jóvenes y Escolares del Proyecto de Servicios Integrados para Jóvenes de las Comunas 10, 11 y 12 de San
Juan de Pasto". Noviembre, 2002.

Quibdo:

Cooperativa Agro-Ecológica de Tutunendo. Septiembre, 2002.
Página Web. Noviembre, 2002.
Instituto de Investigaciones Ambientales del Pacífico. "Maqueta de proyecto arquitectónico del Jardín
Botánico de Tutunendo". Junio, 2002.




                                                   - 57 -

Additional Annex 8. Government's Contribution

Informe Final De Evaluacion

I. Objetivo del Proyecto

El convenio de préstamo se firmó en agosto de 1998, entre la República de Colombia y el Banco
Internacional para la Reconstrucción y el Desarrollo ­ Banco Mundial - En él se estableció un objetivo
para el proyecto : probar y evaluar métodos multisectoriales y participativos alternativos con el fin de
desarrollar y brindar servicios y proveer actividades para jóvenes de bajos recursos, en áreas locales
seleccionadas, las cuales conducirían a la larga entre otras cosas, a mejorar las oportunidades
educativas y de empleo.

Inicialmente se concibió como un proyecto con dos componentes: juventud y niñez; pero en el curso de la
preparación se limitó al componente de juventud.

Al concluir la preparación pactada, el Banco Mundial cambió la idea inicial introduciendo la modalidad
de préstamo de Innovación y Aprendizaje (LIL) para un período de tres años, cuyo propósito               fue
experimentar modelos de intervención para jóvenes cuyos               resultados   pudieran ser expandidos
posteriormente a escala más amplia.

El proyecto tomó como punto de partida la hipótesis de que es posible mejorar la calidad y el acceso a
servicios por parte de los jóvenes mediante una estrategia de asociación entre instituciones, que incluye al
sector privado, a los entes estatales del orden municipal, departamental y nacional y a las organizaciones
comunitarias y juveniles.

El objetivo del Proyecto logró un alcance altamente satisfactorio. Se pusieron en marcha seis (6)
alternativas diferentes de gestión en ocho (8) municipios de Colombia (Cartagena, Cúcuta, Bucaramanga,
Ibagué, Quibdo, Cali, Palmira y Pasto) para la prestación de servicios integrados, en las cuales se
combinan diferentes métodos de acción, poblaciones, servicios, estructuras de gestión y control, y
ejecutores. Cada alternativa desarrolló elementos que pueden ser retomados en experiencias posteriores.
Las alternativas fueron:

·        Prestación de servicios de capacitación agroambiental (Tutunendo);
·        Prestación de servicios de formación en manejo sostenible de cuencas (Ibagué);
·        Prestación de servicios de capacitación e inserción laboral. (Bucaramanga y Cúcuta);
·        Prestación de servicios de formación para la convivencia ciudadana (Cali y Palmira);
·        Prestación de servicios de formación para la prevención y atención de la violencia intrafamiliar
(Pasto); y
·        Prestación de servicios de formación para la retención escolar (Cartagena).

En el desarrollo del objetivo, el proyecto logró resultados importantes en tres aspectos específicos:

1.       El fortalecimiento de la capacidad institucional local      para ofrecer servicios integrados para
jóvenes;
2.       Esquemas o métodos alternativos y multisectoriales para la prestación de servicios a los jóvenes; y
3.       El mejoramiento de las oportunidades de empleo, trabajo, educación, cultura, y convivencia
familiar y social para los jóvenes de sectores más pobres.



                                                    - 58 -

Los logros obtenidos según el objetivo del proyecto se resumen de la manera siguiente:

A nivel de modelos innovadores de prestación de servicios comprobados y evaluados

Los resultados obtenidos fueron:

·       Integración de instituciones públicas, privadas, ONG, organizaciones sociales comunitarias y de
jóvenes, docentes, padres de familia, jóvenes, lideres comunitarios en procesos de diagnóstico, planeación y
validación de modelo propuesto, de manera participativa;
·       Transferencia y apropiación de los beneficiarios de metodologías innovadoras para el diseño de
proyectos;
·       Definición conceptual y metodológica y operativa de un modelo de intervención para la prestación
de servicios integrados para jóvenes en los ejes de formación para el trabajo, convivencia y participación
juvenil, violencia juvenil, violencia intrafamiliar, deserción escolar, formación para el desarrollo rural, y
formación para el trabajo ambiental y de un modelo de gestión administrativa y financiera que facilitó la
interacción entre fuentes de financiación y administraciones municipales en términos de transparencia en el
manejo de los recursos, procesos de contratación, compra de bienes y toma de decisiones con criterio
técnico;
·       La definición y puesta en marcha de una metodología estándar para los procesos de planeación
aplicada a los ocho subproyectos municipales facilitó el seguimiento y monitoreo a las acciones, generando
a su vez experticias en los funcionarios locales. (Actualmente          ha sido adoptada por    el Programa
Presidencial Colombia Joven);
·       Construcción y validación de un sistema de monitoreo, a partir del diseño de indicadores sociales
propios a cada eje temático, lo cual que facilito el seguimiento a los subproyectos municipales y su
transferencia a las administraciones municipales y al Programa Presidencial Colombia Joven;
·       Implementación de una estrategia de asistencia técnica y fortalecimiento institucional que mejoró
la capacidad organizativa y operativa de las instituciones coejecutoras del proyecto en cada municipio y
dejo una capacidad instalada en lo local tanto en la cualificación del recurso humano, como en la
transferencia técnica y tecnológica y en transferencia de los aprendizajes obtenidos de los modelos
propuestos;
·       El proyecto aportó a la formulación de una política de juventud, un modelo operativo para
vincular la oferta de servicios institucionales a las demandas por satisfacción de necesidades de los jóvenes;
y
·       El Proyecto Servicios Integrados para Jóvenes, definió su ámbito de intervención como un
escenario para la     innovación y el aprendizaje; de experimentación, de intervención multisectorial,
participativo, y descentralizado.

A nivel de la integración multisectorial y participativa

Permitió dos tipos de integración:

1.      La primera entre sectores tales como trabajo, salud, educación, desarrollo social, forestal, agrícola,
pecuario, y participación social, y ciudadana y convivencia; y
2.      La segunda, la integración al interior de un mismo sector de diferentes niveles: tal como la
integración en el sector educativo de los niveles de educación básica, media ­secundaria, secundaria,
técnica y superior, sí y también en el sector salud, en los niveles de salud preventiva, de rehabilitación, de
salud mental y salud familiar.



                                                      - 59 -

Los procesos de participación se desarrollaron en diferentes niveles: información, consulta, decisión
conjunta y autonomía, permitieron la cooperación interinstitucional y la construcción de novedosas formas
de cooperación entre Estado, municipio, sector privado y organizaciones comunitarias. Y fue garantía y
base fundamental de la pertinencia, apropiación y sostenibilidad del modelo en cada uno de los municipios
intervenidos.

A nivel del mejoramiento las oportunidades de empleo y educación

De acuerdo con el análisis presentado por la evaluación externa, presenta el siguiente resultado:

·       Entre un 40% y 65% de los jóvenes beneficiarios reconoce que ahora existen                   mejores
oportunidades para ellos en su localidad. La ciudad en donde el reconocimiento es mayor es Bucaramanga,
seguida de Cúcuta y Tutunendo;
·       En todas las ciudades los beneficiarios reconocen mejores oportunidades de trabajo (entre 30% y
80%). En Palmira, Cúcuta, Bucaramanga e Ibagué los beneficiarios superan a los controles en este
reconocimiento en más del 20%;
·       Se destacan los altos porcentajes de jóvenes que reconocen mejores oportunidades para realizar sus
propios proyectos en Cali, (82%) Palmira (30%) y Cúcuta (60%).

En general los porcentajes más altos de satisfacción se observan en las actividades relacionadas con el eje
de intervención, por ejemplo, con respecto a convivir pacíficamente (82%), oportunidades de estudiar
(61%), comunicarse mejor con la familia (80%). Es de notar que se dan fuertes sinergias entre éstos y otras
esferas del desarrollo de los jóvenes.

De igual manera se observan porcentajes importantes de beneficiarios que reconocen mejorías en sus
habilidades para desempeñarse en el eje de intervención. Estos porcentajes oscilan alrededor del 50%
siendo particularmente altos en Cali, Pasto y Quibdo (Tutunendo).

En seis ciudades el reconocimiento de aprendizajes importantes durante su participación en el PSIJ supera
al 90% y en las dos restantes oscila entre el 30 y el 60%.

De esta manera el reconocimiento de beneficios personales derivados de su participación en el PSIJ supera
el 60% en cuatro ciudades y en las demás oscila entre el 30 y el 60%.

Un alto porcentaje de jóvenes (alrededor del 80%) que desearía continuar participando en el programa y
que desea que otros jóvenes pudieran también beneficiarse de los servicios que han recibido.

A nivel de la sostenibilidad

El proyecto planeo la sostenibilidad del modelo de integración de servicios durante el tiempo de ejecución
en los ocho (8) municipios. Fue así como en cada municipio se tomaron las medidas necesarias para
garantizar las capacidades técnicas, financieras y institucionales para ejecutar los subproyectos y para
garantizar la sostenibilidad del modelo.

Entendió la sostenibilidad, como la posibilidad de apropiación por parte de las instituciones municipales,
públicas, privadas, comunitarias y sociales, de los modelos de gestión y de intervención para la integración
de servicios en torno al eje temático, en cada municipio, para atender a la juventud. De otra parte, propició



                                                    - 60 -

la continuidad de algunas actividades para fortalecer los procesos sociales e institucionales en los
municipios y la extensión del proyecto a nivel nacional. Los resultados obtenidos en este campo son los
siguientes:

BUCARAMANGA Y CUCUTA: El Proyecto de Servicios Integrados para Jóvenes para la sostenibilidad del
Modelo de Intervención deja en funcionamiento en cada una de las dos ciudades una Red de Instituciones
de capacitación y promoción del empleo y un Observatorio que dará cuenta de manera permanente del
mercado laboral.

CALI: Se constituyó una Red de Instituciones conformada por: Casa de la Paz, Fundación Danza y Vida,
Fundación Foro por Colombia, Fundación Hablascribe, Secretaría de Cultura y Turismo con el Centro
Cultural Comuna 1, Asociación Cristiana de Jóvenes y Teatro Esquila Latina quienes atenderán a los
jóvenes en los siguientes ejes temáticos: Educación para la participación, Comunicación, Recreación y
Deportes, Arte y Cultura, Salud y medio Ambiente. De otra parte se creó la Asociación de Jóvenes
ASOJUCOM, conformada por los grupos juveniles, quienes continuarán el trabajo en la comuna con otros
jóvenes.

El Plan Internacional (ONG), destinó recursos para hacer la réplica del proyecto en la Comuna 20 de Cali
y conservó algunos integrantes de la UCM para adelantar la ejecución de la misma. Igualmente, financió la
continuidad de algunas actividades, en la Comuna, como el cine callejero, para continuar los procesos de
cohesión social y de relaciones intergeneracionales en pro de la convivencia.

CARTAGENA: En el ciclo escolar iniciado en febrero de 2003 se implementaron las guías curriculares en
las tres instituciones Educativas, Nuestro Esfuerzo, La Victoria y San Felipe Neri. La Secretaría de
Educación, realizará la distribución de las guías curriculares en 15 escuelas públicas y la asesoría y
acompañamiento por parte de Corpoeducación para la implementación de las guías en cada una de estas
instituciones.

Igualmente se realizará la capacitación a los docentes de estas 15 instituciones en resolución de conflictos
y conciliación escolar por parte de la Cámara de Comercio - proyecto Ariadna. Adicionalmente se gestionó
la consecución por parte de la Secretaría de Educación de un espacio físico, que permita darle continuidad
al desarrollo de actividades artísticas a la Concentración Educativa la Victoria.

IBAGUE: Cañón del Combeima.

Para el Componente 1: Rediseño de un PEI (Proyecto Educativo Institucional) común para la gestión
sostenible de cuencas. El PEI común, debidamente formalizado ante la secretaria de educación municipal y
en operación para todo el sistema operativo del cañón, compuesto por 16 escuelas y 2 colegios.

Para el Componente 2: Formación de Jóvenes desescolarizados, queda en funcionamiento un Centro de
formación permanente para jóvenes no escolarizados del Cañón del Combeima en Gestión Sostenible de
Cuencas, con el respaldo y apoyo del Sena, Cortolima, Pacofor, Secretaría de Apoyo a la Gestión y
Asuntos de la Juventud, entre otras entidades. El gobierno municipal incluyó en el presupuesto recursos
para continuar desarrollando las acciones correspondientes

PALMIRA: Una Unidad de Convivencia, ubicada en la Comuna 1, integrada por las siguientes
instituciones: Bienestar Familiar, Universidad del Valle, Profamilia, Jueces de Paz, Frentes de Seguridad y
Red de Constructores de ciudad de los Jóvenes de la Comuna 1 para la resolución de conflictos.
Adicionalmente se constituyó La Red de constructores de ciudad de la comuna 1 conformada por los


                                                     - 61 -

jóvenes atendidos directamente por el PSIJ se creó para continuar el trabajo en los espacios públicos y de
consolidar la organización juvenil.

El Gobierno municipal destinó recursos para la continuidad del trabajo con jóvenes, en la comuna, através,
del proyecto que presentó la UCM. De otra parte se firmaron convenios con la Casa de la Cultura y con el
Deportivo Cali para continuar las actividades tanto culturales como deportivas con los jóvenes.

PASTO: La Secretaria de Educación vinculó dos profesionales (trabajadora social y educadora) del equipo
ejecutor del proyecto, para coordinar las acciones de: acompañamiento y asesoría de los 17 docentes de las
3 escuelas intervenidas para que sean formador de formadores y apliquen el conocimiento en el modelo de
"Crecimiento Afectivo"clave de convivencia; capacitar a los 13 nuevos docentes de las escuelas focalizadas
por el proyecto con el modelo de Crecimiento Afectivo; y capacitar a los profesionales del Programa de
Escuela Saludable (este programa se ejecuta en 21 escuelas) perteneciente a la administración municipal,
ejecutado por la Secretaría de Educación y la Dirección de Seguridad Social en Salud, con el modelo de
"Crecimiento Afectivo" clave de convivencia.

La Dirección de Seguridad Social en Salud institucionalizó la salud familiar de las familias de los y las
jóvenes del proyecto a través del Hospital Civil, se vincularon al Hospital Civil, las dos enfermeras que
hicieron parte del equipo ejecutor del proyecto capacitadas en salud familiar. Adicionalmente se gestionó la
articulación de los 23 gestores afectivos jóvenes del proyecto, al programa de líderes afectivos, de la
Dirección de Seguridad Social en Salud.

QUIBDO (Tutunendo): Una Empresa Agroecoturística, en proceso de consolidación con los jóvenes
beneficiarios    del subproyecto, se acordó para su operación y fortalecimiento, la incorporación del
programa de PADEMER (programa para el apoyo a la mediana empresa rural) quien acompañara y
asesorara a los jóvenes, durante un año, con posibilidades de prolongarse a dos años más.

II. Estrategias Acertadas

Se destacan como estrategias acertadas y validadas, las siguientes:

Asistencia técnica para el diseño, implementación y evaluación de Esquemas de Integración de Servicios
para jóvenes de bajos recursos en Áreas Locales, por medio de la cual se gestiono la ejecución del
subproyecto respectivo, para lo cual estableció mecanismos de prestación de servicios con entidades
públicas, privadas y consultores individuales. Para ello contó con la asesoría permanente de un consultor
nacional vinculado a la Unidad Coordinadora Nacional, y de consultores en áreas específicas.

Los aspectos más sobresalientes son:

·        Mejor calidad y mayor pertinencia en la prestación de servicios, producto del fortalecimiento
institucional através de las asesorías y consultorías prestadas a las entidades coejecutoras del proyecto;
·        La consolidación y vinculación al proyecto de un conjunto plural de instituciones y organizaciones
públicas y privadas y de las administraciones municipales que interactuaron en la construcción y ejecución
de modelos de integración de servicios, cooperación, apoyo y prestación de servicios aportando cada una
sus fortalezas técnicas, operativas y logísticas;
·        Implementación de un proceso sistemático de apoyo, orientación y asesoría técnica semipresencial
en las regiones que se reflejó posteriormente en el mejoramiento de la capacidad de las instituciones, para
satisfacer la demanda, y de los jóvenes para solicitar los servicios pertinentes.



                                                     - 62 -

Se efectúo asesoría técnica especializada en el área temática correspondiente a cada uno de los
subproyectos municipales lo cual facilito la identificación y consolidación de los productos y escenarios
sostenibles, con base en el modelo de integración de servicios en cada una de las regiones.

El establecimiento y operación de una Red de Aprendizaje para sistematizar y difundir las experiencias y
las mejores prácticas en esquemas de Integración de Servicios.

Se focalizaron las acciones y los recursos del proyecto en el fortalecimiento de la capacidad de ejecución a
nivel municipal, garantizar la sostenibilidad de los esquemas de integración propuestos y asegurar la
producción y difusión de las lecciones aprendidas de los subproyectos.

Los aspectos más sobresalientes son:

·       La sistematización de las ocho (8) experiencias llevadas a cabo en cada una de las regiones en
donde se ejecuto el proyecto, en la forma de una memoria que reconstruye todo el proceso vivido desde su
inicio hasta su terminación;
·       Implementación de una estrategia de comunicaciones cuyos principales productos son 9
documentales sobre los temas desarrollados por el proyecto (1 por cada subproyecto municipal y 1 del nivel
nacional);
·       La realización de un libro que recoge todo el proceso de la ejecución del proyecto cuanto al modelo
de integración de servicios con cada una de sus especificidades, de los aprendizajes obtenidos y de los
logros, en cada uno de los componentes del proyecto;
·       El desarrollo de ocho narraciones literarias que presentan en la forma de cuento, los beneficios
percibidos por los jóvenes con la ejecución del proyecto en el contexto social y económico de las zonas
focalizadas.

Evaluación Nacional

Mediante la cual se establecieron los niveles de medición y valoración de los logros obtenidos con la
ejecución del proyecto con base en los diferentes niveles del Marco Lógico. Se desarrolló una Evaluación
de Impacto temprano, que permitió la valoración del impacto alcanzado en el cumplimiento de objetivos y
metas del proyecto a nivel nacional y de cada uno de los proyectos municipales, adecuado a las
características y naturaleza del proyecto.

Sistema Nacional de Monitoreo

Realizó el seguimiento a la ejecución de los subproyectos municipales en términos de procesos a nivel de
actividades, subactividades y resultados. Este sistema permitió la implementación de instrumentos para la
recolección y procesamiento de la información, cuantitativa y priorizando el registro cualitativo del
proceso. Los aspectos más sobresalientes del sistema son:

·       Un sistema dinámico para establecer correctivos, redireccionamiento de acciones, optimización de
los procesos de planeación e interpretación cuantitativa y cualitativa de las acciones en ejecución del
subproyecto;




                                                    - 63 -

·        Cualificación de los    responsables    quienes    han construido con los beneficiarios y con los
ejecutores nuevas propuestas de control, seguimiento, registro, procesamiento e interpretación de las
acciones ejecutadas, creando espacios de discusión y aporte a la construcción del modelo de integración de
servicios;
·        Construcción de la base de datos cuantitativas del sistema nacional de monitoreo en SPSS bajo
ambiente Windows que permite el cruce de información y facilita la interpretación de los datos;
·        La reconstrucción cuantitativa del proceso adelantado desde el año 1999, lo cual consolida la
historia del PSIJ, fundamental para la identificación de aprendizajes en caso de replica del proyecto;
·        La información procesada contribuyó de manera directa a los procesos de planeación municipal y
nacional;
·        Establecimiento de la red a nivel municipal. Los ejecutores y otras entidades públicas y privadas
con responsabilidad en la atención al problema elegido como eje de intervención en el municipio se integran
en una red interinstitucional, en la que comparten experiencias, intercambian tecnología y conocimientos y
coordinan sus actividades. Algunas entidades se convierten también en beneficiarias directas del proyecto
en cuanto reciben apoyo y servicios para el fortalecimiento institucional;
·        Un Comité Municipal conformado principalmente por entidades públicas del orden nacional y
municipal que ejerce funciones de apoyo, consejería y consulta frente a la UCM.

III. Dificultades

Factores fuera del control del Gobierno y/o de la Agencia ejecutora:

·        Insuficiente espacio fiscal: La falta de la asignación de recursos en los presupuestos anuales en la
entidad ejecutora debido a las dificultades del espacio fiscal de la Nación, que permitiera la ejecución de la
totalidad de los recursos del préstamo, limitó la inversión y por lo tanto la utilización de los recursos. El
Proyecto ajustó tanto las actividades programadas como las contrapartidas de los municipios de acuerdo
con disponibilidad fiscal de la Nación y tomó la decisión de la cancelación del saldo del Préstamo;
·        El mecanismo de la selección de los municipios por concurso sobreestimó la capacidad técnica de
los municipios y confió en que los proyectos municipales serían adecuadamente formulados por los
municipios. El supuesto se demostró equivocado y fue necesario un largo proceso de preparación
municipal;
·        Contratación de ejecutores municipales lo cual no había sido previsto inicialmente y trabajar con
administraciones cuya capacidad técnica estaba muy disminuida;
·        El tiempo requerido para los tramites administrativos y procesos de aprobación produjeron en las
ciudades desfases importantes entre el momento en que se terminó la planeación del proyecto y el momento
en que se inició la ejecución del mismo. Este prolongado receso, que en algunos casos alcanzó a durar más
de un año, significó la deserción de beneficiarios (Tutunendo, Cali, Palmira) y generó desconfianza e
incertidumbre entre las instituciones;
·        La lentitud en los procesos administrativos por parte del organismo administrador de los recursos,
el cual requirió en muchas oportunidades de 3 y 4 meses para suscribir un contrato y demoras
significativas en los giros de recursos a las cuentas de los Subproyectos;
·        El cambio de administraciones municipales y la resistencia inicial de algunos alcaldes a seguir
participando en el proyecto generaron cambios al interior de los Comités Municipales, lo cual implicó un
retroceso en el proceso de reflexión que se había adelantado con las instituciones del anterior Comité;
·        Dificultad en los trámites para el desembolso de las contrapartidas municipales. Algunos
municipios presentaron déficit presupuestal y efectuaron un gran esfuerzo para cumplir con el compromiso
financiero adquirido en los convenios ínteradministrativos en los cuales se fijó un monto de aporte por
municipio;



                                                     - 64 -

·       Situación de orden público. En los subproyectos cuya acción se desarrolló en áreas rurales (Quibdo
­Tutunendo- e Ibagué ­ cañón del río Combeima) se tuvo algunas dificultades para realización de
actividades, por cuanto estas áreas son en gran parte controladas por los grupos alzados en armas. Si bien,
en desarrollo del subproyecto no ocurrieron incidentes que pusieran en peligro la vida de los involucrados,
el ambiente de tensión e inseguridad origino en ocasiones, para no arriesgar la vida e integridad de los
participantes, suspender algunas actividades programadas.

Factores sujetos al control del Gobierno:

·       La preparación del proyecto se vio afectada por la inestabilidad institucional del Viceministerio de
la Juventud. Entre 1994 y 1998 hubo 5 viceministros.

Factores sujetos al control de la Agencia ejecutora:

·       La descentralización administrativa y el poco conocimiento por parte de los municipios de
procedimientos de Banca Multilateral, generaron retrasos significativos en la primera etapa de ejecución de
los recursos;
·       Dificultades en los tiempos programados para la ejecución de los subproyectos y los tiempos reales
de ejecución debido al tiempo que requiere cada entidad involucrada para sus trámites, así como
subvaloración de costos en la etapa de formulación;
·       Dificultad en los procesos de convocatoria, selección y contratación de consultores realizados de
acuerdo con las normas del Banco, dado que las firmas y consultores no estaban habituados a esta clase de
procedimientos;
·       Demoras de la entidad administradora de recursos para sus trámites, afectando el cumplimiento en
la ejecución de los recursos.

IV. Lecciones Aprendidas

Con respecto a los ejes temáticos:

Eje Temático ­ Deserción Escolar

A nivel de los docentes

·       Los docentes como agentes del cambio en las instituciones educativas. Es fundamental desde la
etapa de formulación involucrar a los docentes como actores, para lograr un mayor sentido de pertenencia y
posibilidad de asumir los cambios e innovaciones propuestas.

A nivel de los jóvenes

·       La formación estética y artística como medio de potenciar las capacidades de los jóvenes y su
motivación a la permanencia en los centros educativos;
·       Las pedagogías innovadoras y la calidad y pertinencia de los contenidos educativos para la vida
presente y futura de los jóvenes en temas relacionados con e resolución de conflictos, salud sexual y
reproductiva, conservación del medio ambiente y ciudadanía y construcción social y política, informática
educativa y construcción de sujeto, garantizan la participación de los jóvenes y su interés de permanecer en
los centros educativos.




                                                    - 65 -

A nivel de los padres de familia y los habitantes de los entornos

·        El impulso de nuevas formas de relación entre la escuela con los padres de familia a través de la
oportunidad brindada a las familias de los jóvenes de mejorar sus ingresos por medio de la capacitación y
asesoría a sus negocios familiares, permite el afianzamiento del sentido de pertenencia y compromiso hacia
las instituciones educativas;
·        La participación de líderes de la comunidad y otros habitantes del entorno de las instituciones
educativas en actividades del proyecto logró un apoyo para mejorar las condiciones de seguridad de
docentes, estudiantes y habitantes del barrio.

A nivel de la administración Municipal

·        La concientización sobre la problemática de la necesidad de trabajo intersectorial e
interinstitucional como un compromiso de todos por la educación.

Eje Temático - Violencia Intrafamiliar

A nivel de docentes

·        Es importante lograr, desde el inicio, la integración del docente, lo que implica reconocerlo de
entrada como par, interlocutor válido, con efectiva capacidad de aporte y consensos con él;
·        Capacitaciones de calidad y pertinentes, como "metodología del dialogo de saberes o aprender a
enseñar", "herramientas comunicacionales con enfoque sistémico" e "inteligencia emocional" y "lenguajes
de expresión artística aplicados a procesos educativos les posibilitó cambios de comportamientos y
actitudes a los docentes con sus estudiantes

A nivel de los jóvenes

·        La capacitación dirigida a los jóvenes, en aspectos sicoafectivos y comunicacionales desarrolló
habilidades de apoyo afectivo y prácticas de convivencia que facilitaron el manejo colectivo de los
conflictos en el aula como también reconocer el maltrato en el espacio familiar y en su vida cotidiana.

A nivel de los padres de familia

·        Se requiere adecuar los horarios a los tiempos de los padres de familia para garantizar mayor
participación en las actividades de capacitación programadas y más tiempo en el trabajo con ellos;
·        Apostarle a incrementar el trabajo con los padres y las madres de familia es un eje metodológico
fundamental en la búsqueda de la generación de nuevas prácticas de convivencia familiar, los diez
fascículos de crecimiento afectivo elaborados para realizar con los padres y madres, se constituyen en una
herramienta didáctica para los educadores, en la creación o renovación de las escuelas de padres.

A nivel de todos los actores

·        El abordaje de situaciones sociales complejas, como el maltrato juvenil, requiere un mayor tiempo
de aplicación sistémica de procesos educativos con el fin de incidir en los factores de riesgo y protectores
de índole cultural, presentes, en los actores y así modificar conocimientos, actitudes y prácticas para la
convivencia.




                                                    - 66 -

A nivel de la administración municipal

·        La municipalidad está dispuesta a recibir y esto facilita la acción pero se requiere además de ser
receptora de los beneficios, proactiva para incorporar los cambios de trabajo interinstitucionales La base
de funcionarios desea y suele ser receptora y más participativa pero su nivel de decisión es mínimo y por
eso el proceso de transformación es lento.

Eje Temático - Formación para el trabajo

Las Instituciones

·        En la constitución de organismos interinstitucionales como la red y el observatorio de empleo el
compromiso del municipio es determinante para su éxito. Cuando el compromiso de la administración es
claro, los otros actores se movilizan con facilidad;
·        La integración de instituciones se facilita si hay una estrategia de comunicación adecuada;
información sobre experiencias similares que pueda ser significativa para las instituciones; transparencia en
los procesos de contratación.

El proceso de formación

·        Durante el diseño del programa de capacitación es recomendable, preferir cursos cortos; dar igual
importancia a los componentes de competencias básicas,          empresarial y técnico; pero valorar en la
selección, prioritariamente, el componente técnico (en especial la dotación de equipos e infraestructura que
se pone al servicio de cada curso), incorporar en el diseño la previsión de de crédito, formación de
empresas u otras;
·        En cuanto a la selección de los jóvenes se los debe convocar con un enfoque educativo y de
orientación vocacional y no solo informativo; combinar la convocatoria con talleres en temas de desarrollo
personal de los jóvenes; preferir en la selección aquellos que tienen mayor           compromiso con una
perspectiva laboral (madres con hijos a cargo y jóvenes de estratos mas bajos); hacer uso de pruebas
psicotécnicas para valorar la motivación y capacidades de los jóvenes y constituir grupos homogéneos en
cuanto a la edad;
·        En el desarrollo de los cursos el contacto personalizado con las familias de los jóvenes en caso de
problemas o inasistencia es el mejor medio para reducir esta clase de problemas e igualmente la evaluación
interna de los cursos de manera permanente y desde su comienzo, permite adoptar correctivos a tiempo.

Eje Temático ­ Capacitación Agroambiental y Manejo sostenible de cuencas hidrográfica

Jovenes

·        El reconocimiento por parte de los jóvenes de la importancia e interés en el manejo y protección
ambiental del territorio, y la comprensión de que la conservación de los recursos naturales les permite,
mediante acciones de conservación y uso sostenible, percibir ingresos, aprovechando la exuberancia de la
naturaleza y las bellezas paisajísticas, al mismo tiempo que garantiza su permanencia y continuidad en el
territorio;
·        La valoración del territorio en cuanto a redescubrir la abundancia y riqueza natural y
particularmente la conservación y protección de los recursos hídricos;




                                                    - 67 -

·        Se puso de manifiesto la importancia de atender no solo la formación tecnológica y el
mejoramiento de destrezas y habilidades de los jóvenes, como también la necesidad de atender la formación
personal y el desarrollo individual y grupal de los jóvenes.

Las Instituciones

·        El reconocimiento por parte de las instituciones del valor del trabajo coordinado de las instituciones
en cuanto a la pertinencia y eficiencia de las acciones orientadas a la atención de las necesidades de los
jóvenes;
·        El reconocimiento de la participación del gobierno local y la necesidad el apoyo de las instituciones
de gobierno en el proceso de prestación de servicios institucionales.

Eje Temático - Convivencia

Jóvenes

·        La Estrategia pedagógica Fábrica de Sueños, demostró a lo largo del proyecto, que el
reconocimiento al joven es el primer eslabón para su incorporación a la vida social y ciudadana, pues
potenció su liderazgo y autoestima, permitió el desarrollo de la creatividad de manera colectiva y las
formas propias de organización juvenil.

Las Instituciones

·        El modelo de integración de servicios, permitió descubrir a los funcionarios municipales, la
horizontalidad de las instituciones, en la convicción, de encontrar respuestas a la crisis institucional local,
para desarrollar un sistema de creencias y de confianzas reciprocas par establecer nuevas relaciones
institucionales, basados en la cooperación y en la dependencia mutua., para la atención a los jóvenes;
·        Los jóvenes a través de la conformación de grupos y de las Empresas Asociativas de Trabajo
descubrieron que es posible un trabajo cohesionado con otros y con ello la capacidad de convocatoria para
incursionar en la vida pública;
·        La adecuación de espacios públicos para la convivencia, enseño que la construcción de capital
físico, favoreció los espacios de participación, de concertación, de las relaciones personales e
intergeneracionales para el desarrollo del capital social;
·        La relación entre el capital físico y el capital social, fue garantía para desarrollar los procesos
sostenibles en la comuna en relacionado con la construcción de valores ciudadanos como la solidaridad, la
confianza, la concertación, la participación y la resolución pacífica de conflictos.

V. Desempeño del Banco durante la preparación y ejecución del Proyecto

Durante la preparación del Proyecto

a. El Banco

Insatisfactoria. Por parte del Banco se llevaron a cabo cuatro misiones entre junio de 1995 y la firma del
convenio en agosto de 1998, además de algunas visitas de consultores para tareas específicas. El Banco
pasaba por una fase de cambios y ajustes expresada en la búsqueda de nuevas líneas de intervención, que
se expresa en decisiones como seleccionar la juventud como objeto de un préstamo a diferencia de los
proyectos sectoriales tradicionales y en la introducción de los prestamos LIL, como nueva modalidad.



                                                     - 68 -

Durante la preparación se dieron varios cambios: de una idea inicial formulada como un préstamo
convencional de seis años y US$ 20 millones, se pasó a la nueva idea de los LIL con menos tiempo, menos
recursos y objetivos distintos. Sin embargo los cambios que ello implicaba en la estrategia de preparación,
no fueron aclarados y los mismos representantes del Banco no parecían tenerlo claro.

La idea inicial fue formular un modelo mediante un ejercicio en tres municipios (con los recursos de la
donación japonesa) y luego negociar un préstamo para aplicarlo masivamente. Eso se cambió luego por un
proyecto cuyo objeto sería la formulación del modelo. Se trataba de un cambio muy severo de los alcances
y expectativas del proyecto.

Se pasó de tres (3) municipios a diez y seis (16) y luego se los redujo a ocho (8) lo cual ocasionó procesos
muy demorados.

Se confió en que los municipios presentarían a concurso proyectos coherentes lo cual no fue así y ocasionó
una prolongación de la fase de preparación una vez firmado el convenio, posponiendo la ejecución
propiamente tal por dos años adicionales, mientras se formulaban los ocho (8) subproyectos municipales.

El Banco no proporcionó información y capacitación suficientes al equipo nacional sobre el proceso de
preparación ni sobre las prácticas administrativas y financieras del banco y muy especialmente sobre los
procesos de evaluación y monitoreo.

b. El Gobierno Nacional

Insatisfactoria. El proceso de preparación estuvo a cargo de una institución nueva y débil: el
Viceministerio de la Juventud creado (agosto de 1994), con una estructura provisional y en un entorno
institucional muy hostil, el Ministerio de Educación. Su dirección cambió 5 veces en 4 años. Un promedio
de menos de 10 meses para cada Viceministro. Razón por la cual existía poco interés en el proyecto que
tenía una perspectiva de mediano plazo. En este contexto la preparación fue confiada a un equipo nacional
muy pequeño y débil con poco apoyo institucional, que realizó un trabajo poco práctico y en exceso
conceptualista.




                                                    - 69 -

Durante la supervisión del Proyecto

a. El Banco

Satisfactoria. El Banco Mundial, através de las misiones de supervisión semestral y de personal
especializado en las áreas financieras y de adquisiciones verificó y validó las operaciones del Proyecto. Los
acuerdos logrados en estos aspectos quedan consignados en la respectivas Ayudas Memorias. El
acompañamiento realizado permitió precisar el proceso de formulación del proyecto y del sentido del
modelo de integración de servicios; validar los requerimientos técnicos en la selección de ejecutores del
proyecto en cada una de las regiones; orientar la implementación del área administrativa, financiera, de
monitoreo y evaluación; orientar los procesos de coordinación Estado ­ Banco Mundial; y contribuir a la
precisión del enfoque a desarrollar al interior de cada uno de los componentes del Proyecto.

La permanencia y continuidad de un mismo Task Manager fue una condición para la estabilidad del
proyecto y de favorabilidad para garantizar la ejecución continua de las actividades del proyecto. El
conocimiento de la historia, enfoques, debilidades, fortalezas, conocimiento de las partes, y confianza
facilitó la orientación oportuna. En efecto, este factor posibilitó de una manera más clara y mejor la
comprensión de los diversos ajustes a los cuales se vio sometido el proyecto en el proceso de
implementación y permitió a su vez mayor pertinencia de las decisiones que debieron tomarse para
reorientar, cuando fue necesario, las acciones del proyecto. Se destaca la voluntad interés y respaldo dado
a la ejecución del proyecto, tanto en el orden local como nacional.

b. El Gobierno Nacional

Satisfactorio. Apoyó permanentemente los procesos administrativos y financieros, participó directamente
en la definición de acuerdos conjuntos entre Estado y Banco Mundial y apoyó los procesos de control
interno y seguimiento a indicadores de gestión del equipo nacional y municipal del proyecto

Lecciones aprendidas

Desde el área técnica:

·        Criterio acertado de selección de la población joven: Los jóvenes entre los 10 y 26 años, población
beneficiaria del proyecto y pertenecientes a estratos 1 y 2 demostraron que no son apáticos a las realidades
nacionales. Por el contrario, se comprometen con ellos mismos y con sus comunidades, cuando se les
capacita y se les da la oportunidad de organizarse para participar;
·        Criterio acertado del enfoque de intervención através de servicios integrados: debido a la duplicidad
de funciones, dispersión de recursos, desarticulación de los sectores para prestar servicios, fue acertada la
intervención através de la Integración de Servicios, primero mostró, como los distintos sectores del
desarrollo se pueden complementar no solo en aspectos técnicos, sino en la optimización de los recursos
tanto físicos, como humanos y financieros, en la integración, segundo la necesidad de introducir cambios en
la concepción del desarrollo por sectores y adoptar procesos de concertación interinstitucional y probar
métodos multisectoriales, frente a ejes temáticos transversales, no atendidos por la visión sectorial y si con
enfoque de desarrollo poblacional;
·        La figura de "piloto" es un mecanismo apropiado para probar e implementar política publica de
juventud;
·        La figura piloto permitió identificar estrategias para la consolidación de una política de juventud,



                                                     - 70 -

motivando ejercicios propios de formulación de política de juventud municipal y respaldo a las instancias
locales del sistema nacional de juventud. Es así como en la Alianza del Programa Colombia Joven con la
GTZ, agencia de cooperación Alemana, y Paisa Joven, se esta replicando algunos de los componentes del
modelo de Servicios Integrados para Jóvenes como son: el sistema de monitoreo, la sistematización y la
estrategia de integración interinstitucional e intersectorial para el diseño y formulación de política nacional
de juventud a partir de la integración de los diferentes ámbitos territoriales (local, regional y nacional);
·        Igualmente en algunos municipios ONG's de carácter internacional como, PLAN, entraron a
financiar la réplica del proyecto en otras comunas y a financiar actividades para la sostenibilidad de los
proyectos, conformándose también un aprendizaje de la responsabilidad en la alianza Sector Público -
Sector privado;
·        La ejecución através de la institucionalidad local (municipios) y con sus aportes, facilita la
apropiación de los procesos, la sostenibilidad, la pertinencia de la acción del Proyecto. La ejecución a
través de los municipios, facilitó aprendizaje y reconocimiento por parte del municipio del desarrollo de
procesos administrativos y financieros, transparentes y eficientes, que incorporó a consultores del
subproyecto a la administración municipal;
·        De otra parte, los municipios como parte del aprendizaje facilitaron procesos de gestión para dejar
las bases de sostenibilidad del modelo y de acciones específicas, que favorecen el desarrollo social en las
comunas en donde se desarrollo el PSIJ;
·        La articulación con otros programas garantiza sosteniblidad en las acciones. La coordinación
institucional permitió la articulación con otros programas y proyectos de más larga duración, los que por la
coincidencia con los objetivos y propósitos del subproyecto garantizan la continuidad de las acciones más
allá del horizonte de tiempo prevista para el subproyecto, dando continuidad a las acciones y profundizando
la formación de los jóvenes;
·        La participación de actores locales, instituciones y comunidad,          protege   al proyecto de las
inestabilidades políticas y económicas, y facilita la pertinencia de las acciones. Los distintos niveles de
participación en las diferentes etapas de los ciclos del proyecto, protegió la ejecución de los subproyectos,
de influencias y prácticas de la cultura política, propias del país, que pueden en un momento entorpecer o
paralizar la ejecución de un proyecto. Igualmente, facilitó la reprogramación de acciones cuando en el
ejercicio de la ejecución se consideró necesario, guardando siempre la unidad en los objetivos y metas de
los subproyectos;
·        La continuidad y experiencia del equipo coordinador fue esencial para llevar a cabo cada una de
las etapas de la implementación y facilito la terminación de todas las acciones programadas;
·        La escuela, escenario propicio para impactar la población beneficiaria. La escuela es esencial para
trabajar con población escolar y no escolarizada, por el reconocimientos que esta tiene, por los bajos costos
que se presentan al utilizar sus instalaciones y por la, facilidad de convocatoria. Sin embargo, reconocer a
los jóvenes como ciudadanos contribuye al desarrollo de su autonomía, de su liderazgo y de la búsqueda de
organización sobre temáticas con las cuales se identifican. Cuando los jóvenes establecen vínculos de
manera libre y espontánea asumen responsabilidades de carácter público, para el seguimiento y
cumplimiento de acuerdos y pactos entre las instituciones y los jóvenes;
·        La planeación se debe hacer teniendo en cuenta los tiempos administrativos de los diferentes
actores del Proyecto. En cuanto a los procesos de planeación, la experiencia deja como aprendizaje, la
necesidad de acordar y concertar estrategias de carácter administrativo y financiero, para disminuir los
des-tiempos en los trámites que se presentan, entre el Banco Mundial, el PNUD, el Gobierno Nacional y los
Gobiernos Locales, con el fin de no atrasar y a veces paralizar la ejecución de actividades, causando
dificultades con las comunidades involucradas.
·        De igual forma se identifica como otro aprendizaje para ser incorporado es la necesidad de
involucrar el sistema de monitoreo, en las instancias y momentos propios a la planeación, de tal forma que
se logre una mayor sinergia entre las áreas administrativas, financieras y de monitoreo, en tanto la



                                                      - 71 -

adecuada y oportuna realimentación y circulación de la información, fortalece los procesos de planeación,
concertación y apropiación de todos los actores que integran el grupo meta en el modelo de integración de
servicios. Así como el seguimiento continuo a los niveles nacional y municipal y a las diferentes formas que
se adoptan entre estos niveles, arroja elementos esenciales en la disminución de tiempos, análisis de
procesos y sus implicaciones en la ejecución de los subproyectos municipales, y fortalece la asistencia
técnica como nuevos criterios de intervención desde el monitoreo a sus propios niveles de eficacia en la
asesoria;
·        Para un impacto mas efectivo en la población joven se debe trabajar con los padres, maestros y
pares. En aquellos municipios en donde el trabajo se centró exclusivamente con los jóvenes, sin tener en
cuenta los maestros y la familia, es imperativo, para próximos proyectos, involucrar estos actores para
cubrir escenarios que influyen directamente en la vida de los jóvenes y con los cuales se debe trabajar para
lograr mayores impactos y mejores posibilidades de sostenibilidad;
·        La permanencia y continuidad de un mismo Gerente de Proyecto (Task Manager) es una condición
para la estabilidad del proyecto. Esto favorece y garantiza la ejecución y continuidad de las actividades. El
conocimiento de la historia, enfoques, debilidades, fortalezas, y confianza facilitó la orientación oportuna.

Desde el área financiera y administrativa:

·        Control de Pagos en los Municipios participantes: Con la elaboración e instalación en los
subproyectos municipales de la aplicación para el control de pagos por las actividades costeadas dentro del
marco lógico, se cuenta con una herramienta de seguimiento financiero que permite la evaluación de la
gestión financiera apoyando permanente el sistema de monitoreo que se implementó en cada municipio y
facilitando al equipo municipal el contar con información de ejecución oportuna que a su vez facilita las
conciliaciones tanto en acciones de seguimiento a la ejecución de actividades, como con las cuentas
bancarias manejadas desde los municipios;
·        Descentralización de las cuentas bancarias: La ejecución a través de cuentas bancarias
descentralizadas a nombre del organismo administrador de los recursos, permitió aprendizajes innovadores
y transferencia de conocimiento para las partes involucradas en el manejo de recursos con este flujo de
efectivo, con el que se consiguió utilizar una figura similar a la utilizada por el Banco Mundial con el
mecanismo SOE;
·        Control y seguimiento a la ejecución del presupuesto: la implementación del control financiero y
seguimiento a la ejecución del presupuesto del Proyecto, permitió de manera oportuna a la dirección y
coordinación nacional, la toma de decisiones en el manejo de los recursos de los niveles nacional y
municipal, con este control se logró coordinar con los consultores técnicos de cada municipio acelerar la
ejecución en la etapa final del Proyecto;
·        Capacitación a los consultores municipales: La revisión de la ejecución in situo, es decir, en cada
uno de los municipios, debe ser un mecanismo utilizado en forma permanente ya que permite en forma
directa impartir capacitación práctica y eficaz, así como detectar oportunamente interpretaciones
incorrectas en los procedimientos o posibles errores por parte de los interlocutores de los municipios;
·        Manejo centralizado de contrapartidas municipales: El giro de los recursos correspondientes a los
aportes de los Municipios a la cuenta del organismo administrador de recursos (Programa de las Naciones
Unidas para el Desarrollo) permitió hacer un seguimiento desde la Unidad Coordinadora Nacional al
cumplimiento de los compromisos financieros pactados en los convenios Interadministrativos suscritos para
la ejecución de los Subproyectos;
·        Aportes en especie: se deben establecer mecanismos y acuerdos que permitan contabilizar como
contrapartida los aportes en recursos humanos y especie, facilitando de esta forma la participación de
contrapartes con dificultades económicas en el flujo efectivo;
·        Socialización de los procedimientos administrativos: la socialización a la comunidad del modelo



                                                    - 72 -

administrativo, facilita la aplicación de los procesos, permitiendo a la vez su apropiación y responsabilidad
en el desarrollo de los mismos. La elaboración y aplicación de un modelo administrativo descentralizado,
permitió la agilidad y transparencia en la ejecución de los recursos, así como fomentó el desarrollo y
participación de consultores de la región.




                                                     - 73 -

- 74 -

