Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TRUST FUND NUMBER 29606
Japanese Grant Agreement
(Youth Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of Grant Funds
provided by JAPAN
Dated December 31, 1996
Revised on March 10, 1998
TRUST FUND NUMBER 29606
JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 31, 1996, and revised on March 10, 1998, between 
Page  2
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA (the Recipient) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as Administrator (the 
Administrator) of grant funds provided by JAPAN (Japan).
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to a letter agreement dated July 30, 1990 between Japan and 
the Bank and International Development Association (the Association), Japan has requested the 
Bank and the Association, and the Bank and the Association have agreed, to administer grant 
funds to be made available by Japan for the financing of certain programs and projects supported 
by the Bank and the Association, as the case may be, in accordance with the provisions of such 
letter agreement;
WHEREAS (B) Japan has agreed to make available to the Recipient a grant out of said 
grant funds (the Grant) to finance the cost of carrying out the technical assistance described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Technical Assistance) on the terms and conditions hereinafter 
set forth; and
WHEREAS (C) Japan has further confirmed its agreement with the Recipient and the 
Bank to the proposal expressed in the Bank’s letter to Japan’s representative in the Bank dated 
December 31, 1997 to delete former Part A of the Technical Assistance from Schedule 2 to this 
Grant Agreement and to use the proceeds of the Grant formerly allocated to Category 1 of the 
Table in Schedule 1 to this Grant Agreement to finance the activities included in the revised 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, including those of the former Part B of the Technical Assistance; 
and
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan 
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth 
in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (18) and (20), 2.02 
and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
Page  3
(viii)
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04; and
(x)
Article XI.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be further modified as follows:
(i)
the term "Bank," wherever used in the General Conditions, other than in 
Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and in the uses of such term in the 
second sentence of Section 5.01 thereof (as modified under 
subparagraph (viii) below) means the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development acting as Administrator of the Grant 
pursuant to the letter agreement between Japan and the Bank and the 
Association referred to in Recital (A) of this Agreement, except that in 
Section 6.02, the term "Bank" shall also include the International Bank 
for Reconstruction and Development acting in its own capacity;
(ii)
the term "Borrower," wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Recipient acting through the Recipient’s Vice Minister of Youth 
Affairs;
(iii)
the term "Loan Agreement," wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means this Agreement;
(iv)
the term "Loan," wherever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Grant;
(v)
the term "Loan Account," wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Grant Account, an account opened by the Administrator on its 
books in the name of the Recipient to which the amount of the Grant is 
credited;
(vi)
the term "Project," wherever used in the General Conditions, means the 
technical assistance described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(vii)
Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:
"Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be made in dollars; 
provided, however, that if the expenditures to be financed out of 
the Grant have been paid or are payable in another currency, the 
Administrator shall, at the request of the Recipient, purchase 
such currency with the proceeds of such withdrawal."; and
(viii)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Administrator and the Borrower shall otherwise 
agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of 
expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a 
Page  4
member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services  
supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Administrator, 
is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations.".
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, 
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this Agreement have 
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Project Preparation Facility Advance 292-0-CO means the advance for the 
Preparation of a Youth Development Project provided for under the agreement letter from the 
Bank dated June 26, 1996, and countersigned by the Recipient on July 23, 1996, as amended 
from time to time;
(b)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement;
(c)
“Vice-Minister” means the Recipient’s Vice-Minister of Youth Affairs in the 
Recipient’s Ministry of Education; 
(d)
"Dollar" and "$" mean the currency of the United States of America; and
(e)
“Service Integration Model” means a model for youth development purposes, the 
focal point of which would be the establishment of a youth center in an existing community 
facility staffed with a small number of trained youth promoters, which center would serve a 
critical role in promoting cultural and community activities, disseminating information and 
health message, referring cases to other Recipient’s agencies, and other activities geared to 
fostering youth development.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the Grant in an amount of nine hundred 
thousand dollars ($900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be 
amended from time to time by agreement between the Recipient and the Administrator, for 
expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of carrying out the Technical Assistance and to be financed out of the Grant.
(b)
The Recipient may, through its Ministry of Finance and Public Credit and for the 
purposes of the Project, open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in its 
Banco de la 
Page  5
República
 to be titled Treasury/Vice Minister and to be operated, by the Vice Minister on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Recipient and the Administrator. Deposits into, and payments 
out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement; provided, however, that to the extent that the respective contractual arrangements 
stipulated in paragraph (b) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement provide for disbursement 
mechanisms of the proceeds of the Grant allocated under the Table set forth in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, the Special Account shall not be opened while the applicable contractual 
arrangements have not been terminated.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be May 31, 1999 or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish.  The Administrator shall promptly notify the Recipient of such 
later date.
Section 2.04. The Vice Minister or any other person or persons that such Vice Minister 
shall designate in writing, are designated as representatives of the Recipient under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient, through the Vice Minister, shall carry out the Technical 
Assistance with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative 
and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Technical Assistance.
(b)
The Recipient, through the Vice Minister, shall enter with an entity acceptable to 
the Administrator into contractual arrangements on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Administrator which shall make available to the Recipient  the services of the entity in question 
to assist the Recipient in the carrying out of Technical Assistance. To the extent possible, such 
arrangements shall involve the other sources of funds provided by the Bank for the preparation of 
the future project mentioned  in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, such as Project Preparation 
Facility Advance 292-0-CO.
(c)
The Recipient shall not terminate, modify or abrogate the arrangements referred 
to in paragraph (c) above or modify or assign said arrangements or any provision thereof without 
the approval of the Bank.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
consultants' services and goods required for the Technical Assistance and to be financed out of 
the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 and 4 to this Agreement, 
respectively.
Section 3.03. (a) The Vice Minister shall maintain, on behalf of the Recipient, records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices, 
respectively, the Recipient's operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Technical 
Assistance.
(b)
The Recipient, through the Vice Minister, shall:
Page  6
(i)
have the respective records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied by independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four months after the end of each such year, the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Administrator shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Administrator shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient, through the Vice 
Minister, shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Administrator's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the parties 
hereto.
Section 4.02.  This Agreement shall continue in effect until the Grant has been fully 
disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE V
Page  7
Representation
Section 5.01. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the Recipient, is designated  
as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministerio de Hacienda y Crédito Público
Palacio de los Ministerios
Santa Fe de Bogotá
Colombia
Cable address:
Telex:
MINHACIENDA
4473
Vice Ministerio de la Juventud
Ministerio de Educación Nacional
Centro Administrativo Nacional (CAN)
Santa Fe de Bogotá
Colombia
For the Administrator:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI); and
  Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as of the day 
and year first above written.
Page  8
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By  /s/ Antonio José Urdinola
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
  AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of the Grant
By  /s/ Andrés Solimano
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the Grant, the 
allocation of the amount of the Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for 
items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
% of
Grant Allocated
Expenditures
Category
(Expressed in Dollars)
(to be Financed)
(1)
Goods for the
175,000
95% of local
Technical Assistance
expenditures and
100% of foreign
expenditures
(2)
Consultant services
725,000
100%
for the Technical
Assistance, including
travel and subsistence
expenses
_______
Page  9
TOTAL
900,000
2.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) the acquisition of goods; and (ii)  the 
employment of consulting firms and individual consultants under contracts not exceeding 
$100,000 equivalent and $50,000 equivalent, respectively, which are not subject to prior review 
pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement or paragraph 2 of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, as the case may be. The aforesaid withdrawals on the basis of statements of 
expenditure shall be made under such terms and conditions as the Administrator shall specify by 
notice to the Recipient.
Page  10
SCHEDULE 2
Description of Technical Assistance
Execution of a technical assistance program aimed at strengthening the capabilities of the 
Recipient’s Vice Ministry of Youth Affairs to design and pilot Service Integration Models in at 
least two urban and one rural areas with the goal of nationwide expansion of identical or very 
similar Service Integration Models to other urban and rural areas during the execution of a future 
youth development project to be designed on the basis of the establishment of such Models. The 
program will consist of:
1.
Establishment of a baseline survey to determine the situation of youth in the target areas, 
which shall include a discussion of the nature, magnitude and scope of youth problems, an 
analysis of quality and acceptability of existing services and the identification of service delivery 
shortfalls and/or gaps.
2.
Mobilization of youth, community representatives (such as parents and business and 
other community leaders) and service delivery providers, so as to secure their commitment to and 
to explore possibilities for collaboration in the aforesaid future youth development project.
3.
Design of a Service Integration Model which would include: (a) elaborating prototype 
delivery systems for education, health and employment; (b) distilling best practices from 
international experience with Service Integration Models; and (c) introducing systematic 
monitoring and evaluation mechanisms, and carrying out economic analyses to quantify the 
expected socio-economic benefits of the proposed interventions.
4.
Preparation of: (i) selection procedures for the different urban or rural areas to be 
included in the future project; (ii) once such areas have been selected, a social assessment and, 
on the basis of the experience gathered under 2 above, a participatory plan, for each selected 
area; and (iii) an institutional and risk analysis for the aforesaid future project.
5.
Development of communication and information campaigns for improving awareness of 
the aforesaid future project.
6.
Acquisition and utilization of goods, including audio visual equipment, supplies and 
materials and printed informational materials for purposes of 4 (a) (ii) and 5 above.
SCHEDULE 3
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the 
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.  For complex, 
time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for 
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been 
agreed by the Administrator. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued 
by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Administrator shall be used.
Page  11
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of the 
Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection 
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to: 
(a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost 
less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply 
to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; 
(c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Administrator; (d) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual 
consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement of Goods
Goods shall be grouped in packages estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent per 
contract and may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines for 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits published by the Bank in January 1995 and 
revised in January and August 1996 and in September 1997 (the Guidelines). With respect to the 
first two contracts for goods procured under national shopping procedures, the Borrower shall 
provide to the Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft contract prior to its execution, 
according to the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines, provided, however, that the said limitation to two contracts may be waived by the 
Bank if the Bank finds objectionable any purchase of goods financed or proposed to be financed 
under the Grant.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
Treasury/Vice Minister
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Category" means Category 1 or Category 2 as set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Technical Assistance and to be financed out of the 
amount of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Category in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $90,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 
3 (a) of this Schedule.
Page  12
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures 
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient through the Vice 
Minister shall furnish to the Administrator a request or requests for deposit into the Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient through the 
Vice Minister shall furnish to the Administrator requests for deposits 
into the Special Account at such intervals as the Administrator shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient through the 
Vice Minister shall furnish to the Administrator the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On 
the basis of each such request, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall 
have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such 
deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the Grant 
Account under the eligible Category, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
through the Vice Minister shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was 
made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Administrator shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator, directly or 
through the Vice Minister, within the period of time specified in Section 3.03 (b) (ii) of this 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said 
Page  13
Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Recipient of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Grant allocated to the eligible Category shall follow such procedures as the Administrator shall 
specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Administrator, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator: (A) provide 
such additional evidence as the Administrator may request; or (B) deposit into the Special 
Account (or, if the Administrator shall so request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the 
Administrator shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the Special 
Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant  provisions of this Agreement, including the General 
Conditions.
