Page  1
June 11, 2001
Dr. Juan Manuel Santos
Minister of Finance and Public Credit
Palacio de los Ministerios
Plaza San Agustín
Carrera 7A, No. 6-45, Piso 3
Santa Fe de Bogotá
Colombia
with copies to:
Colombia Joven
Presidencia de la República
Calle 10, No. 1-15
Santa Fe de Bogotá,
Colombia
Re:
Loan 4383-CO (Youth Development Project)
Second Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Dear Sirs:
We refer to the Loan Agreement between Republic of Colombia (the Borrower) and 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), dated August 12, 
1998, with respect to the above-captioned Loan. Said Loan Agreement has been already 
amended by the letter from the Bank dated September 27, 2000 (the First Amendment), 
countersigned by Republic of Colombia on October 13, 2000. A copy of said letter is 
attached hereto as Annex C.
We are pleased to inform you of our agreement to amend again the original Loan 
Agreement as amended by the First Amendment (the Second Amendment), as indicated in 
Attachment A to this letter (double-underlined text in bold in such attachment 
represents language added by the Second Amendment and crossed-out text in such 
attachment represents language deleted by the amendments accepted to the First 
Amendment. With the same technique, we have shown in attachment B hereto, the language 
added by the First Amendment to the original Loan Agreement and the language deleted 
therefrom by said First Amendment.  Consequently, as a result of the First Amendment, 
and of the Second Amendment we are proposing now to you, (as shown in the Attachment 
A), the Loan Agreement, with the consolidation of the two amendments, will now read in 
its entirety as set forth in Attachment D to this letter.
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendment by signing and dating 
the two originals of this letter in the space provided below, and returning one to us. 
The Second Amendment shall enter into effect as of its date first above-written, upon 
receipt by the Bank of one original of this letter signed by you.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Olivier Lafourcade
Director
Colombia, Mexico and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
Page  2
By /s/ Federico Renjifo Velez
Vice Minister, Ministry of
Finance and Public Credit
Date: July 5, 2001
CONFORMED COPY
ANNEX D
LOAN NUMBER 4383-CO
Loan Agreement
(Youth Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated August 12, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4383-CO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 12, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) with the modification set forth below (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Page  3
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 is modified to read:
"On a date not later than six months before the Closing Date, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in 
such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
Project and initial operation of the Service Integration Schemes (as defined 
in the Loan Agreement), their respective costs and the benefits derived and to 
be 
derived from them, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Management Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower, acting through either the Vice Ministry (as defined in (r) below) or 
Colombia Joven and the Managerial Entity (as defined below) pursuant to Sections 3.01 
(c) and 6.01 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules to the Management Agreement;
(b)
"Managerial Entity" means the entity referred to in Section 3.01 (c) of 
this Agreement;
(c)
"Manual" means the operational manual, to be issued by the Vice Ministry 
pursuant to Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement, which shall govern the activities of 
all participants in the carrying out of the Project and shall set forth all provisions 
concerning the procedures and rules to be followed by all said participants in such 
activities, i.e. either the Vice Ministry (as defined in (r) below) or Colombia Joven, 
the Selected Municipalities, the groups involved in Selected Local Areas, the 
Managerial Entity and other parties including suppliers of goods and services to be 
purchased or contracted by a Selected Municipality under a Subsidiary Agreement, as 
such Manual may be changed from time to time in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Borrower and the Bank;
(d)
"Model" means any of the models referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 
to this Agreement, to the extent the model in question (or any departure therefrom) 
has been approved by the Bank pursuant to such Schedule;
(e) 
"Municipal Committee" means an informal group of Selected Municipality 
officials, and representatives of other public agencies, non-governmental non-profit 
organizations, youth groups and private sector which, as a group, have been given the 
responsibility for overseeing the Service Integration Schemes (as defined below) in a 
Selected Municipality, and disseminating lessons learned;
(f)
"Municipality" means a Municipio (Municipality), a political subdivision 
of the Borrower, and which is one of the group of sixteen Municipalities referred to 
in paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, from which each Selected Municipality 
(as defined below) has been or will be selected for purposes of this Project;
(g)
"Municipality Agreement" means each of the agreements to be entered into 
between the Managerial Entity (as agent of the Borrower) and a Selected Municipality, 
pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Implementation Program 
referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(h)
"Pre-selected Municipality" means a Municipality that has been included 
in the group of 16 Municipalities referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement;
(i)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower for the preparation of the Project provided for 
under the letter-agreement (PPF No. P-292-O-CO) from the Bank dated June 26, 1996 and 
countersigned by the Borrower on July 23, 1996, as amended from time to time;
(j)
 "Selected Local Area" means a neighborhood within the boundaries of a 
Selected Municipality which has been selected for purposes of Part B.2 of the Project 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(k)
"Selected Municipality" means a Municipality selected for participation 
in Part B of  the Project, in accordance with the criteria, guidelines and procedures 
of the Manual and the provisions of paragraph 2 of  Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
Page  4
(l)
"Service Integration Scheme" means a scheme for the provision of 
interventions for low-income youth within a Selected Local Area, which will be 
addressing a given problem to be dealt with under the Project and which will have been 
designed through a multisectoral approach; furthermore, any such interventions will 
benefit from formal or informal collaborative arrangements amongst public agencies or 
non governmental organizations or both and involve, inter alia, the establishment of 
referral systems, service delivery, and beneficiary and staff training, to which every 
participating entity operating in the local area in question and providing services or 
organizing activities for youth residing in such local area will have access, and 
which will utilize one or more of the following strategies: (i) providing multiple 
services in a pre-existing location using a one-stop approach; (ii) sharing locations 
among such service providers and/or activity organizers in multiple sites; or (iii) 
providing youth services co-sponsored and/or co-implemented by agents from multiple 
sectors in order to address youth needs in a more integrated manner;
(m)
"Subproject" means one or more Service Integration Schemes: (i) as 
described in the corresponding Subproject proposal and to the extent such proposal is 
consistent with the provisions of the Manual and has been approved by a Selected 
Municipality and the Bank for purposes of Part B.2 of the Project; (ii) to be financed 
partly by such Selected Municipality and partly with the proceeds of the Loan; (iii) 
which shall be carried out by such Selected Municipality for such purposes and in 
accordance with the provisions of the Manual; and (iv) which will consist of 
utilization of goods or consultant services, or minor rehabilitation or refurbishing 
works;
(n)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means each agreement entered into by the 
applicable Selected Municipality with a supplier of goods or provider of services for 
purposes of Part B of the Project, including works exclusively in the case of one or 
more Subprojects under Part B.2 of the Project, all pursuant to the provisions of the 
Manual and the applicable Municipality Agreement;
(o)
"National Coordination Unit" means the unit referred to in paragraph (d) 
(i) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement; and
(p)
 "Colombia Joven" means the Program known as "Colombia Joven" within the 
Administrative Department of the Borrower’s Presidency;
(q)
"Municipal Coordination Unit" means each of the units to be established 
pursuant to paragraph (d) (ii) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement; and
(r)
"Vice Ministry" means, in connection with actions or events under the 
Project or related to it which took place before September 27, 2000, the 
administrative subdivision of the Borrower’s Ministry of Education headed by the Vice 
Minister of Youth (hereinafter the Vice Minister).
ARTICLE II 
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to five 
million dollars ($5,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
Page  5
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable in arrears on May 15 
and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through Colombia Joven, with the assistance, in respect of Part B of 
the Project, of each Selected Municipality; all with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate administrative and financial practices and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall enter, through  Colombia Joven and with a legal 
entity acceptable to the Bank (the Managerial Entity), into an agreement, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, under which the Managerial Entity shall 
discharge, on behalf of, and following instructions from the Borrower, all actions 
related to the administration of Project funds, including Loan proceeds, for which 
purposes the Managerial Entity shall establish separate accounts for Parts A and B of 
the Project and, in the case of the latter, subaccounts for each Selected 
Municipality; the aforesaid actions shall include: (i) entering, on behalf of the 
Borrower, into Municipality Agreements with each Selected Municipality; and (ii) 
managing the proceeds of the Loan and counterpart funds from the Borrower and the 
Municipalities (including opening accounts and making payments to third parties). To 
better discharge their respective obligations under the Management Agreement, the 
Borrower and the Managerial Entity shall ensure that there is an adequate liaison 
between the latter and the Unit referred to in paragraph (d) of this Section.
(d)
Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall maintain until the Closing Date: (i) a national 
coordinating unit within Colombia Joven (National Coordination Unit) with functions 
and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank for purposes of coordinating and 
managing the Project at the national level, such unit to be provided by the Borrower 
promptly as needed, with the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
by such unit to discharge such functions and responsibilities, including at all times 
during Project execution, the services of a Project coordinator, a financial 
management specialist, and an expert on impact evaluation and another on youth 
development, all with experience and qualifications acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) a 
unit to be located in each Selected Municipality (Municipal Coordination Unit) with 
functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank for purposes of assisting the 
National Coordination Unit to discharge its functions and responsibilities, such 
assistance to be carried out through the coordination of tasks under the Project to be 
performed at the Municipal level (including the execution of Subprojects under Part 
B.2 of the Project). Each such Municipal Coordination Unit shall be provided by the 
Borrower, promptly as needed, with the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required by each such unit to discharge its aforesaid functions and responsibilities 
including, at all times during Project execution, the services of a coordinator, an 
administrative assistant and a monitoring assistant, all of them to be selected by the 
National Coordination Unit from a short list of individuals with qualifications and 
experience satisfactory to the Bank, to be prepared ad-hoc by the authorities of the 
Selected Municipality in question. 
(e)
Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall:
Page  6
(i)
(A)
exercise its rights under the Management Agreement and not 
assign, amend, abrogate, or waive the Management Agreement 
or any provision thereof;
(B)
cause the Managerial Entity to comply with its obligations 
under the Management Agreement including, but not limited 
to, the obligations consisting of exercising the Borrower’s 
rights under each Municipality Agreement, not assigning, 
amending, abrogating or waiving any Municipality Agreement 
or any provision thereof, and causing the applicable 
Municipality to comply with its obligations under the 
Municipality Agreement in question; and
(C)
cause the Managerial Entity, under the Management Agreement, 
to cause each Municipality to exercise such Municipality’s 
rights and comply with such Municipality’s obligations under 
each Subsidiary Agreement such Municipality will have 
entered into; and
(ii)
submit, and cause the Managerial Entity to submit, to the Bank for 
approval any proposed departure from the Model, before any 
proposed Subsidiary Agreement is being entered into pursuant to 
the applicable Municipality Agreement.
(f)
Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, and for purposes of the carrying out of Part A of the Project the 
Borrower, through the National Coordination Unit, shall hire the services of 
specialized firms or consultants acceptable to the Bank: (i) to provide technical 
assistance to the Project under Part A.1 of the Project; (ii) to design and to operate 
the evaluation system to be put in place under Part A.3 of the Project; and (iii) to 
assist Selected Local Areas with various aspects of design, implementation and 
evaluation of Service Integration Schemes for purposes of Part B of the Project.
(g)
Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this section, the Borrower shall not submit to the Bank withdrawal applications from 
the Loan Account or request funds from the Managerial Entity, in respect of 
expenditures for  Part B of the Project to be financed under Categories (1), (2) or 
(3) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this Agreement, unless: (i) the 
applicable Subsidiary Agreement has been entered into in accordance with the 
provisions of the Manual and the corresponding Municipality Agreement; (ii) the 
applicable Municipality Agreement has been entered into; and (iii) a representation is 
made by the Borrower and attached to the withdrawal application, to the effect that 
the conditions under (i) and (ii) above have been met.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.01 (a) of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower, through Colombia Joven, shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank on a date not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date a plan for 
the replicability and sustainability, in new areas or in Selected Local Areas, 
respectively, of the Project’s objectives; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, through Colombia Joven, shall maintain or cause 
to be maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with 
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of 
the Project of the Managerial Entity and the departments or agencies of the Borrower 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) 
The Borrower shall:
Page  7
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that as a result of events which 
have occurred after the date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall 
have arisen which shall make it improbable that the Managerial Entity will be able to 
perform its obligations under the Management Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Management Agreement has been executed in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank;
(b)
the Model to be used for each MunicipalityAgreement shall have been 
adopted, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, by the Vice Ministry and the 
Managerial Entity;
(c)
the Manual has been issued by the Vice Ministry in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank; and
(d)
the Managerial Entity has put in place an accounting system for the 
Project satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely
that the Management Agreement has been 
Page  8
duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the Managerial Entity, and is legally 
binding upon the Borrower and the Managerial Entity in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date of November 12, 1998 is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance and Public Credit
Palacio de los Ministerios
Plaza San Agustín
Carrera 7A, No. 6-45, Piso 3
Santa Fe de Bogotá
Colombia
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINHACIENDA
43289 MHAC CO
with copies to:
Colombia Joven
Presidencia de la República
Calle 10 No. 1-15
Santa Fe de Bogotá
Colombia
Facsímile (57-1) 562-3571
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI); or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By /s/ Juan Carlos Esguerra Portocarrero
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  9
By /s/ Danny Leipziger
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
    Amount of the
   % of
   Loan Allocated
Expenditures
Category
(Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods for Parts
537,289
100% of foreign
A. and B.1 of the
expenditures and
Project
65% of local
expenditures
(2)
Consultants'
    1,200,000
100%
services (including
fees for auditing
services under Article
IV of this Agreement
and of Unit Staff 
but excluding fees
of Managerial Entity),
training and seminars
for Parts A or B.1
of the Project
(3)
Subprojects
    2,850,000
65%
(4)
Refunding of 
212,711
Amounts due 
Project Prepara-
pursuant to 
tion Advance
Section 2.02 (b)
of this Agreement
(5)
Operational Costs
200,000
80%
TOTAL
    5,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country  other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "Unit Staff" means the four persons occupying the positions 
referred to in paragraph (d) (i) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the administrative 
personnel of the National Coordination Unit and/or of each Municipal Coordination Unit 
and other persons that may be incorporated to the National Coordination Unit from time 
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank; and
(d)
the term "Operational Costs" means costs incurred by the National 
Coordination Unit in relation to the Project for the maintenance of office equipment, 
water, electricity and communications services, and office supplies.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) payments made for expenditures in respect of Subprojects under Part 
B.2 of the Project, unless the Municipality Agreement with the corresponding Selected 
Municipality shall have been executed and delivered in form and substance satisfactory 
Page  10
to the Bank and, exclusively in the case of the first Municipality Agreement to be 
entered into under the Project, a legal opinion satisfactory to the Bank, has been 
received by the Bank showing that such Municipality Agreement is legally binding upon 
the Borrower, the Managerial Entity and the applicable Selected Municipality in 
accordance with its terms.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods, works and services under 
contracts not subject to prior review under the provisions of Part D.2 of Section I or 
Part D.2 of Section II, both of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to test and evaluate alternative multi-sectoral 
and participatory approaches to developing and delivering services to and providing 
activities for low-income youth in Selected Local Areas which would lead in the long 
run, inter alia, to improved educational and employment opportunities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:  National Component
Establishment of a framework that will facilitate: 
1. 
The delivery of technical assistance for the design, implementation (including 
capacity building assistance for the implementation of Subproject activities) and 
evaluation of Service Integration Schemes  for low-income youth in local areas. 
2. 
The establishment and operation of a learning network: (a) to compile and 
disseminate experiences and best practices on existing Service Integration Schemes,  
through the establishment of a website on youth development resources and information 
and the provision of internet services to access the information; (b) to establish an 
experience exchange system among the Selected Municipalities and the Municipal 
Coordination Units which will include regular meetings to discuss lessons learned and 
to identify joint solutions; and (c) to develop publications and materials and to 
disseminate, through the internet, seminars and workshops, and publications, 
experiences and lessons learned from the implementation and evaluation of Subprojects.
3. 
The establishment, without prejudice to the provisions of paragraph (f) of 
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, of a monitoring and evaluation system, which will 
include: (a) the design of a monitoring system which shall include the instruments, 
protocols, and indicators needed to monitor key activities under each of the 
Subprojects and the Project as a whole; (b) the participation of the Municipal 
Committees in the supervision of the Subprojects; (c) the participation of Municipal 
Committees and implementing entities in the discussion of monitoring reports so as to 
permit the joint identification of solutions; and (d) an externally designed and 
executed quantitative and qualitative evaluation of the Project and of each 
Subproject, including both baseline and endline measurements, and special in-depth 
studies.
Part B: 
Municipal Component
1.
Network Establishment 
(a)  Organization and execution of workshops and focus group discussions to 
assist each Municipal Committee to develop and implement the corresponding Service 
Integration Scheme; (b) provision of technical assistance and training to the members 
of each Municipal Committee, or the person designated by them, in the organization and 
formalization of local multi-sector arrangements for service delivery in connection 
with each Subproject; and (c) provision of training and logistical and technical 
support for the establishment and use of internet-based information resources to 
access information on best practices, to share experiences and lessons learned amongst 
Subprojects and to access information on Subproject evaluation results.
2.
Provision of Integrated Services and Execution of Youth Activities in Selected 
Local Areas
Page  11
Carrying out of Subprojects in each Selected Municipality for low-income youth 
of the corresponding Selected Local Areas. Such Subprojects will focus on a priority 
youth problem in each of the Selected Local Areas, as identified by the corresponding 
Municipal Committee, and will include one or more interventions such as those listed 
below in respect of each of the following areas:
(a)
 Learning outcomes and educational support 
(i)
Use of school spaces for youth and community activities with the 
participation of the school community.
(ii)
Community and/or institutional support systems for youth with 
academic and/or personal difficulties.
(iii)
Community service activities to enhance the learning process for 
students.
(iv)
Student government and other means for youth to feel more 
connected to the public education system and their respective 
school.
(b)
Employment promotion
(i)
Information on vocational training options, and job opportunities, 
both in their respective Selected Local Areas.
(ii)
Job orientation provided as part of the secondary school 
curriculum.
(iii)
Vocational counseling and orientation for out-of-school youth.
(iv)
Agreements with the private sector in the Selected Local Area in 
question to provide on-the-job-training, job shadowing and other 
avenues for low-income youth to become familiar with the formal 
work place.
(c)
Preventive health and health promotion
(i)
Life skills  training to learn problem solving and assertiveness.
(ii)
Promotion of environmental sanitation activities.
(iii)
School-based or school-linked services.
(iv)
Peer monitoring for disseminating health messages in settings most 
frequented by youth.
(v)
School and community-based activities designed to reduce family 
and school-based abuse.
(d)
Civic participation, community service and youth participation
(i)
Youth involvement in the community, including holding fora in 
Selected Local Areas for youth or community needs.
(ii)
Opportunities for youth to plan and carry out their own projects 
in community service in their respective Selected Local Areas.
(iii)
Activities in which families and youth may be encouraged to 
participate jointly, such as cultural or sport events.
(iv)
Promoting citizenship education and conflict resolution skills. 
(v)
Activities designed to encourage group involvement in addressing 
local problems such as youth violence.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Page  12
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions
A.
General Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Disbursed Amount" means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period.
(b)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date.
(c)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(d)
"Rate Fixing Date" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 
Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn.
B.
Interest
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts.  
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus
(ii)
LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 
thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus
(ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 
following meanings:
(a)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(b)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for the Interest Period in which each 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
(i)
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below (or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank's outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the 
Bank to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it 
that include such Disbursed Amount for such Interest Period;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
"Fixed Base Rate" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value on the Rate 
Page  13
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate based 
on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such 
Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(d)
"Fixed Total Spread" means, for each Disbursed Amount:
(i)
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate Fixing 
Date for such Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated to fund single currency loans or 
portions thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount; 
plus
(iii)
the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
4.
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total Spread, Fixed 
Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, promptly upon 
the determination thereof.
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
C.
Repayment
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments payable on each May 
15 and November 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) 
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the 
last such installment to be payable on the eighteenth (18th) Interest Payment Date 
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. Each installment shall be 
one-twelfth (1/12) of such Disbursed Amount.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after November, 15, 2014, the Borrower shall also pay on said 
date the aggregate amount of all such installments.
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed Amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Page  14
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 below, goods estimated to cost $150,000 
equivalent or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. The Borrower shall use and cause the 
Managerial Entity to cause, for purposes of this Part C.1, standard bidding documents 
satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures, as 
determined by the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 
of the Guidelines. 
3.
Subprojects
Goods and works required for Subprojects shall be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of this Schedule.
Although the limits stipulated in paragraphs 1 and 2 above shall determine the 
procurement procedures applicable to goods for each Subproject, the expenditures for 
goods procured under any such Subproject shall not be taken into account for the 
calculation of the aggregate limits stipulated in said paragraphs; provided, 
furthermore, that when the contract or contracts for goods or works or services, under 
the Subproject in question is estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000, 
said contracts may be packaged to enable their procurement through: (a) comparison of 
prices; or (b) if such comparison is not possible or the contract or contracts are to 
be procured under circumstances which correspond to any of the circumstances described 
in paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines, direct contracting of suppliers available in the 
area where the Subproject in question is expected to be carried out.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract procured under Part B above, the first two 
contracts procured under Part C.1 above and the first two contracts procured under 
Part C.2 above every year, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 
1 to the Guidelines shall apply; provided however, that irrespective of the amount of 
any such first two contracts, the Bank shall have the right to request prior review 
under said paragraphs 2 and 3 of one or more additional contracts procured under Parts 
C.1 or C.2 of this Section, or both, as the case may be, if it shall have found 
anything objectionable about the bidding or award procedures applied.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Part E:
Procurement Provisions Governing National Competitive Bidding
1.
All bidders, irrespective of whether they are foreigners or Colombians, will be 
treated equally and, particularly, no preference will be granted to any bidder or 
group of bidders for bid evaluation purposes. Bidders shall be allowed to submit their 
bids by hand or through the post office or private mailing services. There shall not 
be any requirement for any bidder to show evidence of the bidder's registration in any 
public registry, chamber of commerce or similar, whether in Colombia or elsewhere, or 
to appoint a representative domiciled in Colombia, unless and until such bidder is 
Page  15
awarded the corresponding contract.
2.
Bids shall be opened in a public meeting to which bidders and their 
representatives shall be allowed to attend if they so wish. Date, time and place for 
the opening meeting shall be set forth in the bidding documents. Bid opening shall 
coincide with, or take place promptly, after the final date and time of the period for 
bid submission stipulated in the bidding documents.
3.
Each bid shall be evaluated and the corresponding contract awarded to the 
responsive bidder who meets appropriate technical and financial standards of 
capability and whose bid has been determined to be the lowest evaluated bid. Such 
determination shall be made exclusively on the basis of the specifications, conditions 
and evaluation criteria stipulated in the bidding documents. If any factor additional 
to the amount or amounts of each bid is to be considered in bid evaluation, such 
factor or factors and the quantified manner on which they will be applied for purposes 
of determining the lowest evaluated bid, shall be precisely stipulated in the bidding 
documents. For purposes of bid evaluation and comparison, the only bid amount or 
amounts to be used as a factor shall be the bid amount or amounts as quoted in the 
corresponding bid, including correction of arithmetic errors.
4.
The provisions of paragraph 2.46 of the Guidelines shall fully apply and, more 
specifically, bids shall not be disclosed to persons other than the persons officially 
charged with the task of comparing and/or evaluating the bids while they are 
performing their official duties, without the corresponding bidder's written 
authorization. Moreover, bidders shall not be required to provide such authorization 
as a condition to be entitled to bid. This confidentiality requirement shall apply 
until the award of contract is notified to the successful bidder. Thereafter, 
confidentiality of the bids shall be limited to those bid portions for which 
confidentiality has been specifically requested by the bidder in
question.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services of consultant firms regarding monitoring and evaluation and learning 
network activities for Part A of the Project may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultant’s Qualifications
Services for facilitation of focus group discussions under Part B.1 of the 
Project and drafting of collaborative agreements for Service Integration Schemes, in 
both cases estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $75,000 per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 
through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Page  16
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines up to an aggregate equivalent of $400,000 shall be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $100,000, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower, through the Vice Ministry or Colombia Joven, as the case may be, 
shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable the monitoring and 
evaluation of the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, on the basis of an ongoing review of indicators, discussed with and 
acceptable to the Bank, and which have been included in the respective Subproject 
proposal and may be amended from time to time with the approval of the Bank; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about June 30 in each year, a report integrating the results of the 
lessons  learned and the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by September 30 in each year, or such later date as 
the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank views on the matter.
2. 
The Borrower has conducted an initial preselection of a group of 16 
Municipalities (Pre-selected Municipalities) based on: (a) population size, where 
priority was given to Municipalities with larger areas where Project impact may be 
substantial; (b) need (e.g. incidence of poverty); and (c) demonstration that they 
Page  17
possess the required technical ability to discharge their respective obligations for 
purposes  of the carrying out of Part B of the Project. Out of the Pre-selected 
Municipalities, not more than eight of such Municipalities shall be selected as 
demonstration sites under the Project, after being determined by the Borrower as the 
Pre-selected Municipalities having the best potential to pilot test the new 
participatory and integrated approach to working with youth (Selected Municipalities). 
Such determination shall be made by a technical group in the Ministry of Education and 
a committee comprised of representatives of various stakeholders, including 
representatives from the Borrower’s Ministries of Health and Culture and Employment, 
DNP and the national confederation of non-governmental organizations, on the basis of 
proposals to be submitted by the Pre-selected Municipalities to the Vice Ministry or 
Colombia Joven, as the case may be, and addressing the following key criteria: 
diagnosis of key issue(s) affecting youth; integrated and participatory approach; 
financial and technical viability; and sustainability. The remaining eight 
Pre-selected Municipalities would have access to information generated by the learning 
network to be established under Part A. 2 of the Project. Each of the Selected 
Municipalities shall, through its authorities or the corresponding Municipal Committee 
and in accordance with the provisions of the Manual, choose an area, rural or urban, 
within the jurisdiction of the Selected Municipality in question (Selected Local Area) 
where, or in respect of which, the activities under Part B of the Project related to 
such Selected Municipality shall take place. 
3.
The Borrower shall prepare, for purposes of paragraph (b) of Section 6.01 of 
this Agreement, a model to be used for entering into each Municipality Agreement. Once 
that model has been adopted by the Vice Ministry or Colombia Joven, as the case may be
, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, the Borrower shall follow it without 
introducing, to the extent possible, changes therein. Without prejudice to the 
preceding provisions, the Borrower shall seek the approval of the Bank in respect of 
each modification that the Borrower, or the Managerial Entity or the Selected 
Municipality in question, may  wish to introduce to said model in connection with the 
corresponding Municipality Agreement before the execution and delivery thereof. 
4.
Once a Municipality has been selected for purposes of participating in the 
Project, following the procedures, criteria and guidelines provided for in the 
Operational Manual, the Managerial Entity shall, as agent of the Borrower, enter with 
such Selected Municipality into an agreement on terms and conditions which, unless 
otherwise agreed by the Bank, shall not depart in substance, in the opinion of the 
Bank, from the Model. Each such agreement shall be acknowledged and approved by the 
Borrower, through the Vice Ministry or Colombia Joven, as the case may be, and shall 
obligate the Managerial Entity to request prior approval of the head of the Unit and 
of the Bank before departing, in a substantial way, from such Model.
5.
Unless otherwise agreed with the Bank, the Borrower shall ensure that at all 
times during Project execution: (a) the number of Selected Municipalities, with which 
the Managerial Entity shall have entered into the corresponding Subsidiary Agreement 
shall not be higher than eight; and (b) each such Selected Municipality shall maintain 
only one Selected Local Area as demonstration site within such Municipality for 
purposes of Part B of the Project. 
