                                Document of
                            The World Bank

                                                      Report No: ICR0000109




       IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                             (MULT-29767)

                                  ON A

               TRUST FUND CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF
                             US$7 MILLION




                                    TO

                           WEST BANK& GAZA

                                 FOR AN

                          Education Action Project

                            November 30, 2006




MNA Region Human Development Group
West Bank and Gaza
Middle East and North Africa

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                            ( Exchange Rate Effective 05/01/2006 )
                                  Currency Unit = ILS
                                       ILS 1.00 = US$0.22
                                       US$1.00 = ILS 4.53


                                          Fiscal Year
                                    January 1 to December 31




                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AWPB  Annual Work Plans and Budgets
CDF   Comprehensive Development Framework
CO    Country Office
DG    Director General
EMIS  Education Management Information System
ESW   Economic Sector Work
GDFD  General Directorate for Field development
INSET Teachers and Supervisors In-Service training
M&E   Monitoring and Evaluation
MOE   Ministry of Education
MOEHE Ministry of Higher Education
MOF   Ministry of Finance
MOPF  Ministry of Planning and Finance
PA    Palestinian Authority
PAD   Project Appraisal Document
PDO   Project Development Objective
PIU   Project Implementation Unit
PPMS  Personnel & Project Management Systems
PSC   Project Supervision Committee
PST   Project Support Team
PSU   Project Support Unit
SUT   School as a Unit of Training
SWAP  Sector Wide Approach
TSC   Technical Support Committee
TVE   Technical and Vocational Education
WBG   West Bank and Gaza


                                Vice President: Daniela Gressani
                              Country Director: A. David Craig
                               Sector Manager: Mourad Ezzine
                          Project Team Leader: Adriana Jaramillo

                                             WEST BANK& GAZA
                                            Education Action Project


                                                      CONTENTS

                                                                                                                             Page no.
1. Basic Information.................................................................................................................... 1
2. Key Dates................................................................................................................................ 1
3. Ratings Summary.................................................................................................................... 1
4. Sector and Theme Codes ........................................................................................................ 2
5. Bank Staff ............................................................................................................................... 2
6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design........................................................... 3
7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .......................................................... 6
8. Assessment of Outcomes...................................................................................................... 10
9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome..................................................................... 12
10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ............................................................... 12
11. Lessons Learned.................................................................................................................. 14
12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners..................... 15
Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis..................................................................................... 16
Annex 2. Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................ 18
Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing...................................................................................... 19
Annex 4. Outputs by Component.............................................................................................. 20
Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis).............. 24
Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes......................... 25
Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance.............................................. 27
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any) .......................................................................... 28
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any).................................................. 29
Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR............................... 31
Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders................................. 34
Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents ................................................................................ 35

1. Basic Information

Country:                  WEST BANK& GAZA Project Name:                 Education Action Project

Project ID:               P065593                 L/C/TF Number(s):     MULT-29767

ICR Date:                 11/30/2006              ICR Type:             Core ICR

Lending Instrument:       SIL                     Borrower:             PALESTINE LIBERATION
                                                                        ORGANIZATION*

Original Total
Commitment:               USD 7.0M                Disbursed Amount:     USD 7.0M

Environmental Category:B

Implementing Agencies : Ministry of Education

Cofinanciers and Other External Partners


2. Key Dates

       Process               Date             Process          Original Date     Revised / Actual
                                                                                      Date(s)
Concept Review:     01/11/2000          Effectiveness:       11/16/2001        11/21/2001
Appraisal:          10/14/2001          Restructuring(s):
Approval:           05/31/2001          Mid-term Review:
                                        Closing:             09/30/2004        03/31/2006


3. Ratings Summary

3.1 Performance Rating by ICR

Outcomes:                                           Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                        Substantial
Bank Performance:                                   Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                               Satisfactory


3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators

  Implementation Performance        Indicators        QAG Assessments (if any)          Rating:

Potential Problem Project at any
time (Yes/No):                     No             Quality at Entry (QEA):           None

Problem Project at any time
(Yes/No):                          Yes            Quality of Supervision (QSA):     None

DO rating before Closing/Inactive
status:                            Satisfactory




                                                 1

4. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                   Original               Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                     24                     24
Secondary education                                   20                     20
Vocational training                                   14                     14
General education sector                              42                     42
                                               Original Priority      Actual Priority
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Improving labor markets                       Primary              Primary
Social analysis and monitoring                Secondary            Secondary
Education for all                             Primary              Primary
5. Bank Staff
                      Positions                    At ICR              At Approval
Vice President:                              Daniela Gressani    Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:                            A. David Craig      Nigel Roberts
Sector Manager:                              Mourad Ezzine       Regina Maria Bendokat
Project Team Leader:                         Adriana Jaramillo   Luis Guillermo Hakim
ICR Team Leader:                             Adriana Jaramillo
ICR Primary Author:                          Amer Samir Madi




                                            2

6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)
6.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country macroeconomic and structural/sector background, rationale for Bank
assistance)


For the past decade, the Palestinian Authority (PA) has been facing an important fiscal crisis, in addition
to a highly volatile political environment. During project preparation, one key issue faced by the Ministry
of Education (MOE) was how to maintain fiscal equilibrium in the face of growing demand for education
while maintaining the quality of education services. At the time of project preparation, even though the
Al Aqsa Intifada had begun in September 2000, MOE was heavily engaged in developing its first Five-
Year Plan for Basic and Secondary Education (2001-2005). The Plan was intended to provide the
framework for stakeholder interventions in the Palestinian education system, in line with the framework
of governance which was at the time being created by the Palestinian Authority (PA). A key priority was
setting a foundation for a system to improve service delivery in the social sectors (health, education, and
social welfare). This required the PA to create and work within a sound budgetary framework which
would address priority issues, and at the same time operate within budget constraints.

This project was a follow up to the Education and Health Rehabilitation Project (TF 26065, approved in
1995 and closed in 2001), which was co-financed by the World Bank, Saudi Arabia, Italy, and Australia,
and which provided support to rehabilitation of schools and provision of textbooks. The 2001-2005
Education Plan was built on the premise that the political situation would remain stable and continue to
improve gradually, and identified five main goals, namely: (a) to provide access to education for all
children; (b) improve the quality of education; (c) develop formal and non-formal education; (d) develop
management capacity in planning, administration and finance; and (e) develop human resources of the
education system. The 2001-2005 Education Plan was quite ambitious, and identified well a series of
policies adopted to deal with the main issues faced by the sector at the time. Among them were:

     improving the potential for coordinated donor support of the MOE Five-Year Plan, i.e., setting
         the foundation for sector-wide approaches;
     introducing new administrative and financial management systems to enable decentralization of
         the education system functions, improving planning and budgeting functions within the MOE,
         including improvement of analysis and use of data for decision making;
     implementation of standards to monitor school performance;
     providing administrative training at all levels of MOE;
     developing the supervision and teaching work force capacity; and
     maintaining universal access to basic education while increasing secondary gross enrollment
         through construction of schools and utilizing existing schools more effectively.

Soon after this project began implementation, a series of Israeli incursions, curfews and closures were
imposed on the West Bank and Gaza (WBG), bringing changes to the way the school system was to
operate. The results of the closures and later on of the separation wall, limited the mobility of people,
which limited access to schools to both teachers and students. In March 2002, the Israeli incursions were
intensified, and for a period of three weeks, 1,289 schools were closed and as many as 35,000 employees
in the education sector were prevented from reaching their schools and work locations. Some of these
incursions in the West Bank targeted the MOE, bringing destruction to its facilities, in addition to a
number of schools. These changes in the political context resulted in changes to the priorities for the
sector, shifting from development to emergency needs.

6.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

As stated in the PAD, the project aimed to strengthen the capacity of the MOE to manage the education
system more effectively through improved policy-making, planning and budgeting at the central and
district levels. It would also support the implementation of activities in targeted domains included in the
                                                     3

agreed annual departmental work plans derived from the Five-Year Education Plan (2001-2005). This
would have led to improved utilization of funding from the PA budget and international donors. The
PAD also stated that the project would be involved in areas where efficiency gains were most expected,
including: (a) training; (b) school construction; (c) vocational training; and (d) overall sector
management.

The Key Performance Indicators as stated in the PAD are the following:

     More effective education sector management through improvement in financial and education
         information and data utilization and policy making
     More rational and persuasive budgetary processes resulting in increased and better-used
         international aid resources

6.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and
reasons/justification


Neither the PDO nor the key indicators were revised.

6.4 Main Beneficiaries, original and revised
(briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as captured in the PDO, as well as
any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from the project)

The PAD identified three main target groups: (a) administrators at national and local levels, to benefit
from management training and upgraded information systems and financial data; (b) teachers, to benefit
from improved incentives for better performance; and (c) school level stakeholders: over the long-term
the final beneficiaries identified were school-aged children and their families, benefiting from an
improved education system.

6.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project had two components: Component 1 envisaged supporting the MOE in developing strategies
that would facilitate planning across the departments and project management; Component 2 envisaged
supporting specific targeted interventions in different priority domains deriving from the Five-Year Plan.

Component 1: Strengthening the MOE Capacity (US$1.75 million) included two subcomponents:

Subcomponent 1.1: Policy, Planning and Financing (US$1.47 million). This component envisaged
supporting the process of preparation and evaluation of Annual Work Plans and Budgets (AWPB) to
make operational the priorities of the Five-Year Plan. The capacity efforts were geared to providing
support to four key MOE Directorates: Planning, Buildings and Works, Training, and Vocational
Secondary Education, in selecting and developing detailed proposals for activities in their annual plans.
Activities under this subcomponent included the following:

     Putting in place an EMIS, including school mapping facilities, and extending this to all district
         offices;
     Developing a computerized Financial Management System, and extending it to district offices;
     Providing training to Ministry officials in the fields of strategic management and planning as well
         as public financial management;
     Building a vertical extension to the MOE annex to rationalize the use of space and discontinue
         the rental of buildings; and
     Technical assistance to support capacity building in the areas of planning and budgeting.



                                                     4

Subcomponent 1.2: Support for Implementation (US$0.028 million) included financing the
establishment of a Project Support Unit (PSU), to provide overall project management, and to be staffed
by a Project Support Team (PST). This component would cover the operational expenses for the PSU, as
well as the PST, throughout the life of the project.

Project Management: Members of the PST were envisaged to be located in relevant MOE departments
while reporting to a Project Director located in the Planning Department. To monitor project
implementation, a Project Supervision Committee (PSC) was formed by senior officials representing the
four MOE General Directorates targeted for project intervention: DG of Planning, Buildings and Works,
Training and Vocational Secondary Education, in addition to the PSU Director.

Component 2: Targeted Interventions (US$5.88 million). This component, designed to support the
implementation of activities in the Five-Year Plan and AWPBs prepared under subcomponent 2.1,
included two subcomponents: General Education and Vocational Education.

Subcomponent 2.1: General Education (US$3.13 million). This subcomponent included the following
activities:

     Expansion of a program for school improvement following school development plans. It was
         intended to plant the seeds for school-based management, through the use of a fund mechanism
         to support in-service teacher training (School as a Unit of Training -SUT); and

     Development of standards for supervisors and head teachers. This activity was intended to be the
         basis for a request for bids to universities and colleges to develop master programs geared
         towards forming qualified school leadership.

Subcomponent 2.2: Vocational Education (US$2.7 million). This subcomponent included the
following activities:

     Supporting the preparation of selected trial curriculum for vocational secondary schools (on
         office equipment maintenance, hotel and restaurant services, and tourism); and

     Establishing four pilot units for vocational secondary classrooms and workshops attached to
         existing general secondary schools (two for girls and two for boys).

6.6 Revised Components


There was no revision of the original components.

6.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

Pursuant to the intensification of Israeli military operations in the West Bank after the first year of the
Intifada and the resulting tightening of the closure policies and incursions into Palestinian cities and
towns, the MOE requested reallocation of US$1.49 million, mainly from funds earmarked for technical
assistance in the area of planning and budgeting, as well as technical assistance for standards for head
teachers. This request was meant to allocate resources to fund emergency needs resulting from the
Intifada. In addition, US$550,000 was reallocated to finishing works in the MOE Curriculum Building.
These changes were reflected in an amendment to Schedule 1; however, this did not result in a change in
components or PDOs. The following table summarizes both the activities that were cancelled and those
that were newly introduced to the project's original subcomponents:


                                                     5

          Component                         Activities Cancelled              New Activities Introduced

1.1 Policy, Planning and         Technical assistance to support capacity   Finishing works in the MOE
Financing                        building in the area of planning and       Curriculum Building
                                 budgeting.
2.1 Implementation of            Technical assistance to develop standards Emergency General Education
Selected Priorities in Agreed for supervisors and head teachers.            2.1E:
Annual Work Plan
                                                                            - Repair of 7 schools damaged
                                                                            by Israeli incursions

                                                                            - Procurement of 895
                                                                            computers for schools, (655 in
                                                                            West Bank and 240 in Gaza)

                                                                            Equipment and labs for 76
                                                                            schools, (49 in West Bank
                                                                            and 27 in Gaza)
2.2 Vocational Secondary         Curriculum development for new
Education                        specializations introduced in the
                                 Technical and Vocational Education
                                 (TVE) schools.

While the reallocation of funding to emergency works responded to what were genuine MOE priorities at
the time, it could be questioned that 895 computers for schools were needed as part of the response to the
emergency. These came at the expense of cancellation of activities aimed at developing planning and
budgeting functions and improving the school administration and management capacity, which
remained the major project goals. These changes led to a reallocation of funds, resulting in civil works
and goods comprising lose to 70% of total project funds.

7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
7.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their mitigations
identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

Quality at entry is overall rated as moderately unsatisfactory.

Sufficient funds and a Bank-executed PHRD Grant were allocated for project preparation activities.
The PHRD Grant originally intended for the Vocational Education and Training Project (PHRD Grant
No. TF027152 in the amount of US$250,000) was amended at the request of the PA, and subsequently
renamed the PHRD Grant for the General Education Project. The objectives of the grant were to assist
the PA in the preparation of the Education Action Project. The grant financed technical assistance
activities to strengthen the capabilities of the MOE on policy analysis, strengthening planning, personnel
and budgeting functions. It also included developing and implementing a social assessment strategy to
obtain stakeholder views on the design of the project, and develop a process of dialogue and feedback
throughout the course of project implementation. The Bank team had an adequate skills mix during the
preparation and appraisal stages. Special attention was paid to safeguard policies, and although the
project focused on relatively simple rehabilitation works, a comprehensive environmental protection and
waste management action plan was prepared.

However, the PDOs were too broad, not well defined, and overly complex.                In addition, the key
performance indicators were too broadly defined and ambitious given the political context under which
the project was approved, and there was no link between them and the intermediate outcome indicators.
                                                      6

Although the project had only two components, each component had two subcomponents, and covered a
wide range of activities, from capacity building for improving management and planning, to in-service
teacher training and technical and vocational education, without a clear linkage between the components
or the activities within components. This was a relatively small project (US$7 million) with too broad a
focus. In most projects in WBG, Bank contributions are usually leveraged by co-financing from other
donors. This was not the case with this project, which limited its ability to have a more substantial
impact.

Although activities identified to be supported under the project were aligned with the priorities for the
sector, the scope was too broad, and the project activities involving major policy areas were numerous.
The ambitious nature of the project was not seen as a potential risk during preparation. However, given
the dramatic conditions under which the project had to be implemented, and the constant changes in the
political and security environment, MOE's ownership and capacity to manage the complexity of some of
the proposed project activities were put to the test during implementation. Given that the project was
approved after the Intifada started, it may have been overly optimistic to maintain such ambitious goals.

7.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions taken,
as applicable)

Project Implementation is rated as moderately satisfactory.

The main factor that affected the implementation and outcome of the project and which was outside the
control of the MOE was the resumption of violence and subsequent deterioration in the security situation
during the Intifada. The Israeli closure policies and the destruction of MOE infrastructure caused a delay
in some project activities and shifted the priority of the PA from development to emergency. This had
important implications for the implementation of this project. In addition to the impact on daily life for
Palestinians and the shift in priorities, the deterioration of security conditions severely limited access to
the WBG, which had an impact on the supervision of the project. The extent to which the MOE shifted
the priorities of the project activities from development to emergency and the delays imposed, however,
were relatively within MOE's control. The closing date was extended twice--for a total of 18 months--to
complete some of the originally envisaged activities.

During the first two years of the project, training activities faced major constraints due to closures and
curfews as these were held in central city locations, which were difficult for both trainees and trainers to
access. The MOE aptly overcame this difficulty by shifting the delivery of training to the district and
school levels, using a cascade training model after having completed the training of trainers at the central
level.

The project design incorporated lessons learned from previous interventions in the sector such as the need
to improve donor coordination, timely use of technical assistance, and building capacity through
establishing a PST. However, enough attention to these matters was not given during project
implementation, due to the difficulties in traveling to WBG, which limited access to international
technical assistance.

Capacity Building through a PST. The project design called for a PST, whose staff would be located in
relevant MOE departments while reporting to a Project Director located in the Planning Department.
These arrangements were modified. Instead, a PST was formed and established as a PSU, which worked
closely with the relevant MOE Departments, but remained as a separate unit. Although a PSC was
established, with seven senior MOE officials (DGs) representing the key DGs involved in the project's
different activities, the role of the committee in "steering" the project and taking decisions was relatively
weak. The PSC met only seven times during the life of the project, and there were no attempts to use the
project's monitoring framework (logical framework) to monitor the project progress. The PSC could
have delegated responsibility to the PSU to carry out this function, but this did not occur.


                                                       7

Coordination with the Ministries of Planning and Finance. While the project aimed at building the
capacity in the planning and public financial management in the MOE, it did not stipulate or
acknowledge the need for coordinating efforts in these areas with the MOP or MOF except in a cursory
manner in the Project Implementation Plan. This may have encouraged the PSC to decide that involving
these ministries in the project was not needed.

Inclusion of ministry key stakeholders in the project design process. While the PSC involved senior
officials representing all targeted MOE General Directorates, it did not include any representation from
the General Directorate for Field Development and Follow-Up (GDFD), which has a key role in the
administration, development and supervision of district offices and head teachers, in particular. There is
also no indication that the GDFD was properly consulted during project preparation and appraisal.

Revision of Project scope. Given that several important assumptions made during appraisal became
invalid with the changes in the political and security environment, it may have been worthwhile for the
Bank and the MOE to review the project design and to agree on the risk mitigation measures and the
priorities to be pursued. On the other hand, the cancellation of key activities needed to achieve the
project objectives, and the reallocation of funds to meet emergency needs could have resulted in a
revision of the project objectives. It is the assessment of the ICR team that, had there been a mid-term
review of the project, this revision could have enhanced meeting the project development objectives.

7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Monitoring and Evaluation is rated unsatisfactory.

The original project indicators were not, for the most part, specific and some were too ambitious. Many
of them related to increasing MOE's management capacity, including improvement on planning,
budgeting and policy-making. Some of these indicators became irrelevant given the changes in priorities
for MOE. Throughout the first three years of project implementation, the task team monitored the project
by reviewing the project implementation plan. Cognizant of the limitations of the original indicators and
the need to develop a more realistic M&E framework, in the fourth year, the services of an M&E
consultant were contracted.      The objective was to review and modify the project monitoring and
evaluation system and develop an approach for assessing the impact of the project. Although this was an
exercise that helped MOE to improve the monitoring of some of its programs, the M&E system to
monitor this project was not implemented, and the original indicators were not modified. Through most
of project implementation, M&E was rated unsatisfactory. In the last year of project implementation,
MOE took the initiative of hiring an international consulting firm to evaluate the impact of the in-service
teacher training programs, and important lessons were obtained from this evaluation.

7.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

Procurement Aspect. Post-reviews by the Bank indicated a few cases where there was non-compliance
on the part of the borrower with minor technical specifications established in the Trust Fund Credit
Agreement. Some examples include exceeding the aggregate limit of US$550,000 as specified in the
TFCA for the national competitive bidding of goods, or missing dates of invitations and specifying
closing dates by making reference to advertisements published in newspapers.         These appeared to be
technical mistakes owing to lack of knowledge of Bank procedures. There were cases in which the
procurement arrangements specified in the TFCA were not aligned with the needs of the client, or with
the changing environment prevailing in the country at the time when the project was being implemented.
Examples of this are using short-lists that consist entirely of national consultants, which the TFCA did
not allow. In future, it is recommended to focus on capacity building interventions in order to improve
the fiduciary compliance of PSUs; monitor the performance and capacity of the PSUs during project
implementation; and adapt procurement arrangements to in-conflict and volatile political and security
environments.


                                                    8

Financial Management. The project did not encounter any major fiduciary compliance issues, and
unqualified audit reports were presented as required by the Bank.

Environmental Safeguard. According to the environmental impact assessment conducted during
project appraisal, the potential environmental impact of the project was found to be limited both
geographically and in significance (Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment). The potential
environmental impacts were limited to issues involving civil works associated with five specific
buildings: a vertical extension of the MOE, and four extensions in secondary schools for vocational
training facilities. The major environmental issue regarding the new vocational training facilities was the
disposal of limited amounts of chemicals and materials used for teaching purposes. Throughout project
implementation, MOE paid full attention to the environmental issues/impacts associated with the project
and undertook the necessary mitigation measures. During the architectural and engineering design phase
for civil works contracts, adequate technical specifications were prepared to mitigate environmental risks.
During project supervision, the Bank team focused on the status of implementation of the environmental
mitigation measures for the phases of design, construction and operation of the different building
structures funded by the project.

7.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by present
operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional capacity, and
next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

During the last year of project implementation, at the request of MOE, the Bank conducted an Education
Sector Analysis and Education Public Expenditure Review, aimed at identifying the priority areas for the
next Five-Year Plan. Having reached the end of the 2001-2005 Education Plan, an analysis was due on
how much progress the education system had made, what new challenges had emerged, and what were
the main priorities for the future of the education system. One key question for policy-makers and the
donor community that support Palestinian education is the extent to which the education system is in
constant crisis, and what are the emergency needs that arise from this context. The objectives of this
work were to assist the policy-makers in WBG in the development of a Sector Wide Strategic Vision and
Development Plan for Education for the next five years, based on an analysis of the current performance
of the system, an assessment of how its resources are being used, and how well prepared the system and
its institutions are to meet the challenges ahead.

This exercise revealed that impressive achievements have been made in the past five years, with massive
and equitable expansion reaching a level of development that by most accounts could be compared with
middle-income countries. The report shed light on which are the key priority areas of intervention that
are needed to keep the functionality of the education system and at the same time improve its
performance in accordance with the economic and social needs of the Palestinian population. The
audiences for the ESW report have been the government authorities, UNRWA, the donor community
involved in the support of education and all education stakeholders: the MOEHE, District Education
Offices, teachers, school principals, and civil society at large.

Initial provisions were made to initiate an Education Sector Development Program; however, recent
political developments have slowed down the process concerning new operations. The report clearly
points out the major achievements the education system has accomplished in the past few years, with
massive and equitable expansion reaching a level of development that by most accounts could be
compared with middle-income countries. A main challenge lies ahead for policy-makers in WBG, in
order to build on these achievements and take the necessary steps forward to consolidate the education
system and introduce the necessary and strategic choices to improve the quality of education.




                                                      9

8. Assessment of Outcomes
8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

As stated above, the PDOs were too broad, and the project design lacked definition and focus. This,
coupled with a weak logframe, made it difficult to provide accurate monitoring of project outcomes. The
emphasis on improving policy-making and planning--although a well-chosen goal--might not have
reflected MOE's commitment and/or capacity to pursue this goal, in the context in which the project had
to be implemented. It is clear that with the changes in the political environment, MOE shifted its
priorities from development to emergency, and this was reflected in the way the project was
implemented. The project met important goals, notably in the training of teachers and school supervisors,
and the expansion of the SUT program, which reached over 50% of PA schools. Overall, the project
rehabilitated 15 schools (8 that were initially planned, and 7 additional schools damaged by the Israeli
incursions), and 4 secondary vocational schools were built. An extension to the MOE's building, as well
as the building for the Curriculum Development Center, was an important contribution to improving
MOE's infrastructure.

8.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on outputs in
Annex 4)

Based on the project's outcome objective and key performance indicators, the achievement of the project
objective is rated moderately satisfactory.

Regarding the PDOs, the project made contributions to strengthen MOE's capacity to manage the
education system, but not to the extent envisaged in the PAD. Overall, MOE's planning, budgeting and
management capacity was only partially strengthened. The MOE continues to follow the MOF-mandated
traditional input-based budgeting process with the planning function de-linked from the budget function.
There is no evidence that more rational and persuasive budgetary processes for the sector, as stated in the
PAD, are being put in place, even though the departmental annual plans have improved slightly over the
course of the project. In general, MOE's planning capacity is still fragmented. Its management structure
lacks clear definition of roles, responsibilities, and decision-making processes. The end result is that
MOE's planning is still donor driven, and there is very limited donor coordination. It must be noted here,
however, that the ability of the MOE to deliver a more rational budgetary process is largely dependent on
needed changes in the Public Financial Management System of the PA. In other words, fundamental
changes are needed in the overall public management of the PA before budgetary processes can become
more persuasive and results-oriented.

Due to the intensification of Israeli incursions and the difficulties imposed on movement within the West
Bank during the second year of the project, the implementation progress rating was downgraded
to unsatisfactory. In early 2003, a mission took place to assess the need for restructuring the project. The
assessment at the time concluded that the PDOs were still valid, and that the implementation of all
components was back on track; therefore, the decision was made to maintain the same project structure.

The difference in ratings between the latest ISRs and the current ICR is due to the high expectations
given towards the end of the project to the completion of the EMIS, and computerization of the financial
management system (FMS) of MOE, and the impact these were expected to have on improving MOE
planning and policy making.

The project did well in meeting output indicators and quantitative targets, and in some cases, surpassed
targets such as the number of teachers trained, and was able--although only in the last year of the project-
-to obtain technical assistance to develop an EMIS and computerize its FMS. However, outcome
indicators were more elusive. For example, information from student and teacher assessments are not
incorporated into school and teacher performance reviews systematically or methodologically as was

                                                     10

envisaged at the design stage. The PAD envisaged the SUT program as planting the seed for school-
based management. However, although this program had activities that reached approximately 1,200
schools, over 50% of PA schools, its potential for school-based management was not considered. The
main focus of the program was on conducting teacher training activities, undermining its school-based
management characteristics. Likewise, although the EMIS was set up, and the FMS computerized, the
extent to which MOE's improved capacity through the use of the EMIS and FMS will be tapped for
public management and planning purposes, remains a question to be answered by a future assessment.

Many of the project's outcome and impact indicators highlighted in the project's logical framework were
partially met and some were not achieved. Two main issues need to be highlighted: (a) some of the
outcome/impact indicators were not clearly defined which led to different interpretations; and (b) a
monitoring matrix was never developed for the project and, as a result, performance indicators were
never systematically monitored, which rendered the assessment of project's achievement very difficult.

8.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost, and
comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

The Trust Fund Credit of US$7.0 million from the Trust Fund for Gaza and the West Bank was
fully disbursed by the closing date. The original allocation of funds for civil works and goods was 50% of
project. With the introduction of the emergency needs, total expenditures for these two categories
reached 70% of the total Credit. The PST was very efficient; its costs constituted about 5.3% of the total
project expenditures; its performance was satisfactory and played a key role in keeping the project
moving forward despite the volatile conditions.

8.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

This rating is attributed to the capacity that has been built in systems development through the
establishment of the EMIS and the computerization of the financial management of MOE. These
activities were completed in the last few months of project implementation; therefore, their impact on
improvement of management cannot be assessed at this point. However, MOE officials reported that the
changes introduced by computerization of accounting represented a huge change as this had been done
manually in the past. The in-service teacher training program (INSET) and the SUT had very positive
results. While there are some concerns over the sustainability of both programs due to their total reliance
on external funding, the MOE considers these programs as priorities and is actively seeking both internal
and external funding for them. It is believed that the project has succeeded in contributing to the demand
for change within the MOE, and this is expected to grow over the next few years.

8.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Not applicable

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

The project did contribute to institutional strengthening, in particular through the provision of teacher
training for a substantial number of teachers. The establishment of the EMIS and the computerization of
the FMS are also important contributions for improving the capacity of MOE to manage the education
system. However, the potential that this project had for institution building of MOE was not fully
developed due to several factors:


                                                     11

       (i)   The cancellation of key activities, such as the technical assistance to build MOE's capacity at
             the central and district level on planning and budgeting, and the cancellation of the technical
             assistance for the development of standards for supervisors and head teachers;
       (ii)   The lack of availability of the PST to work directly with the targeted MOE departments in
             order to develop their capacity, in particular with regard to financial management; and
       (iii) The lack of leadership and monitoring of the PDOs that was supposed to be provided by the
             PSC.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)




8.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

For the preparation of this ICR, two three-hour workshops were held with school supervisors from all
district offices in both the West Bank and Gaza Strip. The purpose of the workshops was to assess the
impact of the INSET and SUT programs on the teachers, head teachers, school environment, and the
students, as well as to identify the strengths and the weaknesses of both programs. The workshops
provided the opportunity for school supervisors to reflect on both programs and to participate in the
evaluation of these programs within the framework of the preparation of this ICR. In addition, a
stakeholder's workshop to discuss the findings of the ICR was held with participants from MOE's central
and district levels. Beneficiaries from both programs expressed their satisfaction with the INSET and
SUT programs. The main concerns are related to the lack of an incentive mechanism such as career
development opportunities or additional compensation for teachers who participate in the training.
Regarding the ICR findings, MOE officials for the most part agreed with the observations, and expressed
interest in the lessons to be learned from the project. The detailed findings of these workshops are found
in Annexes 8 and 9.

9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial

The overall risk rating was substantial. As noted earlier, several assumptions made at the beginning of the
project changed during the life of the project, notably the assumption that there would be a stable political
environment. Some of the changes that occurred, such as the intensification of Israeli incursions into the
WBG during the Intifada, resulted in a demand from MOE to reallocate funds and cancel activities. Other
risks stated in the PAD related to the lack of incentives for behavioral changes at MOE's central
and district levels, to use planning and cost effective budgeting procedures. The mitigation measures
proposed were not realistic, and did not take place. The implications these changes had on achievement
of the PDOs were not reflected in the project design, nor were they explicitly stated in the project status
reports.

10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

10.1 Bank

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

As explained in Section 7.1 the PDOs were too broad and ambitious, and the logframe did not provide the
relevant monitoring indicators. The emphasis on improving policy changes and management
overestimated MOE's ownership and capacity to meet these objectives. Given that this project was
prepared during the early months of the Intifada, it was overly optimistic to maintain such ambitious
goals. It is also likely that MOE's initial interest in lending for capacity building activities changed soon
after the project started. This could be an explanation for the cancellation of the training and capacity
                                                       12

building activities and the introduction of emergency needs to conduct civil works and procure equipment
for schools. Given the limited Bank resources to support this project, co-financing or parallel financing
arrangements may have helped, but were not sought, limiting the project's potential impact.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Bank's supervision performance over the life-span of the project is rated moderately satisfactory.
During the first two years of project implementation, travel to WBG was restricted resulting in difficulties
in the provision of close supervision to this project. However, the Bank looked for alternative ways of
monitoring the project. Between January 2002 and January 2005, four supervision missions took place,
two of them at a distance, one in Amman, and one conducted via VC from HQ. Two additional missions
took place in 2005, and one ICR mission was conducted in March 2006. In addition, a local operations
officer was actively engaged in providing support during the first years of implementation. For the period
of June 2003 until December 2004, a young professional was based in the Country Office, providing
assistance to the project. The supervision efforts were focused on the progress of individual activities and
fiduciary aspects. Available reports provide little information and analysis of the project's progress
against key performance indicators. There is no evidence that the request for fund reallocations was
accompanied by an assessment of the emergency needs. This should be viewed in the broader context of
a fragile political situation and economic crisis, which may have been a reason why supervision missions
shied away from being overtly critical. It is also important to note that there was a high turnover of team
leaders: four different team leaders led the six supervision missions that took place over the duration of
the project, making it difficult to have a long-term perspective on the achievement of the PDOs. Due to
the restriction in traveling, there was no mid-term review of the project. It is the assessment of the ICR
team that a mid-term review could have enhanced achievement of the project's objectives.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

To arrive at the overall rating, more weight was given to supervision than to quality at entry. The severe
conditions under which this project was implemented restricted staff travel to WBG. However, the Bank
was proactive and looked for alternative ways of providing close contact with the implementation team,
by video and audio conferencing, and by assigning a local operations staff and an international staff to the
country office for an extended period of time. During the last six months of project implementation, and
for the period during which this report was prepared, a Senior Education Staff was also located in the
country office.

10.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

MOE was successful in recruiting a qualified PST, and established a project implementation unit soon
after the project became effective. Despite the changes in priorities from development to emergency, in
particular in the first years of the project, MOE performed very well in implementing the project. There
were a few shortcomings, such as a lack of coordination between MOE, MOP, and MOF, during project
implementation. The PSC could have included representatives from these ministries, to enhance meeting
the goals related to improving the planning and budgeting capacity of MOE. The exclusion of key
stakeholders during preparation resulted in their limited incentive to cooperate gainfully in project
implementation.      MOE should be commended for taking the initiative to commission an external
evaluation of the INSET and SUT programs, and attempting to review the logframe, albeit quite late in
the project life (during the last year of project implementation).




                                                      13

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Implementing
Agency           Performance

                 The PST was successful in keeping the project running and meeting Bank's fiduciary
                 requirements, even under the most difficult circumstances. The PST performed well in
                 achieving most output indicators, and in seeking alternative ways to deliver teacher
Ministry of      training activities, as well as for successfully completing the consultancies for the EMIS,
Education        computerization of FMS and evaluation of the SUT and INSET programs. The PST also
                 performed quite satisfactorily on issues related to civil works.     The overall capacity of
                 MOE could have been strengthened, had the PST worked more closely with the MOE
                 Financial Department.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The PST performed very well, notably in meeting output indicators and Bank fiduciary requirements.
Given the difficult circumstances under which the project was implemented, it was very positive that most
project activities continued on track. Regarding the more ambitious outcomes related to the improvement
in management and policy-making, these could have been better achieved had there been more
international technical assistance available, which was beyond the Borrower's control.

11. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

Projects aiming to improve planning and public financial management have a better chance of
succeeding if they are part of a broad policy dialogue with central ministries, have enough resources to
support and monitor the proposed actions, and are supported by sufficient donor cofinancing resources.
Reform and institutional development initiatives are processes that require political commitment and
long-term interventions. Coordination with central ministries, such as Planning and Finance, can provide
the support needed for this ambitious process in line ministries. In contexts such as the PA, where the
budget is heavily reliant on donor contributions, multi-donor support is needed to move this type of
reform forward.

Arrangements for progress monitoring against project logical framework and key performance indicators
must be in place and maintained throughout the duration of the project. To guarantee alignment with
project objectives, it is important to monitor progress. In addition, in order to introduce necessary
changes, whether emerging from a changing environment or from changes in political will, close
monitoring is essential. This should include establishing from the beginning a monitoring matrix that
identifies the roles of the different parties involved in implementation and agreed monitoring indicators,
as well as the frequency of and sources for data collection and verification.

Flexibility in project design and implementation are key factors for projects implemented in countries in
conflict or volatile political contexts. Projects designed in countries subject to volatile political
environments need to have simple and strategic development objectives and flexible implementation
arrangements. Task teams working in volatile political countries need to be proactive in assessing project
risks, and finding creative solutions, including project restructuring at early stages.

The Palestinian education system operates under constant threat and therefore has to balance between
concurrent and parallel emergency and development goals. As learned from the sector work prepared as
a follow up to this project, the education system in WBG has made impressive achievements in the past
five years, with massive and equitable expansion reaching a level of development that by most accounts
could be compared with middle-income countries. These achievements were reached in the midst of the
second Intifada, and despite the many restrictions to movement resulting from Israeli closures. Despite,
the project did very well in meeting quantitative goals. A main challenge lies ahead for policy-makers in
                                                       14

WBG, in order to build on these achievements and take the necessary steps forward to consolidate the
education system, introduce more efficient and resource management, and improve its planning and
policy-making. This can only be achieved if the dual goals of constant crisis and emergency do not
overshadow the focus on development and mid- to long-term goals.

12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

For the most part, MOE agreed with the findings of the ICR. One issue raised by the Director of TVET
during the stakeholder's workshop and reported in Annex 9 was regarding the uneven allocation of funds
between West Bank and Gaza. The comments reported in Annex 9 are based on a calculation of number
of schools and not on the basis of population. This is a misleading way of calculating fund allocation, as
the population density in Gaza is much higher than that of the WB, and therefore the size of schools in
Gaza on average is four times that of schools in the WB. Therefore the estimates of the ICR, of 78% of
resources allocated to WB versus 22% allocated to Gaza, are accurate.

(b) Cofinanciers




(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                                   15

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

As stated in the PAD, the project aimed to strengthen the capacity of the MOE to manage the education
system more effectively through improved policy-making, planning and budgeting at the central and
district levels. It would also support the implementation of activities in targeted domains included in the
agreed annual departmental work plans derived from the Five-Year Education Plan (2001-2005). This
would have led to improved utilization of funding from the PA budget and international donors. The
PAD also stated that the project would be involved in areas where efficiency gains were most expected,
including: (a) training; (b) school construction; (c) vocational training; and (d) overall sector
management.

The Key Performance Indicators as stated in the PAD are the following:

     More effective education sector management through improvement in financial and education
         information and data utilization and policy making
     More rational and persuasive budgetary processes resulting in increased and better-used
         international aid resources

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Neither the PDO nor the key indicators were revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)
                                                                             Formally     Actual Value

  Indicator      Baseline Value        Original Target Values (from           Revised      Achieved at
                                            approval documents)               Target     Completion or
                                                                              Values      Target Years

Indicator 1 :   More effective education sector management through improvement in financial and
                education information and data utilization and policy making
                                   EMIS updated and utilized at central
Value                              and district offices in annual and multi-            EMIS and FMS
(quantitative EMIS and FMS year planning and monitoring plan                            for use within the
or              inadequate         implementation Financial management                  Ministry
Qualitative)                       system computerized and operational by               completed
                                   January 2002
Date achieved 11/21/2001           01/31/2002                                           03/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Computerization of FMS & EMIS was completed. The extent to which they will change

achievement)    MOE's planning and management can only be assessed in the future.

Indicator 2 :   More rational and persuasive budgetary processes resulting in increased and better-used
                international aid resources.
Value           Fragmented
(quantitative budgets, and lack
or              of donor
Qualitative)    coordination
Date achieved 05/31/2001
Comments
(incl. %        Budgets still de-linked from planning, and donor driven.
achievement)




                                                      16

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                                                        Formally       Actual Value

  Indicator    Baseline Value       Original Target Values (from          Revised      Achieved at
                                         approval documents)              Target      Completion or
                                                                          Values       Target Years
Indicator 1 : Targeted training activities implemented
Value         School as a unit   Number of teachers receiving training              1,100 schools
(quantitative for training - 0   through school-based training grant                participated (EOP
or            schools            scheme reaches 550 by end of year                  target value
Qualitative)  participating      2004.                                              exceeded by 100%)
Date achieved 11/21/2001         12/31/2004                                         09/30/2005
Comments
(incl. %      The project performed well in meeting quantitative targets. However, the development

achievement)  objective of planting the seeds for school-based management was not achieved.

Indicator 2 : Targeted activities implemented for vocational secondary education
                                 Construction of four vocational
Value                            annexes to general secondary schools
(quantitative 0 VT programs in (2 boys and 2 girls). No. of students                4 VT programs
or            targeted areas     enrolling in secondary vocational                  established
Qualitative)                     programs by gender reaches 7.5% of
                                 total by 2004.
Date achieved 11/21/2001         12/31/2004                                         09/30/2005
Comments
(incl. %      The PAD called for reaching 7.5% enrollment in vocational programs of total secondary

achievement)  enrollments by 2004. By 2006, this percentage was only 4%.

Indicator 3 : TVET enrollment increased
Value
(quantitative 4 TVET schools
or            were built
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/30/2004
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                                   17

Annex 2. Restructuring (if any)

                                   Not Applicable




                                        18

Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


            Components             Appraisal Estimate Actual/Latest Estimate Percentage of
                                      (USD M)               (USD M)           Appraisal
1. STRENGTHENING CAPACITY
OF MOE                                           0.00                   0.00

1.1 POLICY, PLANNING AND
FINANCING                                        1.30                   1.73        133.08

1.2 SUPPORT FOR
IMPLEMENTATION                                   0.30                   0.47        156.67

2. TARGETED INTERVENTIONS                        0.00                   0.00
2.1 GENERAL EDUCATION                            2.80                   3.20        114.29
2.2 VOCATIONAL SECONDARY
EDUCATION                                        2.50                   2.80        112.00

               Total Baseline Cost               6.90                   8.20
Physical Contingencies                           0.50
Price Contingencies                              0.20
                Total Project Costs              7.60
Front-end fee PPF                                0.00                   0.00          0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                               0.00                   0.00          0.00
         Total Financing Required                7.60                   8.20



(b) Financing


 Source of Funds       Type of     Appraisal Estimate Actual/Latest Estimate Percentage of
                     Cofinancing       (USD M)              (USD M)           Appraisal
  Borrower                                       0.60                   1.20        200.00
  SPECIAL
FINANCING                                        7.00                   7.00        100.00


(c) Disbursement Profile




                                              19

Annex 4. Outputs by Component


Component I: Strengthening Capacity of MoE
Rating: Satisfactory

Subcomponent 1:1       Policy, Planning and Financing.
Rating: Satisfactory

Although the overall goal of improving the management of the education system at the central and
district level was not fully accomplished, the outcome of this component is rated satisfactory, as there
were key activities that although implemented late in the life of the project, have an excellent potential to
improve the planning and budgeting process for MOE.

(i) Building Vertical Extension to the MOE Annex: A three-story extension (1,300 square meters) to the
MOE annex was built at a cost of US$638,000. The extension is currently being used as home for the
Ministers Office, the General Directorate (GD) for International and Public Relations, and the DG for
Planning. The extension significantly improved the facilities for the central MOE staff for better work
practice.

(ii) Developing and Computerizing the MOE Financial System: Procurement of services towards this
activity did not begin until the third year of the project. This delay was a result of shifting priorities in
the first two years of the Intifada, long discussions between the Bank and MOE over the tendering
process of the system, and the lack of expertise within the MOE to draft the technical specifications of
the system being sought. This resulted in a delay of results against the relevant key performance
indicators (system operational at central and district levels by 2002). At the time of preparation of the
ICR, only the accounting and inventory control modules were completed and were under testing only at
the central level, as the system has not been deployed to all district offices. The budgeting and
procurement modules are not completed. Despite these shortcomings, MOE officials report that the
accounting module transformed the way MOE does business. The accounting module incorporates a
customized drill-down function and a funding source coding feature, which will allow monitoring
projects from different donors.     The functions of the system are uncommon features in off-the-shelf
accounting packages, and were customized for MOE need. The main drawbacks of this system are: (a)
the accounting classification and chart of accounts do not currently support program-based budgeting
(they follow a traditional input based classification); (b) the Financial Management Manual (FMM)
developed as part of the FMS development process does not meet the expectations of end-users; (c) the
system is not connected to the personnel and project management systems (PPMS) of the Ministry which
are being developed under the Palestinian Finish Education Project 2 (PALFEP II); and (d) there has
been no involvement with the DG of Planning in the process of developing the FMS to ensure linkages
between planning and budgeting.

(iii) Developing the EMIS and School Mapping System: The activities did not effectively start until the
latter part of the third year of the project. This delay limited the achievement of the objectives of this
task. At the time of preparation of the ICR, the EMIS system in the MOE headquarters had not been
connected to the district offices as infrastructure works were still underway; school coordinates were
identified only for the WB schools (with a plan in place with funding from UNICEF to collect the
coordinates for Gaza schools); the GIS was only operational in Jenin, Nablus, Hebron, and Ramallah
District Offices; and mechanisms for integrating the disparate systems within the Ministry with the EMIS
had not been identified, although these were key expected outputs from the EMIS consultancy. MOE
staff is reportedly working on developing solutions for integrating the information in different systems
within the Ministry (especially with GDs of Planning and Administrative Affairs systems where
personnel data are kept). Although important activities were accomplished, the expectations from
developing the EMIS and School Mapping System highlighted in the PAD are still far from being
realized and require additional capacity building, organizational development, and change management
efforts before they can be realized.


                                                     20

(iv) Finishing Works in the Curriculum Building: This activity was added as an 'emergency' need. A
new Curriculum Center has been constructed near the offices of MOE and is fully equipped and
operational. The new building enhanced the work environment for some seventy staff that used to work
out of rented, overcrowded offices. This has resulted in improved effectiveness and increased efficiency
of communication, collaboration and management information flow between units.

Subcomponent 1.2: Support to Implementation
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

(v) Support to Implementation: The PST supported implementation of the project in close collaboration
with the MOE DGs and their teams. Coordination between the PST and the MOE staff increased
markedly over the lifetime of the project, mostly on operational and administrative issues. The PST role
in ensuring the timely delivery of project outputs and in supporting the Ministry with the administration
of the project has been widely acknowledged by all MOE staff interviewed during the process of
preparing the ICR. One drawback of this subcomponent is that the PST staff envisaged to be located in
relevant directorates was never integrated into the MOE structure, and remained operating as a separate
Project Implementation Unit (PIU). Their potential for building the capacity of MOE staff was limited.

Component 2:       Targeted Interventions is rated moderately unsatisfactory. This component was
divided into two subcomponents and focused on five outputs: (a) extension of the program for school
improvement; (b) teachers and supervisors in-service training; (c) rehabilitation of existing schools; (d)
developing standards for head teachers; and (e) establishing four pilot units for vocational secondary
education.    Although the components were not revised to reflect the emergency outputs that MOE
requested, they have been included in this ICR as follows: (a) repair of school damage; (b) procurement
of school equipment.

Subcomponent 2.1: General Education
Rating: Satisfactory

(i) Extension of the Program for School Improvement: The School as a Unit of Training (SUT) Program
was the main vehicle through which school management improvement was to be introduced. The SUT
program was motivated by the desire of the MOE to move towards decentralization and enhanced school
level administration. A total of 1,100 schools (866 in WB and 234 in Gaza, representing 69% of the total
number of public schools in the WBG) received funds through the projects SUT program to deliver
demand driven training courses to their resident teachers. Reportedly, a total of 24,879 teachers were
trained through this program. The impact of the SUT program is difficult to measure due to the lack of
comparative data between the schools that benefited and those that did not and between different SUT
generation schools and analyses of the effect of the different training courses on teacher and student
performance. The recent evaluation of the SUT program provides indication, however, that the SUT
program has been well received by teachers and contributed to improving their skills and knowledge.
Teachers and head teachers interviewed during the preparation of the ICR also expressed a high level of
satisfaction with the training provided through the SUT program and attributed their satisfaction to: the
participatory process of selection of the training topics; flexibility in timing and duration of the training
sessions; and the possibility of building on previous training courses received through the same program.
The SUT program was impressive in terms of its scope and legacy of eighteen complete training
packages published

(ii) Allocation of resources between WBG was uneven, with 78% for WB and only 22% for Gaza. The
reasons for this are not that clear despite the fact that the program follows clear selection criteria.

(iii)  Teachers and Supervisors In-Service Training (INSET): In the initial stage of the project,
implementation of activities towards this output faced major constraints due to closures and curfews as
trainings were held in central city locations, which were difficult for both trainees and trainers to access.
The MOE aptly overcame this difficulty by shifting the delivery of training to the district and school
levels, using a cascade training model after having completed the Training of Trainers at the central
level. Activities under this output mainly targeted school supervisors and teachers and included

                                                       21

preparation of training curriculum on content and interactive pedagogical approaches, production of
guidance and reference materials for teachers and supervisors, and delivery of training for teachers, head
teachers and supervisors. Some courses were offered only once and for a limited number of teachers
despite the high demand for it by teachers (for example, Applied Activities in Teaching Physics in Gaza).
The supply-driven nature of INSET reduces the potential for effectiveness, as it is not always the case
that the content matches the training needs of the teachers or the school.

(iv)   Rehabilitation of Existing Schools: 8 schools have been rehabilitated through the project.
Rehabilitation works included maintenance of existing facilities (5 schools 3 in WB and 2 in Gaza),
provision for necessary building expansion (1 school in Gaza), construction and rehabilitation of sanitary
units (2 schools in WB), and finishing works in 1 school in Jenin.
"Emergency Component"

(v) School Damage Repairs: Damages in seven WB and North Gaza Schools resulting from the Israeli
Defense Forces (IDF) Operation Defensive Shield in 2002 were repaired through the project (total cost of
US$365,000). These repairs were of utmost priority for the MOE and the schools themselves.

(vi) Procurement of School Equipment: Pursuant to Operation Defensive Shield launched by the Israeli
Defense Forces in 2002, the MOE received the Banks approval for reallocating some US$1.14 million of
project funds for emergency procurement of equipment for schools. This included the procurement of
895 computers and 91 printers for the benefit of 91 schools in the WBG (655 computers for 73 WB
schools and 240 computers for 18 Gaza schools). The average share of WB schools was 8 computers
and 1 printer, whereas the Gaza schools share was 13 computers and 1 printer on average. In addition, a
total of 76 schools (49 in the WB and 27 in Gaza) received various lab devices and equipment. There are
some significant problems with the emergency procurement of school equipment activities, namely:

   Need versus emergency: The establishment of computer labs and laboratories in schools does not
    qualify as an emergency response. This is especially true when considering that none of the schools
    that benefited from the emergency procurement activities had sustained any damages to its existing
    facilities during the IDFs operations in the Palestinian territories.
   Limited Impact:     The MOE attempt to be equitable in the distribution of computers on the basis of
    need and fair selection criteria of beneficiary schools is believed to have caused a dispersal of impact
    of procurement activities. The average number of computers received by schools is too low by any
    standard and cannot be expected to produce the envisaged results of improved student learning and
    accessibility to computer lab facilities. In its letter to the Bank requesting the reallocation of funds
    to the procurement of goods, the MOE highlighted that the PA budget deficits were rendering
    impossible the realization of the third year operational plan of the Five-Year Plan of establishing 75
    computer labs, 50 science labs, and 200 copy printing machines as justification.         The number of
    computers provided along with the lack of supporting facilities in the supposed computer labs does
    not imply that proper computer labs have been established. While the MOE officials agree that
    computer to student ratios did not significantly improve as a result of this activity, they maintain that
    the idea was to establish a "nucleus for computer labs that could be expanded in the future through
    donor funding and community contributions."         Whether this vision will be realized remains to be
    seen in the future.
   Relevance of proposed activities. Another important element to take into consideration where the
    opportunity cost' of the activities that were cancelled in order to "meet the emergency needs."        It
    seems that MOE officials were not keen on implementing activities related to capacity building of
    MOE and District Officials on planning and budgeting, nor on building school leadership skills, as
    these were all cancelled in order to accommodate the purchase of computers. It seems that there was
    an oversight on the Bank's side for not assessing the implications of approving the cancellation of
    capacity building activities and purchasing school computers instead. This resulted in not meeting
    equally important Five-Year Education Plan Goals such as building MOE's managerial capacity, and
    more so, an activity directly related to meeting the PDO.



                                                     22

Subcomponent 2.2: Vocational Secondary Education
Rating: Moderately satisfactory

Establishing Four Pilot Units for Vocational Secondary Education:       Four secondary vocational schools
were built through the project in Jenin, Qalqilia, Salfit and North Gaza.    The schools were originally
built to be annexes to existing schools to allow for efficiency gains through the utilization of common
facilities and teaching force from the non-vocational courses.     This, however, did not happen as the
MOE made a decision three years into the project reassigning the responsibility for the development and
supervision of vocational schools to the General Directorate for Vocational Education in the MOHE, and
consequently taking the decision to physically separate the annexes built from the schools of which they
were originally intended to be part. In addition, there were envisaged to be 2 schools for boys and 2 for
girls, and this was later changed to 3 schools for boys. While it is beyond the scope of the ICR to
analyze or comment on these decisions, it is important to highlight the following results it had on the
schools built with project funds:

  Inadequate space and facilities: All four schools suffer from lack of essential facilities (sanitary
     units, drinking fountains, store rooms, administration and teachers rooms, benches and rest areas,
     shaded areas, and playgrounds) due to the original design which assumed that the built units would
     be part of existing schools that had such facilities.
  Reduced efficiency: The physical separation of the vocational schools rendered it necessary to
     employ administrative and custodian staff as well as a number of teachers for the academic subjects,
     transforming the envisaged efficiency gains into efficiency losses.
  Lack of proper system for supervision of academic teachers: While school supervisors continue to
     provide supervision to vocational schools, the supervision process is not considered to be formal
     thus vocational school teachers' performance reviews are not systemized.       Moreover, technical
     supervision of workshop engineers is virtually non-existent due to the lack of adequate supervision
     resources in the DG for Vocational Education.
  A positive aspect is the decentralized management and administration: Vocational schools enjoy a
     higher degree of financial and administrative autonomy and decentralization than academic schools.
     This is simply because the DG for Vocational Education does not stipulate the same administrative
     requirements on vocational schools as those imposed on academic schools.       For example, unlike
     academic schools, vocational schools are able to keep all the student fees they collect, unlike
     academic schools which keep only 60% of the student fees they collect.       The remaining 40% is
     transferred to the District Office to cover administrative expenses and development.         This is
     believed to be a substantial advantage because it provides vocational schools with access to
     relatively good size budgets that enable them to cover the costs of most consumable goods needed
     for their workshops. If vocational units were annexed to academic schools, their control over their
     budget would be limited, thus constraining their ability to effectively manage their budget. In
     addition, vocational schools also enjoy greater administrative autonomy when it comes to daily
     management of personnel.




                                                      23

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis)

The economic analysis reflected in the PAD looked into cost-benefit analysis of the infrastructure
investments proposed in the project, mainly the construction of MOE building, and TVET schools. For
the latter the fiscal impact was also estimated. The internal rate of return for the extension of the MOE
building was calculated at 14%. This was done considering the savings from not renting facilities, and
savings of staff working time and transportation costs. At the time when this ICR was prepared, an
economic analysis was not done, as the PA is facing a fiscal crisis emerged from the withdrawal of the
international coummnity support. An economic analysis at this stage would give a distorted picture of
how the investments of this project contributed to save on recurrent costs. In addition, under normal
conditions, there is no reason to question the initial calculations. The recurrent costs of the TVET
programs as extensions in existing secondary schools was calculated to be half of the unit costs for
separate TVET schools. This was one of the main reasons for recommending building the TVET
facilities as annexes in existing schools. However, the MoE decided for the option of building separate
facilities, which increased the recurrent costs of TVET.

To evaluate the fiscal impact of the project, the recurrent costs of all interventions were calculated to be
3% of all project costs, and less than 0.05% of MoE recurrent expenditures. Taking into consideration the
public expenditure review conducted earlier this year, these calculations appear to be correct.




                                                    24

Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

         Names                        Title                 Unit    Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Hadi Abushakra         Chief Counsel                      LEGMS     Legal Advisor
George Nasri Awwad     Consultant                         MNSIF     Procurement Specialist
Sue Ellen Berryman     Consultant                         IEGCM     Sr. Education Specialist
Vasilios C. Demetriou  Consultant                         MNSHD     Sr. Implementation Spec
Christina W. Djemmal   Operations Analyst                 MNSHD     Operations Analyst
Celine Gavach          Operations Analyst                 MNSHD     Operations Analyst
Luis Guillermo Hakim   Senior Economist                   MNSHD     Sr. HR Economist
Salam Kanaan           Operations Analyst                 MNSHD     Education Specialist
Stephen George Karam   Sr Urban Economist                 MNSIF     Sr. Country Officer
Hans Korb              Consultant                         SASFP     Implementation Spec
Krisztina Mazo         Program Assistant                  MNSED     Project Support
Thao Le Nguyen         Senior Finance Officer             LOAG2     Disbursement Officer
Vivian Nwachukwu-
Irondi                 Program Assistant                  LEGAF     Project Support

Suha Rabah             Program Assistant                  MNC04     Project Support
Eluned Roberts-
Schweitzer             Sr Education Spec.                 ECSHD     Sr. Ed Sp./TTL at LEN

Hisham Ahmed Waly      Sr Financial Management Specialist MNAFM     Sr. FM Specialist
Ghada Youness          Sr Counsel                         LEGMS     Legal Advisor
Takako Yuki            Operations Officer                 MNSHD     Optns Analyst/Ed Econ
Supervision/ICR
Ayed A. Abu Ramadan    E T Consultant                     MNAPR     Procurement Specialist
Abdallah Awad          Information Officer                MNC04     IT Specialist
George Nasri Awwad     Consultant                         MNSIF     Procurement Specialist
Siaka Bakayoko         Sr Financial Management Specialist MNAFM     FM Specialist
Mae Chu Chang          Lead Education Specialist          EASHD     Sr. Ed Sp./TTL at SPN
Christina W. Djemmal   Operations Analyst                 MNSHD     Implementation Spec
Imad Subhi Dweik       E T Consultant                     MNSHD     Project Evaluation
Akram Abd El-Aziz
Hussein El-Shorbagi    Sr Financial Management Specialist MNAFM     FM Specialist

Grace B. Ghattas       Program Assistant                  MNSHD     Team Assistant
Luis Guillermo Hakim   Senior Economist                   MNSHD     Sr. HR Economist
Samira Ahmed Hillis    Operations Officer                 MNSHD     Implementation Spec
Adriana Jaramillo      Sr Education Spec.                 MNSHD     Sr Ed Sp/TTL fr June 05
Arun R. Joshi          Sr Education Spec.                 AFTH1     Sr. Ed Sp./TTL at SPN
Salam Kanaan           Operations Analyst                 MNSHD     Education Specialist
Amer Samir Madi        Consultant                         MNSHD     Project Evaluation
Thao Le Nguyen         Senior Finance Officer             LOAG2     Disbursement Officer
Adel Fahed J. Odeh     Financial Management Analyst       MNC04     FM & Disbursement
Suha Rabah             Program Assistant                  MNC04     Team Assistant

Stefanie Stallmeister  Operations Officer                 EACDF-
                                                         DIV        Education Specialist


                                              25

(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

No. Date ISR Archived            DO              IP            Actual Disbursements (USD M)
1   08/09/2001               Satisfactory  Satisfactory                                    0.00
2   02/06/2002               Satisfactory  Satisfactory                                    0.30
3   08/06/2002               Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory                                  0.30
4   02/06/2003               Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory                                  0.75
5   04/18/2003               Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory                                  1.15
6   06/30/2003               Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory                                  1.83
7   08/12/2003               Satisfactory  Satisfactory                                    2.09
8   02/12/2004               Satisfactory  Satisfactory                                    3.78
9   06/15/2004               Satisfactory  Satisfactory                                    5.06
10 12/20/2004                Satisfactory  Satisfactory                                    5.85
11 04/27/2005                Satisfactory  Satisfactory                                    6.36
12 11/07/2005                Satisfactory  Satisfactory                                    6.61

(c) Staff Time and Cost
                                                    Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

              Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands
                                                   No. of staff weeks    (including travel and
                                                                           consultant costs)
Lending
                      FY99                                                      13.67
                      FY00                                  40                 152.16
                      FY01                                  12                  38.22
                      FY02                                   4                   3.87
                      FY03                                   1                   1.01
                      FY04                                                       0.00
                      FY05                                                       0.00
                      FY06                                                       0.00
                      FY07                                                       0.00
                                          Total:            57                 208.93
Supervision/ICR
                      FY99                                                       0.00
                      FY00                                                       7.56
                      FY01                                   9                  25.91
                      FY02                                  22                  43.39
                      FY03                                  32                  45.65
                      FY04                                  35                  90.93
                      FY05                                  30                  94.45
                      FY06                                  20                  58.84
                      FY07                                   2                  23.84
                                          Total:          150                  390.57




                                              26

Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

          Bank                  Ratings               Borrower              Ratings

Ensuring Quality at     Moderately
Entry:                  Unsatisfactory          Government:        Satisfactory


Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory Implementing
                                                Agency/Agencies:   Satisfactory


Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
Performance:            Moderately Satisfactory Performance:       Satisfactory




                                               27

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)

Introduction: Two three-hour workshops were held with school supervisors from all District Offices in
both the West Bank and Gaza Strip. The purpose of the workshop was to assess the impact of the INSET
and SUT Programs on the teachers, head teachers, school environment, and the students, as well as to
identify the strengths and the weaknesses of both programs. The workshops provided the opportunity for
school supervisors to reflect on both programs and to participate in the evaluation of these programs
within the framework of the ICR preparations. The following is a summary of these workshops
conclusions and recommendations, which mainly reflect the opinions of the participants.

Summary of Conclusions:
The INSET Program was the first MoE program that provided training to teachers through a systematic,
well-designed approach. The offerings were well balanced between content and pedagogical approaches.

Several of the pedagogical methods training courses had a considerable impact on the schools and the
teachers' in-class performance. Positive impacts include improved teaching methods, reduction in
operation costs, and better utilization of existing resources.

Despite the many advantages of the INSET Program, there is a number of effectiveness constraints in the
education system that the INSET Program could not resolve, namely:

  Weak incentive system: Teachers feel that there is absolutely no incentive for them to attend training
    other than the fear being sanctioned for not attending. Some supervisors suggested that many teachers
    do not benefit from the training offered because of the simple fact that they feel forced to be present
    in the course. Moreover, there are no incentives for teachers to demonstrate that they are putting to
    use what they have been trained on.
  Teacher transfer decisions are made without regard to the effect that the transfer might have on
    training utility. Some teachers who have received specialized training are often transferred to schools
    where they cannot utilize the skills they garnered through training programs.
  Some teachers cannot put what they have learned to practice simply because the schools in which
    they teach lack the needed resources that are need for applying learned skills.
  Some teachers are trained in subjects outside their field of their specialization.   For example, many
    social science and Arabic language teachers are provided training in Islamic Studies.
  Training offered by MoE to teachers is still done haphazardly. Still, there is no central Directorate
    that is responsible for providing and coordinating training activities. Several General Directorates
    offer training courses and require teachers and supervisors to attend without much regard to
    redundancies, timing, and teaching load. In addition, NGOs offer training to teachers in much of the
    same way.

The timing of INSET training is often not conducive for teachers and school administrations. Head
teachers need training. The training modules offered to them through the MoE are believed to be
outdated and too theoretical. Head teachers need to be trained on modern school management and
administration. School supervisors monitor teachers performance on a regular basis and try to make sure
that they follow-up closely with teachers on a number of issues. However, the supervision support
system needs significant improvements. Ideally, school administrations should take on more supervisory
responsibility of their teachers and should be held accountable for the performance of their teachers.
Supervisors should play a supportive role in the process. Realizing this, however, requires a complete
system overhaul towards decentralization and accountability.

SUT is believed to be an extremely important program for school development.             However, the SUT
Program does not guarantee the selection of the best trainer. The SUT program also needs to be solidly
integrated with the accountability and supervision system in MoE.

Recommendations: MoE needs to revisit the incentive system related to teacher training. Incentives
could be as little as a certificate of completion or small salary increments for demonstrable achievements.

                                                      28

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)

A stakeholder's workshop to discuss the ICR findings was facilitated by the Bank, which took place on
June 5, 2006. From the MOE side, the workshop was attended by the Director Generals of Planning,
International Relations, Building and Works, Finance and Administration, and Vocational Education.
Also in attendance were six Department Managers from the key GD that were targeted by the EAP, two
Principals of the Vocational Schools built through the EAP, and several District Education Office staff.

In attendance from the Bank's side were the TTL, the Operations Analyst, Financial Management
Analyst, Information Officer, and the two consultants that worked on the data collection and interviews
for preparation of the ICR.

The purpose of the workshop was to provide an opportunity for the MOE to comment on the findings of
the ICR and contribute to formulating the Lessons Learned section of the ICR. The workshop began with
the Bank's presentation of the key ICR findings, which was followed by an open discussion.

The following points summarize the comments made on the ICR by the MOE representatives, and they
are organized by project components:

Component 1: Strengthening the MOE Capacity
Subcomponent 1.1: Policy, Planning and Financing

1.   The EMIS and School Mapping System. The MOE is in agreement with the findings of the ICR.
The Director General of Planning, Mr. Sa'adeh Hamoudeh, highlighted that the Ministry is currently in
the process of formulating a vision for the use of the EMIS and School Mapping and is committed to
connecting the District Offices to the School Mapping System. Moreover, Mr. Hamoudeh stated that a
committee has been formed to push the integration of budgeting and planning forward. Mr. Hamoudeh
stressed the importance of capacity building in planning at both the District and Central levels.

2. The Financial Management System. Mr. Mohammad Jubran, Director General of Finance, agreed
with the conclusions of the ICR stressing that the FMS capabilities have surpassed his and his colleague's
expectations. According to Mr. Jubran, the FMS has made it possible to overcome many challenges the
previous system could not overcome. With regard to the FMS Manual, Mr. Jubran confirmed that it had
been developed to improve the operations of the Finance Department. However, he claimed that some of
the modified procedures proposed in the Manual could not be implemented immediately. So, they opted
to design the FMS according to the way procedures are normally done, with the expectation that these
procedures will change over time. He stressed that changing procedures will not pose a major problem to
the software developers since it is highly flexible .

Mr. Jubran highlighted that his Department is willing to cooperate with the Planning Department in the
budgeting. However, he mentioned that integrating budgeting and planning is a big challenge since the
budget follows a traditional input approach and is far away from the program budgeting. He stressed that
this is the reason why it is very difficult for the Finance Department to issue Departmental Budgets once
the MOE budget is approved.

3. Vertical Extension to MOE Annex. No comments were made.

Subcomponent 1.2: Support to Implementation
No substantial comments were made.

Component 2: Targeted Interventions
Subcomponent 2.1: General Education

1. Extension of the SUT. Mr. Tharwat Zeid, Director General of Training and Supervision, provided
the main comments on this program. Mr. Zeid agreed with the Bank's conclusion that the SUT Program
is not sufficient alone to improve school management, but stressed that it is a beginning of a long process

                                                      29

towards decentralization and school improvement. Mr. Zeid also agreed that the impact of the SUT is
hard to measure since teachers participate in several training courses both within the framework of the
official training provided by the Ministry and through training offered by NGOs. Mr. Zeid suggested that
the conclusion made by the ICR regarding the Gaza-WB split is misleading.              According to his
calculations, the SUT program was more favorable to the Gaza since the total number of schools that
benefited from the SUT in Gaza comprise close to 80% of the total Gaza schools, whereas only 66% of
the WB schools benefited from the SUT. He further explained that the impact of the SUT schools in
Gaza is believed to be greater since the number of teachers who benefited per school is much higher than
that in the WB.

2.   In-Service Teachers and Supervisors Training. Mr. Zeid also provided the MOE's comment on this
activity. He was generally in agreement with the ICR conclusions, but he suggested that the conclusion
on Obligatory Courses in the ICR is not consistent with the findings of the British Council evaluation of
the program, where the later suggested that these courses are beneficial to both the new and the more
experienced teachers.

3. Rehabilitation of Existing Schools. No comments were made on this intervention.

4. School Damage Repairs. No comments were made on this intervention.

5. Procurement of School Equipment. The Director of Procurement agreed that the procurement of
computers and lab equipment did not have a big impact on the recipient schools. However, he explained
that the decision for procurement and distribution was based on the policy of MOE to target as many
schools as possible.      He also mentioned that the PST requested the Ministry to reconsider the
procurement of compatible computers, but they decided to proceed with the procurement on the basis of
the price.

Subcomponent 2.2: Vocational Secondary Education

Mr. Naser Awad, Director General for Vocational Education, and Mr. Watheq Hitnawi, Principal of Jenin
Vocational School, provided the main comments regarding the ICR findings on this component. Mr.
Naser suggested that the decision to separate the schools was not envisaged at the time of the design of
the EAP. He suggested that the separation of schools from the academic schools that they were supposed
to be annexed to was a wise decision because of different cultural differences in both types of schools.
Mr. Hithnawi confirmed by saying that Jenin School was supposed to be annexed to one of the "worst"
schools in Jenin Governorate, and this would have been detrimental to his schools.

With regard to the lack of facilities, Mr. Naser explained that they have been working on addressing this
issue and they have made progress in all three schools. In Salfit, for example, the district office will
vacate 130 square meters for the benefit of the vocational school. He also suggested that the vocational
schools would not have fared better had they not been separated, because the academic schools they were
supposed to be annexed to, lack the needed facilities in the first place.

Mr. Naser explained that the cancellation of the curriculum development activity did not affect this
subcomponent since curriculum was already available for the six specializations selected. He also
mentioned that the MOE has another project that is dealing with curriculum development for the
vocational secondary education. A few of the attendees disagreed with Mr. Naser's comment on the
curriculum, suggesting that it would have been better had the curriculum been developed for these
schools while they were being constructed since the project that is focusing on curriculum development
did not start until recently.




                                                    30

Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The Education Action Project (EAP) is a US$7.0 million project which primarily aimed to strengthen the
capacity of the MOEHE to manage the education system more effectively through improving policy-
making, planning and budgeting at central and district levels. It supported the implementation of
activities in targeted domains included in agreed annual departmental work plans derived from the Five-
Year Education Plan (FYEP) (2001-2005). The EAP was involved in areas where efficiency gains were
most expected, including: (a) training; (b) school construction; (c) vocational training; and (d) overall
sector management.

The breakout of Al-Aqsa Intifada in September 2000, the political instability, and the Israeli measures
taken against the Palestinians including a military incursion into the Palestinian territories made it very
difficult to continue the path of planned EAP activities. However, major components were implemented
while funds allocated to technical assistance were reallocated for emergency needs which included
repairs of damaged schools, computer and science labs.        A PST was formed and fully staffed in early
2002. The PST had accumulated enough experience and was ready to help in the World Bank-financed
Tertiary Education Project, which became effective in June 2005. The PST followed up the
implementation of the EAP in close cooperation with the MOEHE's concerned line departments.              The
PST played a coordination role while most planning and implementation decisions were taken by the
relevant departments of the Ministry.

All components were accomplished within reasonable time taken into consideration the political
instability and Israeli closure measures and military incursion into the Palestinian territories. An
extension building to the Ministry's main premises was added, the building for the Curriculum Center has
been completed, and both are functional after being sufficiently equipped and furnished. School repairs
were undertaken and most vocational units became operational in the year 2003-2004 while one has
become operational in 2004-2005. Computer labs and science labs were procured and delivered to the
relevant schools which were chosen on reasonable criteria.

Major delays, however, took place in both the implementation of the EMIS and FMS. The delays were
the result of the political situation and the resultant environment which asks for more emergent actions
and postponing activities that the Ministry has lived without for quite some time. But in any case, the
two systems are now ready to be fully utilized in the planning and budgeting spheres.

Training activities took place and wide range of teachers, head teachers, supervisors and managerial staff
participated and were satisfactorily perceived.       However, the cascading technique of training was
appropriate under the political circumstances but some knowledge was missed in this way. More
attention should also be given to the priorities of teachers in selection for training.

Training in strategic planning and budgeting is a priority that should be taken seriously in the second
Five-Year Education Development Plan (2007-2011). It is also of equal importance that annual planning
and budgeting is in congruent with the new FYEDP.           Therefore, a monitoring and evaluation system
should be developed, installed and staffed not only to monitor implementation of projects but also to
identify any incongruence with the FYEDP and recommend corrective actions.

Cooperation with donors should stem from the new FYEDP.              Planning activities should be integrated
and their sequence be identified. Dialogue with donors should be based upon this integrated plan.

Many lessons have been learned through this project. We highlight them below.

The Ministry was fortunate in spite of all odds that it has the PST installed and integrated into it for the
EAP. If the PST was an external organization, it would have been difficult to work with various
departments, the systems and procedures of which were not documented. The PST gathered enough
valuable experience through the implementation of the EAP and, therefore, it should become an integral
department within the Ministry.


                                                      31

Emergency situations are normal in most countries of the developing world. In the Palestinian context,
emergency has been the type of life under which Palestinians should live in order to survive. Therefore,
action plans of the EAP type should have an emergency component. Reallocation of funds away from
technical assistance, when addresses real needs especially in the field of strategic planning and budgeting,
could have been avoided.

Mid-term evaluation and monitoring in such projects like the EAP (in terms of length and size) are a
necessary condition for success. This system can identify the weaknesses within the project and indicate
the steps that should be taken in timely fashion.

Knowledge does not filter evenly from one level to another. The PST was able to develop annual work
plans and budget within the framework of the EAP. But this experience was not translated into other
levels, directorates centrally or in the districts. Therefore, different department or directorates develop
plans not congruent with the FYEDP.

This incongruence has been influenced by the donor-driven agenda. Had there been a monitoring and
evaluation system that applies checks and balances, it could have been not the case for this incongruence,
but it is also true that the dialogue between the Ministry and donors should stem from a well-developed
FYEDP that has realistic and integrated objectives from which donors can select the range of activities
they would like to support. Wide sector approach was not developed yet and this also might have created
such incongruence.

Delays in actions implementation are normal in the Palestinian context because of the Israeli closure
measures that interrupts transportation and normal flow of goods and services. Therefore, contracts
should be given to local firms in the town or the nearest town where the action is being undertaken as
long as qualified firm can be identified and contracted.

People are in general resistant to change. They can live with the devil they know rather than with an
angel whom they do not know. Therefore, enough time should be given to discuss change with the
relevant stakeholders. Plans should be the outcome of a truly participatory approach. There were
incidents when relevant stakeholders were not consulted about their training needs for example. Even in
the emergency component the school had to cooperate with Al-Bireh Municipality and the public in order
to raise funds necessary for repairs the EAP did not cover.

Planning is an ongoing process. It did not start with the EAP and it does not stop after it has been
accomplished. This process is vital for the Ministry's current and future mission. But planning is
something and effective implementation is something else. The EAP suggests that in the Palestinian
context, great efforts for coordination purposes are required. The PST is a small group but the
coordination of efforts it required was immense, especially in the context of a changing structure within
the Ministry after higher education had been merged with lower level education in the midst of a political
crisis.

Some general recommendations are also highlighted below.

     Another phase of the EAP should be developed in line with the new FYEDP that is being
         developed at the Ministry whereby the PST might play a major role.
     An effective monitoring and evaluation system should be further developed; qualified staff
         should be identified and contracted as early as possible since the new FYEDP is underway to be
         finalized for adoption.
     An emergency component should be budgeted for in any new EAP.                Such fund could then be
         allocated to emerging needs that have direct impact on the quality of education.
     Planning and managerial capacity within the Ministry still in need of further development and
         support. Strategic management has been identified as a priority but this also holds true for annual
         work plans and budget.
     The coordination mechanism among donors and between them and the Ministry should be
         enhanced and stem from the adopted FYEDP.

                                                     32

In conclusion, we can say the following:

     The EAP has been closed. It has supported the Ministry's first FYEDP for 2000-2005.                  The
         experience of the EAP and the PST that lead its implementation is a rich one that should be
         learned from.    This experience might be extended to other ministries within the PNA with the
         required adaptation.
     Development planning within the MOEHE is building up experience.                  This story of the EAP
         suggests that despite some delays and adversities, an action plan is very supportive in the
         implementation of a wider strategic plan because it creates a mechanism of actionable objectives,
         indicators, and procedures through which the wider plan can become effective.
     The EMIS is ready to start working.         It should be utilized and data fed should be updated and
         become routine on specific dates from the responsible parties. Linkage to the data basis should
         be made accessible to relevant directorates, departments, and persons.
     The automated financial system should become effective and be the basis for financial reporting
         from schools up to the highest level.
     In both the EMIS and the automated financial system, any irregularities should be checked and
         reported so that corrective actions can be taken, i.e., the integrity of both systems should be tested
         occasionally and randomly to identify shortages and correction measures.
     Building vocational schools was particularly important, because it is a good way to promote
         vocational education in general and to build more schools to meet at least the natural ever-rising
         demand for VTE in the Palestinian society.
     It was a good decision to build a female vocational unit in Gaza where vocational education for
         females is less accepted.   It will have a long-term impact on changing people's perceptions to
         vocational training in general and female vocational education in particular.
     It is important to invest in promoting vocational training not only through building and equipping
         schools but also by promotional materials and campaigning for changing society's perception of
         vocational training.

Building separate vocational schools that have full suitable facilities might be more appropriate for
Palestine. Annexing vocational units proved to have different problems such as the lack of suitable
facilities including separate offices, outside space for students, smaller workshops space and possibility
for future expansion.




                                                      33

Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                            34

Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents

Project Concept Note
Project Appraisal Document
Trust Fund Credit Agreement and subsequent amended Agreements
Quarterly Progress Reports
Monthly Disbursement Monitoring Reports
Project Status Reports/Implementation Status and Results Reports (PSRs / ISRs)
Audit Reports and Financial Statements
Mission Aid Memoires
Fifteen Months - Intifada, Closures and Palestinian Economic Crisis, An Assessment; World Bank,
March 2002.
Long Term Policy Options for the Palestinian Economy, The World Bank, July 2002.
Twenty Seven Months - Intifada, Closures and Palestinian Economic Crisis, An Assessment; World
Bank, May 2003.
Four Years - Intifada, Closures and Palestinian Economic Crisis, An Assessment; World Bank, October
2004.
West Bank and Gaza: Education Sector Analysis - Impressive Achievements under Harsh Conditions and
the way Forward to Cons olidate a Quality Education System. September 7, 2006




                                                    35

