Report No. PID8896
Project Name                     West Bank and Gaza- Education (@)
Action Project
Region                           Middle East and North Africa
Sector                           Other Education
Project ID                       XOPE65593
Borrower(s)                      PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
P.O. BOX 576, RAMALLAH, PALESTINE
Contact Person: Mr. Khalil Mahshi,
Director General
Tel: 972-2-298-3254
Fax: 972-2-298-3254
Email: mahshi@planet.com
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                April 4, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         October 18, 2000
Projected Board Date             November 28, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
Context:   Building a strategic framework: The Palestinian education
system has been revitalized since the Palestinian Authority (PA) was
established in 1994 and has achieved almost universal basic education. The
PA has focused its scarce financial resources on the recurrent costs of
providing basic education (grades 1-10) and secondary education (grades
11-12), using substantial donor support for investment purposes. The
context of the West Bank and Gaza few natural resources, relatively high
wages, a small internal market, requires high levels of human capital to
undergird economic growth. The Ministry of Education, along with other
ministries, is undertaking an extensive planning process to support this
approach and there is substantial donor consensus on the need to work with
the ministry to support this effort. The comprehensive development
framework, under development collaboratively with the MOE and donors will
be used as a tool to further develop both the vision and practical
indicators for success in the planning and budgeting exercise. The main
sector issues for basic and secondary education which need to be addressed
to achieve these goals have been identified in collaboration with the PA
and donor agencies, especially during the Public Expenditure Review in
1998 and discussions on the Comprehensive Development Framework in 1999.
Sector Issues: The main sector issues are:1. Fiscal Sustainability Main
issue: maintaining fiscal equilibrium in the face of growing demand,
needed quality improvements, and uncertain resource mobilization.
Population growth in the WBG is high and conservative estimates indicate
that the basic-school-age population will increase by 30t between 2000 and
2005, requiring an increase in recurrent expenditures to simply maintain
current levels of enrollment. In addition, the Palestinian Authority (PA)
has established the goal of increasing secondary gross enrollments from 56
to 77T, which would require additional recurrent and capital costs. The



overall share of the budget for education and health has declined
slightly, which will make it difficult to sustain current indicators of
enrollment. While the present education system is fiscally sustainable
from domestic and donor resources, declines in donor resources and budget
allocations, coupled with increased demand and the need for quality
improvements are likely to threaten this sustainability.2. Quality and
Relevance Main issue: improving weak performance in the foundation skills
(verbal, mathematical, and science) and in higher order cognitive
(problem-solving) skills indicated by the limited evidence on students'
learning achievements. In both national and international assessments in
recent years students performed poorly in maths and arabic, particularly
in the synthesis of information. Access to vocational courses and higher
education is limited.3.   Access   Main issue: maintaining the current
levels of enrollment for basic education and at the same time increasing
the enrollment and retention at higher grades. Given natural increases in
school-age populations and higher enrollment rates at basic and secondary,
the MOE projects that enrollments will increase by 45 percent between 1999
and 2005 for basic education and 66 percent for secondary education. The
challenge is to maintain the basic NER at grades 1-6 and gradually
increase the completion rates for basic education at grade 10 in the face
of high population growth rates. The role of the private sector in
education remains undeveloped, both in formal and non formal sectors. 4.
Management Main issue: Need for expanded management capacity to meet
wide ranging program needs within budgetary constraints     The MOE needs
support to upgrade the capacity of the sector to manage programs and
improve the knowledge base for policy making in the light of increasing
demand and scarce resources. Planning, budgeting, and financial management
skills need to be upgraded in order to operationalize the five year plan
and take into account the recurrent cost implications of new activities to
meet strategic goals. The incentive system for encouraging good
performance and for sharing information and coordinating programs is
weak.
2. Objectives
The objective of the project is to improve the capacity of the Ministry of
Education to manage and plan for an effective system.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank can mobilize substantial international technical knowledge to
support the implementation challenges that lie before the MOE. In
particular the Bank can help its clients allocate resources efficiently.
This project will help develop the MOE's capacities to assess fiscal
sustainability, to search out least cost alternatives, to track
implementation progress relative to performance indicators, and to
evaluate the effectiveness of selected investments.
4. Description
The project supports the work already undertaken by the Ministry of
Education in the development of a Five Year Plan and long term education
strategy. Over the next three years it will support planning for, and
the implementation of, five year plan activities through support for
specific directorates. The project has two complementary components, plus
support for the project management unit. The first provides support to
strategies that assist policy making, planning and budgeting across the
departments, the second supports specific investments in education
-2 -



domains:
Component 1. Strengthen Capacity of the MOE. This component supports the
preparation and evaluation of Annual Work Plans and Budgets to
operationalize the priorities of the 5 year plan. Specific activities are:
1.1. Policy, Planning and Finance: (a) computerizing the financial
management system,; (b) an EMIS system; (c) a vertical extension to the
MOE building to rationalize space; (c) technical assistance and training
to support the above activities.
1.2. Support for Implementation: This sub-component covers costs
associated with project implementation.
Component 2. Targeted Interventions. This component consists of
activities in three domains included in the five-year education plan.
These domains are a high priority as they are areas of major expenditure
where improved effectiveness and efficiency could have significant impact
on the use of available funding. Each activity will be linked by
strategic planning tools. (GIS, Planning Framework) to the work of the
Planning Department and the Five Year Planning Committee.
2.1. General Education: This sub-component will fund: a) a program
to provide school based grants to be used for training and management
development; b) studies to develop standards for headteachers and design a
prototype credential for headteachers.
2.2. Vocational and Secondary Education: the development of pilot
secondary vocational curriculum and the construction of additions to
existing general secondary schools to increase opportunities for a
combined general/vocational education system
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government               0.47
IDA                      7.0
Total Project Cost       7.47
6. Implementation
Project Management:. The Ministry of Education (MOE) will be the executing
agency of the project which will be implemented over a three year period
(2001-2004). Since the activities of this project will be a subset of the
five-year education plan (as developed with the assistance of
UNESCO/IIEP), the project will be carried out through existing MOE
channels. The project will be supported by a Project Support Team (PST)
which will have a Project Director located in the planning department and
procurement and implementation specialists placed in exisiting MOE
departments rather than in a stand alone unit. These specialists are
expected to provide the professional strength and expertise lacking in the
MOE and to mentor staff working on project activities.
7. Sustainability
The focus of the project is to assist the MOE to develop agreed upon
annual workplans which would enable the project to fund activities that
were already shown to be sustainable and justified within the PA budget.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Timely use of technical assistance: This is sometimes not easy, given the
need to find in-house staff time, the need for clarity as to needs, and
the difficulty of matching TA to needs. The MOE leadership and the Bank
- 3 -



have agreed that the project will endeavor to provide timely and
appropriate TA.PIUs separated from the line functions of a ministry do not
build capacity within the ministry: Experience in other countries shows
that a PIU that is totally separated from the routine operations of a
ministry often does not leave sustainable capacity for continued
implementation after the project has closed. A small PIU will be
developed, integrated as much as possible within the line directorates in
the MOE building on the small PIU developed for the previous Education,
Health and Rehabilitation project.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :   Environmental issues:    The amount of waste
produced by educational facilities included in this project is expected to
be minimal. The involved educational facilities are very small and are
not expected to cause resettlement issues, as the construction is on
existing school sites.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Eluned Roberts-Schweitzer
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-3644
Fax: 202-477-0036
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending September 15, 2000.
- 4 -



