Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20804-GZ
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED TRUST FUND CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$7.0 MILLION
TO THE
WEST BANK AND GAZA
FOR AN
EDUCATION ACTION PROJECT
May 3, 2001
Human Development Sector
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 24, 2001)
Currency Unit = ILS (Israeli New Sheqalim)
ILS 1 = US$0.24
US$1 = ILS4.174
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AWPB               Annual Work Plans and Budgets
CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
CDF                Comprehensive Development Framework
EAP                Education Action Project
EHRP               Education & Health Rehabilitation Project
FMM                Financial Management Manual
EMIS               Education Management Information System
FMS                Financial Management System
GER                Gross Enrollment Rate
ILS                Israeli New Sheqalim
MIS                Management Information System
MOE                Ministry of Education
MOEA               Ministry of Environmental Affairs
MOF                Ministry of Finance
MOHE               Ministry of Higher Education
MOPIC              Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation
MOSA               Ministry of Social Affairs
NER                Net Enrollment Rate
NGO                Non-governmental Organization
PA                 Palestinian Authority
PCBS               Palestinian Central Bureau of Statistics
PECDAR             Palestinian Economic Council for Development and Reconstruction
PIP                Planned Investment Program
PMR                Project Management Report
PPF                Project Preparation Facility
PST                Project Support Team
QIAC               Quality Improvement Advisory Committee
QIP                Quality Improvement Project
TATF               Technical Assistance Trust Fund
TFC                Trust Fund Credit
TFGWB              Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank
UNDP               United Nations Development Programme
UNRWA              United Nations Relief and Works Agency
WHO                World Health Organization
Vice President:   Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director:    Nigel Roberts
Sector Director:    Jacques Baudouy
Task Team Leader:    Luis Guillermo Hakim



WEST BANK AND GAZA
EDUCATION ACTION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  7
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       9
3. Benefits and target population                                                     1 0
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      10
D. Project Rationale
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                           1 1
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         12
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           13
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   13
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        13
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           14
2. Financial                                                                          14
3. Technical                                                                          15
4. Institutional                                                                      15
5. Environmental                                                                      16
6. Social                                                                             17
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 18
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     19
2. Critical risks                                                                     20
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     21



G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            21
2. Other                                                                              21
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          21
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         21
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Anrangements
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10: Country at a Glance
Annex 11: Assessment of Institutional Capacities
Annex 12: Teacher Development Issues in Palestine and Rationale for Project Components
Annex 13: World Bank Assisted Education Project Pilot Project Component on Secondary
Vocational Education
MAP(S)



WEST BANK AND GAZA
Education Action Project
Project Appraisal Document
Middle East and North Africa Region
Human Development Sector
Date: May 3, 2001                                Team Leader: Luis Guillermo Hakim
Country Manager/Director: Nigel Roberts          Sector Director: Jacques Baudouy
Project ID: P065593                              Sector(s): EY - Other Education
Lending Instrument: Specific Investrnent Loan (SIL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan    [ ] Credit   [ ] Grant    [ ] Guarantee    [X] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 7.0
Financing Plan:    Source                                  Local         Foreign        Total
BORROWER                                                      0.63           0.00          0.63
SPECIAL FINANCING                                             3.22           3.78          7.00
Total:                                                        3.85           3.78          7.63
Borrower: PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION*
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF EDUCATION OF THE PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY
*PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (For the Benefit of the Palestinian Authority)
Address: P.O. BOX 576, RAMALLAH, PALESTINE
Contact Person: Mr. Basri Saleh, Director General for Planning
Tel: 972-2-298-3256/7               Fax: 972-2-298-3222                Email: Ac-Moe@palnet.com
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
FY         2002       2003       2004      2005
Annual    0.60        1.90      2.40       2.10
Cumulative    0.60       2.50       4.90      7.00
Project implementation period: 2001 -2004
Expected effectiveness date: 07/31/2001  Expected closing date:  09/30/2004
C    PAD F-  Rev Ma, ~O



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project primarily aims to strengthen the capacity of the Ministry of Education (MOE) to manage the
education system more effectively through improving policy-making, planning and budgeting at central and
district levels. It would also support the implementation of activities in targeted domains included in ag-eed
annual departmental workplans derived from the Five-Year Education Plan (2001-2005) This should lead
to improved utilization of funding from the budget and international donors. The project will be involved in
areas where efficiency gains are most expected, including: (i) training, (ii) school construction, (iii)
vocational training, and (iv) overall sectoral management.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Indicators for monitoring progress towards improved education system management
Components leading to                    Output Indicators                        Expected Outcomes
development objective
Improve policy making, planning,  Annual workplans based on agreed criteria are used   More effective management of the
and financing                  to prioritize donor funded activities and the   sector;
Palestinian Authority's (PA) education program.
Enhanced civic support for th, sector;
Intended activities are implemented within budget
(difference between expenditures and budgeted  More rational and persuasive budgetary
amounts is within a 10 % range) and on schedule by   processes for the sector; and
the end of the project.
Improved utilization of funding from
Functioning EMIS at central level and in at least  budget and international donors.
50% of the districts.
Central finance department computerized.       This decision support system would
enhance the planning process through
the utilization of different modeling
schemes.
Activities in targeted domains  Number of schools engaged in school improvement  Information from student and :eacher
activities through management program.         assessments is incorporated into school
and teacher perfornnance reviews.
Number of teachers receiving training through
school-based training grant scheme.
Number of students enrolling in secondary vocational
program by gender.
-2 -



B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R98-96           Date of latest CAS discussion: 05/28/98
The project supports two of the strategic themes of the World Bank group assistance strategy for the West
Bank and Gaza: (i) capable public sector management, governance, and institution building, and (ii)
adequate investments in human resource development.
Links between the MOE Five-Year Plan and the Country Development Framework (CDF) strategy
included in the CAS discussions are: (a) access and equity - increasing access to vocational education and
supporting a financially viable system that would provide access to all; (b) quality - supporting
professional development for teachers, school-based quality improvement and secondary vocational
curriculum; (c) govemance and management - improving management capacity through the development of
an Education Management Information System (EMIS) and computerizing the financial management
system (FMS).
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Context Building a strategic framework: Since the initial peace accords in 1994, the investment budget
for the MOE has been financed largely by donor grants and two World Bank trust fund credits. For the
past two years, the MOE has been developing a Five-Year Plan for education, which provides a framework
for identifying priorities consistent with the overall framework for govemance being created by the
Palestinian Authority (PA). The foundation of an improved delivery service system in the social sectors,
which has been identified as a national priority, rests on the ability of the PA to create and work within a
sound budgetary framework which addresses priority issues, but also works within budgetary constraints.
There is substantial donor consensus on the need to work with the ministry to support this effort. The
comprehensive development framework is being developed collaboratively with the MOE and donors. It
would be used as a parallel tool and links between the CDF and the MOE Five-Year Plan indicators of
progress would be developed in this planning and budgeting exercise.
A system with potential: The Palestinian education system has been revitalized since the PA was
established in 1994. It has achieved almost universal basic education. The PA has focused its scarce
financial resources on the recurrent costs of providing basic education (grades 1-10) and secondary
education (grades 11-12), using substantial donor support for investment purposes. UNRWA also
provides basic education, enrolling nearly 25.8 percent of Palestinian students in grades 1-9, with PA
schools providing education for refugee children for grades 10-12. The MOE is discussing the eventual
integration of the UNWRA system with the formal education system as part of the planning process.
Private schools enroll 6.4 percent of students in grades 1-12. The context of the West Bank and Gaza
(WBG) -- no natural resources, relatively high wages, expensive and small internal market, and the
complications of the Israeli and Palestinian relationship-requires high levels of human capital to strengthen
economic growth.
The Strategy for education of the PA is outlined in the first Five-Year Plan for basic and secondary
education (2001-2005). It identifies three main goals: (a) maintain the current enrollment rate for basic
education; (b) expand enrollment at secondary level; (c) improve the quality of education provided. The
main sector issues for basic and secondary education which need to be addressed to achieve these goals
have been identified in collaboration with the PA and donor agencies, especially during the Public
Expenditure Review in 1998 and discussions on the Comprehensive Development Framework (CDF) over
the past year. Across all ministries, the CDF exercise reflects the serious work being undertaken with the
- 3 -



Bank and donor community to put in place policies and programs to form the basis of a sound national
plan.
Possibilities for coordinated donor support of the MOE's Five-Year Plan and annual work plans.
Probably the most powerful incentives for the MOE to take the actions required to meet the project's
development objectives lie in the possibilities for coordinated donor funding of the Five-Year Plan.
Coordinated donor funding is advantageous for both the MOE and the donors. If procedure. and
requirements are harmonized, the transaction costs for both parties are significantly reduced. Donor
funding is also more predictable and smoother across time, allowing the MOE to plan better. If some
portion is 'basket' or 'pool' funding, the MOE can move money to its highest priorities. The donors have
started discussing coordinated funding, organized around the Five-Year Plan. The Education PAction
Project (EAP) targets those managerial actions that would reassure the donors that they can trainsfer
substantial control to the MOE, setting priorities, policy analysis and planning.
The CDF for pretertiary education: The objective of the CDF exercise in WBG is to int;-grate
sector-specific CDFs into the Ministry of Planning and Intemational Cooperation's (MOPIC) overall
Planned Investment Program (PIP), which is the basis for donor discussions and pledges. In the past year,
the donors have let it be known that they are unwilling to support PIPs of poor quality, such as those of
previous years. MOPIC and thus the line ministries have an incentive to prepare a PIP that reflects c,earer
priority-setting and performance measures. In constructing its CDF, each line ministry is asked to identify
key constraints to sectoral performance, and the key actions that should be taken to address these
constraints, specify indicators that can be used to measure progress, and compile an inventory of vxho is
doing what to address the key constraints. The CDF has been acknowledged by donors to be a usefu. tool
for coordination programming, and would continue to develop to reflect the needs and goals of the MC)E.
Sector Issues and PA Strate2v The main sector issues are:
*      Fiscal Sustainability
*      Management
:      Access
*      Quality and Relevance
Fiscal Sustainabilitv
Main issue: how to maintain fiscal equilibrium in the face of growing demand, needed quality
improvements, and uncertain resource mobilization: At 4.5%, the population growth in WBG is high,
and conservative estimates indicate that the basic-school-age population would increase by 30 percent
between 2000 and 2005, requiring a major increase in recurrent expenditures to simply maintain ciurrent
levels of enrollment (see Annex 4). In addition, the PA. has established the goal of increasing secondary
gross enrollments from 56 to 68 percent which would require additional recurrent and capital expend; ture.
Needed improvements in education would add to this financing need. However, the share of PA's current
budgets for basic and secondary education (nearly 17 percent of PA total current expenditure) is less likely
to increase. Donor funding for new construction, operation and maintenance (including textbooks) is also
likely to be at the same level as recent years or decline. While the education system at present is fiscally
sustainable, increasing demand together with constrained resources would threaten this sustainability.
Strategy of the PA: The PA is working with civil society and the private sector to finance school
construction and to accept the retention of double shift school programs to respond to growing demand.
Other strategies to improve fiscal sustainability included in the Five-Year Plan are: improvement of
planning and budgeting, implementation of standards to monitor school performance, administrative
training for all levels, and improvement of analysis and use of data for decision making. In addition, the
- 4 -



Five-Year Plan includes the expansion of the private school system.
Management
Main issue: weak management capacity.
* Organization: The MOE Directorates carry out their regular duties well, but activities could be better
coordinated. There are overlaps in responsibilities between Directorates as well as unclear mandates.
The Functional Audit and the immediate implementation of its recommendations is expected to assist in
overcoming such overlapping and inefficiencies. In addition, the final draft of the Five-Year Plan has
considered more realistic costing and targets and should help to rationalize and justify recent increases
in the teaching force. The Education Action Project (EAP) is also expected to contribute to further
capacity building in the mentioned areas. The Directorate of Financial Affairs is not computerized and
has no clear mandate to analyze and consolidate expenditures. The Palestinian Bureau of Statistics
produces impressive data, but these data are not used by the MOE to their full advantage to prioritize
and plan, and the Planning Department team needs support. These overall weaknesses are being
addressed in the Five-Year Plan, which prioritizes and justifies activities. Top MOE staff are aware of
these issues, but capacity needs to be built at operational levels of the organization.
*  Financial Management: There is little capacity and few incentives for the Ministry of Finance (MOF)
and the MOE to assess budget proposals in light of available funding and program characteristics. The
budgeting process for the PA is neither contestable, nor transparent. There is no sound fiscal analysis
on which to base a clear rationale for funding sector activities. The current PA education budget is not
based on comprehensive knowledge of all the funding available for education investments and
information is either unavailable or not available from certain sources (e.g. donors) in a timely enough
fashion to be integrated into the budgetary cycle.
3  Incentives:  The incentive system for encouraging good perfonnance, sharing information and
coordinating programs is weak. Although promotion based on seniority is still the dominant form, and
salaries are low, there are cases of promotion based on competent skills. Young high performers leave
Ministry programs for the private sector. There is no budgetary reward for the MOE to submit well
planned yearly proposals as other Ministries are not required to do this. Civil society has always been
involved in providing financimg for school construction, but until recently has not been a powerful
influence on the quality of the education system. Data could be better used to inform consumers of
system performance and provide incentives for improvement. The management of the PA expenditures
is gradually improving through work with the IMF, but much remains to be done.
Strategy of the PA: The MOE has carried out a functional analysis to ascertain where responsibilities for
education functions should lie. It aims to introduce new administrative and financial management systems,
computerize the accounting system of the MOE, develop planning and monitoring capacity at all levels; and
further decentralize education system fimctions. The MOE also recognizes that more needs to be done to
involve civil society in ensuring the quality of the system. Human resource development would be achieved
through developing staff management and leadership capacity; strengthening educational supervision;
reinforcing the role of schools as education development units; and promoting cooperation with the local
and the international community in the education sector. Standards for headteachers and accompanying
training for diploma certification would be developed.
- 5 -



Access
Main issue: maintaining the current levels of enrollment for basic education and at the same time
increasing the enrollment and retention at higher grades: Palestinians have 98 percent gross enrollment
rates (GER) in basic education (grades 1-10) for both boys and girls and 96 percent net enrollnent rates
(NER). Enrollments begin to decline slightly at grade 7. At upper secondary (grades 11-12) the GER is 56
percent and NER 43 percent. Given natural increases in school-age populations and higher enrollment :-ates
at basic and secondary levels, the MOE projects that primary enrollments would increase by 39 percent
between 2000 and 2005 for basic education and 66 percent for secondary education. The challenge is to
maintain the basic NER at grades 1-6 and gradually increase the completion rates for basic education at
grade 10 in the face of high population growth rates. The role of the private sector in education remains
undeveloped, both in formal and non formal sectors. There is an increasing rate of drop out througlh the
upper grades of primary and secondary schools, both for boys and for girls. Access to secondary schooling
is inadequate, and with rising enrollments would become a more visible problem.
Strategy of the PA: The MOE aims to maintain universal access to basic education and increase the
secondary gross enrollment ratio to 68 percent by constructing more schools and utilizing existing buildings
more effectively. It plans to implement micro-planning based on school mapping, which was started uader
the Education and Health Rehabilitation Project funded by the World Bank. The MOE also support. the
development of private schools, and the expansion of access. It also emphasizes the gradual increase ir. the
provision of secondary places and greater balance between general and secondary vocational places.
Oualitv and Relevance
Main issue: improving weak performance in the foundation skills (verbal, mathematical, and science)
and in higher order cognitive (problem-solving) skills indicated by the limited evidence on students'
learning achievements. In 1992, the International Assessment of Educational Progress found that West
Bank students in Israeli-controlled, UNRWA, and private schools achieved the lowest scores on tests of
mathematics and science. Students in the 1998 assessment of the leaming performance of 6th graders in a
sample of public, UNRWA, and private schools achieved the lowest scores on verbal and analyical
problems. Only 59 percent obtained passing scores of 50 percent or more in Arabic, the worst perform-.nce
being in the application and synthesis of information. Analyses of just-administered assessments of student
learning Arabic, mathematics, and science in grades 4 and 10 show similar patterns. Although impressive
strides are being made to upgrade the teaching force, it is largely young, and relatively untrained. For
many years, two curricula, the Jordanian and the Egyptian, were used in the WBG respectively.
Strategy of the PA: The PA completed and authorized the first Palestinian Curriculum Plan in 1998. 'This
is a major effort to improve the quality of education. It defines subjects in each grade of basic and
secondary general and vocational education and the number of hours per week per subject. Implementadion
of the first curriculum is planned to be phased over the next 5 years with the printing and development of
associated new textbooks, learning materials, the development of an assessment system, and the upgracding
of school facilities such as laboratories and libraries. The Five-Year Plan also includes improved teacher
in-service and pre-service training.
The MOE plans to develop a new vocational curriculum for the secondary level and increase the proportion
of vocational secondary schools. The PA is establishing a single vocational/technical education system
under the auspices of three ministries (Ministries of Education, Higher Education, and Labor) and the
private sector to provide vocational/technical training for all Palestinians. The student body, curricula and
infrastructure would be rationalized across the three sector ministries and the public and private sectors.
- 6 -



Investments under the project are to form part of a system that would allow flexibility in further education
options for students choosing vocational courses at the secondary level.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Management: In order to improve management, the MOE needs (a) to divide labor effectively and
institutionalize the division of labor in an organizational structure that clearly reflects the location of, and
boundaries among, key functions, and (b) to introduce in each function effective management practices
through strengthening "management units" and ensuring that managers follow effective management
practices. The latter mnight include developing clear job descriptions and terms of reference for staff and
support for improved functions such as planning and budgeting, and for managers in : a) the formulation of
a strategic vision, the setting of objectives, and the monitoring of activities aimed at achieving these
objectives; b) planning and programming; c) managing fnancial, human and material resources; and d)
practices such as coordinating activities and conducting meetings.
The project would consider the recommendations and findings of the Functional Audit, from which it would
include a variety of activities aimed at further improving these practices.
Fiscal Sustainability: To ensure fiscal sustainability, the MOE needs to implement a fiscally realistic
scenario of the Five-Year Plan which is being finalized in light of a macroeconomic framework. The MOE
needs to: (a) prepare annual workplans within the framework of the Five-Year Plan, and (b) monitor their
implementation to feed the results into ongoing review and planning process.
Strategic choices
*  Improving planning and policy making:  The project design encourages the MOE to continue
developing a coherent education strategy, with an emphasis on the annual planning process. Given the
extensive commitments of other donors, a small well-targeted project supporting the Five-Year Plan
goals was considered the most suitable investment.
3  Emphasis on management andfinancing: Given the constraints of PA budget, the MOE needs to
improve its ability to use domestic and donor funds more strategically and to improve planning and
policy making. The development of annual workplans is expected to gradually incorporate improved
strategic thinking arising from the planning process. Capacity building and targeted investment areas
are linked. For example, the development of the EMIS would contribute to improved school mapping.
This should enable improved planning for resource allocation.
*  Funding vocational secondary education:  At present there is an inadequate supply of quality
vocational technical education. The project would support the efforts of the PA to provide a
coordinated approach by the MOE, MOHE and Vocational Expert Team to training and skills
development and increase the number of places available for vocational secondary courses. In the
integrated strategy, these would lead to appropriate further education and training (see Annex 13).
Pilot programs in vocational secondary education were selected for funding in order to improve access
to secondary education overall, to broaden the curricula options for students in light of a new and more
flexible approach to integrating vocational education and training across basic and higher education,
and to improve the possibilities for employment in a difficult labor market. The selection of the pilot
programs also reflects a least-cost analysis (see Annex 4). The programs would be delivered at
existing academic secondary schools with a few additional vocational/technical workshops (i.e.,
comprehensive secondary school system).  By sharing land, facilities, general teachers and
administrators with academic programs, the pilot programs would be much less costly than the
approach of the separate vocational/technical training school system.
-7 -



Targeting improvements
(a) In addition to working with a number of centralized departments, the project specifically focuses on
improving the use of data by planning departments in District Offices and at Central level. At pre 3ent,
District Offices do not provide coherent linkages between the MOE and schools, and vary in their cap tcity
to implement new strategies. Although their roles and functions might be clear, it should be developed to
the level of providing the coherent linkage between the MOE and schools.
(b) Targeting under the project includes:
* gender: secondary school girls for vocational training,
* poverty: vocational school sites would target areas of relative deprivation.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Indicative    Bank-     ~~% odf
Component     JSecto~ ~~r Costs             % of    fnnig        Bank-
1. Strengthening Capacity of MOE   Institutional
Development
1.1 Policy, Planning and Financing  Institutional      1.47      19.3       1.39      19.9
Development
1.2 Support for Implementation    Institutional        0.28       3.7       0.26       3.7
Development
2. Targeted Interventions
2.1 General Education              Other Education     3.13      41.0       2.92      41.7
2.2 Vocational Secondary Education  Secondary          2.75      36.0       2.43      34.7
Education
Total Project Costs                   7.63     100.0       7.00    100.0
Total Financing Required                    7.63      100.0      7.00      I00.0
*w. MY et dd wP dwe Se din
Component 1: Strengthen Capacity of MOE (US$1.76 million)
Sub-component 1.1 Policy. planning. and financing (US$1.47 million!. This sub-component would support
the preparation and evaluation of Annual Work Plans and Budgets (AWPB) to operationalize the priorities
of the Five-Year Plan plan. The project would support five key Directorates of the MOE (Planning,
Buildings and Works, Training, Vocational Secondary Education and District Development) in developing
and selecting detailed proposals for activities in the annual plans. The quality and coverage of the annual
workplans and budget proposals are expected to improve gradually over the project period. Specific
activities under this component are:
* putting in place an EMIS including school mapping facilities and extending this to all District
offices;
* computerizing the MOE financial management system;
* building a two story vertical extension to the MOE's annex;
- 8 -



* providing training, scholarships and workshops for MOE staff and stakeholders (in management,
planning, economic and financial analysis); and
*   providing technical assistance to support capacity building.
Activities under this component are intended to provide sustainable support to the MOE management team.
Thus, computerizing the financial management system not only fulfills World Bank requirements, but it
improves the longer term financial management capacity of the MOE.
The workplans should be developed in a timely fashion to allow for consultations with the Bank and
integration into the annual budget cycle.
Sub-component 1.2. Support for project implementation (US$0.28 million!. This sub-component covers
the costs associated with improved management of financial and procurement systems to implement
TFC-funded activities, and the hiring of extemal expertise to support and mentor MOE staff.
Component 2: Targeted Interventions (US$5.88 million)
This component would support the implementation of activities in the Five-Year Plan and AWPB prepared
under sub-component 2.1. Activities would include sub-components for general and vocational education.
Sub-component 2.1 General Education (US$3.13 million). This sub-component includes (a) the extension
of a program for school improvement through staff review and school development program (including a
fund for training); and (b) the development of professional standards for headteachers.
Sub-component 2.2 Vocational Education (US$2.75 million). This sub-component includes (a) supporting
the MOE to develop and pilot the curriculum and materials for the secondary vocational stream (e.g., on
office equipment maintenance, hotel and restaurant services, tourism) and: (b) establishing pilot units for
vocational secondary classrooms and workshops attached to existing general secondary schools.
Additional construction and equipping of annexes and extensions to existing schools, within the framework
of the project, may be considered.
These activities match the goals of the Five-Year Plan and the MOE objective of improving the
management and financial sustainability of the system. The table below shows the relationship between the
goals of the Five-Year Plan, and projects activities for the first year. See also Annex 2 for a more detailed
analysis of how the project activities fit into Five-Year Plan activities.
TARGETED          Maintain or     Improve access to    Improve Management Improve quality
AREAS WITHIN   improve access to secondary education
THE FIVE-YEAR   basic education
PLAN
Component 1:      EMIS                                Financial management
development                         upgrading
Development of Annual
workplans
Component 2:                      Construction of     Development of       School Improvement Through
vocational secondary  standards for     Review and Development
workshops attached to  headteachers
pilot general secondary                 Development of pilot secondary
schools                                 vocational curriculum
-9-



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
A full review of needed institutional changes is outlined in Annex 11.
Policy reforms sought are based on the assumption of a rationalized use of funding for the education sector
through improved management and use of data in planning. The Policy and Planning sub-component
would support the implementation of: (a) rationalized school construction on the basis of school mapping;
(b) improved use of data for policy making and strategic planning through the implementation of an EMIS;
(c) improved financial management through upgrading and computerization of the financial management
system; (d) improved management through support for formalizing the policy function, with a re-alignmnent
of the functions of the planning committee; and (e) support for the development of annual departmental
workplans.
Other implicit policy-based activities are support for (a) school based management, and b) improved
vocational secondary schooling.
3. Benefits and target population:
*     Administrators: These include administrators at national and local levels whose incentives and
needs for improved performance would need to be fully analyzed and addressed. This group would betinefit
from management training, upgraded information systems and financial data.
a     Teachers: The burden placed on teachers is high in terms of salary and working conditions, social
expectations and lack of a career structure. They would benefit from improved incentives for better
performance through the linkage of the school planning program to job evaluations and training, and
through the development of professional standards.
*     School Level Stakeholders: Over the long term, the final beneficiaries are school-aged children and
their families who would benefit from an improved education system with better learning outcomes. One
immediate outcome of the project should be a larger nurnber of girls and boys given the opportunity to
work in vocational occupations on an equal basis.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project Management: The MOE would be the executing agency of the project (See Annex 2) which would
be imnplemented over a three-year period (2001-2004). Since the activities of this project would be a subset
of the five-year education plan (as developed with the assistance of UNESCO/IIEP), the project would be
carried out through existing MOE channels.
The Project Support Team (PST) would consist of a small core administrative team headed by a Project
Director, and would comprise newly recruited specialists placed in key positions in the MOE rather thar, in
a stand alone unit. These specialists are expected to provide the professional strength and expertise lack:ng
in the MOE and to mentor staff working on all project activities. In addition, some MOE staff would be
assigned to specific new responsibilities as needed for the project. The MOE has experienced staff to assi gn
for the key positions in the PST, which would comprise: Project Director, Financial Specialist,
Procurement Specialist and administrative support. The recruiting process for PST staff would start
immediately after Negotiations and the hiring process would be completed before effectiveness.
Financial Management: The MOE's Financial Management System (FMS) has been reviewed to assess
its planning, budgeting, accounting, financial reporting, intemal controls, and auditing arrangements to
determine whether the MOE has the capacity to generate timely, accurate, and reliable financial reports.
- 10 -



Some insufficiencies were identified during the review, including non-computerization and integration of
the accounting system, no official written definition of the financial management procedures, and the lack
of an independent competent external auditor. A financial management action plan, agreed upon with the
MOE, has been developed to rectify these weaknesses before disbursement takes place and the
commencement of project implementation. The first phase of the action plan should be completed by board
date, the second by effectiveness, and the third during the lifetime of the project. In order to complete the
first phase of the action plan the MOE will hire a consultant specialized in accounting and financial
management to assist in the preparation of the Financial Management Manual (FMM) for the project and
other areas. This FMM would be issued before effectiveness of the project.
Accounting and Financial Reporting: The PST director would ensure the issuance of the transitional
period reports, the annual project financial statements, and the quarterly project management reports
(PMR) on a timely basis to the World Bank and to the auditors. Procedures for accounting and financial
reporting would be developed by qualified specialists and would aim to conform to the World Bank's
requirements.
Audit: MOE would appoint, before effectiveness, a private independent auditor acceptable to the Bank to
carry out an annual audit in accordance with the International Standards on Auditing. The appointment of
the auditor would be in accordance with the Bank's guidelines and Terms of Reference (TOR) acceptable to
the Bank. The auditor would express a professional opinion on the annual project financial statements and
would submit to the Bank an annual audit report, including the Management Letter, within four months
after the end of the fiscal year. Auditors for the first year would be appointed before effectiveness of the
Project.
Disbursements: Disbursements from the Trust Fund Credit would be initially made on the basis of the
traditional system (replenishments to the Special Account and reimbursements with full documentation and
against Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) and direct payments). Disbursements against PMRs will be
considered after the reassessment of the financial management system and the issuance of a certification
ensuring that this system is operating satisfactorily. The target date for providing quarterly PMRs is April
1, 2002.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E): The PST would be responsible for coordinating monitoring
reports from the MOE line Directorates on progress against agreed-upon performance indicators (See
Annex 1). For this purpose, it would develop and maintain a project information system which would
generate annual progress reports for the PA and relevant donors, including the World Bank. The MOE's
technical units (and district offices) responsible for implementing each project component would provide
the PST with quarterly progress reports summarizing the current status of project implementation,
including financial records, explanations for deviations from agreed-upon implementation plans, constraints
and corrective measures to be taken, and a workplan for the subsequent six months. The PST would also
contract independent technical auditors to undertake a technical review of each project component. These
reports would be consolidated by the PST and included in the quarterly PMR and Annual Progress
Reports.
- 11 -



D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
*   An altemative project design considered a more important expansion of vocational education to
respond to the growing demand for secondary education. Such a design would have implied increased
project resources for civil works and equipment, and less resources for capacity building. It w(uld
have also rendered more difficult to mrinimize the differences between the general and vocational
streams of secondary education. The risk of two separate systems of secondary education would have
been much greater. A gradual increase in the supply of vocational education allows for the
development of synergies between the two streams, and for the development of a more relex ant
vocational education.
*   It was also considered whether to finance activities in all MOE directorates or in just a selected grc:up
of directorates. It was decided to concentrate on MOE directorates which were either involvecd in
making strategic choices (i.e., the planning department) or whose expenditures were amongst the
highest for the MOE (i.e., Buildings and Equipment, Vocational Secondary Education and Training).
This choice avoids diluting resources in too many different directorates and thus improving he
potential impact of the project.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
I :  ff ;   :1    ;      :  9 : ff  E:0i  Latest Supervision
Sector tssue                      P                        (PSR) Ratings
______________________________  ___________V ____________   Bank-financed   projects  onIyv
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Emergency rehabilitation of schools,   Education & Health           S              S
provision of textbooks and equipment, Rehabilitation Project; closing
together with expansion of MOH    June 30, 2001
delivery system. Donor co-financing   Education:
has supported curriculum development, US$12 million TFGWB
infrastructure construction and   US$10 million Saudi Arabia
rehabilitation, and special needs  US$7.65 million Italy
education.                        US$0.5 million Australia
Health:
US$8 million TFGWB
US$10 million Saudi Arabia
US$ 1.0 million Italy
Support to NGOs involved in social   The Palestinian NGO Project    S              S
services, including community school  US$10 million TFGWB
building and health care.         US$2.5 million Saudi Arabia
US$2.5 million Italy
- 12 -



Improvement of social and economic   Community Development         S            S
infrastructure services in small  Projects I and II
municipalities and villages, including
rehabilitation of local schools, clinics
and roads.
Other development agencies
Educational activities            UNICEF, UNDP
US$191,000
Books, book production and evaluation Italy, Belgium
US$4.95 million
Supplies and equipment for MOE    Italy, Norway, EU, Spain,
UNESCO, Saudi Arabia, MOF
US$6.4 million
Development of district schools,  Arab Fund, Saudi Arabia
including furniture               US$17.06 million
School construction               Italy
US$3.3 million
Total funding mid-June 2000       US$31.2 million
Average annual funding 1998-2000    US$38.4 million
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Donor Coordination essential: At the present time, the MOE relies on donor funding to finance investment
costs. The table in section D.2 demonstrates a high level of donor activities (see full table in PIP).
However, despite a good donor coordination committee and efforts by the MOE to coordinate donor
investments, the extent of the reliance of the MOE on external funds has made coherent strategies for
utilizing funding difficult. The MOE has taken the initiative to address this problem in its five-year
planning process, and there is significant donor support for moving towards coordinated funding. The EAP
would help the PA to improve its planning and implementation capacities.
Timely use of technical assistance (TA) is essential: Donor-funded TA has not always been available when
the MOE could make effective use of it. In some cases, the MOE has not been clear about its needs, so
technical consultants could not customize their help effectively. In other cases, the MOE has not had the
in-house staff time or capacity to make effective use of the TA that was needed. MOE leadership and the
World Bank have agreed that this project would work to include both timely and appropriate TA and
training activities.
PSTs separated from the line functions of a ministry do not build capacity within the ministry: Experience
in other countries shows that a PST that is totally separated from the routine operations of a ministry often
does not leave sustainable capacity for continued implementation after the project has closed. A small PST
would be developed, integrated as much as possible within the line directorates in the MOE. The project
director would likely be attached to the Planning Department, the financial manager to the Directorate for
Financial Affairs, and the procurement officer to the Building and Works Department.
- 13-



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
In the five-year planning process, the MOE has powerfully demonstrated its commitment to improved
management of the sector's resources. It consistently attempted to involve stakeholders in the dialogue, and
took calculated risks in inviting international and local participation in a workshop to openly discuss the
results. Following this workshop, the MOE itself suggested donor responsibility for specific follow-up
activities by theme, and the World Bank and UNESCO were asked to play a role in capacity building, to
demonstrate that the MOE is prepared to use institution-building assistance effectively. The five-year
planning process has changed the culture of the MOE. There is an eagerness to capitalize on the progress
made thus far. The efforts made to achieve a realistic scenario for education services in a complicated
economic situation are impressive and are expected to continue. Activities outlined in Section C2,
providing incentives for the institutional and policy reforms, also strongly demonstrate ownership of project
activities.
In addition, the careful consideration given to the appropriateness of this credit demonstrates the
seriousness of the MOE's intent. The MOE feels strongly that borrowed money, as opposed to grant
funding, should be used wisely, and technical assistance should be well targeted (see D3).
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The World Bank mobilizes substantial international technical knowledge to support the implementation
challenges that lie before the MOE. In particular, the World Bank can assist its clients to allocate
resources efficiently. This project would help develop the capacity of the MOE to assess fiscal
sustainability, search out least-cost alternatives, track implementation progress relative to performance
indicators, and evaluate the effectiveness of selected investments.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
o Cost benefit    NPV=USS million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
o Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
The economic soundness of the overall project design is ensured by basing the project concept on the World
Bank Assistance Strategy and Comprehensive Development Framework, which identifies management,
efficiency and financing issues as priorities for change. Cost-benefit analysis was also used to justify a
major investment program of component 1, the extension of the MOE building (20 percent of costs). The
proposed investment would have a reasonable internal rate of return (14 percent), assuming that the
discount rate is 10 percent and the life span of the building is 30 years. For selection of targeted
subprograms under component 2, economic justification would be promoted in the improved plannmng
procedures. The targeted subprograms are expected to address the priority objectives of the Five-Year
Plan, which would contribute to poverty reduction and the growth of the economy such as maintaining full
access to grades 1-6, increasing enrollments for grades 7-12, improving equity of access to secondary
education, and improving quality of teaching. The proposed secondary vocational activity is justified on
the grounds of cost effectiveness. For example, a proposed establishment of two vocational/technical
workshops for an existing academic secondary school is estimated to require recurrent costs per additional
student much lower than a new industrial secondary school (50 percent of costs). Overall, the MOE has
been finalizing the Five-Year Plan by prioritizing activities which are more effective and efficient. Thuis,
the selection of target subprograms within the framework of the Five-Year Plan should be justifiable. The
project preparation has been also assisting the MOE in strengthening the capacity for economic analysis,
- 14 -



especially through a workshop for economics of education and technical assistance for an assessment of
fiscal affordability of the Five-Year Plan. The project would continue supporting capacity building by
improving the management information system and the utilization of data for planning, monitoring, and
reviewing programs.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Financial Structure, Efficiency, and Viability of the Project Entity:
Given the worsening macroeconomic situation, immediate attention is needed to identify strategies to place
the system on a more realistic footing. As for the rest of the PA, the MOE financial and accounting
systems are on a cash basis and are highly centralized and rigidly controlled. As a result, the existing
management system is unable to identify inefficiencies or make a reasonable estimation of future resource
requirements. There is an urgent need to establish a sound accounting and financial management system on
an accrual rather than cash basis. The basic education system is reasonably efficient, but there are
questions regarding the size of the teaching force.
Fiscal Impact:
The impact of the project on the PA finances is assessed. The analysis uses: a) data from the MOF; b) the
IMF's medium-term macroeconomic frameworks; and c) the MOE's efforts, assisted by UNESCO/REP and
the World Bank, to develop a fiscally realistic scenario for its Five-Year Plan. The total project costs are
US$7.63 million over the three-year implementation period. The project's recurrent costs would be 4
percent of the costs (US$0.3 million), a very small percentage of projected total education recurrent
expenditures (less than 0.05 percent). The incremental recurrent costs of the project seem affordable, since
the project would support the implementation of the MOE's annual plans/budgets that would have been
developed within the expenditure framework of a prioritized final scenario of the Five-Year Plan. The
project would ensure fiscal feasibility by (i) supporting an improved capacity of the MOE to develop and
implement its annual plans/budgets and associated EAP annual workplans; and (ii) monitoring the
implementation of the annual plans/budgets. Thus, sustainability would depend upon the ability of MOE
staff to integrate proper planning and budgeting processes into their routine planning operations. The
detailed fiscal impact analysis is provided in Annex 4.
3. Technical:
The project builds upon the technical capacities that already exist within the MOE, with emphasis on
taking incremental steps to further expand these capacities.
Component 1 activities would build upon the strategies and interventions that have been developed and
identified in the Five-Year Plan. Overall, the project design minimizes the risk of introducing complex
technical programs, thereby allowing the MOE to focus on institutionalization and integration of modem
management capacities into its organizational structure through technical assistance, training, and possible
twinning arrangements with other similar agencies or ministries. This capacity building would include: (i)
consolidation of functional facility standards already developed over the last four-year experience; and (ii)
development and use of an effective GIS-based school mapping and decision support system, ensuring
equitable distribution of resources and thus ensuring support from district authorities, central core
ministries, and the trust of donors, fiurther increasing the potential for greater donor financial support.
- 15-



Component 2, the proposed annually funded activities would depend on the MOE's priorities in each
agreed annual work plan. However, any anticipated activities would be within the technical capability of
the MOE, which has already demonstrated its capacity to implement larger and more complex technical
assistance and training programs as well as the procurement of works and goods for various donors.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The executing agency is the MOE. Institutional assessment points to four areas that require particular
attention in terms of ensuring effective project implementation:
* the need to improve coordination and communication between the different units within MOE.
* the lack of a forum for coordinating activities and sharing information with the other education
providers (NGO/private and UTNRWA).  To address these issues, a Project Coordination
Committee (PCC) would be established to provide policy guidance, oversee MOE/PST
management of day-to-day project operation, and facilitate the coordination of activities among the
various MOE units as well as with outside agencies involved in the project, including the donors
i   the need to clarify the roles and responsibilities of District offices so they become an effective
liaison between schools and the MOE.
-   ensure that such units are complementary and coordinated closely. The introduction of a more
decentralized management system, supported by improved communication and information system
between various departments and facilities under the MOE supervision, may help mitigate some of
the difficulties created by these restrictions.
4.2 Project management:
The existing MOE staff has gained considerable experience in project management through its joint
implementation with the Palestinian Economic Council for Development and Reconstruction (PECDAR) of
the ongoing EHRP over the last four years. The existing staff include a competent team of architects and
civil engineers, and financial management and procurement specialists who would forrn the core staff of a
unit within the MOE and have responsibility for the management and implementation of the project. The
project would enhance the MOE's capacity through the recruitment of additional staff, as needed, to
strengthen financial management and procurement as well as coordination of technical assistance and
training programs.  As part of the pre-implementation activities, the MOE would receive technical
assistance in reviewing and updating the existing financial management systems and procedures in order to
develop a computerized Project Management Information System that would generate the quarterly Project
Management Reports (PMRs) and establish auditing arrangements. An action plan would be prepared and
agreed upon during appraisal with the MOE to ensure that the financial management and procurement
systems are in place and ready for disbursement by the project's start date.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The procurement capacity in the MOE has been assessed. The MOE has considerable experience in the
implementation of donor-funded projects. All necessary documentation for all first year activities has been
prepared and is satisfactory.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The financial management arrangements proposed in the agreed time bound action plan would, if
successfully implemented, enable the project to release reliable and timely financial reports.
- 16 -



5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The potential environmental impacts are limited to issues involving civil works associated with five specific
buildings: a vertical extension of the MOE, and four building additions to existing secondary schools for
vocational training facilities. During the architectural and engineering design phase for these structures, the
environmental impact of each school will be screened by the MOE/PST staff so that any issues related to
the World Bank's social and environmental safeguard policies can be identified. For example, screening
will take place to ensure adequate potable water supply, connection to wastewater sewer mains, storage
facilities for solid waste, adequate safety and ventilation measures for installation of industrial training
equipment, and any other potential enviromnental issues.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Since construction would take place at existing sites, and involves only extensions to existing buildings, and
no significant environmental siting or pre-design issues have been identified during preparation, a separate
EMP is not appropriate nor required prior to appraisal or prior to World Bank Board presentation.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: not applicable
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The public participation approach with stakeholders undertaken for this project is described in Sections 6.2
and 6.3 below.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
MOE is arranging for short-term technical assistance to focus on the design aspects related to the
rehabilitation and construction of the facilities funded by the project. During the architectural and
engineering design phase for civil works contracts, adequate technical specifications would be prepared to
mitigate environmental issues such as: proper water supply, connections to wastewater main sewers,
storage of solid waste, adequate installation designs for safety and ventilation of industrial training
equipment, disposal of construction waste and other associated environmental issues. These specifications
for environmental mitigation would be reviewed and approved by the Bank prior to release of bidding
documents and prior to signature of construction contracts.
The major environmental issue during operation of the new vocational training facilities would be the
disposal of limited amounts of chemicals and materials to be used for teaching purposes. For these waste
materials, an acceptable mitigation measure is to include disposal of chemicals and similar materials as
part of the supplier's contract.
During project supervision, the Bank team would report annually on the status of implementation of the
environmental mitigation measures for the phases of design, construction and operation of the five building
structures funded by the project.
- 17 -



6. Social:
6.1 Sunimarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The strains imposed by physical and economic isolation of the WBG population are well documented.
WBG is not the poorest area by comparison with other IDA clients. However, the social structure of
WBG, constrained by the tensions and conflicts between Israel and the Palestinians, is undergoing further
strains during the uncertainty of the peace process and the transition to statehood. Expectations for a high
standard of living, derived from close affiliations with Israel and from Palestinians living in the diaspora,
create unrealistic expectations for economic progress. Surveys have shown that education and health are
priorities for the average family. However, expectations for the quality of service delivery are unrealistic.
Unemployment leading to family stress and the lack of mobility within the country and abroad, pose
significant problems for traditional social structures. In addition, there are differences between the WVest
Bank and Gaza populations that reflect different historical affiliations and relative isolation from outside
contacts.
The high birth rates as of 1995, 7.4 percent TFR for Gaza and 5.6 percent for West Bank, would
exacerbate these tensions in the coming years. They would further strain the education system and
traditional social structures. Young people unable to find sufficient employment will need high skill levels
in order to compete elsewhere for work. The high levels of poverty force young people out of school and
into the labor market, possibly increasing the number of child labor issues and increasing the need for
improving retention rates.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups: The Five-Year Plan was developed in a participatory
fashion with working groups comprised of NGO representatives and other stakeholders. A large
intemational workshop to discuss this plan was developed in a highly participatory fashion, and public
discussion on the plan has been encouraged and contributed to the MOE asking for World Bamk
involvement. A second intemational seminar took place in October 2000 to present and discuss an updated
version of the plan. The MOE is aware that stakeholders should be consulted on a regular basis and ihis
approach of asking for inputs from stakeholders is expected to continue throughout the project. For the
school-based management program, consultation with teachers and school staff would be essential.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The project mainly targets education administrators. In discussions on improving the use of data and in -he
dissemination of data to stakeholders, the project is recommending to the MOE that it should strengthen
discussions of education issues with representatives from local NGOs, particularly on community and
parent interaction with schools. Included in standards for headteachers would be ways in which school
management can increase the involvement of parents and communities. NGO representatives are part of
the consultation process for the overall Five-Year Plan.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
By improving the management of the education system and the production of socially relevant data linked
to education needs, the project should increase the ability of MOE staff to target low income and other
vulnerable groups. The availability of secondary vocational programs for girls would assist in raising the
involvement of women in the labor force.
- 18 -



6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Social development outcomes from this short-term project are unlikely to be measurable during the course
of the project. However, an improved data base would capture indicators leading to analysis of social
issues, such as drop outs, enrollment of girls, qualifications and length of service of teachers.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
P6lcY                                     Appltobillh
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            * Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                               0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)          0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
As the project would use public land already owned by the municipalities for construction of buildings, and
during project preparation no other issues related to OD4.30 Involuntary resettlement were identified, this
OD4.30 is not applicable to the project.
The implementation of environmental mitigation measures related to OP/BP/GP4.01 would be monitored
during Bank supervision missions.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The incentives required to sustain institutional changes (Component 1) are discussed in section C.2. and
Annex 11. In summary, the intensive effort to better plan and budget for the next five years should result
in a sustainable system. Analyses show that priorities within agreed departmental work plans (Component
2) are a core component of the project. Issues of fiscal sustainability are integrated into the project design
and have been described under technical assessment. The project was prepared during a time of anticipated
political stability. At the time of negotiations this has changed, and clearly political instability may affect
the implementation of project activities in the short term if the situation does not change (see Annex 4).
- 19 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating            Risk-Mitigathon Measure
From Outputs to Objective
1. Incentives for behavioral changes at     S         Donor requirements for moving to coordinated
the MOE and Districts to plan, improve                funding; participatory approach to devel oping
the cost-benefit/cost-effectiveness basis             planning and data utilization strategies; training
for selecting programs, assess the fiscal             on EMIS and analytical techniques
sustainability of initiatives, and to monitor
the implementation and evaluate the
impact of programs are not put in place.
2. The MOF does not allocate sufficient     S         PDP, Donor discussions and CDF activi :ies
funds or devolve financing to MOE in a                create constructive environment for effic tent
timely fashion.                                       national planning and budgeting
3. Trained staff leave Ministry service in  S         Minimizing the risk here depends on willingness
light of low salaries.                                of PNA to work on civil service reform and
Teacher/administrative staff ratio remains            restrict public service hiring.
the same or declines
4. Political instability in the short term  S         Baseline surveys of employment needs and
prevents constructive administrative                  tracer studies enable pilot program to be
change and students from vocational                   re-assessed and changed to meet labor market
secondary programs are not employed                   needs.
after graduation.
5. Teachers object to new management        M         Consultation with teachers on incentives and
training and strategies.                              new training creates consensus on approaches
6. Coordination between departments at      S         Clear roles and responsibilities are outlined with
the MOE and the Districts is not                      accountability built into performance
improved in planning process.                         assessments
From Components to Outputs
1. School management outcomes do not        M         School based planning enables school staff to
improve.                                              make better use of resources, training provides
incentives for staff to teach better.
2. Students do not enroll in pilot          M         Community awareness/participation in school
vocational schools.                                   site identification improve community view of
vocational education.
3. Construction of new administrative       M         Joint donor review of construction and overall
building does not reduce operations &                 planning and budgeting strategy place increased
maintenance costs and does not free                   emphasis on rational use of space.
resource for other educational activities.
4. Headteachers do not enroll in courses.   M         Involvement of headteachers in development of
training programs.
Overall Risk Rating                         S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
- 20 -



3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The project may seem controversial to MOE employees - requiring changes in behavior and management
practice, at all levels of the education system. Some donors may be unwilling to move from a project to a
progran approach to facilitate programmed use of funds by the MOE.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
a) The MOE will have developed prototype annual workplans for the five departments benefiting from first
year project activities.
b) The MOE will establish a financial management system according to the Financial Management Plan.
c) The MOE will hire a Project Support Team comprising a project director, a procurement specialist, a
financial management specialist and support staff.
d) The MOE will hire an independent extemal auditor.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
H. Readiness for Implementation
1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
2 1. b) Not applicable.
Z 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
E 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
1] 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Vuis Guillrmno'akim               a                                   Naudouy   \   N ob
Team Leader                      Secto    r Director                         M w
- 21 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
WEST BANK AND GAZA: Education Action Project
Key Prformance
Hierarchy of ObjtivesE;               Indicators            Monitoring& Evaluation           Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:    Sector Indicators:               Sector/ country reports:       (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Public Sector management and  Improved efficiency and        *Budget circular               *Economy improves and provides
isiuinlcapacity budn    rnprnyo  ulcopportunities for the educated to
institutional capacitybuilding  rmanagement, especially      *Audit report of budgetary      earn incomes.
managemnt, espcially:process
p. Transparency in budgetary  *National and ministerial      *Political stability is gained and
process and practice.           bdesmaintained during p -oject
2. Improved educational                                       pro
outcomes as measured by       *National and international    *Emphasis on good data
appropriate indicators (test   assessment data. Data          collection is maintai t ed and
scores, enrollments, improved  collection from statistical    govermment participates in
teacher performance) over the  department.                    international assessment
long term.
Human resource development  Efficiency of MOE personnel    *National Statistical Reports on  *Teacher/administratrve staff
management increased            staffing numbers and          ratio remains the same or
(rationalized and fiscally     expenditures                   declines
sustainable hiring, deployment,
and wage increase)
Project Development           Outcome I Impact               Project reports:               (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                    Indicators:
Improve the capacity of MOE to  *More effective management of  *Sector work                 *The PA allocates adequate
manage and plan for an effective   sector improvement        *Five-Year Annual Workplans    budget for implemen ing the
education system              *Enhanced civic support for the  *udgetYeprA      ofive year plan.
sector;                      *Budget reports                *The PA approves the annual
budget on time and funding is
*More rational and persuasive    eJoint Donor Monitoring reports  transferred to MOE firom
budgetary processes for the                                  Ministry of Finance
l  sector                                                   * Financial managemer t system
* Increased and better-used                                   improved
international aid resources,                                *Coordination and joir t
*InforTnation from student and                                monitoring of donor fanding for
tenfmache n from asestents are                               education sector acti'ities is
teacher assessments areageduo
incorporated into school and                                 agreed upon.
teacher performance reviews.
-22 -



Key Perfonnance
Hierarchy of Objectives              Indicators           Monitoring & Evaluation         Critical Assumptions
Output from each             Output Indicators:            Project reports:              (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1.1 Improved policy making,  * Annual workplans that are   * Supervision reports         * Incentives for behavioral
planning, and financing       increasingly based on agreed                                changes take place among MOE
criteria are used to prioritize    * Annual work plan      and District staff enabling them
donor funded activities and PA                             to use data appropriately.
education program.          *Workshop evaluations from
* Difference between budgeted    local and national level,  s Trained staff stay in MOE
amounts and actual           donorlNGO committee meeting   service in light of low salaries
expenditures is within 1O%   minutes
range
*EMIS updated and utilized at
central and district offices in
annual and multi-year planning
and monitoring plan
implementation
*Financial management system
computerized and operational
by January 2002
*Lessons leamed from planning
process are assessed,
disseminated, and discussed at
workshops and regularly held
planning commnittee meetings
and sector working group
(Donor/NGO) meetings
1.2 PST established and      oTimeliness of Project        * Supervision reports         *PST adequately staffed
operational                   procurement;
*Timeliness of Project
implementation reports;
oTimeliness of preparation of
necessary Project
documentation.
2 Targeted activities        *Detailed planning for selected   * Annual work plans       * Coordination between
implemented according to annual  pilot activities is based on  * Supervision reports      departments at the MOE and
workplans                     adequate financial and       oEducational data system,      the Districts is improved in
educational data. (e.g.,     financial reporting system.   planning process.
proposals for new school    *Monitoring reports, project
construction, using data from  management information
EMIS)                        system.
- 23 -



2.1 Targeted activities      *Training of head teachers in                               *School based planning would
implemented for general       modem school management -                                   improve school maragement
education                      30% each year as of September                              and incentive strucrJre.
30, 2001.                                                 *Joint donor review, :f
* Number of training funds                                  construction and ov, rall
utilized; 20% first year.                                  planning and budgeing strategy
*Number of schools engaged in                               place increased emrhasis on
school improvement activities                              rational use of spact%
through management program
reaches 1,600 by end of year
2004.
*Number of teachers receiving
training through school-based
training grant scheme reaches
550 by end of year 2004.
* Information from student and
teacher assessments is
incorporated into school and
teacher performance reviews.
*Modernized and expanded
school facilities and improved
their use.
2. 2 Targeted activities     *Number of students enrolling in   *  Annual work plans     oLabor market more, .uickly
implemented for vocational     secondary vocational programs    *  Supervision reports    absorbs better trained students.
secondary education           by gender reaches 7.5% of total   *  Educational data system,
secondary enrolment by year      financial reporting system.
2004.                         *  Monitoring reports, project
management information
system.
-24 -



Key Perlo. anca
Hierarchy of Objectives             Ind tors              Monitorng & Evaluaffon          Crtical Assumptions
Project Components I         Inputs: (budget for each      Project reports:              (from Components to
Sub-components:              component)                                                  Outputs)
1. Strengthen capacity of MOE    *  US$1 .76 million       *Financing statement          *District level MOE offices
*Progress report               cooperate in decentralized
*Procurement management        reporting and monitoring
1. 1. Policy, Planning and                                  report                        activities
Financine                                                  * Semi annual project supervision
*Monitoring implementation of                               report
selected activities: TA/training                          *Monthly disbursement summary
*Data-based pilot policy making                            *Quarterly PMR:
process (e.g., efficient use of                           eAnnual audit reports
school facilities): TA/training
*Data-based educational annual
workplan and budget
formulation process
TA/training
*Educational and financial
management information
system:
equipment/goods/training/TA
*Statistics and information
dissemination and consultation:
TA/training
* Vertical addition to MOE
building
1.2. Proiect Suwonrt Team
*Support MOE core project
management staff
*Training for project
management and financial and
procurement management.
* Operational support for project
management activities.
2. Targeted Interventions    * US$5.88 million             *Progress reports/Bank        *Acceptance of standards by
supervision reports          teachers/headteachers
2.1 General Education                                      *Midterm review report        *Capacity of the MOE to expand
*Monitoring the implementation                              ICR                           to desired number of schools
of selected activities:                                   *Baseline data and periodic   *Availability of training
TA/training                                                surveys
*(a) School improvement through
review and development
[SIRD]; (b) Headteacher
standards
- 25 -



2.2 Vocational Secondary                                                               * Acceptance and u':ilization of
Education                                                 *Progress reports/Bank          the new vocational courses by
* Development of a pilot                                   supervision reports            the business comrnunity
secondary vocational training                            *Midterm review report       * Acceptance by parents of girls
program for: Office equipment                              ICR                           entering the labor force.
maintenance, hotel and                                   oBaseline data and periodic
restaurant services, tourism,                             surveys
* Construction of four vocational
annexes to general secondary
schools (2 boys and 2 girls)
* Baseline study on labor market
requirements.
-26 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
WEST BANK AND GAZA. Education Action Project
The project's development objective is to strengthen the capacity of the Ministry of Education (MOE) to
manage the education system more effectively. The project seeks to assist MOE to:
(i) Improve planning and policy making: The project design encourages the MOE to continue developing
a coherent education strategy, with an emphasis on the annual planning process. Given the extensive
commitments of other donors, a small well-targeted project supporting the Five-Year Plan goals was
considered the most suitable investment.
(ii) Strengethen management and financing: Given the constraints of PA budget, the MOE needs to
improve its ability to use domestic and donor funds more strategically and to improve planning and policy
making. The development of annual workplans is expected to gradually incorporate improved strategic
thinking arising from the planning process. Capacity building and targeted investment areas are linked. For
example, the development of the EMIS would contribute to improved school mapping. This should enable
improved planning for resource allocation.
(iii) Support vocational secondara education:  At present there is an inadequate supply of quality
vocational technical education. The project would support the efforts of the PA to provide a coordinated
approach by the MOE, MOHE and Vocational Expert Team to training and skills development and
increase the number of places available for vocational secondary courses. In the integrated strategy, these
would lead to appropriate further education and training (see Annex 13). Pilot programs in vocational
secondary education were selected for funding in order to improve access to secondary education overall, to
broaden the curricula options for students in light of a new and more flexible approach to integrating
vocational education and training across basic and higher education, and to improve the possibilities for
employment in a difficult labor market. The selection of the pilot programs also reflects a least-cost
analysis (see Annex 4). The programs would be delivered at existing academic secondary schools with a
few additional vocational/technical workshops (i.e., comprehensive secondary school system). By sharing
land, facilities, general teachers and administrators with academic programs, the pilot programs would be
much less costly than the approach of the separate vocational/technical training school system.
The project has two complementary components. The first provides assistance to develop strategies that
facilitate planning and policy making and support for the project management unit, the second finances
specific investments to support access and quality in education.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$1.76 million
Capacity Building, Ministry of Education
Sub-component 1-1. Policy, Planning and Financing US$1.47 million
This sub-component would support the preparation and evaluation of AWPB to operationalize the
priorities of the Five-Year education Plan. The project would support four key Directorates (Planning,
Buildings and Works, Training and Vocational Secondary Education) in selecting and developing detailed
proposals for activities in the annual plans. The quality and coverage of the annual workplans and budget
proposals are expected to improve gradually over the project period. The activities to be financed under
this sub-comnponent include:
- 27 -



*   putting in place an EMIS including school mapping facilities and extending this to all District offices;
*   building a vertical extension to the MOE annex to rationalize the use of space and discontinue renting
buildings;
*  technical assistance to support capacity building.
Sub-Component 1-2. Support for Implementation US$0.28 million
This sub-component would include financing the PST staff, consultants and an operational budget through
the life of the project. PST staff would be located in relevant MOE departments while reporting to a
Project Director located in the Planning Department. Staff would include financial and procurement
specialists and administrative assistants. The MOE has already considerable knowledge of implementing
donor projects.
Project Component 2 - US$5.88 million
Targeted Interventons
Sub-component 2-1. General Education US$3.13 million
This sub-component would support the implementation of activities prepared under sub-component 1-1
funding selected activities in the AWPB.
a)   School improvement through review and development (SIRD): This component builds upon and
refines a project to put in place school-based planning which has been undertaken in 400 schools. Over the
course of the project the program would be extended to all schools at a rate of some 270 schools per year,
building on existing expertise. The SIRD component would initially target schools in areas which are
relatively deprived. The ongoing program would continue to focus on school-based planning and teacher
inputs to that planning. It would add the extra dimension of using teacher performance assessment to that
process. The performance results from the planning exercise would be incorporated into the inspectorate
level review of teacher performance. There are two aspects of this sub-component to be funded:
-  Strategic subject training: In order to provide teachers with improved skills to implement their plans,
the sub-component would refine and re-print 10 Issues Overviews on strategic topics previously
identified by teachers as being key knowledge areas, and train 50 trainers (a mix of external and
internal staff) to deliver these at school level.
The subjects covered would be as follows:
1. Teaching and Learning: Differentiation of teaching strategies and using pupil-level assessment data to
inform teaching plans.
2. Human Resource Management: Ensuring that the results from a variety of staff and school
assessments are used to create a coherent performance management strategy.
*  School Improvement/Training Fund& Schools would be provided with a small fund to identify teachers
to receive training or to purchase other training/school improvement activities to meet their needs.
Funds would be given to schuis for staff development on the basis of proposals evaluated accordin.g to
agreed upon evaluation criteria. Proposals would emanate from schools on the basis of a program
- 28 -



manual and be reviewed by a committee at the MOE. Funds would be sent directly to school accounts
(detailed description in the PIP).
b)   Headteacher standards: The project would undertake a review of current best practice in the
development of standards for headteachers, and provide funds to develop national Palestinian standards for
headteachers, and design a masters level diploma program for the new qualifications.
A second phase of this program would use the standards to form the basis for a request for bids from
universities and colleges to develop a masters level diploma program for new qualification, and a second
year program for those wishing to undertake higher level skills. If the program becomes viable during the
second year of the project, stipends would be provided to teachers to enable thern to undertake the training
to become headteachers.
Sub-component 2-2. Vocational Education US$2.75 million
The MOE is working with the.Inter-Ministerial Committee on Technical/Vocational Training to put
together a coherent national strategy for this topic. The Five-Year Plan supports a gradual increase in the
availability of places in vocational secondary schools to 7.5% of the secondary school population. This
would expand the range of options in secondary schools within a broad overall curriculum that would allow
for return to higher education or further vocational qualifications. The proposed construction consists of
annexes to existing general secondary schools.
The proposed subjects for which new curricula would be developed, including tourism and service
industries, would partly be selected as a result of a baseline tracer study of secondary school students and
partly as subjects which would be locally acceptable for secondary school girls. The gross enrollment of
girls at secondary school level was 56.9% in 1999/2000, up from 51.6% in 1997/98. At present, there are
very few facilities where girls can receive the training to become skilled laborers. Attaching vocational
units to general schools would enable staff teaching general subjects to be shared across school units. As
part of the proposed expansion of secondary vocational training in the Five-Year Plan, this sub-component
would support the preparation of:
a) the development and printing of selected trial curricula for vocational secondary education (e.g., office
equipment maintenance, hotel and restaurant services, tourism);
b) the construction of four pilot vocational school annexes to existing secondary schools (two for girls and
two for boys). These would be annexes to existing general secondary schools to provide a variety of
options at the secondary level, particularly for girls, for whom the options in vocational schools are at
present restricted. Additional construction and equipment of annexes and extensions to existing schools,
within the framework of the project; may be considered.
The project in the context of the Education Five-Year Plan:
This project supports the work already undertaken by the Ministry of Education (MOE) in the development
of a Five-Year Plan and long-term education strategy. Over the next three years it would support the
implementation of Five-Year Plan activities through working with specific directorates (planning,
vocational secondary education, training, buildings and works) in the planning process. The MOE has
worked extensively with a range of donors on planning activities over the past two years. These efforts are
paying off in terms of the development of more strategic thinkting in allocating education resources.
However, the pressures on the education system, including a difficult economic and social situation
combined with population growth, are considerable. The MOE would be hard pressed simply to maintain
- 29 -



its already good basic enrollments, let alone make the improvements envisaged in the Five-Year Plan. The
table below outlines the components of the Five-Year Plan to be addressed by the project.
Five-Year Plan Objective                         Project Activities 2000-2004
Goal One - Provide Access to Education for All
Children
1.1.* Provide full access to Grade 1 (for 100% of  a.*  Carry out micro-planning (based on scho.ol
school entrance age population)                mapping and geographic information system GIS)
Goal Two - Improve the Quality of Education
2.3/5.2 Improve the quality of teachers          a. Prepare and carry out in-service teacher trainiig
programs
2.4 Modemize and add school facilities and improve   Revitalize existing school facilities through replacing
their use                                      obsolete premises and 5%  of furniture per year,
renovate old buildings and upgrade existing
vocational schools.
2.6 Strengthen the assessment and evaluation system    c. Develop headmasters capacities to support teachers
work in assessment and evaluation
d. Train teachers in the use of assessment means in
the schools
Goal Three - Develop Formal and Non-Formal
Education
3.2 Develop Basic Education                      d. Development and application of special programs
(including teacher training special syllabus and
teaching/learning materials)
3.3 Develop a diversified secondary education and   Conduct feasibility study on the development of
upgrade effectiveness of academic, technical and   secondary vocational schools (increasing the share of
vocational schools                             vocational school enrollment to 7.5%  of total
secondary enrollment by 2004).
Based on the results of the feasibility study f;r
secondary vocational schools:  (i) development of
curricula; (2) provision of facilities.
Goal Four:  Develop Management Capacity in
Planning, Administration and Finance
4.1  Develop  Management  capacities  for  all  a. Review and improve the organization framework
management functions (personnel, finance, budget  through defining roles, responsibilities and structures
etc.) at all levels (school, district and central)  at all levels
d. Review  and further develop the management
information system (EMIS) and ensure dissemination
of information to all levels
- 30 -



4.2 Develop the planning and monitoring capacities  a. Develop  and  implement a  framework  for
for all functions at all levels                   preparing, implementing  and  following  up  on
coordinated annual plans (with corresponding
recurrent and capital budgets) at the three levels
(MOE, districts, schools) by providing necessary
tools and mechanisms
c. Strengthen the planning functions at all levels.
Goal Five:   Develop Human Resources of the
Education System
5.6 Develop the school as a unit for development  a. Develop the capacity of school staff to build,
implement, monitor school plans, including staff
development and mobilization of community
resources.
Note: * Numbering is taken from the latest version of the Five-Year Plan.
-31-



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
WEST BANK AND GAZA. Education Action Project
1. Strenthening Capacity of MOE                                                                    0.00
1.1 Policy, Planning and Finance                                    0.70            0.65            1.35
1.2 Support for Project Implementation                              0.21            0.04            0.25
2. Targeted Interventions                                                                           0.00
2.1 General Education                                               1.40            1.42            2.82
2.2 Vocational Education                                            1.18            1.35            2.53
Total Baseline Cost                                                 3.49            3.46            6.95
Physical Contingencies                                             0.26            0.22            0.48
Price Contingencies                                                0.10            0.10            0.20
Total Project Costs                    3.85            3.78           7.63
Total Financing Required                     3.85            3.78            7.63
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0.63 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 7 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 100% of total
project cost net of taxes.
- 32 -



Annex 4
WEST BANK AND GAZA: Education Action Project
Economic and Fiscal Analysis
1.    The Education Action Project (EAP) would support the implementation of a five-year education
development plan (Five-Year Plan). The objective of the project is to improve the management capacity of
the education system to deliver quality services in a fiscally feasible manner. The project has two
complementary components. The first directly supports strengthening the management capacity of the
MOE for policy, planning and budgeting across departments. The second supports specific investments in
targeted programs in line with the objectives of the MOE's Five-Year Plan.
2.    The economic soundness of the project design is ensured by: (i) basing the project concept on the
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and Comprehensive Development Framework (CDF); (ii) assessing the
rationale for public intervention; (iii) selecting an economically justified option for a major investment
program of component 1; MOE building extension; (iv) requiring economic justification for selection of
subprograms of component 2; and (v) ensuring affordability of the project while strengthening the capacity
of MOE for using fiscal and economic analysis in its planning and budgeting process.
1. Project Concept is based on Economic and Sector Work (ESW)
3.    The objective of the project addresses two of the four strategic themes for the World Bank Strategy
for the West Bank and Gaza and a Request for a Replenishment of the Trust Fund for Gaza and the West
Bank (1998, and a revision of 1999): (i) building capable public sector management and institutions for
good govemance; and (ii) developing human resources.
4.    The Palestinian Authority (PA) and the World Bank have also identified, through piloting the CDF,
that the govemance/management, efficiency and financing issues in the education sector are priorities for
which the World Bank can help the PA with a comparative advantage and in a partnership with other
bilateral and multilateral donors. There is growing donor support for moving to "basket funding" (i.e.,
pooling), creating both pressure on, and incentives for, the MOE to complete their Five-Year Plan and to
produce their annual work plan around which donor support can be organized. It also requires the MOE to
improve the implementation and monitoring procedures which could be shared by several donors, starting
from coordination of major program areas such as school construction. The project supports the
implementation of improved rules, norms and procedures, especially in three program areas where
improvements in management could improve the effectiveness and efficiency of work practice: (i) training;
(ii) school construction; and (iii) vocationalltechnical education.
5.    Improving the management capacity of the education sector should lead to the strategic allocation
of public funds. The education sector's contribution to poverty reduction - universal primary education,
equitable provision of basic and secondary education, and improved quality of education for economic and
social needs - are important elements of the sectoral strategy in WBG. In addition, the EAP would provide
funds for the implementation of targeted subprograms, including school-based training programs for about
200 schools where headmasters and teachers have special problems in teaching students in relatively poor
areas (e.g., low attendance, overage and low learning support from families).
- 33 -



11. %a4ionae tor hubl)c Intervention
6.    Given the high rates of population growth, both in the West Bank and in Gaza, maintaining c Trrent
enrollment levels is a challenge. MOE's Five-Year Plan, and the project in particular, play an important
role in reducing inequality, in opening opportunities for the poor, particularly given market failures in
lending for education. The project supports the education sector, especially basic and secondary education,
not only by allowing additional investments, but also by improving the efficiency of expenditures in
education. Basic and secondary education receive high financial commitment from the central authorities:
basic and secondary education account for 16% of the total central authorities recurrent budget in 2000.
Between 1994 and mid-1999, it is estimated that more than US$97 million in donor assistance were
allocated to constructing 152 new schools and renovating 374 schools, resulting in the addition of at least
3,764 new classrooms (Aid Effectiveness 2000). While there is no systematic data on financial
contributions from local authorities and communities, their role is considered significant, especially in the
West Bank. It is estimated that the local authorities and communities contributed to about 1,317 new
classrooms built from 1994 to 1999 in the West Bank. These public and private commitrnents have
supported a 36% increase in enrollments in basic and secondary schools, from 608,718 in 1994/95 to
812,722 in 1998/99. For higher education, most institutions are not run by the PA (only one university is
supervised by the PA) and student fees cover nearly half of the recurrent expenditures.
7.    A high population growth still requires continuous strong financial commitment from the PA and
private sector for basic and secondary education in WBG, especially for ensuring compulsory :asic
education. MOE has projected public expenditure needs for the Five-Year Plan by taking into
consideration other players: private sector and NGOs (UNRWA). MOE assumes that the share of schlools
supported by the PA in educational provision would remain almost constant (about 35%). In other words,
enrollment in those schools would increase at the same pace as PA-supported schools. MOE is consulting
with these representatives during preparation of the plan so that the future plan would not exclude the
public sector. The regulatory framework for private schools is flexible (e.g., there is no regulation of fees).
I=. Capacity Development Activities (component 1) Apply Economically Justified Approaches
8.    A major activity of component 1-addition of two floors to the MOE building, representing 20%
of costs of component 1 (estimated at US$420,000 for construction and US$110,000 for furniture and
equipment) is appraised on the basis of: (i) rationalization of administration facilities and (ii) cost-benefit
analysis.
(i) Rationalization of administration facilities. The objective of this program is to improve the facilities for
the central MOE staff for better work practice. MOE owns a main building for 175 staff. There are four
departments and about 70 staff (see Table 1) located in rented premises outside the central location. The
proposed extension of the central building would provide additional spaces for those in rented spaces. This
is expected to increase effectiveness and efficiency of communication, collaboration, and management
information flow among units. Improved communication is a basic requirement for a move from a vertical
project-driven approach towards a horizontal and objective/output-driven program approach in
implementing the Five-Year Plan and anmual workplans. Altemative communication enhancing strategies
without extension of the MOE building are rejected because distances between buildings are not reasonable
for frequent travel which is also difficult because of security reasons, and modem communication
technologies (e.g., LAN, intranet and e-mails) are not available. In addition, increased face-to-face
interaction opportunities are considered critical for this learning phase when MOE administrators are
- 34 -



strengthening their management skills through preparation and implementation of the first Five-Year Plan.
Table 1. Office Management Plan for Central MOE
2000            2003
Estimate
'Space facilities (sqm)
MOE central building            2,967          2,967
Proposed extension (2    Not applicable        1,100
floors)
Rented premises                  1,700             0
Total                         4,667          4,067
No. of staff located*
MOE central building              167            167
Proposed extension (2    Not applicable           73
floors)
Rented prernises                   73              0
Total                         240             240
Note: *The increase of administrators from 2001 to 2003 is not
considered for calculation.
(ii) Cost-benefit analysis. The investment is expected to save costs by not renting offices and occupying
school facilities as administration offices. In addition, it would save staff working time and transportation
costs for day-to-day management meetings and information exchange. A cost-benefit analysis was
undertaken using measurable monetary benefits (saved yearly rents) and costs (construction and annual
building maintenance costs). Table 2 summarizes the information and results used for the analysis.
Assuming that a discount rate is 10% and that the life span of building is 30 years, the proposed investment
would have a reasonable return. The internal rate of return (IRR) would be 14% and the net present value
(NPV) would be US$152,896. The sensitivity analysis also considers the effect of cost overruns and the
effect of annual rent increases. If the rent increases by 5% annually after the current contract period (by
2001), the IRR would increase to 19%. On the other hand, if the cost overruns by 10%, the IRR would
decrease to 13%.
- 35 -



Table 2. A Costs and Benefits of Proposed MOE Building Extension
Information
Costs
Construction            US$420,000
Maintenance (annual)    US$8,400
(2% of construction)
Benefits
By not renting offices
Measurable benefit  US$63,000 (yearly)
-Classrooms occupied by administrators would be used by schools
-Administrators would save time to attend meetings and exchange
Other benefit       information
Source: MOE
Table 2. B Costs and Benefits of Propo ed MOE Building Ex ension-Results
Base scenario                                      $152,896                 14%
Sensitivity analysis
Cost overrun 5%                                   $130,846                13%
Cost overrun 10%                                  $108,796                13%
Increase rent 5% yearly                           $506,918                19%
Increase rent and cost overrun 10%                $462,818                18%
Note* It is assumed that discount rate is equal to 10%;
IV. Selection Procedures for Targeted Interventions (component 2) Promote Economic Justification
of Choices
9.     The project supports building management capacity of MOE for planning, implementation and
monitoring. It would support gradual improvement and standardization of formats and procedures for
plans and budgets. Component 2 provides funds to subprograms which are prepared according to the
improved procedures. The procedures would form the basis for subprogram preparation by the beneficiary
units, appraisal by the project management team, and approval by the project supervisory committee. "he
procedures would require information for economic/fiscal, technical, social and/or institutional justification
of proposed subprograms (c.f., see annexes 11-13 for technical, social and institutional justification).
While information required for economic justification would depend on the type and scope of the
subprograms, a proposal is expected to provide information for the following basic questions: (i) whether
the proposal would address the priority objectives of the Five-Year Plan and (ii) whether the propo:sal
would give consideration to a cost-effective or least-cost approach.
Would a proposal address priority objectives of the Five-Year Plan?
10.    A proposal for subprograms to be funded under EAP should address one or more of the prio,ity
objectives of the Five-Year Plan. These priorities are selected according to the expected impacts on
poverty reduction and growth of the economy, as discussed below.
(i) Access. The priority specific objectives are to: (a) maintain full access to grades 1-6; (b) increase
enrollments for grades 7-12; and (c) improve equity of access to general and technical/vocational (VT)
- 36 -



secondary education (grades 11-12). Universal basic education for all is an internationally agreed priority
policy goal associated with poverty reduction. International evidence suggests that completion of primary
education has a very high social rate of return. While PA has provided, together with UNWRA, nearly
universal access to basic education, high population growth (3.5% for West Bank and 4.2% for Gaza per
year) requires continuous commitment to universal access to basic education, especially in the first six
grades, in efficient ways. In WBG, enrollments begin to decline at grade 7. Improving equity of access to
secondary education for targeted groups, such as girls and children in poor areas, could be an incentive for
them to complete basic education.
The activities (programs) to reach the priority objectives could include: plan of inputs (i.e., classrooms,
teachers, textbooks learning materials) for accommodating projected enrollments; utilization of existing
school facilities; construction of new classrooms; development and deployment of teachers; and provision
of teaching/learning materials.
(ii) Quality. The priority specific objectives are to: (a) develop, update, and apply new curriculum to meet
the needs of society and the labor market and (b) improve the quality of teachers and principals. WBG has
no natural resources and a small internal market. Its economic growth depends highly on its human capital,
which must be locally and internationally competitive.
The activities (programs) to reach the priority objectives could include: development of strategies for
training of teachers, principals and supervisors; provision of in-service teacher training; provision of
professional training to principals and supervisors; provision of school-based training; and development
and implementation of pilot curricula for technical/vocational secondary education.
11.    Table 3 summarizes the linkage between priority objectives and subprograms which have been
selected for the first year of EAP.
Table 3. Priority Objectives and Sub-Programs of EAP First-Year
School as a unit of training   Pilot VT section in general
program               secondary school
Access
(a) Full access to grades 1-6                  X
(b) Increase access to grades 7-12                                       X
(c) Improve equity to grades 11-12                                       X
Quality
(a) Improve curriculum                                                   x
(b) Improve quality of teachers and            x
principals
Would a proposal give consideration to a cost-effective or least-cost approach?
12.    A proposal for subprograms should be prepared and selected after consideration of cost-effective
and/or least-cost approaches. For example, the establishment of the vocational/technical (VT) workshops
for each of the two existing academic secondary schools (comprehensive system) has been selected for the
first year of EAP after comparing the recurrent cost implications with the alternative (separate VT school
system).
- 37 -



13.   The proposed workshops in academic secondary schools would provide practical training within
the new Palestinian curriculum in industrial occupations, and general/theoretical classes would be provided
by general teachers from the academic schools. Table 4 summarizes the least-cost analysis of two
approaches for increasing VT classes, using data from the MOE proposal for the establishment of the new
workshops and data from one of five existing VT secondary schools (Nablus industrial secondary school).
The proposed approach would require much lower recurrent costs per additional student (by 50%) than
building entirely new industrial secondary schools. By sharing land, facilities, general teachers and
administration with academic schools, the proposed approach would be much less costly.
- 38 -



Table 4. Fiscal Impact Analysis of Vocational/Technical Secondary Education Program
Proposed General/VT                          VT
Comprehensive system                    separate system
Investment          2 workshop units to existing general  New industrial secondary school
secondary school                    building (12 regular classrooms, 12
workshop units, 2 labs, library, stock
room)
Effect
Workshop, classes    2 workshops, 4 classes              12 workshops, 24 classes
Enrollments         70 students                          400 students
Recurrent Input
Personnel           2 VTE teachers                       5 administrators
1.5 general teachers (to be shared with   25 VTE teachers
academic courses)                    8 general teachers
Total 3.5 staff                      5 service staff
Total 43 staff
Operations          Materials, training, etc.            Materials, training, etc.
Estimated impact    Personnel: US$21,000                 Personnel: US$258,000
on major recurrent  Operations and maintenance:          Operations and maintenance:
costs*              US$3,725                             US$22,000
TOTAL US$24,725                     TOTAL US$280,000
Recurrent cost per   US$353                              US$700
student            I_I_I
Source: MOE, Department of VocationalVTechnical Education
Note: * It is assumed that the average monthly salary is US$500. Each VT workshop receives 5,000 ILS (about
USS1,250) for operations and maintenance from the PA. Student fees are 70 ILS (about US$17.5) for VT
classes.
14.    International evidence suggests that a high unit cost per student for VT education is a major reason
why a cost-benefit analysis favors academic secondary education over VT secondary education. If
graduates from both streams receive the same level of wages, the higher cost of VTE would reduce returns
to education. The flexibility of VT curricula to meet labor market needs is another critical issue for
increasing probabilities that graduates from specific occupational courses could find jobs in the related
fields. Occupations for the proposed workshops would be chosen based on local employment opportmities
through ongoing consultation with communities and employers, and collaboration with other ministries and
special attention to occupations with a high information technology. By minimizing costs and applying the
innovative curriculum development process, the proposal is fiscally justified. In addition, the proposed
approach fits the special context of WBG, where student population is relatively small, and logistical
problems do not necessary allow a VTE school to enroll an adequate level of students by traveling.
Ongoing capacity building process
15.    As discussed above, the information requirements for justification of proposed subprograms
depend on their type and scope. However, in general, the information could be provided and analyzed at
either or both stages: one for overall approaches of a program area (e.g., teacher training program), and the
other for a specific subprogram or activity within the program area (e.g., one week of in-service teacher
training for 2002/2003). The ongoing process of the formulation of the Five-Year Plan corresponds to the
first stage. MOE staff have been trained and have received technical assistance for analyzing technical
quality, effectiveness and costs of major program areas, such as school construction, teacher training and
-39 -



vocational education, to prioritize programs in the Five-Year Plan.  Thus, the selection of target
subprograms within the framework of the Five-Year Plan should be justifiable. For the second stage the
MOE is also building capacity through preparation of implementation plans or detailed action plans of the
Five-Year Plan. The detailed planning process for each specific subprogram and/or annual workplans
would require: (a) adapting the selected approach to specific subprograms as needed; (b) monitoring the
implementation to feed into ongoing review and planning process; and (c) reviewing alternatives to adjust a
selected approach in light of lessons learned from experiences and the changing educational and economic
contexts. Project preparation has been assisting the MOE in strengthening the planning capacity. A
workshop for economics of education was held for central and district staff in June 2000. The project
preparation grants also supported technical assistance for assessment of fiscal affordability of the
Five-Year Plan. The project would continue supporting capacity building by improving the educational
and fimancial management information system and the utilization of data for planning, monitoring, and
reviewing programs.
V. Overall Fiscal Impact of the Project is Affordable
Macroeconomic trend and medium-term framework
16.   Table 5 summarizes the trend of selected economic indicators over the past five years. Trhe
Palestinian economy went into deep recession in 1995 and 1996, and began to recover in 1997. Gross
Domestic Product (GDP) is estimated to have increased by around 6% in 1999 in real termns, with growth
particularly in construction and tourism. The current revenues (i.e., excluding donor aid) also increased
from 19% of GDP in 1996 to 23% in 1999. Both domestic tax and clearance revenues recorded strong
growth. In addition, donor aid for the development plan has been substantial, contributing US$400-500
million annually. The total donor disbursements for the development plan in 1999 were roughly estimated
at US$416 million (10% of GDP), modestly higher than in 1998, but still significantly below the amoumt
received in 1996-97. While public recurrent expenditures have maintained a share of GDP at around 22%
over the past five years, the level of expenditures has increased by more than US$100 million. The
increase was initially justified by the expanded responsibilities of the PA and strong political pressures to
reduce unemployment by public hiring. But the recent growth in public employment appears to be more
than can be justified, and continues to impair the recurrent expenditure management (e.g., roughly 6,000
people were added to the payroll in the fourth quarter of 1999, four times as many as planned).
17.   To assess the fiscal viability of public expenditures for basic and secondary education (MOE) over
the next three years, the macroeconomic framework projected by MOF and the IMF was used (preliminary
projections for 2000 to 2002, as of May 1999) for a base case scenario. GDP is projected to grow at 5%
per year in real terms. This projection corresponds approximately to a moderate scenario (scenario A)
provided in the PDP 1999-2003. The level of public expenditures is projected to be almost constant at the
level in 2000 in real terms, while its share of GDP would slightly decrease from 22.4% in 2000 to 20.5% in
2002. For a high case scenario, it is assumed that the public expenditure's share of GDP would increase to
24.5% in 2002.
18.   The official projection of public recurrent expenditures by sector or ministry is not yet available.
Thus, this analysis assumes that the MOE's share of central current expenditures would stay at its
1998-2000 average of nearly 17% for base and high cases, given that the PA financial commitment has
been high and there is general consensus among PA officials on financial requirements for increasing
school-aged population. For capital expenditures, this analysis assumes that donor funding for PA
supported basic and secondary schools (projects/programs under MOE) would account for about 8% of
total donor committnents (US$35 million per year). This assurnption is close to the projections provided in
- 40 -



the PDP 1999-2003 (8.3%) and to an average of the estimated yearly spending for the past four years
(US$33 million). In addition, the contributions from local authorities and communities are expected to be
substantial, especially for classroom construction in the West Bank. Roughly estimated local and
communities' contributions for school construction are US$11 million per year, using data from the MOE
on classrooms built by communities from 1994 to 1999. This estimate, however, should be carefully
considered. Since some classrooms constructed by local communities could be below standards, the MOE
and other agencies would need to carry out finishing work for these classrooms (e.g., 30% of classrooms
built by communities from 1994 to 1999 in the West Bank). This analysis assumes that community
contributions would remain at the same level as the average for the past years (US$10 million) for a high
case, and that they would be half of the average (US$5 million) for a base case.
Table 5. Trend of Selected Economic Indicators
Flscal Year 4/
PreL    Proj.    Proj.    Proj. Proj. 5i
1996    1997      199h     1999      2000     2001      2002     2003
GDP (millions US$, mnid-1999 price)                                  3,681   3,857    4,127    4,375    4,594    4,828    5,069    5,323
Real GDP growth (annual% change) 1/                                    -3.2      4.8      7.0       6.0       5.0      5.1       .0(      5.0
Fiscal Operations
Revenue(%ofGDP)-Basecase                                             18.9    21.6      22.0      23.4     21.9      2i.      21.4      2 9
Revenue (% of GDP) -Hdgh case                                                                                      ''4.0     25.0      25.0
Current expenditure 2/ (/ of GDP)-Base case                          22.9    22.7      21.4      22.3     22.4      71 3      V0.5     20.5
Current expenditre 2/ (% of GDP)-High case                                                                            23     24.5      24.5
Current expenditure (millions US, mid-1999 price)-Base case          842      875      885      977    1,031    1,027    1,038    1,089
Current expenditure (millions USS, mid-1 999 price)-lgh case                                                      1,110    1,242    1,304
Donor financing 3/ (millions US$)                                     735     716       549      594       601       599      603       603
of which: development plan 3/                                       539     489       382       416      430       427      430       430
Donor financing for development plan (% of GDP)                      14.9    12.8       9.7       9.9      9.6       9.1       8.5      8.5
MOE
Current expenditure (millions US$, mid-1999 price)-Base ease          123      125      149       165      170       175      176       185
Current expenditure (millions USS, mid-1999 price)-High case                                                         189      211       222
Donor financing (millions US$)                                                  34       15       49        31
Donor financing (millions US$, mid-1999 price)-BaselHigh case                                                         35       35        35
Local and community contributions (millions US$, mid-1999 price)-Base case                                             5         5        5
Local and community contributions (millions USS, mid-1999 price)-High case                                            10        10       10
Current expenditure (% ofgovernment expenditure)                     14.6    14.3      16.9      16.8     16.5      17.0      17.0     17.0
Donor financing (% of total donor finmcing for dev plan)                       7.0      4.0      11.9       7.2      8.2       8.1      8.1
Sources: Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Planning and Intemational Cooperation (MOPIC),
and IMF staff estimates and projections. MOE's 1996 data are estiamted using the 1999 budget book.
MOE's 1997 - 1999 data are from MOE Departnent of Planning.
Notes: U1 IMF staffestimates based en data from the PCBS.
2/ On a comnuitnent basis.
3/ Total donor financing includes disbursements through the development plans plus donor support for UJNRWA's operational
budget and to NGOs outside of the development plan. The development plan refers to all aid recorded by MOPIC.
4/ While a fiscal year starts in January, a school year starts in September. This analysis assumes 1999/00 as 2000.
The same assumption is applied for all yeams in this analysis.
5/ Por projection of fiscal operation, the projecion is assuned the same as 2002.
Medium-term expenditure requirements for basic and secondary education
19.    The MOE has made progress over the past two years in the formulation of the Five-Year Plan
(2000/01-2004/05). The formulation of the Plan is an ongoing and dynamic process which involves a
whole range of stakeholders such as MOE staff of all levels, Ministries of Planning and Finance, donors,
UNRWA, and NGOs. During the initial phase of the planning process, the MOE focused on articulating
all educational objectives, targets, and activities. It faced a large amount of financing requirements. To
make the Five-Year Plan a practical framework for domestic and donor finds, the MOE has been
prioritizing objectives and activities and developing a fiscally realistic scenario in light of a macroeconomic
framework. The current scenario would require US$1,208 million for recurrent expenditures (92% are for
- 41 -



salaries and wages) and US$226 million for the capital expenditures for the total five years. While the
main objectives, such as targeted GERs for basic (98%) and secondary education (68%), are the same
between the initial scenario (highest case) and the current scenario (case in progress), the costs of the
current scenario are 75% of the initial scenario (90% for recurrent and 42% for capital costs). As Table 5
shows, the current scenario reflects more cost-effective measures such as high utilization of school facilities
(e.g., 33% of classes would be double-shifting) than the initial scenario. In addition, the current scenario
assunes that communities would continue shanng costs through student registration fees, examination fees
(45% of the estimated cost-recovery), textbook sales (14% of the estimated cost-recovery), and donations.
A fiscally realistic and efficient scenario is also required in preparing a system for a future anticipated
increase of students' population due to refugees' returns as well as a natural population growth.
Table 6 Selective Indicators from Projections of Costs for
the Five-Year Education Development Plan
Initial Scenario      Current Scenario
Highest Case         Case in Progress
Targets for Activities
(for government schools)
For 200412005
Student-class ratio-basic                                   36                     38
Share of double-shift classes                              0%                  32.6%
Forfive years                            _
Additional posts-general education                      10,684                  9,000
XAdditionalposts-VTE   _              0    -  = =    1,458                        540
New classrooms-general education                          8924                  3,400
Now classrooms-VTE                                         435                    130
Costs for five years in million US$ at mid- __
1999 price (average per year, US$)__               __      _
Recurrent expenditure                               1,329 (266)            1,208 (242)
Of which, salary                                    1,216 (243)            1,122 (224)
Capital expenditure                                  537 (107)               226( 45)
Total expenditure                                   1,866 (373)            1,433 (287)
Source: MOE "Five-Year Education Development Plan 2000/2001 - 2004/2005" (Draft as of June 28, 2000)
Fiscal impact of the EAP
20.    The total project costs are US$7.63 million over the three years of the implementation period. The
project recurrent costs would be 3% of the costs (US$0.21 million), a very small percentage to the
projected total MOE recurrent expenditures (less than 0.05%). The incremental recurrent costs of the
project are estimated to be affordable given that the project would support implementation of the MOE
annual plans/budgets to be developed within the expenditure framework of a realistic final scenario of the
Five-Year Plan. The fiscal affordability of a final scenario of the Five-Year Plan (i.e., rate of costs of the
scenario to the projected fiscal envelope for MOE provided in Table 5) is being ensured in the process
discussed in the above section. The current scenario still has a financing gap or the fiscal affordability
above 100%, especially for recurrent requirements as compared to the available funding in the base case
fiscal scenario. The projected financing gap is US$30-55 million per year for recurrent costs and US$2*-6
mnillion for investment costs. The projected financing gap in the high fiscal case scenario is very modest
(the fiscal affordability is around 100%). The ongoing final stage of the formulation of the Five-Year Plan
is expected to review this issue. The project would also ensure fiscal feasibility by (i) continuing support
- 42 -



for the capacity building of the MOE for developing and implementing MOE annual plans/budgets and
associated EAP annual workplans and (ii) monitoring the implementation of the annual workplans. Thus,
fiscal sustainability would be dependent on the ability of the MOE staff to absorb and undertake ongoing
improvements for a proper planning and budgeting process.
21.    Since September 2000, the fiscal situation has deteriorated sharply. Revenues have fallen by more
than half, and while much of this shortfall has been cushioned by Donor's emergency funds, the PA has
been forced to reduce current expenditures by more than 11%. Prospects are uncertain for the next 6
months, and a new six-month emergency spending plan has been fonnulated in coordination with the IMF.
The PA has expressed its commitrnent to secure adequate allocations for the social sectors, including
education. This revenue shortfall has compelled PA agencies to plan and utilize domestic and donor funds
more strategically and effectively. Projet Component One will enhance MOE program and financial
planning capacities at a time when this skills are crucially important. The ongoing political instability may
limit the availability of materials for civil works/construction and the availability of international
consultants to provide services. The project provides support for the Five-Year Plan under broad
categories, thereby allowing for flexible adjustments if the political crisis is of long duration. Components
and activities that are less susceptible to the effects of closure and on-going instability would be prioritized
for implementation until the situation stabilizes.
Table 7. Fiscal Impact of Project
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _   __  Fiscal Year 3/ 
Projected  Projected  Projected  Projected
! _____________________________________________           2001        2002       2003       2001-03
MOE Expenditure Requirements (US$ ml) 1v                      244         265         287         796
Recurrent                                                     202         221         241         664
of which, salary                                              188         205         223         616
Investment                                                     42          44          46         132
Financial Affordability for MOE () 2v
Base case Riscal scenario
Recurrent                                                  116%        125%        130%        124%
Investment                                                 105%        110%        115%        110%
High case fiscal scenario
Recurrent                                                  107%        105%        109%        107%
Investment                                                  93%         98%        102%         98%
Project Costs (USS ml)                                        0.81       2.37        2.82        6.00
Recurrent                                                   0.01        0.07        0.12        0.20
Investment                                                  0.80        2.30        2.70        5.80
Project Costs (% of MOE Expenditure Requirements)
Recurrent                                                  0.01%      0.03%       0.04%       0.03%
Investment                                                 0.33%      0.87%       0.94%       0.73%1
Sources: MOE, Department of Planning
Notes: 1/ Expenditure requirements for the current scenario of the Five-Year Plan as of June 28, 2000
2/ Ratio of MOE expenditure requirements to the projected financial envelope for MOE using a macroeconomic framework
(c.f. Table 5)
3/ While a fiscal year starts in January, a school year starts in September. This analysis assumes 1999/00 as 2000.
The same assumption is applied for all years in this analysis.
-43 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
WEST BANK AND GAZA: Education Action Project
[US$ million]
Implementation Period                         Operational Period
2001/02    2002/03    2003/04      2004/05   Total      2005/06    2006/07    2007/08
Project Costs
Investaent Costs                   0.80       2.30       2.70        1.48       7.28        -          -           -
RecurrentCosts                     0.01          7       0.12        0.15       0.35       0.13        0.13       0.14
Total                   0.81       2.37        2.82       1.63       7.63       0.13        0.13       0.14
Financine Sources
(Amounts)
TFGWB                              0.75       2.20       2.65        1.40       7.00        -          -           -
PalestinianAuthority               0.06       0.17       0.17        0.23       0.63       0.13        0.13       0.14
Total                   0.81       2.37        2.82       1.63       7.63       0.13        0.13       0.14
Financing Sources
(as % of Project Costs ner Year)
TFGWB                               93%        93%        94%        86%         92%         0%         0' /        0%
Palestinian Authority                7%         7%/        6%        14%          8%       1000/0     100%/o      100%
Total                   100%/e     100%       100%        100%       100%       100%       10O'e       100%
Note: Figures may not add up due to rounding
- 44 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
WEST BANK AND GAZA. Education Action Project
Procurement
1.    The Trust Fund Credit (TFC) would finance civil works, consultant services and training.
Procurement would be in accordance with IDA guidelines for "Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits", January 1995 (revised in January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999); as well
as those for "Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers," January 1997 (revised
Septernber 1997 and January 1999).
2.    Procurement Responsibilities. The Ministry of Education (MOE) would have primary
responsibility for procurement under the Education Action Project (EAP). On a day-to-day basis, the
overall project implementation would be managed by a Project Director and support staff of the Project
Support Team (PST). All procurement would be managed by the Procurement Section in the MOE.
During project implementation one additional procurement expert experienced in the procurement of goods
would be assigned to the Procurement Section in the MOE. The Terms of Reference (TOR) for specific
tasks would be prepared by the relevant MOE departments. Based on these TORs the Procurement Section
would prepare the tender documents and Request for Proposals (RFP). With modifications acceptable to
the World Bank, the Bank's standard bidding documents for International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
would be used for National Competitive Bidding (NCB). For National and International Shopping and
small-value consulting contracts, simplified documents would be prepared for use under the Project.
Procurement methods (Table A)
3.    Procurement arrangements are described below and summanzed in Table A. Thresholds for
procurement methods and prior review anrangeznents are summarized in Table B. A detailed procurement
plan for the first year of project implementation has been prepared for all TFC-funded activities.
4.     Civil Works (US$2.72 million). TFC-financed Civil Works would include: two-story extension to
the MOE with an estimated value of US$430,000, construction of four new vocational schools attached to
an existing building with a total value of US$1.38 million and rehabilitation of existing schools. All
contracts are similar in value. No ICB procurement of works would be feasible since the estimated contract
value and geographic dispersion of the contracts would not likely attract international contractors.
Contracts would be procured using NCB procedures and documents acceptable to the World Bank and
would require advertisement in at least two national newspapers.
5.    Goods (US$1.49 million). Goods would include: Office equipment, computer hardware and
software, educational equipment and furniture. To the extent possible, procurement of goods and
educational leaming materials would be grouped together in lots of similar items. Packages with a contract
value of more than US$200,000 would be procured through ICB and would require advertisement in the
UN Development Business. Other packages, including supplies, at an estimated cost values of more than
US$100,000 but less than US$200,000 would be procured using NCB procedures and documents
acceptable to the World Bank. These contracts would require advertisement in at least two national
newspapers. The procurement of goods valued at US$100,000 or below would be procured through
National (NS) or International Shopping (IS) and would use simplified documents and procedures for
soliciting, receiving and evaluating competitive quotations from a minimum of three qualified local or
international suppliers. The aggregate amount of these contracts would not exceed US$630,000.
-45 -



6.    Consultant Services (US$1.37 million).  Services would include consultant services for
architectural supervision, two service contracts, one to develop and implement a financial managernent
system (FMS) and one for an educational management information system (EMIS), and short-term,
long-term international and national technical specialists. The contracts for the FM and EMIS systems
would be contracted with a consulting firm and have an estimated cost of more than US$100,000. Both
contracts have an aggregated amount of US$400,000 and would be procured using the Quality and
Cost-Based selection method. For other architectural/engineering consultancies above an estimated contract
value of US$50,000 equivalent or specialized consulting assignments and short-term, low-cost contracts
with consultants, the selection would follow Quality-Based (QBS) methods, Consultant's
Qualifications-Based (CQ) or Single-Source Selection (SS), depending on the nature of the TORs, which
would precede all selections. For contracts valued at more than US$100,000, an expression of interest
would be advertised in the UN Development Business.
7.     Training Activities (US$0.83 million). Workshops and study visits have been estimated on the
basis of unit cost per trainee, which includes: training fees, handouts, training material or supplies, travel
and daily subsistence allowance. Trainers or coordinators would be recruited following CQ procedares.
The project would strengthen necessary skills required for management to carry the reform process. This
would include htaining in implementation, procurement and financial management. The training program
also includes in-service teacher training activities and training of head teachers. TA and training would be
contracted in accordance with TOR, budget and implementation schedule agreed with the Bank during the
review of the Annual Work Plans.
8.    School Improvement and Training Fund (US$0.92 million). A school improvement and training
fund with an aggregated amount of US$920,000 would be available for targeted school training activities.
Enrolled schools may apply for a grant up to US$2,000. These schools would be able to select their
training activity from a list of activities and finance these with the available funds. TA and training would
be contracted in accordance with TOR, budget and implementation schedule agreed with the Bank dunng
the review of the Annual Work Plans.
9.    Operatine Expenditures and Maintenance.  Recurrent costs attributed to operation aid
maintenance directly related to the project would be financed through the TFC.
10.   Prior Review. For all prior review arrangements see table B.
- 46 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category             ICB             NCB           0I2~          tBN.EF.   Total Cost
1. Works                             0.00             2.72          0.00          0.00         2.72
(0.00)          (2.31)         (0.00)        (0.00)      (2.31)
2. Goods                             0.48             0.24           0.77         0.00         1.49
(0.42)          (0.20)         (0.69)        (0.00)      (1.31)
3. Services                          0.00             0.00           1.37         0.00         1.37
(0.00)          (0.00)        (1.37)         (0.00)      (1.37)
4. Training                          0.00             0.00           0.83         0.00         0.83
(0.00(0.0.00)                  (0.83)        (0.00)      (0.83)
5. Training Fund                     0.00             0.00          0.92          0.00         0.92
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.92)        (0.00)      (0.92)
6. Operating Expenditures and        0.00             0.00           0.30         0.00         0.30
Maintenance                         (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.26)        (0.00)      (0.26)
Total                             0.48             2.96           4.19          0.00        7.63
(0.42)          (2.51)         (4.07)        (0.00)      (7.00)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amnounts to be financed by the Bank Other (Specify). All costs include
contingencies.
21 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local units.
-47 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
1. Works                      >200,000                   NCB                   All contracts
<200,000                  NCB                 No prior review
2. Goods                      >200,000                   ICB                   All contracts
>100,000 and <200,000           NCB                First two contracts
<100,000                IS and NS               All contracts
3. Services
Firm:                         >100,000                  QCBS                   All contracts
<100,000             QCBS, QBS, QC          All TORs, RFPs, final
Evaluation Reports and
contraci:
Individual:                    >50,000          see section V of Guidelines All TORs, CVs, Evaluation
Reports and contracts
<50,000         see section V of Guidelines    First three contracts
4. School Training Fund                                   DC                 First ten contracts
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
This frequency is based on the procurement assessment report. Staff would be trained under the project in
procurement planning.
11.   Summary of Procurement Assessment. Since it was established, the MOE has been working bila
terally with a number of donor countries and international agencies including the Bank. It has capable and
experienced staff who have carried out and performed procurement processes in accordance with donor's
different rules and regulations. Under the on-going EHRP Project, the staff performed satisfactorily. The
overall environment is positive and conducive to effective procurement. The risk for failure or
misprocurement is low. However, since the staff would operate with the Bank's new financial management
system, the prior review thresholds have been set on the low side to ensure that the system is introduced
without any disruption or major mistakes. It is advisable that training of staff on the Bank's Standard
Bidding Documents and on the new financial system is done shordy before or immediately after Board
approval to ensure that the staff is familiar with and able to manage the system accurately and
appropriately. Early Bank supervision missions can help to ensure this.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
-48 -



Disbursement
Allocation of other (specify) proceeds (Table C)
12.   The TF Credit of US$7.0 million would be disbursed during Project implementation according to
Table C. The Credit is expected to disburse over a period of three years. The estimated TF Credit
disbursements over the three-year period are presented on page 2 of this Project Appraisal Document. All
project activities are expected to be completed by March 31, 2004, and the TF Credit will close on
September 30, 2004. The relative short implementation and disbursement period is feasible due to the fact
that all activities are part of the PA's overall Five-Year Plan. Preparation and submission of disbursement
applications would be the responsibility of the PST.
Table C: Allocation of Other (Specify) Proceeds
Expenditue Category         Amount In USSmllfion         Financing Percentage
1. Civil Works                             2.35                         85%
2. Goods                                   1.30             100% of all foreign expenditures;
100% local (ex-factory cost);
85% local
3. Consultants Services                    1.00                 100% of all expenditures
4. Training                                0.80                 100% of all expenditures
5. School Improvement and Training         0.65                 100% of all expenditures
Fund
6. Operating Costs and Maintenance         0.20                 85% of all recurrent cost
7. Unallocated                             0.70
Total Project Costs                        7.00
Total                                      7.00
- 49 -



Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
13.   Until a new automated FMS is in place [see section on financial management], all disbursements
claimed under applications for replenishment to the Special Account and reimbursement for contracts that
are not subject to Bank prior review would be made on the basis of Statement of Expenditures (SOE.s).
The PST would claim reimbursement on SOE for US$200,000 for goods and works, US$100,000 for
consulting firms, US$50,000 for individual consultants, training activities and grants under Schaol
Improvement and Training Fund, and for operating expenditures and maintenance. During negotiations,
assurances have been given that supporting documentation would be maintained in MOE and be made
available for review by Bank staff during supervision missions. Documentation relating to SOEs would be
retained for up to one year after the final withdrawal from the TFC.
Special account:
14.   To facilitate project implementation and timely payments of the Bank's share of eligible
expenditures to contractors, suppliers, consultants and others, the Borrower may open and maintair. a
Special Account (SA) in a commercial bank, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. The PST
would have access to, and manage, the SA. Disbursements will be made by the PST directly from the SA.
T'he authorized allocation of the SA would be equal to four months estimated expenditures, equivalent to
US$700,000. At the start of the project, the initial deposit to the SA would be limited to US$300,000. The
remaining amount of the authorized allocation may be requested only after cumulative disbursements reach
the equivalent of US$1.2 million. Requests for replenishment of the SA would be submitted on a monthly
basis.
Financial Management
A. Financial Management Assessment
1.    The MOE maintains detailed accounting records, books of accounts, competent staff, and a systern
of internal controls that consists of many layers. Also, the MOE has relative pertinent experience in project
implementation (through projects funded by other development partners). However, some inefficiencies
were identified during the review, in particular, the inadequate integration of the accounting systems
(central, district, and schools level), and lack of definition in writing of the financial management and
internal control procedures. This is in addition to inadequate reporting arrangements, which are based cn
budget compliance requirements and lack of capacity to generate meaningful reports for project
management purposes.
The main characteristics of the MOE fnancial management system are as follows:
2.    Oreanizational Structure.  The central finance department consists of fourteen accountants
headed by a finance director. The section heads are generally experienced accountants. Assistants and
clerks have less than three years experience, on average. The department is organized into six sections
(accounting, compliance, projects, treasury, procurement and budgeting). All six sections have informal
workflow written descriptions prepared by the head of each section in the central level. All sixteen districts
(except Areeha) have small accounting units, with about thirty accountants in all districts, to handle the
accounting function at the district level and to monitor the book-keeping process at the school level.
- 50 -



3.    Accounting System. A cash-basis accounting system, which is maintained manually, is in place.
However, Excel sheets are used for the analysis of accounts. The MOE Accounting Department is
organized in three levels, i.e. center, district, and school level, and operates through six sections:
i) Accounting Section, records transactions funded by the MOF and donations received from schools,
prepares monthly trial balance, bank reconciliation, and MOF reports.
ii) Projects Section, records transactions of projects funded by external parties (i.e., donors), monitors
their bank balances and prepares monthly bank reconciliation (more than 30 bank accounts).
iii) Treasury Section, receives and delivers cash and checks from/to various parties, has custody of
letters of guarantee received from contractors and records cash in/out entry in the cash register.
iv) Budgeting Section, monitors transactions recording and budget allocations at the district level and
participates in the preparation of the annual budget, based on adjusted historical data. After the
MOE has prepared its budget, it is reviewed with the General Budget Departmnent (GBD). Based
on the budgets of each Ministry, GBD prepares the general budget and submits it to the MOF for
further processing. The general budget is then discussed by the council of ministers and submitted
to the Palestinian Legislative Council for review and approval (usually taking several months).
Finally, it is forwarded to the chairman of the PNA for final approval and issuance. Budget
revenues and expenditures are subject to continuous monitoring throughout the year by the MOF
(through regular review of all revenues and expenditures of the MOE. Moreover, MOE reports
monthly on their actual expenditures to the MOF) and Treasury Department (through verification
of the monthly requests for funds submitted by the MOE). As for school budgets (i.e., how schools
allocate their own internal revenue from donations and school cafeteria) the budgeting section
supports the district in the process of monitoring the schools.
v) Compliance Section, reviews all transactions before payment to ensure proper supporting
documentation and authorization, prepares payment vouchers and later checks.
vi) Procurement Section, handles the procurement function for the MOE, whether relating to donors
or locally funded.
4.    Internal Control. A set of policies and procedures that should be followed by the MOE is included
in a formal memorandum that is released on an annual basis. This memo is general in nature, and is
distributed to districts and schools, and covers policies relating to schools' donations, schools' budgets
preparation, schools' cafeteria, books sales, and handling of the fund for improvement in the districts. The
MOE has recently formed a committee for Finance, Internal Audit, and Administration departments. This
committee has the objective of improving communication and harmonization of efforts between the three
departments. An education management information system is also being developed. Finally, the MOE
monitors its financial and administrative activities through the compliance section (reviews the finance
department at the central level), budget section (reviews the districts and schools budget preparation and
allocation), internal audit department (reviews the districts and schools), MOF (reviews documents
supporting expenditures funded by the ministry), ministry auditors (reviews the ministry in general) and
audit firms (reviews donor's funded projects). In addition, there is a monitoring and evaluation section that
is responsible for overseeing the physical output performed.
5.    Audit Process of MOE operations is undertaken at two separate levels:
i) External Audit. The budget department is subject to an annual external audit by the Public Control
Commission (PCC). The PCC does not perform audits on a regular basis, and during the past five years
PCC staff have visited the MOE only once and no formal report was issued. On the other hand, donor's
funded transactions are audited by private sector auditors. Reputable audit firms, such as international
audit firms with local representatives in PNA territories, apply International Audit Standards as required by
their internal rules.
- 51 -



ii) Internal Audit MOE's Internal Audit Department (LAD) is located at headquarters with representatives
at the district level, and reports to the Deputy Minister of Education. LAD is responsible for auditing the
financial and administrative functions of schools and district offices, and performs financial and
compliance audits. The LAD employs 39 staff (9 at headquarter, 30 in the districts), and is represented by
sections in all districts (except Areeha- because of its size). LAD work is limited to districts and schools,
and does not audit the finance department at the center.
B.    Financial Management Arrangements
6.    The MOEs finance department would handle all the financial managernent of the project, using its
existing FM procedures, which would be upgraded gradually through three successive phases; an Action
Plan (par. 8 below) for this purpose is agreed with the MOE's senior management and has been confimied
during Negotiations: in the first phase, the existing MOE's FM procedures would be complemented and
documented/updated as needed; this would include the development of interim procedures required to
enable the management, accounting and reporting related to the project funds, during the period leading to
the full implementation of the new FM systems as envisaged by the Action Plan; this phase will be
completed before Effectiveness. In the second phase, the objective would be to complete the systems that
are required to enable the production of reporting for the management of the project (PMR); it is expecled
that this phase would be completed in about one year from Effectiveness (a sample of PMRs are attached).
During those two phases, the financial department would be supported by the PST's core financial team
(FT), who would assist the department in its day-to-day operations related to the project financial
management and oversee the implementation of the Action Plan. The objective of the third phase is to
complete the other parts of the FM system as described in the institutional building component of the
project.
7.    Agreement was reached at Negotiations with the MOE's management that the following measures
would be completed by Effectiveness: (a) the employment of a specialized consultant who, in conjunction
with the FT, would prepare the TORs, tasks and job descriptions of the FT, and develop the interm
financial management procedures as described above; (b) appointment of the core Financial Team (FT)
members; and (c) appointment of the auditor of the first fiscal year of project accounts, ( i.e. agreement
with IDA on the selection process, short list and TORs).
8.    Action Plan. The following plan was discussed and agreed with MOE's senior management and
has been confirmed during Negotiations.
Phase 1- Before Effectiveness:
*      Identify and hire the Project Support Team (PST) headed by the Project Manager.
The PST would also include two other positions, finance officer and procurement officer. TORs would
be drafted and reviewed by the Bank representative.
*      Updating, complementing, and documenting MOE's financial policies and procedures.
A Financial Management Manual (FMM) for the MOE should be issued according to TOR;s
acceptable to the Bank. The FMM should include the following:
(viii) the flow of funds and levels of authority
(viii) the financial and accounting policies
(viii) the accounting system and internal control mechanisms, including the documentation of the
accounting and reporting software
- 52 -



(viii)  the chart of accounts adapted to the project
(viii)  financial reporting, including formats of PMRs, the reporting required from each level, and the
frequency of each report
(viii)  auditing arrangements, including a standard TOR
(viii)  budgeting
(viii)  organization and staffing for financial management functions
The FMM should include interim procedures required to enable the management, accounting and reporting
related to the project funds, during the period leading to the full implementation of the new FM systems.
*      Hire a competent and independent external auditor
Phase 2: After Effectiveness
*      Select an integrated accounting package.
The MOE's accounting system should be able to provide accurate, reliable, and timely accounting
information on projects' funding sources and uses for the whole project as well as each individual
component and sub-component of the project. It should also provide a regular reconciliation of the TFC's
Special Account (SA) with World Bank records. To allow for more prompt and accurate monitoring of
financial, procurement, and monitoring and evaluation output indicators, an accounting software should be
selected to integrate financial, progress and procurement reports into a PMR based on the model developed.
The package should be tailored to meet the exact needs of the MOE on the central and district level, and be
compatible with systems under development by the MOF.
-      Acquire needed hardware for the finance team in the PST and MOE (central/districts).
This action would start at the PST and MOE central level to allow the launching of the training
program and improvement of staff computer skills. The purchased hardware specifications should be
suitable for the new accounting package.
*      Create the Project Management Reports (PMRs) taskforce to issue PMR.
The taskforce would include representatives from finance, procurement, MIS, international
cooperation, planning, budgeting, monitoring and evaluation and PST. The taskforce's main objective is to
issue the quarterly PMRs.
*      Enhance the planning and budgeting system.
Budget prepared for the project should be linked to the annual work plan, the procurement plan, and
disbursement schedules (ensuring proper costing assumptions). The system should be capable of
generating accurate and timely cash forecasts.
*      Institute a training program.
This action should include specific training sessions for procurement, disbursement, project
management, accounting, and financial management. The program should include all staff involved in the
project implementation as well as back-up staff. The level of each staff member in terms of capacity,
background, and experience has to be taken into consideration in order to meet the MOE's needs.
- 53 -



9.      Timetable
Assuming a board presentation on May 31, 2001, the MOE would be held to the following schedule for
implementing the financial management action plan for the first year of project implementation.
Action                            Output                   Responsibility       Deadline
By Board Date
Identify PST members and prepare   The three members (project director,   MOE              April 15,2001
the relevant TORs                  finance officer and procurement
officer) are hired
Employment of a specialized        A competent consultant is hired   MOE                   April 1, 2001
consultant in accounting and finance
Launch the process of hiring a     Procurement process in progress   MOE                   April 15, 200 i
competent and independent extemal
auditor based on a reviewed TOR
Before Effectiveness
Hire an external auditor           Engagement letter is signed       MOE                   June 30, 200]
Issue a FMM                        A complete manual for accounting,    MOE, PST, and      July 15, 2001
budgeting, and procurement policies   consultant
and procedures.
After Effectiveness
Select an integrated accounting    An accounting package is selected  MOE and PST          Aug. 1, 2001
package                            that is capable of generating reliable
and timely PMRs
Acquire needed hardware            Reception of the equipment        MOE and PST           Aug. 15, 2001
Create the PMR taskforce           Organization chart and roles      PST                   Aug. 15, 2001
description
Develop the reporting system       Format and content of PMR         PMR taskforce and     Aug. 30, 200]
PST
Institute a training program for   Program (contents and timetable)  MOE and PST           Sept. 15, 2001
finance, planning, and budgeting
functions
Install an integrated accounting   Computerized accounting package   MOE, PST, and         Nov. 15, 2001
package                            installed and operational at the  vendor
center and district levels
Enhance the accuracy of the        Annual work plan, procurement plan   MOE, PST, and PMR    Nov. 30, 2001
budgeting, costing, and planning   based on accurate costing         task force
system                             assumptions are issues for the
project
Implement the PMR                  Setup of the output and testing   PMR taskforce, PST,   Dec. 15,. 200].
process                           and consultant
Review training progress           Report on the training            PST                   Dec. 31, 2001
Issue the draft first PMR          Integrated management reports     PMR taskforce, PST,    Feb. 1, 2002
and consultant
Training completion                Training performance report       PST                   March 15,
2002
Issue of the final first PMR       Final PMR                         PMR taskforce, PST,   April 1, 2002
and consultant
Evaluation of the Financial        Financial management assessment   World Bank            May 15, 2002
Management System                  report
- 54 -



10.   An extemal, competent, and independent auditor acceptable to the Bank will be hired before project
effectiveness. The selected auditor would audit the accounts for the first year of project operations. The
auditor would also be assigned the review of internal control and accounting systems being developed to
verify compliance with the financial and procurement reporting requirements. The auditor would submit to
the Bank annual project financial statements within 6 months of the close of the fiscal year. The TORs
would be agreed upon with the Bank and included in the FMM1.
11.   The audit would be comprehensive and cover all aspects of the project (i.e., all sources and
utilization of funds and expenditures incurred). The audit would be carried out in accordance with
International Standards on Auditing. TORs for this assignment should cover an audit of financial
transaction, and an assessment of the financial management system, including a review of internal control
mechanisms.  Each unit (center, district, and school) would provide the auditor with access to
project-related documents and records, and information required for the purposes of the audit. The auditor
would carry out a concurrent audit during the fiscal year to bring to management's attention any issues
which need to be addressed. This would strengthen internal controls and facilitate early completion of the
annual audit.
D.     Financial Management Reports
12.   Transitional Reporting, i.e. during phases 1 and 2 the Borrower would submit to the Bank the
following reports:
-      Sources and Uses of Funds (Report 1-A, see below);
*      Procurement management reports (Report 3-A, 3-B, 3-C, and 3-D, see below).
In addition, audited Project Financial Statements (PFS) would be submitted on an annual basis to the Bank
(see below).
13.   After the Transitional Period - Ouarterlv PMRs for the project via the computerized financial
management system would be management-oriented and would be used for project monitoring and
implementation. The PMRs should include the 3 following parts:
(i)    Financial Reports that include:
i-a    Project Sources and Uses of Funds
i-b    Uses of Funds by Project Activity
i-c    Project Balance Sheet
i-d    Project Cash Withdrawals (Disbursement)
i-e    Special Account Statement
i-f    Project Cash Forecast
(ii)   Proiect Progress Reports that include:
ii-a    Output Monitoring Report (Contract Management)
ii-b    Output Monitoring Report (Unit of Output by Project Activity)
(iii)   Procurement management report that include:
iii-a   Procurement Process Monitoring - Goods and Works
iii-b   Procurement Process Monitoring - Consultants' Services
- 55 -



iii-c   Contract Expenditure Report - Goods and Works
iii-d   Contract Expenditure Report - Consultants' Services.
The format of the reports would be included in the Financial Management Manual.
14.   AnnuaLy audited Project Financial Statements (PFS) would be submitted to the Bank. PFS, would
include:
(i)  a statement of sources and utilization of funds or Balance Sheet, indicating funds received frcm
various sources, project expenditures, assets and liabilities
(ii)  appropriate schedules classifying project expenditures by components, expenditure categories aid
sector
(iii) a Special Account Reconciliation Statement
(iv) a Statement of Withdrawals made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs).
- 56 -



Report on the Assessment of Project for PMR-Based Disbursements
Ineligible for PMR-Based Disbursements
Part I - Financial Management System:
I have reviewed the financial management system relating to this project. The objective of the review was to
determine whether the project has in place an adequate financial management system as required by the
Bank/IDA under OP/BP 10.02.
My review, which included visits to the project implementing agency, was based on the Bank's guidelines
for "Review of Financial Management System", and focused on the assessment of the project's accounting
system, internal control, planning, budgeting and financial reporting system, selection of an auditor as well
as the format and contents of the Project Management Report (PMR) to be submitted by the borrower in
support of Withdrawal Applications.
I confirm that the project satisfies the Bank's minimum financial management requirements. However, in
my opinion, the project does not have in place an adequate project financial management system that can
provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of the project (PMR) as
required by the Bank/IDA for PMR-Based Disbursements.
I have detailed in the attachment the inadequacies that I found in the system together with an agreed action
plan by the borrower to remedy the situation.
To be signed by:
Sr. Financial Management Specialist, (FMS-OPR)    1V5L M/ao
Hisbm  Waly, MNACS                       Daw
Part II - Procurement/Contract Management System
I have reviewed the procurement/contract management system relating to this project. The objective of the
review was to deternnine whether the procurement/contract management system adopted by the project
conforms to the Bank's guidelines for procurement in investment projects.
My review was based on the Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement Project Procurement, Setting
of Prior Review Thresholds and Procurement Supervision Plan" guidelines issued by the Bank.
I confirm that the project satisfies the Bank's minimum procurement management requirements. However,
in my opinion, the project does not have in place an adequate procurement/contract management system
that can provide the appropriate data on major procurement and contract management (PMR - Section 3)
as required by the Bank/IDA.
I have detailed in the attachment the inadequacies that I found in the system together with an agreed action
plan by the borrower to remedy the situation.
To be signed by:
Operations Officer
Gemt Ad,Fad. 7N SIF
Part III: Physical Monitorable Indicators and Overall Assessment
- 57 -



Part III: Physical Monitorable Indicators and Overall Assessment
I have reviewed the project's system for monitoring physical implementation progress, including its
monitorable indicators for major outputs. In my view, the system cannot provide the appropriate data on
physical progress (PMR - Section 2) required by the Bank/IDA.
I have detailed in the attachment the inadequacies that I found in the system together with an agreed action
plan by the borrower to remedy the situation.
Also, based on the assessments of the FMS-OPR and PS, and/or considering my overall assessment of the
project, I am of the view that this project is not suitable for PMR-based disbursements.
To be signed by:
Task Team Leader                                                                         /0l
L s Guillermo Hakiim, MNSHD               Date
Part IV: Concurrence of LOA for Eligibility of Project for PMR-Based Disbursements
I have conducted a reasonable review of the process followed by the Task Team in assessing the project.
and I concur with its recommendation that this project is not eligible for PMR-Based Disbursements.
Signed by:
FMS-LOA/DO
Thao Le Nguyen, LOAEL         Date
Andrina A. Ambrose-Gardiner, LOAEL Date
- 58 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
WEST BANK AND GAZA: Education Action Project
Project Schedule                                   Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       7                            17
First Bank mission (identification)              10/18/99                     10/18/99
Appraisal mission departure                      10/14/2000                   06/01/2000
Negotiations                                     10/23/2000                   03/19/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    07/31/2001
Prepared by:
Ministry of Education
Preparation assistance:
Japanese Grant Fund
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Eluned Roberts-Schweitzer         Senior Education Specialist
Sue Ellen Berryman                Senior Education Specialist
Vasilios C. Demetriou             Senior Implementation Specialist
Hisham Ahmed Waly                 Sr. Financial Management Specialist
Takako Yuki                       Operations Analyst/Education Economist
Vivian Nwachukwu-lrondi           Team Assistant
Hans Korb                         Implementation Specialist
George Nasri Awwad                Operations Officer
Krisztina Mazo                    Program Assistant
Christina Djemmal                 Operations Analyst
Celine Gavach                     Program Assistant
Luis Guillermo Hakim              Senior Human Resources Economist
- 59 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
WEST BANK AND GAZA: Education Action Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
1. Description of components
2. Overall schediile of activities for the life of the project
3. First year detailed schedule of activities
4. Terms of reference for consultants for the first year
5. Financial management assessment
6. Terms of reference for financial audit
7. Action plan for financial management
8. List of equipment
9. Procurement plan and packaging
10. Implementation arrangements and organizational chart
11. Procurement assessment report
12. Action plan for procurement
13. Costing of the project (COSTAB)
14. Procurement reporting table
15. Disbursement per year
16. Monitoring and evaluation guideline and monitoring indicators
17. Bank's role on supervision
18. Environmental management plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
* Aide-Memoire for the mission in February 2000
*   Draft Project Description Summary
* Draft General Education Comprehensive Development Framework
* Draft Vocational Training CDF
* Aide Memoire for the mission in June 2000
* Report of Joint Donor Supervision for Education Construction (upcoming - to be held August 2000)
C. Other
* Establishment of a multi-purpose vocational education and training facilities in the West Bank
Implementation Plan
* Reference Paper on the National Palestinian Vocational Technical Education and Training Strategy
* Vocational Technical Education and Training in Palestine A Proposal for a National Strategy
*   5 year education plan
*   5 year education plan Matrix
*   5 year education plan Model Plan Scenario
* Linkage between MOE and MOHE
* Plan for MOHE
* Five Year Plan for UNWRA
* First Palestinian Curriculum Plan 1998
* Management Audit at the District Level - Technical Report
* Education Statistical Yearbook 1998/1999 MOE
- 60 -



*  Aid Effectiveness in the West Bank and Gaza June 2000
*  National Palestinian Vocational Technical Education and Training Strategy in Palestine Implementation Plan
*   Proposed Direction for Palestinian Higher Education: A Vision for the Future
*  West Bank and Gaza Service Delivery Survey - Health and Basic Education Services
*   Palestinian Development Plan 1999-2003
*  Linkage between the Plans of the Ministries of Education and Higher Education in Palestine - Working Draft
*   Strengthening Palestinian Public Institutions - The Rocard-Siegman Report and the Palestinian Response
*Including electronic files
- 61 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
WEST BANK AND GAZA: Education Action Project
Mar-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                             disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                       IBRD         IDA        SF               Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frm Rev'd
P054051       2001 GZ-SOLID WASTE & ENVIRONMENTAL MNGMNT.            0.00       0.00      9.50                  0.00      8.40       0.67      0.00
P053892       2000 GZ-HEALTH SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT I                    0.00       0.00      7.90                  0.00      7.24       2.20      0.00
P058683       2000 GZMIDPII                                          0.00       0.00      7.50                  0.00      7.50       1.17      0.00
P040508       2000 GZ-ELEC.SEC.INV.& MGMT                            0.00       0.00     15.00                  0.00     12.03       5.77      0.00
P058684       1999 GZ-COMMUNrTY DEV. II                              0.00       0.00      8.00                  0.00      2.29       1.13      0.00
P051t64       1999 GZ-SOUTHERN AREA WATER                            0.00       0.00      21.00                 0.00     16.49       7.00      0.00
P053985       1999 GZ-BETHLEHEM 2000                                 0.00       0.00     25.00                  0.00      4.20      24.53      0.00
P040503       1998 GAZA INDUSTRIAL EST.                              0.00       0.00      0.00                  1.00      6.88       6.94      0.00
P047067       1998 GZ: PALESTINIAN NGO PROJ                          0.00       0.00      10.00                 0.00      1.82       6.80     10.47
P040505       1997 GZ-WATER & SAN. SERVICESIGAZA                     0.00       0.00     25.00                  0.00      0.32      25.00      0.00
P043338       1997 GZ-HOUSING                                        0.00       0.00     25.00                  0.00     24.30      21.84      0.00
P047065       1997 GZ-MICROENTERPRISES-IFC                           0.00       0.00      5.00                  0.00      2.65       5.00      4.84
P047111       1997 LEGAL DEVELOPMENT                                 0.00       0.00      5.50                  0.00      3.39       5.42      0.00
P043339       1996 GZ-MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT                          0.00       0.00     40.00                  0.00      4.95      40.00      0.00
P035996       1995 EDUC. & HEALTH REHAB                              0.00       0.00     20.00                  0.00      0.00      20.00     20.00
Total:       0.00       0.00     224.40                 1.00     102.47     173.46     35.31
- 62 -



WEST BANK AND GAZA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Mar-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
1994               APIB                            0.00    3.73     0.00    0.00    0.00    3.73     0.00    0.00
1997               Arab Bank                       0.00    0.00    3.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.90    0.00
2000               Cairo Amman Bank                2.50    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1997               ComBank Palestin                0.00    0.00     1.50    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.58    0.00
1997               Jordan National                 0.00    0.00    3.00     0.00    0.00    0.00     2.00    0.00
1997               PIEDCO                          8.00    1.00    0.00     0.00     1.00    1.00    0.00    0.00
1999               PMHC                            0.00    4.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    2.23     0.00    0.00
1998               PTF                             0.00    12.60    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.55     0.00    0.00
1998               PTF-Mgt Co.                     0.00    0.20    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.04     0.00    0.00
1999               PTIC                            8.00    1.35    0.00     0.00    8.00    1.35     0.00    0.00
1998               SEF Al-Ayyam                    1.80    0.00    0.00     0.00     1.80    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               SEF Arab Concret                0.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.80    0.00      0.00    0.00
1999               SEF Cold Storage                0.20    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.20    0.00     0.00    0.00
1999               SEF JerichoMotel                1.10    0.00    0.00     0.00     1.10    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               SEF Nabahin                     0.50    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.50    0.00     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        22.90    22.88    7.50     0.00    13.40   12.90     3.48    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
EY Approval        Company                           Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
1999               PMHC                          15000.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:     15000.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
- 63 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
WEST BANK AND GAZA: Education Action Project
West   M. East   Lowsr-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                    Bank   & North   middie-
& Gaum     Africa   Jncome       Devolopment diamond
Pnnilation. mid-veer fmi,ilonal h                           A      7  91   9 054                  Life expectancy
GNP oar cooft lAtts method. USS Ja                    1i.800     2.060     1.200
f.NP (Atias method. USS biilonsl la                       I t       99    79.513
Averace annuali rowth. 110103J90
Pnnulatinn ff%t                                         A.          1         Ii
Lebor foca                                              5.         30         1.2     GNP                               Gross
per                          I primary
Most recent estimat flatsot vear available. 1993-S91                                  capita                       -onrn.lrnm
Povertv `% of ooculaticn befow national ooverv lie)d     23
I lrhan nnnul*tinn 1% of total oooulstfont               70         SR6       43
Life exnectanev at birth (veaa)                          71         68        69
Infant mffntiltlv (oaf 1.000 l,ve bfithf                 75         4S        R8
Dhilri malrihtrtinn tX of children under 51,                        15        1                 Access to safe water
Access to kiwm ved water source (% of ooouatfori 9, go              71        as
lilitarenvy I of oooulatlon  e 154 3\                                       16           -      s B
Gross ofimarv enrollment /% of school-a. oooulnitn       91          5       114               WeSt Bank and Gaza
UMin              :1                                             107       11           - Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                 97        aa        11fi
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1079     19 19 loss           1999
Economic ratlos
GOP fWS billions)                    :                             4.1 4'    '
f rnAe rinmestin invaomentiflnP                                   39 7      3Ta
Fanorts nf rnods And aarvlnax/GlIP                                17 A       17.5                     Trade
Gross domestie savinas/GOP                                        -21.2     .18.5
Arnea nAtlnnxi savinna/0,t17P                                       . ?      1MtA
Current account balan.eIGDP                                       -33.5     -27 6
inteorest rnvmontWlP ()D n.                                                   8 0     Domesticme
Tntal dehttlrnP                                                    4 A        75  3   Savings                           tnt
Total debt aivice/esxortsa
Present vwlue n drahtmnrv,P
Present value of debtexsoorts
Indebtedness
100 79-80; 1f980.03  1998      1909   1900-03
(avfreoe annual   hlwh
r4ifP:                                        31         A Isi   at   -9   West Bankand Gaza
P   cnltE                                       . I       11    S  7 8                     -----Lower-middle-income arouo
Exnorts of ooods and sorvcs                    1.4       6.6       4 0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998      1999      Growth of Investment end GDP (%)
(% Of GDPI                                                                            1
Anriciiltijr                                                       R 7        AR     10.-
Industr                                                           29.6      29.8      s
Maninfecltrina                                                  17.7       17.5 
Services                                                   .      61.7      61.6      0      84    t    v      "     as    9
Privrtd consirmntion                                              97 3      ',t 7     5
Gnnaral novernmnt *nnnCImntinn                                    7.' a9    7R.l4                    GDI        '  GDP
Imoorts of noods and services                                     7. 3      754 
(averace annual orowthli                   1979-89  1989-99       1998      1999      Growth of exports and imports (%)
Anrlciltirn                                             -44    4    A         3 4     10
Industrv                                         -       1.5      10.8        5.2
MAni,fanturlnn                                         4 R       107        3 7      0
Services                                                 3 R       R 7        4.4                              97 95   so
Private cnnsijmntinn                                     7 fi       a0 S         n O 
Glnarel nwvomment onsRumntinn                           13.1       70        11 7
Gross domestic Investment                                4.9       7.1        6.2    20
Imnnrts of nonds and servircs                            417       7 4       R 0                   Exports    -Imports
Gross national oroduct                                   5.0      12.7        6.8
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators In the countrv tin bold) comoared with its income-oroun averaeo. If data are missina the diamond will
he inenmnlete
- 64-



West Bank and Gaza
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989       1998     1999      Inflation (%)
Domnesfc prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                                                 5.6       5.5    10
Implicit GDP deflator                          ,                7.9       4.9
Govemment finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                               o
Current revenue                                                24.7      28.9            94   95   go   97   98    9
Current budget balance                                           1.0      1.1                  GOP defator    OCPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                         -0.4     -1.5
TRADE
(USS millions)                             1979    1989        1998     1999      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                                             714      720    3,000
n.a.
n.a.                                         .        .*                        ,0
Manufactures                                                    ,0
Total imports (cif)                                           2,839    2,791
Food100
Fuel and energy                              ,*
Capital goods..                                        .         ..       .       0
93  94  98  99  97  98  99
ExDort Doce index (1995=100)
Imnort orice index M995=1001                                     ,,                           *Exports       I Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                              1979    1989       1998     1999      Current account balance to GOP (%)
Exports of goods and services                                   727      733       0
Importsofgoodsandservices                                     3,192    3,138           3
Resource balance                                             -2,465   -2,405      10
Net income                                                      828      875
Net current transfers                          0        0       272      379     - -.'l                      l
Current account balance                                       -1,365    -1,152
Financing items (net)                                         1,365
Changes in net reserves                                           0               _-40o
Memo:
Reserves includina nold (USS millionsl         ..
Conversion rate (DEC. locallUSS)                                3.8       4.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998     1999
(USS millions)                                                                    Composition of 1998 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                    ,       197      305
IBRD                                                 ,,         0        0
IDA                                                           146      239
E: 51
Total debt service                                      ,E
IBRD                                                  ,         ,
IDA
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             ,.
Official creditors                                              ,
Private creditors
Foreign direct investment                                       ,: --                                 _ .   B 146
Portfolio equity
World Bank program
Commitments                                                    35       44      A - IBRD                   E - eilatera
Disbursements                                                  39       93      B - IDA    D - Other mulilateral  F - Pdvate
Principal repayments                                            0        0      C - IMF                    G - Short-tern
Net flows                                                      39       93
Interest payments                                               0        0
Net transfers                                                  39       93
Development Econormics                                                                                             9/13100
-65-



Additional
Annex 11
Assessment of Institutional Capacities
The fundamental development objective for this project is to strengthen the sector's processes of
priority-setting, policy analysis and planning, financial management, policy frameworks for intervent.ons,
implementation, and monitoring and evaluation. These processes are expected to be developed ir. the
context of selecting and implementing funding priorities for the project on an annual basis.
This assessment provides the context for the project's institutional development focus. However, its
main objective is to evaluate the sector's capacities to realize the project's development objective. These
capacities are a function of the organizational and institutional arrangements in the sector. "Organizational
capacity" refers to the functional structure of the sector and the skills and number of staff. "Institutional
capacity" refers to the rules that govern the distribution of responsibilities and resources, including
decision-making powers, within and among functional units, between various governing levels, and between
the sector and those outside the sector, such as the Ministry of Finance (MOF), Ministry of Planning and
International Cooperation (MOPIC), and donors. The term "institutional capacity" is used to refer to these
two dimensions of the sector, its organization and rules of the game.
Consistent with the pretertiary focus of the project, the assessment is restricted to the preter:iary
level of education.
Context
As table 1 shows, the Palestinian Authority (PA), the United Nations Relief and Welfare Agency
(UNRWA), the Israeli civil authority in East Jerusalem, the private sector, and NGOs provide educational
services at the pretertiary level. Private provision occurs at all pretertiary levels, with the private sector and
NGOs providing all pre-school services. The PA and, in East Jerusalem, the Israeli civil authority focus on
basic and secondary education. UNRWA provides basic education services to refugee students only, with
the PA assuming responsibility for their education for grades 10-12.
Table I shows multiple funders (PA, donors-directly and indirectly through UNRWA, Israeli
civil authority, NGOs, and families). Families contribute at all levels, especially at the preschool level. Of
the estimated total costs of basic and upper secondary education in FY97, excluding the costs of private
schooling, the PA paid two-thirds; UNRWA, about 30 percent; parents, 2 percent; and, for schools in East
Jerusalem, the Israeli civil authority, an estimated 0.8 percent. The PA and IJNRWA regulate the provision
of education. Regulatory frameworks are relatively well developed for basic and secondary levels, ancd the
PA's Ministry of Education (MOE) is beginning to develop a regulatory framework for preschools. The PA
provides considerable public statistical information on basic and secondary education, regardless of
authority (PA, UNRWA, or private sector), but thus far not on indicators particularly germane to
performance accountabilities--learning outcomes and educational finance (costs and cost recovery).
- 66 -



Table 1. Roles of the PA, UNRWA, Private Sector, NGOs, and Users in Pretertiary Education
Level of Education                                    Player
PA                   UNRWA                  Private Sector/
NGOs/Other
Preschool               (MOE) regulation. The    No provision; no        Provision (1/3
PA is setting up        financing except that    private-for-profit; 2/3
licensing criteria and  UJNRWA lends money to   NGO); NGOs co-finance
procedures. It is starting   3-4 private         with users; school-level
to coordinate with      kindergartens in Gaza    regulation; information
preschool curriculum    City under commercial
providers to increase the    conditions; no
continuity between the  regulation; no
curricula of the        infornation
pre-school and early
primary grades
information
Basic Education         MOE provision of         Provision for refugee   Private sector and NGOs
(grades 1-10)           grades 1-10 for          students (grades 1-9);  (including the Wajk in
non-refugee students and   financing by donors;  East Jerusalem):
grade 10 for refugee    enforcement of MOE or    provision; limited
students; financing;    UNRWA-specific           financing; school-level
regulation; information    regulations (e.g.,    regulation; information.
personnel policies;     Israeli civil authority:
international safety and    provision of basic and
construction standards);   secondary education in
information             East Jerusalem;
financing; regulation;
information
Secondary Education                              No role                  Provision; limited
(grades 11-12)                                                           financing; school-level
regulation; information.
See previous entry for
Israeli civil authority.
Functional Organization of the Ministry of Education
Figure I shows the functional organization of the MOE. Figure 4 shows the functional
organization of the 16 district education offices. UNESCO has completed a management audit of the
district level, and plans a similar audit of the central MOE this summer that would yield detailed
information about the functional organization of the MOE.
The central ministy is not well structured to realize the objectives of the project.
Public administration studies have identified the organizational structures and arrangements that
facilitate the development of the management practices targeted by the project. These include a
cross-departmental body that sets strategic and annual funding priorities, with final decisions in the
minister's hands.   Such  a  body  has  to  be  chaired  by  an  individual(s)  superordinate  to
departmentally-specific interests to force the setting of priorities that are in the interests of the sector rather
- 67 -



than specific departments.   Frequently the position that chairs is that of deputy minister. A
cross-departmental body normally has small working groups that focus on particular issues in the sector,
for example, infrastructure. These subgroups usually include junior as well as senior staff.
Supporting the policy-making body is a technical secretariat that has no policy-making powers and,
in order to remain credible as a technical arm, stays clear of policy making. Commonly, its functiom are
ones such as these:
*   conduct the policy and economic analyses required to defne economically viable and equitable
priorities, and the policy frameworks for programmatic interventions;
*   monitor implementation; and
*   evaluate the outcomes of interventions relative to their objectives.
Even a cursory examination of Figure 1 raises immediate questions about how well the MOE is
structured to realize the project's development objectives.
*   The functional organization of the MOE is fragmented among a large number of separate directorates
that all report to the deputy minister. Greater fragmentation complicates the task of setting sector-wide
priorities. The functional rationale for some of these separate directorates is not obvious. For example,
three directorates deal with goods (textbooks, educational technology, supplies and equipment).
Although these are different goods, integrating responsibility for them within a single department would
encourage the development of coherent policy that reflects analyses of complementarities and trade-offs
among them (e.g., textbooks versus computer-based instruction). Internationally, the functions of
examinations and assessments are normally integrated into a single unit because both require the same
or similar technical skills and administrative processes.
*   Functional fragmentation occurs not just among the directorates, but also internally within the
individual directorates. The MOE's choices about "make", rather than "buy", unduly fragment
directorates internally. The General Directorate of Textbooks and Printing is an example (see Figure
2).
- 68 -



Organisational Stndure of the Palestinian Ministry of Education 
- .   _t.    :  ;:  ;-Bi$-. t i........................................... :. P.................. J  .  *..> . ,. 
... .. .   .... .. . . . . .. . .. .
EdicE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ofic*a omi    29
Advisom'-  
.                                E.............................................. .._j 
|trrctnil uum                Edcto                  Ex7 |barringtion1 
02
_.3                                                                                                                                                                                               I o
I~~~~~~~~~~~~I
K|                                                                                                                    d, i
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                     _   L  _ -1       I   I _
West Bank Directorat  df Educatbon                                                                       Gaza Drdorates of EduccaJon
JERUS%LM    HEBR;ON                                                                                      RAF AMM  AH   10iaANYOLINIS |NORH   | GAZA
JERUSALEM    HEBRON                  JAAIYA               SALFEET
HEBRON_           GAB___             _____ YZ
PAMAUAAH  BETbHLEHEM   ACIAJqIUA   1uWrM
JERICHO
SCHOOLS



Figure 1.1 Project Support Team
Project Support Team (PST)
[located in the Directorate for Planning and Development
and other Departments]
Consultants               Project Director
| Staff Assistant -1  7 -
-70 -



Figure 2. Functional Organization of the General Directorate of Textbooks and Printing
X, ': ; 0ew.(
Assistant Director
Genera(
Textbook Print!n
DWector and
Assistant Director
Textbook Ducstional  Warehouse Diyision     and Distributiona
Textbook Division                    He~~~~Asisant       Westertor
Assistant Head       Assistant Head        Assistant Head            Head                  Head
Adm sisten He d Administrative Saf[   Admnin,stfmiv t,a' f    Assistant Head        Assistant Head
Administrative Staff[21 ]Staff 1S                                Administrative Staff[f]  Administrative Staff[3]
*   Although 3 committees that report directly to the deputy minister constitute priority-setting and
planning bodies (educational services, administrative, and technical), each of these comnittees focuses
on a subset of the pretertiary sector. For example, the administrative committee focuses on issues such
as budgeting, finance, and personnel. The table of organization shows no priority-setting and planning
committee that cuts across the MOE. This kind of committee is required if the MOE is to conduct
priority-setting for the whole pretertiary system. The Five-Year Plan Committee has been perforning
this function. However, the fact that it is not represented on the table of organization suggests that the
MOE sees it as an ad hoc committee. The Five-Year Plan Committee is not chaired by an individual(s)
superordinate to the directors general that constitute the committee.
*   The deputy minister, a position that is normally key to effective sector management, has 43 direct
reports: 16 directorates, 3 departments, 6 committees, 2 assistant deputy ministers, and 16 directors of
district education offices. International studies on effective span of control indicate that this number of
direct reports is unmanageable, the nunber normally thought to allow proper span of control being
14-15.
*   The General Directorate for Educational Planning and Development is not shown as reporting to the
priority-setting commnittees, as well as to the deputy minister. One of the most important functions of
this directorate is to serve as the technical secretariat to policy bodies.
Although Figure I does not show this, the MOE has not had a minister since August, 1998. This
absence distorts the functional organization of the MOE. The deputy minister has to serve as minister
without portfolio or the legitimacy that arises from  formal appointment. The role of deputy minister is
usually a managerial one: leadership and management of the ministry's daily responsibilities and strategic
directions. The same individual rarely plays both the external political role of minister and the internal
- 71 -



managerial role of deputy for the simple reason that both are extremely demanding positions, and there are
not enough hours in the day to play both well. Given the huge number of direct reports to the deputy
minister, the fact that one person has to handle the dual positions of minister and deputy minister is e ven
more problematic.
If the MOE five-year planning process continues and matures, some directorates would have to change
their organizational structures, and still more would have to change their skill mix. Since it would assume
the function of technical secretariat to policy makers, the General Directorate of Education Planning and
Development is particularly critical to realizing the project's development objectives. It would carry the
technical burden of planning, financial management, monitoring, and evaluation. Figure 3 displays the
functional organization of this Directorate. Relative to the functions that this Directorate is assuming wider
the new planning processes of the MOE, interviews with staff find a range of organizational problems.
Functions are missing; staff are being used for functions that might be better outsourced; and staffing
numbers are inadequate for discharging responsibilities that can be expected to increase. For example:
* There is no financial management unit that can cost policy alternatives, and the capacities of existing
staff to cost are rudimentary.
*   There is no evaluation unit in the Department. The studies unit mnight absorb this function. Howe ver,
even if evaluations were contracted out to universities, this directorate would need to hire staff trained
in the specialized design and analytic methods required to tender for and monitor evaluation contracts.
*   Market competition for skilled computer experts produces high turnover in the computer unit. The init
needs to consider the possibility of contracting out some of their functions, with the MOE primarily
tendering and enforcing the contracts. The MOE already outsources data entry tasks.
*   In theory the studies unit could conduct the policy analyses and studies necessary for priority-setting by
policy makers and the development of policy frameworks for different investments, however, it only
has one person. Even if some of these studies were contracted out to university faculty, one person is
not even enough to handle the contracting out, monitoring, and dissemination activities that have to be
done in-house. And since the MOE policy makers would need fast turnaround in some cases, an
in-house fast response capacity for policy analysis is needed.
*   A unit is being set up in the Department to monitor the progress of donor-funded projects. However, it
is not yet organized to monitor the MOE's progress toward achieving the perfornance goals of annual
work plans and its Five-Year plan.
*   There is no unit trained to help other directorates develop feasible detailed action plans.
- 72 -



Figure 3. Functional Organization of the General Directorate of Educational Planning and
Development
s  Assistante Director 
General     l
Dlrndo an                                DiracorJr*l                              Diarand
Asslstant Director                       Assisawt Dlredor                        Assistant Dhldetr
] Adsifn.StHsaff| | ssistatH9ad    | AssMantHrl  | Admin. Staff  |    | Assistantd  | |  Adrdn. SAtstHaffe|  Admaidn.dtStaSffd  |
The districts are not well-structured to realize the objectives of the project
Figure 4 shows the functional organization of each of the 16 district offices. Since it mirrors the
organization of the MOE, it is similarly fragmented, and the two positions of assistant or deputy director
(administrative and technical) were introduced to help the director manage the resulting administrative load.
It is not clear that these positions would be required if functions were less fragmnented.
- 73 -



Figure 4. Functional Organizational of District Education Offices
A~ t D Sn 
I  rkXd               X  X XW 
IIE Ha                        H  t
iManagerial and educational objectives of the district are not clearly defined. Written job descriptions either
do not exist, or are only partial descriptions, having been written by the individual general director ates
without regard to overlaps and gaps among job responsibilities. De facto, the main responsibility for the
districts appears to be implementing central level instructions, as conveyed by the separate general
directorates to individual units of the district office. These instructions are numerous, sudden, urgent,
poorly coordinated, and sometimes conflicting. The central and district levels make about 80 percent of the
decisions that affect the level below them (district and school, respectively).
The district prepares an annual plan, but without knowledge of, or coordination with, the general
directorates' annual plans. The absence of an integrated MOE annual plan makes it difficult for district
offices to organize their implementation resources around a coordinated set of targets.
Actual, as opposed to formal, reporting relationships undermine coherent operations at the district level.
Figure 4 indicates that district functional units report to their respective assistant directors, who in tarn
report to the district director. However, functional units at the district level in fact tend to interact with their
counterparts at the central level, thus effectively undercutting district-wide planning and management by
the district director and assistant directors. For example, the division of projects and buildings tends to
work with the Directorate for Buildings and Architectural Projects at the central level.
International studies of implementation show that those who carry the implementation burden have be
involved in, and contribute to, policy planning if they are to understand the context for, and commit to, the
initiatives that emerge from this planning. In the Palestinian case, the implementation of most initiatilves
depends on the districts and the schools. Although the central ministry has held workshops with he
districts and schools on the Five-Year Plan, the central level is the first to acknowledge that these levels of
government have not been well integrated into the five year planning process being conducted at the central
level.
- 74 -



Policy and Institutional Reforms Sought
Policy/Institutional Reforms Sought                                              Activities to
Sustain
Reforms
Formalizing the Policy Function:  A  Ministry council or strategy committee, Audit
consisting of the directors general and deputy minister and involving the district
directors:
1. is established as a permanent committee of the Ministry
2. meets regularly to conduct its work
3. forwards its recommendations to the Minister
The strategy committee is chaired by an individual positioned to represent the interests Audit
of the sector, rather than those of specific functional units
The General Directorate of Educational Planning and Development operates as the Audit, EAP
technical secretariat to the strategy committee and its working groups, perfonning the
functions of statistical analysis, policy analysis, economic analysis and costing,
planning, monitoring, and evaluation
Sector develops and periodically updates a strategy that identifies a limited number of MOE, donors,
priorities relative to goals for the system and data on gaps between goals and status  CDF
Improved utilization of data for strategic planning: Through analyses performed  EAP, donors
by the General Directorate for Educational Planning and Development, strategic
priorities are:
1. costed and economically justified (e.g., cost-effectiveness analyses; cost-benefit
analyses, including "make" versus "buy" decisions; analyses of least cost alternatives;
analyses of fiscal sustainability)
2. socially justified by analysis of impacts on disadvantaged groups
3. associated with realistic performance targets
Strategy committee prepares annual workplan:                                     EAP, donors,
CDF
1. with specific investmnents consistent with the strategy
2. that builds on annual workplans of the districts
3. with policy frameworks guiding specific investments
4. whose specific investments are economically and socially justified
5. that has feasible implementation plans, including task schedules that allow districts
and the Ministry to monitor progress
- 75 -



Policy/Institutional Reforms Sought                 Incentives to Sustain Reforms
Reducing  Fragmentation  between  Mnistry  and   Audit
District, and  within  the  MOE:    Functional
fragmentation at central and district levels is reduced
and the number of direct reports is rationalized by
reducing functional fragmentation and delegating
managerial powers to subordinates
Distribution of responsibilities and decision making   MOE, audit, EAP
powers between center, district, and school levels is
rationalized, relative to these broad criteria:
1. central ministry leads the sector's improvement in the
context of managing scarcity; sets learning standards
and assures educational quality; monitors and publishes
information  on  performance; assures  educational
fairness.
2. the district office functions as the coherent planning,
costing, and implementing center for the district, based
on MOE annual plans that reflect district annual plans
3. schools have the autonomy, capacity, and
accountability needed to improve student learning.
Increasing the involvement of stakeholders (donors,  EAP, donors
communities, district staff): General Directorate for
Buildings and Architectural Projects and their district
counterparts use the school mapping data base to
rationalize the selection of sites for new buildings,
school extensions, and closures
Central and district staff-policymakers, managers, and   MOE, audit, EAP
junior staff-use those capacities of the EMIS relevant
to their jobs
In  collaboration  with  MOPIC, MOE  uses  the   CDF
Palestinian Investment Plan (PIP) submitted to the
donors to showcase its comprehensive development
framework (CDF) .
The MOE and donors move towards coordinated MOE, EAP, donors, CDF
funding of the MOE's strategic priorities and annual
plans
- 76 -



Rules of the Game
What incentives exist at central, district, and school levels of the MOE, at MOPIC, the MOF, and among
the donors to take actions that would support the development objectives of the project? As noted, the
fundamental development objective of this project is to strengthen the sector's capacity to deliver better
educational services. It targets several managerial processes: priority-setting, policy analysis and planning,
financial management, policy frameworks for interventions, implementation, monitoring, and evaluation.
Most of the project funds are used to support the implementation of specific educational programs, but in
the context of exercising better management practices.
The tasks of setting priorities, policy analysis and planning, financial management, policy frameworks for
interventions, implementation, monitoring, and evaluation are not incentive-neutral for any level of
government.
The required effort:
*   They require significantly higher levels of coordination among functional units within a level of
government and between levels than current organizational structures and processes allow.
* Unless combined with intensive training, they threaten staff because they use concepts unfamiliar to the
staff in the sector and demand skills that many do not have.
* Priority-setting creates conflict among players with different interests; using policy analysis to select
among altematives implies losers; realistic costing can slow down the pursuit of priorities; monitoring
introduces performance accountabilities; and the analytic results of evaluations can be negative,
threatening those with an interest in continuing the evaluated initiative.
These realities underscore the need to address incentives for taking the actions required to meet the project'
s development objectives. Potentially, five mechanisms can help create positive incentives for players to
take actions that result in better management:
3  UNESCO management audits.
*   Civil service reform.
*   The comprehensive development framework (CDF) for the sector, integrated into MOPIC's
cross-sectoral Planned Investment Program (PIP).
3   Public sector medium-term expenditure framework (MTEF).
*   Coordinated donor support of the program.
Two of these mechanisms (civil service reform and a cross-sectoral MTEF) are not under the control of the
MOE and are unlikely to materialize in the foreseeable future. The MOE could construct a sector-specific
MTEF. However, it is the cross-sectoral MTEF process, usually managed by the MOF, that creates the
most powerful incentive for line ministries to improve their management Only two of these mechanisms are
under the control of the MOE (acting on the UNESCO management audits and working with donors to
create coordinated donor funding). One is partly under its control (sectoral CDF).
UNESCO management audits of the district and central levels could be used to redefne roles,
responsibilities, and decision-making powers.
This annex identifies a number of organizational impediments to better management. When completed, the
UNESCO management audits of the district and central levels would provide a basis for redefining (within
and between governing levels) roles and responsibilities; decision-making powers; structures and staffing;
- 77 -



and rules, regulations, and procedures.
For example, the sector is not currently structured to realize the maximnum and unique contribution that
each level of government can make to deliver high quality and efficient educational services. Too many
decisions are being made at the wrong level, with a variety of consequences. It separates authority from
responsibilities. It overburdens the level making decisions that should be made elsewhere, shortchanging
the decisions properly made at that level. The concentration of direct reports at the level of deputy minister
and the monopoly on decision-making at the center relative to the districts and at the districts relative tc the
schools are all instances of the same problem.
The project includes support for implementing a reorganization of the sector, based on the sector's review
of the management audits.
Civil service reforms support better management.
Modem civil service reforms support better management among the line ministries. They address the
distribution of functions, criteria for hiring (competitive and merit-based), wages sufficiently competitive to
attract and retain talent, political protection of technical staff, and the development of the generic functions
of policy analysis and planning, financial management, and human resource management. Unfortunately,
despite efforts of the World Bank and the donors to initiate civil service reform, this lever for improving the
public management of the different sectors is not yet available.
The education CDF in the context of the PIP can increase donor support for the sector.
The CDF, whether sector-specific or cross-sectoral, requires some of the actions targeted by the project.
These include:
*   identifying key constraints to sectoral performance;
a   identifying key actions that should be taken to resolve these constraints;
*   specifying indicators that can be used to measure progress; and
*   compiling an inventory of who is doing what to address the key constraints.
The objective of the CDF exercise in West Bank and Gaza is to integrate sector-specific CDFs into
MOPIC's overall Planned Investment Program (PIP). The PIP is the basis for donor discussions and
pledges. In the past year the donors have let it be known that they are unwoulding to support PIPs of the
poor quality of previous years. MOPIC and the line ministries have an incentive to prepare a PIP that
reflects clearer priority-setting and performance measures.
The CDF for pretertiary education and the MOE's Five-Year Plan are consistent with each other, although
the former has a longer strategic timeframe.
A MTEF can act as a budget incentivefor better management of the education sector.
A medium-term expenditure framework, or MTEF, is usually initiated by the MOF and integrates capiral
and recurrent budgets. It requires the line ministries to identify priorities, cost them in terms of capital and
downstream recurrent costs, specify performance indicators, and submit data on performance trends. Since
ministries that effectively participate in the MTEF exercise receive more financing, it creates strong
incentives for the line ministries to plan, cost, and monitor. From this point of view it is unfortunate that
the MOF has not yet started a MTEF process.
- 78 -



Coordinated donor support of the sector's Five-Year Plan creates incentivesfor better management.
Perhaps the most powerful incentives for the MOE to take the actions required to meet the project's
development objectives lie in the possibilities for coordinated donor funding of the Five-Year Plan.
Coordinated donor funding is advantageous for both the MOE and the donors. If procedures and
requirements are harmonized, the transaction costs for both parties are significantly reduced. For example,
instead of multiple donors sending separate supervision teams, a single coordinated donor team supervises
the implementation of the annual plan.  Donor funding is more predictable and smoother across time,
allowing the MOE to better plan. If some portion is "basket" or "pool" funding, the MOE can move money
to its highest priorities.
The donors have started discussing coordinated funding, organized around the Five-Year Plan. To that
end, the Finns have financed analyses of how the procedures and requirements of different donors might be
harmonized.
The Education Action Project (EAP) is explicitly structured to foster coordinated donor support. It targets
those managerial actions that would reassure the donors that they can transfer substantial control to the
MOE for setting priorities, policy analysis and planning, financial management, policy frameworks for
interventions, implementation, monitoring, and evaluation. It is flexibly structured and covers identification
and costing only of activities for year one. It releases funds in years 2 and 3, contingent upon the
development of annual workplans that reflect improved priority-setting and economic and social
justifications. These triggers are fairly standard among donors, and as the MOE begins to show that it can
meet them, the donors should become more comfortable with the idea of coordinated funding.
- 79 -



Additional
Annex 12
Teacher Development - Issues in West Bank and Gaza and rationale for Project Components
Introduction:
1.0   Training and Continuing Professional Development of Serving Teachers
1. I The Palestinian commitment to improving education through the training and professional development
of its teachers, principals and administrators is clearly articulated and is being followed with energy and
enthusiasm. There is a clear recognition that improving the quality of education and the standards of
achievement of all its people are essential to the successful development of the Palestinian community in the
highly competitive, rapidly changing world of the 21st century.
1.2 Recognition of the need to upgrade the skills of its workforce was confirmed in 1994 when the new
Ministry of Education (MOE) set about upgrading and training its teachers. Thus from May 1995 to
December 1998 it trained 28,300 teachers and administrators through in-service workshops, while school
principals received some 90 hours of training over the same period.
1.3 From 1997 to 1998, the MOE developed the Palestinian Curriculum Plan and in 1999 the full range of
activities being undertaken within the MOE, including the development of the curriculum, was brought
together in the Five-Year Plan. Within Objective 5 of this Plan, reference is rnade to the needs to improve
the professional competence of teachers, the leadership and management abilities of headteachers/
principals, and the management and administrative ability of supervisors and ministerial and district teams.
The curriculum plan, as described in General Objective 2 of the Five-Year Plan, has since its inception
acted as the unifying force around which the majority of the training activity, identified in Objective 5, has
been focused. Thus successive missions by Norway, Italy, Finland, UK, UNESCO and others have sought
to provide a range of sustainable training and development activities all aimed at building the competence
and confidence of the education workforce - particularly teachers.
2.0    Training and Continuing Professional Development of Serving Supervisors
2.1 Recently the main focus of effort has been on two separate but related training programs for serving
teachers, together with further training for headteachers/principals. The first program for teachers is
outlined in Objectives 2-3 of the Five-Year Plan and consists of a fully articulated strategy for training all
teachers in the new curriculum and its related assessment. This program is now in its early imnplementation
stage for teachers in grades I and 6 and is being funded by the Italians, while training in assessment would
be funded by the Finns. A draft proposal for funding training for grades 2 and 7 teachers in 2001-02 has
been submitted by the Belgians, together with a proposal to fund the publication and printing of the
textbooks to be used with the new curriculum in grades 2-5 and 7-12.
2.2 Alongside the centrally directed program of trainer training, followed by cascade teacher training, to
deliver national initiatives, is a second school-based program. This started as a program of School Review
and Development Planning (SRDP) which has now been followed by a second program called The School
as the Unit for Training (SUT) A separate, but related, third program on Appraisal is now being piloted.
To date, 80 percent of publicly funded schools have been involved in aspects of the SRDP/SUT programs,
and 25 percent are in the SUT program.
- 80 -



2.3 The SRDP and SUT programs are organized around school review and annual development planning.
Within this, the training and development needs of teachers are identified alongside the objectives and
targets for school development. The quality of external and internal input to this program has been high
and teachers and headteachers are very appreciative of what has been done so far.
2.4 Through the allocation to schools of funds for implementation of the school development plan, the
program has enabled the schools involved to purchase training to meet identified needs. This has caused
the schools to engage in the planning process with enthusiasm and commitment thus increasing the potential
of the program to embed the concepts of evaluation, planning and professional development into their
normal planning cycle. In addition, these school-based programs are self-sustaining and build capacity
where it is needed most: i.e. at school level.
3.0    Training for Serving Headteachers
3.1 Over the last 5 years there have been many workshops for serving headteachers in relation to aspects
of school administration and management. Headteachers interviewed reported 'many, many good courses'
and it appeared in discussions that they had gained much from these workshops, particularly from such
topics as managing finance; ICT in school management; links with the community; the head as resident
supervisor.
3.2 The SRDP and School as the Unit of Training programs have also provided important opportunities
for those heads to gain further management and leadership training. Indeed, the current program (funded
by DflD), suitably revised, has the potential to provide all serving headteachers with management and
leadership training which links strategic planning, standard setting, performance management - including
appraisal, needs analysis, and supervisor- reporting on the progress of individual staff. A suitably revised
program would deliver not only headteacher improvement but teacher and school improvement as well.
4.0    Training for Aspiring Headteachers
4.1 Less has been achieved in the training of those aspiring to be headteachers. Objective 5.5 of the
Five-Year Plan identifies 'the development of educational leadership programs in cooperation with other
institutions' as a priority and within this, certificate professional training for those wishing to be
headteachers, would be high on the list.
4.2 In view of the relatively low morale among teachers, there is a need to address the issue of providing
an appropriate career structure for the profession, with opportunities for certification and recognition, now
rather than in 2003 and this report proposes, in section 10, paragraphs 10.1-10.3, the development of one
rung of this career ladder targeted at aspiring headteachers.
5.0    Pre-Service Training
5.2 Objective 5.2 of the Five-Year Plan specifies the improvement of pre-service teacher training programs
with an implementation calendar indicating completion by 2004. To date nothing has been done nationally
to improve either content or quality of these pre-service courses. Successive consultants have pointed out
the urgent need to take action on this front, not least because the achievement of the Five-Year Plan would
- 81 -



entail recruiting 12,087 additional teaching staff alongside a current annual student intake of approximately
337 on higher diplomas and 8,446 on bachelors degrees.
5.3 Whatever the reasons for inactivity on this front there is now an urgent need for the reports of recent
consultancies outlining a draft strategy (UNESCO/IIEP/Ireland) to be brought forward for consideration
within a clear timetable for implementing a new BEd (primary) program and a new postgraduate diploma
program.
5.4 If it proves possible to establish joint MOE/MOHE Task Groups to address these proposals, it would
be important for the MOE to ensure that both the revised BEd and Postgraduate Diploma have a strong
professional dimension and are firmly rooted in school and classroom practice. The Ireland Aid
consultancy report points out that 'within the institutes of teacher education, there is inadequate emphasis
on the practicum experience [and that] even teaching methods courses can be unduly academic.
5.5 The division of functions between MOE and MOHE advocated in the consultants' report to Ireland
Aid suggests that the MOHE should set down the objectives and content of teacher education programs and
specify the requirements for entry. This recommendation requires further deliberation, not least because
entry requirements, objectives and content should reflect the professional (rather than academic) demanids
which need to be met. These proposed functions should be transferred to MOE or, at the very least,
decided jointly.
5.6 The discussion of capacity building in higher education omits one important aspect to which urgent
consideration should also be given: that is the need to provide lecturers in teacher education in universities
and colleges with immediate, relevant experience of working in schools. The introduction of new teachin1g
methods demanded by the new curriculum and associated assessment makes it doubly important that those
engaged in pre-service training of teachers know what is happening in schools and classrooms first hand,
and have practical, hands-on experience in delivering the new requirements.
6.0    Teacher Recruitment, Retention and Supply
6.1 Passing references are made in consultancy reports to recruitment issues usually in relation to the
MOE's policy of recruiting 20% of its new teachers each year from lower diploma holders. This practice
raises issues about the effectiveness of one fifth of the annual intake recruited in this manner.
6.2 In addition, MOE officials confirmed that while recruitment overall was buoyant, there was growin-g
difficulty in recruiting well-qualified teachers, especially men, in the fields of mathematics, physics,
chemistry and foreign languages at secondary level. Failure to recruit high quality teachers at this level
would make it difficult to drive forward the educational reform and improvement agenda.
6.3 In the absence of improvements in salary levels, plans are needed for incentivizing the teachirg
profession through the creation of a clear career structure through which teachers can chart their progress
to new pedagogic or managerial levels. In addition, systems of recognition and reward are needed whic h
confirm, in teachers' own minds, that they do indeed belong to a profession which is valued by society. A
system of paying salary premia to graduates with the revised (new) teaching degree and postgraduate
diploma could, with the modifications suggested in paragraphs 8.6 and 8.7 below, be the first rung on a
new career development ladder for teachers. It could also begin to improve teacher morale.
- 82 -



7.0    Additional Training Needs
7.1 The Five-Year Plan refers to the need to train administrators both in the Ministry and in the Districts.
The training needs of both groups are professional, managerial and administrative in nature. To date some
progress has been made in training school supervisors and in improving administrators understanding of
professional matters, not least through involving some of them in the delivery of new training to heads and
teachers.
7.2 Less has been done in relation to improving the understanding of lower grade administrators of current
practices in project management, of the use of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) for
management purposes, or of how  to improve their office management skills. Similarly, senior
administrators need further training in the use of ICT in administration and in what, in the long run, must
be their new roles: i.e. as strategic planners and as supporters of schools and their improvement, rather than
as deliverers of services to those schools.
7.3 For the Director and Deputies, the time to undertake training has been very limited indeed since most
of their efforts have had to be directed at delivering new training strategies to others. However, now that a
cadre of trainers has been developed, the time is right for a reappraisal of Directorate roles in order to
reposition individuals away from being the hands-on deliverers of training services and more towards being
the developers of the strategies which others then implement. They also need further experience in applying
the concepts involved in monitoring and regulating the training system, and those delivering it, and in the
disciplines of contract management.
7.4 A further, important ability needed by all senior administrators in the Education Department is the
capacity to develop annual work plans which derive from the Five-Year Plan and which are consistent with
each other. Without this capacity it is difficult to see how priorities for funding can be determined
rationally year to year so that the problems associated with the current project fumding arrangements
described in paragraph 8.1 below can be overcome.
8.0    The Annual Plan
8.1 The MOE and donors are aware of the need to develop annual workplans to rationalize available donor
funding. Funds do not always arrive in an appropriate sequence; some projects are overfunded and others
underfunded. As a result, MOE officials have needed to focus efforts on project specification and securing
funding rather than on creating a coherent annual work plan covering all aspects of the Five-Year Plan.
8.2 Five-Year Plan additions: Recruitment, Retention and Supply: (i) identify likely specialist demands
for primary and secondary teachers; (ii) identify the likely supply projections particularly in shortage
subjects of mathematics, physics, chemistry and English; (iii) create incentives to attract high quality
graduates into teaching; (iv) identify and publicize the benefits of a career in teaching for able graduates;
(v) build a career progression ladder for teachers tied to classroom performance as monitored in annual
appraisal and from evidence of successful participation in CPD.
8.3 Pre- Service or Initial Teacher Training: The MOE needs to create as requirements to be met by all
providers of pre-service training, national standards for entry into the profession based on: (i) the subject
knowledge/understanding and pedagogic skills needed to deliver in the classroom and on other, general
professional expectations; (ii) require providers to develop new course content for the post-graduate
secondary diploma and for a new undergraduate BEd course based on these professional standards; (iii)
- 83 -



consolidate all professional pre-service training as either concurrent academic studies and professional
training: i.e. a four year BEd or as a one year diploma course following a three year subject specialist BA
or B.Sc. degree; (iv) extend the school-based element of the new course to secure a greater emphasis on
practical skills development; (v) accredit colleges/universities to run these programs and set up new
monitoring arrangements to review this accreditation in the light of the quality of course delivery by the
university or college; (vi) develop a new instrument for assessing trainees' competence upon completion of
training, additional to any academic assessment by the university or college for the award of the acadernic
element of the degree.
8.4 Extend and Develop the Existing Induction Program for Teachers: (i) develop, on the basis of exisling
workshops, a national induction program for teachers; (ii) integrate supervisors assessments into a
comprehensive, school-managed, performance assessment of newly qualified teachers to be based on their
performance in the classroom; (iii) develop a certificate of professional competence designed to recognize
the progress which the newly qualified teacher has made in their induction year. This certificate should be
their license to teach. Once teachers have achieved this license, they should be placed on a main grade
professional register after which they become eligible for salary increments.
8.5 Develop a Career Ladder for the Teaching Profession: establish four specific rungs on this career
ladder. The first at the end of induction: i.e. at License Level (in effect a license to practice); the second at
Master Teacher Level: i.e. after not less than four successive years worth of excellent reports on the teac her
from the school supervisor and from the annual appraisal evidence presented by the teacher's
headmaster/mistress; the third rung at Management Level for heads of subject departments (primary or
secondary) to be awarded again on the basis of annual reporting by supervisor and headteacher; the fourth
at Diploma Level for senior teachers aspiring to headship; attach salary increments to the achievement of
each of these four steps.
9.0      Recommendation One: School Improvement through Review and Development
9.1 To date the main focus of the Training Directorate's effort has been to build the numbers and capacity
of the trainers in order to deliver training in the new curriculum and related assessment to all serving
teachers in West Bank and Gaza schools. This trainer training has been well-planned and received, and the
Directorate is now ready to cascade the National Curriculum training to all teachers in the relevant primary
grades.
9.2 The Directorate recognizes, however, that sustainable, long-term capacity building in the teaching force
requires a second approach to training, one in which teachers and principals/heads of schools take
responsibility for their own development and improvement in the light of national requirements, but a.so
having regard for schools needs and the development needs of individual teachers. In this approach training
becomes only a part, albeit an important part, of the continuing professional growth of all staff.
9.3 The need to create effectively functioning schools where review, improvement and development are the
norm, has led to the introduction of SUT. The current program, funded by the Norwegians, established by
the end of this year in some 320 schools and the new program would fund the continued roll out of this
program, subject to the modifications listed below, over a three year period.
9.4 The proposed new program has seven components. They are:
*   engage an extemal Technical Assistant (TA) to rewrite the SUT guidelines currently used to introduce
schools to the review and development process. This rewrite is designed to align the guidelines w1th
- 84 -



current thinking on school improvement and performance management and would involve placing
greater emphasis on two areas. The first is teaching and learning where two issues need to be
addressed: differentiation of teaching strategies to meet the needs of the least and most able; and using
pupil level data derived from assessment to inform teaching plans for groups and individuals. The
second is human resource development where there is a need to ensure that the results of annual staff
appraisals are used in conjunction with the reports on staff prepared by school supervisors, and with
the findings of the school review, to create a coherent performance management strategy which has the
improvement of performance of staff and pupils at its core;
*   attach a locally based assistant to the TA and retain the services of that assistant once the rewrite is
completed so that the work of dissemination to district supervisors may take place;
*   instruct the local assistant to familiarize district supervisors with the revised SUT guidelines so that
they can support schools entering the program in the review and planning process, helping them to
identify appropriate objectives and targets for inprovement, and the training needed to support it.
*   use local TA support to write, review and print 10 training modules on school development and
improvement themes to meet the demands of schools on the program once they have identified their
needs. The content of the modules should be determined in part on the basis of demands identified by
schools already on the DflID and Norwegian program, and in part to reflect the new emphases on
performance management and enhancement. Issues to be addressed should include: change
management; staff appraisal; improving student achievement; the use of performance indicators to
inform planning; differentiation and the use of ICT in curriculum delivery. Schools in the program
should also be able to seek training on topics not covered in the training modules, providing the district
supervisor is content that the training would contribute to improved pupil and teacher performance;
*   train 60 trainers to deliver these 10 training modules to 600 trainee trainers (4 per topic per district) so
that the requests from schools for training can be met;
-   admit some 270 schools per year for three years to the program. Priority should be given in the first
instance to schools in the Hebron and Gaza areas and to rural schools elsewhere;
e   release funds to the school to enable it to purchase training from whichever source it chooses.once the
district supervisor is satisfied that the school's development plan and its associated training
requirements are realistic and would improve pupil and teacher performance.
10.0   Recommendation Two: Creating incentives for the Teaching Force
10.1 The current remuneration arrangements provide few incentives for teachers to improve their subject
knowledge or their pedagogic, management and leadership skills. Salaries are low and increments few;
much is expected of teachers on a good will basis only; there are no career ladders for teachers and no
system of professional recognition, through certification or otherwise, for excellent practice, nor for
evidence of successful engagement in continuing professional development.
10.2 The program would fund the establishment of one rung in a ladder of career development for teachers
through the provision of a national, practically based professional qualification for teachers aspiring to
headship and through supporting 150 of these teachers on scholarships to obtain the qualification at
diploma level in those universities which bid successfully to participate in the scheme. Care would need to
- 85 -



be taken to ensure that only those universities willing to design a new course to meet new nationally
determined requirements, as set out by MOE, should be invited to participate.
10.3 The project would have three main components. They are:
*   establishing, on the basis of reviewing current best international headteacher training practice, national
Palestinian standards for headship. These would to form the basis on which universities and colleges
would be invited to bid by tender to prepare a one-year, practice-based diploma program for the new
qualification, and a second-year program to masters level for those wishing to extend further their
studies in leadership and management;
*   selecting, by MOE and the successful universities, the 50 serving teachers to be awarded scholarships
in the first year;
* securing national recognition for the achievement of those teachers who successfully complete ihe
program and providing them with some salary enhancement once the qualification has been achieved
and a headship post secured.
- 86 -



Additional
Annex 13
World Bank Assisted Education Project
Pilot Project Component on Secondary Vocational Education
In sum, the TVET strategy in its current form is reasonable in the present highly uncertain economic and
political environment. It offers clear directions for public policy and investment in TVET over the next
5-10 years, including expansion of the system. The strategy is innovative in addressing present
fragmentation of TVET through an integrated framework of inter-ministerial cooperation and a new
modular Palestinian TVET curriculum that would be used in all schools, in colleges and in labor training
centers. The curriculum development process itself is quite innovative in integrating technical skills with
basic core skills such as critical thinking and problem solving. An implementation plan for the strategy,
while ambitious, addresses key issues in system development in ways that are consistent with intemational
experience.
The proposed World Bank assisted project component would finance a pilot test of placing vocational
workshops on the campuses of two academic high schools. One pilot site would be a boys school in the
North; the second would be a girls school in the South. As will be discussed, the pilot component is
justifiable on equity and cost-effectiveness grounds within the overall TVET strategy.
TVET Strategv Context
Key characteristics of the labor market and the present system provide a framework for reviewing the
strategy.
Prospects for Skilled Employment are Uncertain. The prospects for Palestine's economy are tied to the
highly uncertain political context. Labor mobility is tightly constrained by the lack of contiguity of
Palestinian territories. Water and electricity supply is severely constrained under current arrangements
with Israel. Political risk constrains direct foreign investment. On the positive side, the work force as a
whole is comparatively well educated and there is an abundant supply of trained engineers. Improvements
in commercial law could unlock domestic capital for investment. Infrastructure development is underway
with broad donor support.
Unemployment and underemployment are high, most acutely so in Gaza. The population is growing at
more than six percent annually. Employment is overwhelmingly found in small enterprises, most
employing fewer than five workers. For data cited see Meeting the Challenge. Vocational Training:
Current Status and Future Prospects. Palestinian Ministry of Labor and Swiss Agency for Development
and Co-Operation. June, 1996. While the rate of employment of vocational school graduates is not known,
it is known that most of those who find a job do so in less than three months after graduation. The
employment rate within a year of individuals completing vocational taining courses ranges from 50 to 75
percent. Available data also show that employment opportunities by skilled occupation vary greatly across
Palestine's 13 govemorates. Combined with restrictions on labor mobility, this factor suggests the potential
value of structuring vocational education and training to fit with local factors.
Overall, data suggest that in crude terms the supply of skilled workers is adequate for the size of the
present economy and the current structures of production. As is usually the case, quality can be improved
and the occupational structures of training made more relevant to local employment opportunities. If the
economy grows, employment opportunities would increase and the structure of occupations would change.
- 87 -



The TVET System is small, fragmented and inefficient. There are 20 vocational secondary schools.
The Ministry of Education (MOE) supervises all and directly manages 13 institutions, with the balance
being done by private. There are 11 industrial schools, 33 commercial schools and 2 agricultural schools.
Together, these schools enroll 2, 200 students in two-year programs, or three percent of total secondary
enrollments. About 22 percent of vocational students are female, and these are concentrated in commercial
courses. The Ministry of Higher Education (MOHE) is responsible for technical education that is provided
in 16 conmmunity colleges, of which five are government colleges, three are operated by UNRWA; the r est
are private. These colleges enroll about 5,000 students, half of whom are female, and graduate about
1,500 per year. Approximately 3,300 students, about 40 percent female, complete training in vocational
training centers, of which 13 are managed by the Ministry of Labor and 7 by various private and charitable
organizations. Several hundred more charitable and public organizations provide a variety of short course
training. There is no overall training policy, and the three main ministries did not cooperate in the past.
Vocational secondary schools and vocational training centers are comparatively small (schools enroll an
average of 200 students). Curricula inherited from Jordan are 25 years old.  Secondary vocational
teachers are well educated; many are engineers, but pre-service training for vocational teachers is -iot
provided. Vocational trainers are less well qualified. Advancement to post-secondary education is an
option for vocational graduates, and 15-20 percent take advantage of this each year, principally going to
community colleges. Post-secondary education is not an option for vocational training graduates, in part
because of the lack of theoretical components in the largely practical skills training curriculum. Teacher
pay is low and turnover, especially of qualified engineers, is reported to be high.
Both vocational schools and vocational training centers are operating below capacity with attendmt
inefficiency. Data shows the average capacity utilization rates for most VTC courses to be around 50
percent. Secondary vocational schools operate with very low class size standards (usually 15), operate 6
hours a day and class size in less popular occupations falls as low as 3 in the second year due to low
enrollments and dropout. Varying utilization rates lead to equally wide variation in unit costs, with the unit
costs of low utilization courses reaching 4 times the level of full enrollment courses.
Donor Support is Also Fragmented. Donors have provided important and effective support for the
development of TVET in Palestine. Most of this support has been for individual institutions or for specific
functions, such as teacher training and library development (see attachment 2 for a list of donor projecis).
Mounted quickly after the formation of the Palestinian Authority, this assistance matches the fragmentation
of the system as a whole. The exception to this pattern has been support from the Swiss Agency :or
Development and Cooperation for the fornation and operation of the Expert Team in the Ministry of
Labor.  This team of Palestinian experts has made important contributions to building the cooperation
among the three ministries engaged in skills development that is the foundation for the Palestine National
Strategy for TVET.
The National TVET Strategy
The broad goal of the national strategy is to develop a unified TVET system that is flexible in responding
to changes in employment demand. This strategy is integrated with the National Five-Year Plan lor
Education. The unified system would provide high quality skills development, offer pathways to
post-secondary and higher education for vocational graduates, be efficient in the use of resources, and ge
supported by diversified sources of finance, including public, employers via a training levy, student fees,
income generating activities and grants and donations from national and international sources. "Vocatioral
Technical Education and Training in Palestine: national Strategy."
- 88 -



Upgrading of current institutions, combined with a new Palestinian TVET curriculum and adjustment in the
occupations offered to align more closely with demand, offers the opportunity to increase utilization in both
vocational schools and vocational training centers.
In addition to reforming the present system to improve quality, efficiency and financing, the Strategy also
envisages expansion of vocational secondary education. Initially, expansion to enroll 25 percent of
secondary students in vocational courses was set as a target. Subsequent feasibility and cost analyses, and
reflection within the MOE, has reduced this target to 7 percent, or double the present share held by
vocational enrollments in five years. Expansion would be done in such a way as to reduce unequal access
among govemnorates. When this target is achieved the vocational education enrollment share would still be
quite low by comparison with other countries.   The risks associated with expansion of vocational
education under present economic and employment conditions are well understood, and indeed
consideration of these risks contributed to the substantial reduction of initial targets. That training does not
create jobs is also explicitly recognized.
The modest expansion strategy is, in practical terms, justified in two ways. First, the present level of
vocational enrollments is low relative to optimistic (if uncertain) expectations for economic and
employment growth. In addition, as political uncertainties are resolved, employment in the Israeli labor
market could increase.  Second, constraints on labor mobility and uneven geographical distribution of
secondary vocational schools leads to inequitable opportunities of access among the govemorates,
contributing further to disparities in access between girls and boys.
Moreover, as discussed below, the Palestinian vocational curriculum that is being developed would offer
students substantial preparation in core basic skills, such as critical thinking and problem solving, that
increase individual potential for the continuing acquisition of skills in employment and through continuing
education. Narrow traditional occupations in low demand are being replaced by new and broader
occupations in increasing demand. While not offering a precise economic rationale, these justifications,
combined with a now modest expansion target, provide a reasonable social and educational basis for the
expansion strategy.
The strategy would be implemented along three lines: structural changes to build a unified system, capacity
building for system development and monitoring, and change projects aimed at specific reform objectives.
The observations offered below are selective but are intended to reflect key issues associated with strategy
implementation.
Building a Unified System. It is intended that a unified system would be achieved through coordination
and agreement on common curricula and student pathways rather than through organizational change. In
the first phase of implementation (1999), a VTET Higher Council, chaired on a rotating basis by the MOE
and MOHE, was formed to oversee policy development. Executive functions are carried out by a Steering
Committee at the Deputy Minister level. The Committee is supported by the Technical Support Team of
the MOL - a step towards institutionalization of the expert team supported by Swiss Co-operation.
Broadly put, the Technical Support Team would carry out the professional functions required for a unified
system: planning, monitoring, standards and curriculum, and research and evaluation. These functions
would be performed for all three Ministries.
The recent decision by the MOE to create a Directorate for Vocational Education, and the appointmnent of a
- 89 -



Director-General, are reported to have made positive contributions to the effective functioning of the
Steering Committee.
The new Palestinian curriculum is a key to a coordination approach. The MOE and the Ministry of Labor
have agreed to use the same curricula and learning materials. This would lead to standardization of the
practical workshop skills components of the curricula, reducing investment costs and improving the access
of students from both vocational schools and vocational training centers to post-secondary education.
The curriculum development process also indicates that the unified approach would improve the quality of
learning and flexibility of graduates of both systems. Development of an occupationally-specific
curriculum based on job analysis is the first step. Once this is developed, a second component of
problem-solving and team work skills is built in through the design of learning activities for the application
of learned skills. The process has been completed for automotive mechanics and materials as a model, ,nd
materials are available.
The curriculum is modular, making it possible for students in different kinds of institutions to compiete
courses at different rates over time. Generic modules provide foundation skills; advanced modules more
specific skills. This allows continuing curriculum revision in response to changes in technology and work
practices.
A comnmon curriculum should also have positive impact on the quality and efficiency of in-service nmd
pre-service training for teachers, trainers and administrators.
Comments. The level of cooperation achieved among the three ministries is quite unusual from the
perspective of intemational experience. The question is whether it can be sustained. The approach to
creating a unified system structure has been endorsed by the Cabinet. Lacking legal status beyond cabinet
approval it is vulnerable to political change. The incentives for inter-ministerial cooperation appeai at
present to consist largely of shared professional vision and strategic agreement, bolstered by the fact that
implementation of change projects and programs would remain with the appropriate ministry. For example,
vocational secondary education development would be managed by the MOE; improvements in vocational
training by the MOL; development of community colleges by the MOHE.
Incentives for effective inter-ministerial cooperation are likely to be affected by the mechanisms through
which expanded resources from diversified sources are allocated. The Strategy identifies multiple sources
of financing for TVET in addition to government budgets, including a training levy on employers and
national and international donations. An overall Training Fund to channel these additional resources to the
unified system is under discussion. The govemance arrangements and allocation mechanisms of the Fund,
or of any system-wide resource development and allocation mechanism, would be crucially important to
maintaining and strengthening cooperation.
An issue also worth reflection is the status of the Technical Expert Team. Presently this group is emploN ed
by the MOL. Many countries have created a professional and technical support agency for vocational
education and training with similar functions to those now being carried out by the team in Palestine.
These take various forms. Often, as in Korea, Philippines, and Thailand, they are independent government
agencies with broadly representative boards and separate budgets. They can also be organized witlin
universities. To the extent that such a unit is expected to provide neutral and objective support and
assessment for a unified system, its ownership by one of the cooperating ministries may prove problematic.
As the unified system develops, it would be useful for Palestinian authorities to consider altemative ways in
which this crucial function can be further strengthened and sustained.
- 90 -



Building Capacity for Developing a Unified System. Officials identify four "steady state" issues or
capacities needed for effective implementation of change in the unified system: curriculum development,
human resource development (including training), development of physical resources (buildings,
equipment), and development of management and monitoring systems, including labor market monitoring
Common reliance on these core systems of professional and technical development and support is a key
element of the implementation strategy. This can reduce duplication, thereby increasing efficiency in both
initial development the continuing development and improvement in all areas that is important to system
flexibility in the face of changes in the labor market.
These capacities would be developed by and within the Technical Expert Team. While the objectives and
initial cost estimates have been provided for capacity building in these four areas, lacking is a plan for the
development and financing of the Technical Expert Team. Authorities are discussing a "Center for
Occupational Research" as a way of institutionalizing these key functions.  Swiss Cooperation is
considering supporting the team for another three years beyond the year 2000. If this support materializes,
it would provide an opportunity to build the capacities of the team itself.
Implementing Change Projects. As currently configured, individual ministries would implement change
projects for the institutions under their management, within the overall strategy for a unified system.
Change projects would be coordinated through the TVET Council and Steering Cormnittees, with technical
support from the Technical Expert team.
It appears likely that most donor agencies supporting TVET in Palestine would prefer to continue financing
pieces of the system - institutions or capacities - through the participating ministries. This is presently the
case for the World Bank. In the medium tenn, as cooperation becomes institutionalized, and as such issues
as the status and function of the Technical Expert Team becomes clear through experience, options such as
a Training Fund for the development of the unified system may become feasible. In the interim, the Expert
team is preparing a matrix which would link current and prospective donor assisted projects to the
objectives of the unified system and the structures of reform implementation. This matrix would help both
Palestinian authorities and donors to avoid duplication and to identify gaps in intemational support for the
reforms.
World Bank Assistance
As proposed to the World Bank, the pilot project would finance the establishment of four vocational
workshops on the campuses of each of two academic secondary schools. The workshops would provide
practical training within the new Palestinian curriculum in industrial occupations; theoretical classes would
be provided in the academic schools. Students in the pilot catchment areas would thus have two choices
after completing the 10 year basic education curriculum: an academic program or a vocational program,
both of which (under the proposed TVET strategy) would provide for entrance to post-secondary and
tertiary education, or to the labor market. By sharing land, facilities, teachers and administration this
approach would be less costly than building entirely new schools.
These pilot sites would be selected in areas where access to vocational options are comparatively low.
Occupations for the pilots would be chosen based on local employment opportunities, and special attention
to occupations with a high information technology component, such as computer maintenance.
The pilots would use the new Palestinian curriculum. The curriculum would be developed over three years
for 60 industrial, commercial and agricultural occupations. It is anticipated that six industrial occupations
- 91 -



would be offered through the pilots (that is, some occupations would be offered at both sites).  The
curriculum would be developed by the Expert Team, financed by the project component, under the
supervision of the MOE Curriculum Development Department. Printing costs are not included in
curriculum development costs.
Curriculum development for the six occupations chosen for the pilot projects would receive early priority to
ensure that the learning materials and teacher training programs are available when pilot schools open. A
monitoring and evaluation plan for the pilot project apparently remains to be developed. A plan for
monitoring implementation against schedules, enrollments, dropouts, graduates and costs should be
prepared by the MOE prior to appraisal. Although the three year span of the project is limiting, the plan
should also provide for tracer studies of graduates.
- 92 -



MAP SECTION






/  r                                          ~~~~~WEST BANK
and
K  &                ~~~~~Yabbad       N1eAIRPORTS!/ AIRFIELDS
bti.l   {   .X71(-a  J   t   4    }        =   MAJOR HIGHWAYS
TWO OR MORE LANES,
HARD SURFACED ROADS
-o  RAILROADS
Tub6s  *         \    j32
$TT  Tllcor  --3~7ptos                                                             BUILT-UP AREAS
) t1   t v    a    1ttx  A     .Tommun    j                         UNRWA REFUGEE CAMPS
I    ISRAELI SETiLEMENTS
iA |   //Z M   _ bS,  >>  -    ARMISTICE DEMARCATION LINES, 1949
-  d                  y                   t22F   F       L w-g  . <; 1 4 > > 5 \ f / iK 3l0-I  C NO-MAN'S LAND AREAS,
1$ F-* X    C   t   't-   f    -   f   1  \ARMISTICE DEMARCATION LINE, 1949
4; -9 ()  8/    t   5   I   ^   ?  t i  CS  l JERUSALEM CITY LIMIT, UNILATERALLY
(    ,-l  *sS a /  -   EXPANDED BY ISRAEL JUNE 1967;
._.,'/               1      >       ' 0 v+t>' 6 e _| THEN ANNEXED JULY 30 1980
\  SoKeW   -) ^    \- -4<)    A     )  j       /         -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
;        od                                ;t2                c_ t         Jz 
1tt  W E S T
+    IlSRAEL        t a , -- #---35>0    a                                       Q0o50o    MEDUEPWA.,,N     .     0'.f3  -
rt                                                          A~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
;W _.)~-3-~RmIkh-(*) / 
-               -A 'N                 ,C,i
0~~~~~~~~~~~00
- jX   * o   '  - I  0   MEDITARKNA NKX -   JDAN
i,4 ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~Jrc                                                             WESd5I    " "      '' 'G          xvv   T  , 
SEA~~~~~~~~~~~-
: 31 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/ /  ;.                                               310/  
I,-br~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,So/                                           E~0
r W(ft7iS/ ZoIShor                                                                                                         ISRAEL
fld   ,   -Iorc7e0fsuchh- nd-se:   79'." =-k GS---               0                           ,Dh\ d     l
0.X,0/>^/i \  50   d03        / 33   ^wsa>      3.533    -3t_orze    _



