Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TF 029767
Trust Fund Credit Agreement 
(Education Action Project)
between
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION
(for the Benefit of the Palestinian Authority)
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(As Administrator of the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank)
Dated July 18, 2001
TF 029767
TRUST FUND CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 18, 2001 between the PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION 
(for the benefit of the Palestinian Authority) (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION, acting as administrator (the Administrator) of the Trust Fund 
for Gaza and West Bank, established on October 19, 1993, by Resolution No. 93-11 and 
IDA 93-7, as amended by Resolution No. 95-6 and IDA 95-3 and Resolution No. 96-11 and 
IDA 96-7 and further amended by Resolution No. 99-3 and IDA 99-2, of the Executive 
Directors of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the 
International Development Association (the Trust Fund).
WHEREAS (A) the Board of Governors of the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development and the International Development Association has resolved, on July 
29, 1999, to, inter alia, replenish the Trust Fund in the amount of sixty million 
dollars ($60,000,000), such amount to be transferred from the surplus of the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and to be used for financing 
rehabilitation projects in parts of the Gaza Strip (Gaza) and the West Bank (the West 
Bank) which are under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority;
(B)
the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Government of the State of 
Israel have entered, on September 28, 1995, into an agreement which, inter alia, sets 
out certain interim self-government arrangements in Gaza and the West Bank (the 
Interim Agreement);
(C)
Section 5 (b) of Article IX of the Interim Agreement authorizes the 
Palestine Liberation Organization to conduct negotiations and, in certain cases 
Page  2
described thereunder, sign agreements with states and international organizations for 
the benefit of the Palestinian Authority;
(D)
the Palestinian Authority, on behalf of the Borrower, has requested the 
Administrator to assist in financing the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing 
to extend the Credit to the Palestine Liberation Organization, for the benefit of the 
Palestinian Authority, upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions" set forth in Schedule 1 to the Trust Fund 
Credit Agreement between the Administrator and the Palestinian Economic Council for 
Development and Reconstruction, dated September 7, 1994, relating to the Emergency 
Rehabilitation Project (TF 026066-GZ), as amended, with the following modifications 
thereto (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
(a)
A new paragraph (c) is added to Section 3.04 to read:
"If the Administrator shall at any time receive less than the full 
amount then due and payable to it under the Trust Fund Credit Agreement, the 
Administrator shall have the right to allocate and apply the amount so 
received in any manner and for such purposes under the Trust Fund Credit 
Agreement as the Administrator shall in its sole discretion determine.";
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Administrator and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Administrator, is prohibited by a decision of 
the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations.";
(c)
Paragraph (g) of Section 6.02 is re-lettered as paragraph (k) and the 
following new paragraphs (g) through (j) are added in said Section 6.02:
"(g)
The Borrower or any Project implementation entity shall, without 
the consent of the Administrator, have: (i) assigned or transferred, in whole 
or in part, any of its obligations arising under the Trust Fund Credit 
Agreement; or (ii) sold, leased, transferred, assigned, or otherwise disposed 
of any 
property or assets financed wholly or in part out of the proceeds of 
the 
Credit, except with respect to transactions in the ordinary course of 
business which, in the opinion of the Administrator: (A) do not materially and 
adversely affect the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations 
under 
the Trust Fund Credit Agreement or to achieve the objectives of the 
Project, or the ability of the Project implementation entity to perform any of 
its 
obligations arising under, or entered into pursuant to, the Trust Fund 
Credit 
Agreement, or to achieve the objectives of the Project; and (B) do not 
materially 
and adversely affect the financial condition or operation of the 
Project 
implementation entity.
(h)
Any Project implementation entity shall have ceased to exist in 
the same legal form as that prevailing as of the date of the Trust Fund Credit 
Agreement.
(i)
Any action shall have been taken for the dissolution, 
disestablishment or suspension of operations of any Project implementation 
entity.
(j)
In the opinion of the Administrator, the legal character, 
ownership or control of any Project implementation entity shall have changed 
from that prevailing as of the date of the Trust Fund Credit Agreement so as 
to materially and adversely affect: (i) the ability of the Borrower to perform 
Page  3
any of its obligations under the Trust Fund Credit Agreement or to achieve the 
objectives of the Project; or (ii) the ability of the Project implementation 
entity to perform any of its obligations arising under, or entered into 
pursuant to, the Trust Fund Credit Agreement, or to achieve the objectives of 
the 
Project.";
(d)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Administrator. If: (a) the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been 
suspended with respect to any amount of the Credit for a continuous period of 
thirty 
days, or (b) at any time, the Administrator determines, after 
consultation with the Borrower, that an amount of the Credit will not be 
required to finance the Project’s costs to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the 
Credit, or (c) at any time, the Administrator determines, with respect to 
any 
contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or 
fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of 
a 
beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or the execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Administrator to remedy the situation, and establishes the 
amount 
of expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have 
been eligible 
for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any 
time, the 
Administrator determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with the procedures  set forth or 
referred to in the Trust Fund Credit Agreement and establishes 
the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise 
have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (e) 
after the 
Closing Date, an amount of the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from 
the Credit 
Account, the Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower, 
terminate the 
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals to such amount. Upon 
the giving of 
such notice, such amount of the Credit shall be canceled."
(e)
Paragraph (d) of Section 7.01 is re-lettered as paragraph (h) and the 
following are added as new paragraphs (d) through (g) of said Section:
"(d)
The Borrower or any Project implementation entity shall, without 
the consent of the Administrator, have: (i) assigned or transferred, in whole 
or in part, any of its obligations arising under the Trust Fund Credit 
Agreement; or (ii) sold, leased, transferred, assigned, or otherwise disposed 
of any 
property or assets financed wholly or in part out of the proceeds of 
the 
Credit, except with respect to transactions in the ordinary course of 
business which, in the opinion of the Administrator: (A) do not materially and 
adversely affect the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations 
under 
the Trust Fund Credit Agreement or to achieve the objectives of the 
Project, or the ability of the Project implementation entity to perform any of 
its 
obligations arising under, or entered into pursuant to, the Trust Fund 
Credit 
Agreement, or to achieve the objectives of the Project; and (B) do not 
materially 
and adversely affect the financial condition or operation of the 
Project 
implementation entity.
(e)
Any Project implementation entity shall have ceased to exist in 
the same legal form as that prevailing as of the date of the Trust Fund Credit 
Agreement.
(f)
Any action shall have been taken for the dissolution, 
disestablishment or suspension of operations of any Project implementation 
entity.
(g)
In the opinion of the Administrator, the legal character, 
ownership or control of any Project implementation entity shall have changed 
from that prevailing as of the date of the Trust Fund Credit Agreement so as 
to materially and adversely affect: (i) the ability of the Borrower to perform 
any of its obligations under the Trust Fund Credit Agreement or to achieve the 
objectives of the Project; or (ii) the ability of the Project implementation 
entity to perform any of its obligations arising under, or entered into 
pursuant to, the Trust Fund Credit Agreement, or to achieve the objectives of 
the 
Project."; and
(f)
Section 11.01 is modified by replacing, in the second sentence, the word 
"radiogram" with the word "facsimile" and adding a new sentence at the end of the said 
Section to read:
Page  4
"Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by 
mail."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Eligible Categories" means categories (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) and (6) 
set forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(c)
"MOE" means the Ministry of Education of the Palestinian Authority;
(d)
"PIP" means the Project Implementation Plan, dated January 16, 2001, for 
the carrying out of the Project referred to in Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement, as 
the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Administrator;
(e)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(f)
"PST" means the Project Support Team to be maintained in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(g)
"School Improvement and Training Fund" means the Fund to be established 
within MOE for the provision of grants to schools; 
(h)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; and
(i)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and the Palestinian Authority pursuant to Section 3.01(c) of this Agreement, 
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term shall include all 
schedules to the Subsidiary Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to seven million United States dollars (US$7,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2004, or such later date 
as the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Palestinian Authority to pay to 
the Administrator a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not 
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Administrator as of June 30 of 
each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Administrator shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Page  5
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall cause the Palestinian Authority to pay to the 
Administrator a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) 
per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semi-annually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall cause the Palestinian Authority to repay the 
principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each January 15 
and July 15 commencing July 15, 2011 and ending January 15, 2041. Each installment to 
and including the installment payable on January 15, 2021, shall be one percent (1%) 
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of 
such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall cause the Palestinian Authority to designate 
MOE as representative of the Palestinian Authority for the purposes of taking any 
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through the Palestinian Authority with due diligence and efficiency, 
in conformity with appropriate administrative, economic, engineering, educational, 
financial and environmental practices and shall cause the Palestinian Authority to 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, 
through the Palestinian Authority, shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement and the PIP.
(c)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to the 
Palestinian Authority under a Subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and the Palestinian Authority under terms and conditions which shall have 
been approved by the Administrator.
(d)
The Borrower shall cause the Palestinian Authority: (i) to perform in 
accordance with the provisions of the Subsidiary Agreement all of the obligations of 
the Palestinian Authority therein set forth; (ii) to take all action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate 
for the carrying out of the Project; and (iii) not to take or permit to be taken any 
action which would prevent or interfere with the carrying out of the Project.
(e)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower, the Palestinian Authority and 
the Administrator and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the 
Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall cause the Palestinian Authority to:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date, or 
Page  6
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Palestinian Authority 
and the Administrator, a plan to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s 
objectives; and
(b)
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Palestinian Authority on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Palestinian Authority to maintain 
a financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Administrator, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause the Palestinian Authority: (i) to have the 
records, accounts and financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, and the records and accounts for the Special Accounts, for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Administrator, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator; (ii) 
furnish to the Administrator, as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, 
and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Administrator shall have 
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Administrator such other information 
concerning said records and accounts, and the audit thereof, as the Administrator 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall cause the Palestinian Authority to: (i) maintain or 
cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and 
separate accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year 
after the Administrator has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the 
last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) 
enable the Administrator’s representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure 
that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such audit contains a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause the Palestinian Authority to carry out a 
time-bound action plan acceptable to the Administrator for the strengthening of the 
financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order 
to enable the Palestinian Authority, not later than April 1, 2002 or such later date 
as the Administrator shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, 
acceptable to the Administrator, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
Page  7
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall cause the Palestinian Authority to prepare, in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Administrator, and furnish to the 
Administrator not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar 
quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and Palestinian Authority;
(b)
that the financial management system referred to under Section 4.01 (a) 
of this Agreement has been established;
(c)
that the MOE has employed the following PST staff: (a) a project 
director; (b) a financial officer; and (c) a procurement officer, all with 
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Administrator, to manage the Project;
(d)
that the MOE has employed the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(e)
that the MOE has developed prototype annual work plans, acceptable to the 
Administrator, for its departments of training, planning, finance, district 
administration and vocational secondary education.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Administrator, namely that the Subsidiary Agreement 
has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the 
Borrower and the Palestinian Authority and is legally binding upon the Borrower and 
the Palestinian Authority in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03 The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Palestinian Authority is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section  
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
c/o Ministry of Finance of the Palestinian Authority
Beirut Street, Rimal,
Gaza City, Gaza
P.O. Box 4007
Facsimile
072825255
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Page  8
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI); or
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Gaza , as of the day and year first above written.
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION
for the Benefit of the Palestinian Authority
By /s/ Mohammed Nashashibi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
As Administrator of the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank
By /s/ Nigel Roberts
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
   Amount of the
       Credit Allocated
   % of
  (Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   U.S. Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
2,350,000
85%
(2)
Goods
 
1,300,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost);
and 85% of local
expenditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(3)
Consultants'
1,000,000
100%
services
(4)
Training
  800,000
100%
(5)
Grants under
  650,000
100%
the School
Improvement
and Training
Fund
(6)
Incremental
  200,000
85%
Operating Costs
Page  9
and Maintenance
(7)
Unallocated
  700,000
TOTAL
7,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods or services 
supplied from the territory of any country other than the parts of the West Bank and 
Gaza under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency used in 
the parts of the West Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian 
Authority or for goods or services supplied from the parts of the West Bank and Gaza 
under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority, provided, however, that if the 
currency used in the parts of the West Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction of the 
Palestinian Authority is also that of a country from the territory of which goods or 
services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall 
be deemed to be "foreign expenditures"; and
(c)
the term "Incremental Operating Costs and Maintenance" means expenditures 
incurred by the Borrower, in respect of expenditures incurred by the Borrower on 
account of utility charges, maintenance, fuel, office supplies, banking charges, 
communication services, translation charges, audit costs, domestic travel costs 
(including transport and per diem), labor costs and other related expenditures.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for: (i) contracts for goods or works costing 
less than the equivalent of $200,000; (ii) contracts costing less than the equivalent 
of $100,000 for services of consulting firms; (iii) contracts costing less than the 
equivalent of $50,000 for services of individual consultants; (iv) training; (v) 
Grants under the School Improvement and Training Fund; and (vi) Incremental Operating 
Costs and Maintenance, all under such terms and conditions as the Administrator shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in United States dollars a special deposit 
account in a commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Administrator, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment.
2.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Administrator shall have received: (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request 
from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Administrator of a Project Management Report pursuant 
to Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Administrator 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Administrator determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
Page  10
of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Administrator determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account or 
(B) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at 
any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to 
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Credit Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such 
notification, the Administrator shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether 
further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be 
followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Administrator, provide such additional evidence as the 
Administrator may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the 
Administrator shall so request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment.  Unless the Administrator shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower 
has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator determines at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator, refund to the Administrator such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to sub-paragraphs (a), (b) or 
(c) of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Trust Fund 
Credit Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
(a)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $700,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that, unless the 
Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $300,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall 
equal or exceed the equivalent of $1,200,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On 
the basis of each such request, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
Page  11
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Administrator requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as 
the Administrator shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in 
respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Administrator shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special 
Account shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the Credit Account under one or 
more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Administrator 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of expenditures to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to said Categories, shall equal 
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, 
withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit 
allocated to said Categories shall follow such procedures as the Administrator shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after 
and to the extent that the Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will 
be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Administrator may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Administrator into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Administrator 
from the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Administrator shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Administrator has determined, based on the 
Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited 
in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to 
the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $1,400,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the management of the 
education system to deliver quality services; and (b) to support the MOE in 
implementing the activities of its five-year plan.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Administrator may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Capacity Building
1.
Strengthen the capabilities of the MOE to prepare, evaluate and implement annual 
work plans and budgets through the provision of goods, works, training and 
consultants' services.
2.
Support to the PST to ensure the effective implementation of the Project through 
Page  12
the provision of goods, training and consultants' services.
Part B:
Targeted Interventions
1.
Carrying out of a program to support MOE's efforts to implement activities under 
the annual work plans, including, inter alia: (a) provision of grants from the School 
Improvement and Training Fund to provide schools with funds to implement teacher 
training or school improvement projects; (b) provision of training, goods and 
consultants' services for a program of school based management on the basis of the 
review and development method; (c) provision of training and consultants' services to 
develop prototype standards for headteachers and a prototype headteacher program; and 
(d) provision of goods and consultants' services to prepare a strategy for vocational 
training, including, preparing selected trial curricula for vocational secondary 
education.
2.
The construction and equipping of annexes and extensions to existing schools, 
through the provision of goods, works and consultants' services.
*     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits," published by the 
Administrator in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 
and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
Goods to be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 1 of this Part B shall be subject to the following provision, namely, 
that the provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the West Bank or Gaza.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed US$550,000 equivalent may, and works shall be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of national competitive bidding in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Administrator. Said procedures shall ensure, inter 
alia, that: (i) tenders shall be advertised for at least two (2) consecutive days in a 
local newspaper of wide circulation; (ii) prospective bidders shall be allowed a 
minimum of thirty (30) days between the date upon which the notification appears in 
the newspaper for the first time and the date upon which the bid is submitted; (iii) 
the format of the bidding documents shall be consistent with that of the 
Administrator's standard bidding documents, or with the format of bidding documents 
used by United Nations Agencies operating in the West Bank and Gaza; (iv) interested 
foreign contractors and suppliers shall be allowed to bid; (v) bids shall be submitted 
in sealed envelopes and shall be accepted whether mailed or hand-carried; (vi) all 
bids shall be opened at the same time in public; (vii) contracts shall be awarded to 
the lowest evaluated bidder; (viii) no bidder shall be requested or permitted to 
modify his, her or its bid after the bid closing date shall have elapsed; (ix) price 
negotiations with the lowest evaluated bidder shall be limited to cases provided for 
under the Guidelines; and (x) postqualification criteria shall, in the absence of a 
prequalification process, be explicitly stated in the bidding documents.
2.
International/National Shopping
Page  13
Goods estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract, and not to 
exceed US$630,000 equivalent in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of international/national shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Administrator for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) all contracts for goods or works estimated to cost 
$200,000 equivalent or more; and (ii) the first two (2) contracts for goods estimated 
to cost less than $200,000 equivalent, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to contracts procured in accordance with international/ 
national shopping procedures, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, 
the Borrower shall provide to the Association a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a copy 
of the specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers," published by the Administrator in January 1997 
and revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-Based Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be 
Page  14
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Administrator for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to any other contract for the employment of consulting 
firms, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph 
of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to: (i) each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost $50,000 or more; and (ii) the first three (3) contracts 
for services, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Administrator for its prior 
review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have 
been given.
(d)
With respect to the first ten (10) grants out of the School Improvement 
and Training Fund, the grant proposals shall be furnished to the Administrator for its 
prior review and approval. The grants shall be awarded only after said approval shall 
have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The MOE shall have overall responsibility for the implementation of the Project.
2.
For purposes of assisting the MOE in the implementation of the Project and in 
order to ensure proper coordination of the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower 
shall cause the Palestinian Authority to maintain the PST, within the MOE, with 
professional staff in adequate numbers whose qualifications, experience and terms of 
reference shall be acceptable to the Administrator.  Key staff of the PST shall 
consist of: (a) a Project director, to be located within MOE's directorate for 
planning and development; (b) a financial officer, to be located within MOE's finance 
department; and (c) a procurement officer, to be located within the MOE's procurement 
section.
3.
MOE shall ensure that grants, provided for under Part B.1. of the Project, are 
approved in accordance with the criteria and procedure set forth in the PIP.
4.
MOE shall prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Administrator, 
and furnish to the Administrator for its review and comments, by November 1 of each 
year during Project implementation, an annual work plan for the carrying out of the 
Project during the following calendar year, and thereafter, finalize and implement 
said plan, as agreed upon with the Administrator.
5.
The Borrower, through the Palestinian Authority, shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon between 
Page  15
the Borrower and the Administrator, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator quarterly progress reports, acceptable to the 
Administrator regarding the implementation of the Project during the preceding 
quarter, and a work plan for the subsequent quarter;
(c)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator, on or about June 1, 2002, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(d)
review with the Administrator, by September 1, 2002 or such later date as 
the Administrator shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Administrator views on the 
matter.
