Report No. 23504
Report No: I075808 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 03/06/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: MOROCCO         Project ID: P075808
Project: Alpha Maroc     Task Team Leader: Jeffrey Waite
Authorized to Appraise Date: January 31, 2002      IBRD Amount ($m): 5.00
Bank Approval: May 28, 2002       IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: MNSHD     Sector: EL - Literacy/Non-Formal Education
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
To test innovations in teaching quality and system management, with a view
to enabling GOM to develop sustainable adult literacy programs on a scale
the meets their target of halving illiteracy from 50t to 25t by 2010.
I.A.3. Project Description:
[1.1] Modernize teaching materials; [1.2] Increase teaching capacity;
[2.11 Improve program management; [2.2] Encourage grassroots innovation
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
Morocco-wide, concentrating on (i) improving capacity in government
services at central, regional and provincial level, and (ii) strengthening
literacy providers, especially NGOs working in disadvantaged areas.
B. Check Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
Comments: No civil works are included in project.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)          No
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)     No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)       No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)         No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)     No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)       No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*          No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)        No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain



necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
None
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
None
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
Nome
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
NA
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
NA
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
NA
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
I S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
[XI S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)       Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
- 2 -



Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop  Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan:   Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank     Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop  Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:     Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank     Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop  Not Applicable  Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by         Name    Date
Task Team Leader:       Jeffrey Waite   March 5, 2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:       John Keith Rennie-MNS/Person/World Bank March 5,
2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:       John Bryant Collier/Person/World Bank   March 5,
2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:    Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:        Sherif Kamel F. Arif    March 6, 2002
Sector Manager/Director:        Jacques F. Baudouy      March 6, 2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
-3 -



