Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23918-MOR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LEARNING AND INNOVATION LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF EUR 4.2 MILLION
(US$4.1 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR AN
ALPHA MAROC PROJECT
September 12, 2002
Human Development Sector
Middle East and North Africa Region



MOROCCO
Alpha Maroc Project
Project Appraisal Document
Middle East and North Africa Region
MNSHD
Date: September 12,2002                          Team Leader: Jeffrey Waite
Sector Director: Jacques F. Baudouy              Sector(s): Adult literacy/non-formal education (70%),
Country Director: Marisa Fernandez-Palacios      Central government administration (15%), Sub-national
Project ID: P075808                              govenment administration (15%)
'Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan  Theme(s): Education for all (P), Civic engagement,
(LIL)                                            participation and community driv (S)
Project Financing Data                                                 -
[X Loan     [ ] Credit   [ ] Grant    [ ] Guarantee   [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Loan Currency: Euro
Amount (US$m): 4.10 (E 4.2 million equivalent)
Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terms Available on File: 1 Yes
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Variable-Spread Loan (VSL)
Grace period (years): 5                        Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.75%                          Front end fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%
Payment for FEF: Capitalize from Loan Proceeds
FinancingPlan (US$m): -.-.-Source-                         Local        Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                      1.26           0.00          1.26
IBRD                                                          1.95           2.15         4.10
Total:                                                        3.21           2.15          5.36
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF MOROCCO
Responsible agency: MINISTERE DE LEMPLOI ET DE LA FORMATION PROFESSIONNELLE
Direction de la lutte contre l'analphabetisme
Address: 54, rue Oum Errabia, Agdal, Rabat, MOROCCO
Contact Person: Mr Mbarek MOUJANE
Tel: 212(37)774920            Fax: 212 (37) 774960          Email:
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$m):
-½   FY        .-2003     2004   |   2005          - -  .            -     1-          '
Annual     0.70       1.10      2.30;l
Cumulative     0.70      1.80       4.10
Project implementation period: 01/01/03 - 12/31/05
Expected effectiveness date: 01/01/2003  Expected closing date:  06/30/2006
OCS PAD R- Pa  AhO



MOROCCO
ALPHA MAROC PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. LIL Justification                                                                                                  Page
1.  What is to be learned (why the piloting)? ...................................................................    2
2.   How are the results going to be used (vis a vis CAS objectives and any follow-on                                3
operation)?
3.   Other countries or situations where similar efforts have shown promise ................................         3
B. Structure of the Pilot
1. How will the learning take place? .............................,,..  ,,, ,.,.,.4
2.   Outcome-level test to be conducted ..................................................................           4
3.   Steps Involved in Implementing the Pilot ..................................................................     4
4.   Learning Expectations to be Documented in the Pilot .........................................,                  4
5.   Triggers for a Follow-on Operation .....................................................................s5
6.   Results-based Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements .....................................................      5
C. Components and their Implementation Arrangements
1.  Project components ......................................................................6
2.   Implementation arrangements ......................................................................6
a. Procurement ......................................................................6
b. Financial Management ......................................................................7
c. Other ......................................................................8
D. Risks
1.  Social and Environmental Risks ......................................................................9
a. Safeguard Policies ......................................................................9
b. Other social risks ......................................................................9
2.   Other Risks .....................................................................                              10
E. Main Loan/Credit Conditions
1.  Effectiveness Conditions .....................................................................                  11
2.   Other .....................................................................                                    11
F. Readiness for Implementation .....................................................................                    11
G. Compliance with Bank Policies .....................................................................                   11
Annexes
Annex 1. Project Design Suuary .12
Annex 2. Project Description ..............                                           ...                                14
Annex 3. Estimated Project Costs .18
Annex 4. Financial Management .19
Annex 5. Project Processing Schedule .21
Annex 6. Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .22
Annex 7. Documents in the Project File .26
Annex 8. Statement of Loans and Credits .28
Annex 9. Country at a Glance .30
MAP(S)






MOROCCO
Alpha Maroc Project
Project Appraisal Document
Middle East and North Africa Region
MNSHD
Date: September 12, 2002                          Team Leader: Jeffrey Waite
Sector Director: Jacques F. Baudouy               Sector(s): Adult literacy/non-formal education (70%),
Country Director: Marisa Femandez-Palacios        Central government administration (15%), Sub-national
Project ID: P075808                               government administration (15%)
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan  Theme(s): Education for all (P), Civic engagement,
(LIL)                                             participation and community driv (S)
Project Financing Data
[X] Loan     [ ] Credit   ( ] Grant    [ ] Guarantee    [ ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Loan Currency: Euro
Amount (US$m): 4.10 (e 4.2 million equivalent)
Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terms Available on File: 1 Yes
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Variable-Spread Loan (VSL)
Grace period (years): 5                         Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.75%                           Front end fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%
Payment for FEF: Capitalize from Loan Proceeds
Financing Plan (US$o)r g Sounrce                  -      -  Locl      -    ore       g     h,_=_,
BORROWER                                                        1.26          0.00           1.26
EBRD                                                            1.95          2.15           4.10
Total:                                                         3.21           2.15           5.36
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF MOROCCO
Responsible agency: MISThRE DE LEMPLOI ET DE LA FORMATION PROFESSIONNELLE
Direction de la lutte contre l'analphab6tisme
Address: 54, rue Oum Errabia, Agdal, Rabat, MOROCCO
Contact Person: Mr Mbarek MOUJANE
Tel: 212(37)774920            Fax: 212 (37) 774960           Email:
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
*  FE'     ,:~2003     20-      .2005      .   .l-                     -    . 
Annual      0.70       1.10      2.30
Cumulative     0.70       1.80      4.10
Project implementation period: 01/01/03 - 12131/05
Expected effectiveness date: 01/01/2003  Expected closing date:  06/30/2006
CC$ PAD Fn P- U, . 20M



A. LIL Justification
1. What is to be leamed (why the piloting)?
The main purpose of this pilot project, which is supported by a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL), is to
test new approaches to teaching quality and adult literacy program management, which, if proven
effective, will enable the Government of Morocco (GOM) to implement nation-wide programs that result
in lasting literacy outcomes. A project of this kind provides an opportunity to assess which approaches
are best taken to scale.
The Literacy Department (DLCA) of the Ministry of Labor, Vocational Training, Social Development,
and Solidarity (MEFP) currently operates four literacy programs, which have had a throughput of more
than one million adults aged 16 and above since 1995 (see table below): the Campagne gen&rale, run out
of Education Ministry schools; a public providers program, run in partnership with several government
departments and aimed at groups often facing economic hardships (e.g. fishermen, farmers, the prison
population); a job-based program, run in partnership with private industries such as dairy cooperatives
and the textile and clothing trade; and the Cent mains program created in partnership with
nongovernmental organizations (NGOs).
Table 1: Enrollment in DLCA literacy programs (1995-2001)
t l995. 1996         1997"     1998   1  1999 IP2000     1 2001   I   Total  I
91,575 l 107,490   110,615  123,529 l 181,200  233,650   301,500  1,149,559l
This project focuses on the NGO program because it will accommodate the majority of learners in the
medium-term (see table below), and because the NGOs tend to target the poorest population, particularly
rural women and girls. Therefore, the project's goal is to improve teaching supervision and to increase
the institutional capacity of the literacy system, which will impact all literacy providers.
Table 2: Projected enrollment in DLCA programs (2001- 2004)
.. . am                2001-      2002        03       2004_      Total
Cent mains (NGOs)           80,000    198,000   269,000    352,000    899,000
Public providers            95,000    122,000    146,000   158,000    521,000
Campagne generale          120,000     70,000    70,000     70,000    330,000
Job-based                    5,000     10,000     15,000    20,000     50,000
Total                      300,000    400,000    500,000   600,000  1,800,000
Under the NGO program, the DLCA provides funding in the form of a general allocation to meet the
costs of teachers' salaries, as well as in-kind resources in the form of literacy manuals and training for
trainers. The NGOs are responsible for identifying and enrolling learners, recruiting and training
teachers, as well as for providing classrooms and managing the courses (including the assessment of
learner achievement).
The Bank's on-going BAJ Education Project has contributed to the NGO progranL With Loan No.
4024-MOR, the DLCA has signed "partnership agreements" with about thirty national and local NGOs
catering to some 85,000 learners, mainly rural women. The African Development Bank has also financed
contracts in this program. Experience with the BAJ Education Project has given the DLCA the chance to
show its capacity to enlist NGOs as service providers and to reach target groups that had hitherto not had
access to literacy education. The current NGO program has limited coverage however and, in its present
- 2-



configuration, cannot hope to meet the country's massive literacy needs.
The GOM recently set itself the target proposed in the Charte nationale d'education et deformation
[National Education and Training Charter], namely to reduce adult illiteracy by one half from the current
official estimate of 50%, by 2010. In light of the method used to calculate the illiteracy rate (a simple
statement by respondents in censuses or surveys of household living conditions), the proportion of the
adult population with a low literacy level (i.e. neither reading nor writing well enough to improve their
living conditions or well-being) is certainly higher than 50%.
Expansion of the literacy programs faces a double challenge. Improving program quality requires a
complex approach at the teaching and administrative levels. First, to extend the programs, particularly
the NGO program, to a level consistent with the government's objectives in a fiscally sustainable way
requires a reduction in unit costs; for this, the GOM is relying on deconcentrating DLCA functions to
regional and provincial levels and on strengthening the program management capacity at these lower
levels. Second, for this expanding literacy program to have a lasting economic and social impact,
teaching quality must be improved at the level of the NGOs and other providers; for this, the GOM aims
to renovate curricula and books, and to train teachers and teacher trainers. The GOM would like Bank
support in bringing international experience to bear in the areas of strengthening the teaching system and
improving cost-effectiveness.
2. How are the results going to be used (vis a vis CAS objectives and any follow-on operation)?
Document number: D221 1 5-MOR    Date of latest CAS discussion: 05107/2001
The results of this project will provide the knowledge required in the areas of teaching quality and adult
literacy program management. The latest CAS notes the strong link between illiteracy and poverty. The
proposed project offers an effective contribution to policies that promote human development and aim at
including the "second Morocco". The CAS also proposes conmnunity involvement and deconcentration
in order to reach the poorest populations, in rural and peri-urban areas. The CAS also stresses "the
Bank's intervention will seek to draw lessons from alternative literacy approaches recently developed
with the private sector and the NGOs, and from the best international experiences". The proposed
project aims to do just that, by testing exemplary initiatives including the strengthening of ties between
government and NGOs, which will need to allow for both flexibility and accountability. Ultimately,
better quality programs will not only encourage greater learner numbers but also provide these learners
with the skills they need to improve their living conditions and well-being. Project results will be used to
assess the prospects for taking different initiatives to scale.
3. Other countries or situations where similar efforts have shown promise.
As a way of achieving the EFA goal for adult literacy by 2015, several countries have set up adult
literacy programs. Among the most recent, projects in Bangladesh, Indonesia, Ghana, Senegal and C6te
d'Ivoire (the latter financed by a LIL) have shown the importance of adapting curriculum content to
learner needs and of effective partnerships between government and service providers. In all projects,
the partnership approach has been tested and given encouraging results. The involvement of NGOs has
made it possible to reach a very large number of adults in rural areas, but in all cases, the quality of the
programs needs continued attention.
The Islamic Development Bank (IDB) and the DLCA are financing a complementary project involving
the production of teaching materials and training of teaching staff. The IDB project began very recently,
and it is too soon to draw any conclusions regarding its outcomes.
-3 -



B. Structure of the Pilot
1. How will learning take place?
The knowledge gained from this project will be measured in terms of the number and quality of curricula
renovated and of training sessions given, as well as the range of measures put in place to improve the
institutional capacity of the units in charge of the various programs and projects. Data will be obtained
from government agencies, service providers, teacher trainers, teachers and leamers. The initiatives
implemented under the pilot will be taken to scale once they have been judged satisfactory by the various
players, provided that they have resulted in improved participation levels and learning outcomes.
Project interventions will involve the programs run by the DLCA: the Campagne generale; the public
providers' program; the job-based program; and the NGO-operated program. Special attention will be
paid to the NGO program, inasmuch as it focuses on rural girls and women and is expected to cater for
some 60% of all adult literacy learners in 2004. In light of the deconcentration processes now underway
in several sectors of Moroccan society, this project will also help the DLCA to engage local groups in
training activities insofar as they provide literacy-related services.
2. Outcome-level test to be conducted
The pilot project aims to show to what extent the measures put in place to renovate the curricula and
strengthen institutional capacity improve the overall quality of the adult literacy system. Project
activities will be assessed regularly, with the assessment process being an integral part of the relevant
component; assessment criteria will include the level of stakeholder satisfaction, as well as learner
enrollment rates, dropout rates and success rates at the beginning and end of the project.
3. Steps involved in conducting the pilot
The DLCA will be responsible for implementing the project. The DLCA is familiar with Bank
procedures, being already in charge of implementing the adult literacy component of the on-going BAJ
Education Project. The relevant implementation steps are as follows: (a) develop the requests for
proposals and procedures manuals far in advance of project startup, to include monitoring and assessment
provisions; (b) implement the planned activities over the three years of the project; (c) undertake regular
assessments (after each training session); (d) adapt the program as necessary in light of assessment
results; (e) undertake administrative, financial, and technical monitoring throughout the project, and (d)
undertake a summative evaluation of the project.
4. Learning expectations to be documented in the pilot
D Economic        3 Technical   [II Social       a Participation
D Financial     Z Institutional  D Environmental D Other
Education (a) That learners learn more quickly when literacy curricula are adapted specifically to their
actual social and professional experience; (b) that learners learn more quickly when curricula are adapted
to the instructional needs of adults; (c) that learners learn more quickly in their own language than in a
language in which they are less proficient; (d) that learners learn more quickly when the teaching staff is
trained in adult literacy methods.
Institutions (a) That the literacy program can cater for more learners if day-to-day management is
entrusted to deconcentrated government departments and to the service providers themselves; (b) that the
literacy program can be managed more efficiently when an integrated system is in place to monitor and
- 4 -



evaluate literacy operations at the local and national levels.
5. Triggers for a follow-on operation
This project could be taken to scale once the following conditions are met:
Education. (a) Users find that the curricula have been adapted to their needs; (b) teacher training and
support have been institutionalized; and (c) 2,400 teacher trainers have been trained.
Institutions. (a) The DLCA and local MEFP offices, the NGOs, and other providers show an increased
capacity to manage program growth; (b) an effective sector monitoring and evaluation system has been
established.
Finance. (a) Unit costs are considered reasonable in light of experience in other countries having per
capita GDP similar to that of Morocco; (b) the political will exists to support bringing to scale the
approaches that were successful under this project.
Project impact. (a) the program participation rate has increased (from 300,000 in 2001 to 500,000 in
2004); and (b) the dropout rate has decreased and learner performance has improved (the completion rate
must not be lower than 64% of total initial enrollment, corresponding to a 20% dropout rate and a 20%
final-examination failure rate); and (c) girls and women account for at least 65% of all learners.
6. Results-based Monitoring and Evaluation System
The monitoring and evaluation system is presented in Annex 1. The key performance indicators for the
project are quantitative and qualitative. Monitoring will take place at the following three levels: (a)
inputs for each project activity; (b) outcomes obtained in each activity, and (c) overall project
performance in terms of objectives achieved.
Diagnostic evaluation. The study of literacy education programs conducted by the International Institute
for Educational Planning (IIEP) from November 2001 to February 2002 serves to establish the
pre-project baseline. This diagnostic evaluation is complemented by learner performance tests and
questionnaires distributed among literacy teachers concerning their satisfaction level. The study was
presented at a seminar held in February 2002 in Rabat attended by some sixty participants representing
public, private, and joint service providers.
Regular evaluations. An independent consultant will be responsible for performring regular evaluations
of the project, focusing on regular monitoring of outcomes and, to the extent possible, of project impact.
The consultant will issue an annual report, the third of which, in 2005, will be the final evaluation report.
Project outcomes and impact will be evaluated based on: (a) reports of the internal DLCA monitoring
and evaluation system; (b) evaluation reports from service providers; (c) consolidated reports prepared by
the DLCA based on responses to the evaluation questionnaire distributed to students at the end of each
training session; (d) tests, surveys, and interviews conducted by the consultant among the various players
(learners, teachers, trainers, senior trainers, supervisors, mnanagers, etc.); and (e) other admninistrative and
financial information on the literacy programs. The results of this regular evaluation will be used as the
basis for deciding whether to take the activities tested under the project to scale throughout the country.
-5-



C. Project Components and Implementation Arrangements
1. LIL Components
Component 1. Improving program quality
This component aims to reform the educational dimension of programs in the campagne generale run by
NGOs, government departments, private industries, and local groups, if any. Curriculum content and
teaching methods will be renovated to improve leamer participation and performance.
Component 2. Strengthening management of the system
This component aims to strengthen the institutional capacity of the DLCA, the local offices of the MEFP
(essentially the provincial literacy coordinators) and service providers, using a partnership-based
approach. Measures to be implemented include training of government and service provider personnel,
and development of post-literacy strategies.
Regular evaluation and analysis of literacy prograrns
In addition to the components per se, the project will also undertake regular evaluation of project
outcomes (see section B.6.) and analysis of different aspects of the literacy programs so as to prepare to
take successful innovations to scale.
Table 3: Project components
Indlcative            Bank-      % of
Component                       Costs     % of    financing   Bank-
(OS$M)    Total     (US$M)   financing
1. Imnproving program quality                        3.79      70.7      2.91      71.0
2. Strengthening management of the system            0.76      14.2      0.57      13.9
Evaluation and Analysis                              0.77      14.4      0.58   _  14.1
Total Project Costs  5.32     99.3      4.06      99.0
Front-end fee   0.04       0.7      0.04       1.0
Total Financing Required    5.36     100.0      4.10     100.0
2. Implementation Arrangements
The project will be executed by the Ministry of Labor, Professional Training, Social Development, and
Solidarity (MEFP), through its Direction de la lutte contre I'analphabetisme [Literacy Department]
(DLCA). The DLCA has assigned the head of the Program Management Division (DGP) to coordinate
the project. The main responsibilities of the coordinator are: (i) to coordinate all activities performed
under the project according to the established schedule, (ii) to coordinate procurement activities and
disbursement requests; (ii) to plan the implementation of future activities; (iii) to monitor activities in
execution, and (iv) to prepare a six-monthly assessment of project implementation to coincide with Bank
supervision missions. The Division of Educational Aids and Instructional Promotion (DMDAP) will be
responsible for execution of the first component (Quality), while the DGP will be responsible for the
second component (Management) and for the project's regular evaluation study. The Department of
General Affairs is responsible for tasks relating to procurement, requests for disbursements, and financial
management.
-6 -



This project will be implemented from January 1, 2003 to December 31, 2005. The loan is scheduled for
implementation no later than January 1, 2003, and the closure date is June 30, 2006.
a. Procurement
Procurement of materials, equipment, and printing will be handled in accordance with the provisions of
the Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", (January 1995, last revised
in January 1999). Consultants will be hired based on contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of the Bank's "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers" (January 1997, last revised in May 2002).
Procurement will be handled by the DLCA, which is familiar with the Bank's contracting procedures as
it is already implementing a component of the Bank-financed BAJ Education Project, in which literacy
agreements are made between the DLCA and the NGOs. The experience in procurement of goods and
equipment and the printing of literacy curricula acquired during execution of the BAJ Education Project
will be beneficial to this project. With regard to technical assistance, the DLCA's experience in hiring
consulting firns consists mainly of contracts with local university faculties. Under this project, the
DLCA will involve technical departments to a greater extent in cases where international technical
assistance is needed.
The procurement capacity is satisfactory and the associated risk level is medium. The procurement
methods and certain aspects of the project have been designed so as to lessen this risk: (i) the amount of
technical assistance contracts is low, and (ii) the threshold for prior Bank review is a function of the level
of risk identified. Moreover, the following elements have been integrated into the project's operations
manual: (i) a matrix summarizing the steps to be taken in the selection of consulting firms, according to
the different methods of selection, and (ii) a model table for the monitoring of technical assistance
contracts. The DLCA also has local assistance for procurement issues through the Bank's office in
Rabat. Before this project is implemented, requests for proposals using the Bank's standard bidding
document will be sent to the Bank for review.
Additional information concerning procurement procedures and the thresholds for prior Bank review are
presented in Annex 6.
b. Financial Management
Responsibilities. The DLCA's Department of General Affairs handles accounting and procurement.
Accounts are kept by a financial accounting manager, and are under the control of the head of the
Department of General Affairs. Moreover, procurement is handled by a senior technical manager who
monitors the procurement files regularly. Given its public status, the DLCA complies with public
procurement and accounting regulations.
Accounting and data management. The DLCA maintains centralized cash-based project accounting,
using a simple Excel spreadsheet. The system employs a public budget nomenclature, as it appears in the
detailed budget (Appropriations Bill). A second entry is made to track the project by type of project
expenditure, as stipulated in the loan agreement. This information management system allows for an
acceptable level of operations monitoring. However, two important comments can be made: (i) the
system does not use accounting software, and (ii) the system is not ideally suited to the project inasmuch
as it requires double data entry.
Special account and financial flows. The DLCA will open a special account with the General Treasury
of the Kingdom of Morocco. The special account will be managed at the level of the General Treasury,
and requests for replenishment from the Bank will be made by the disbursement office of the Budget
-7-



Directorate. The Budget Directorate, a division of the Ministry of the Economy and Finance, is
responsible for requesting that the Bank replenish the special account, based on information received
from the DLCA and the Treasury. Payment requests, prepared by the Department of General Affairs and
authorized by the director of the DLCA as the originator, are sent to the General Treasury for payment.
As in all public administrations, expenditures are controlled a priori by the expenditure commitment
inspection office, a division of the Ministry of Economy and Finance.
Proiect financial monitoring reports. The Bank requires that project financial monitoring reports be
submitted every six months, no later than 45 days after the close of each half. These reports, known as
"financial monitoring report" (FMR), make it possible to monitor overall financial performance and
project procurement. They include a financial report on revenues and expenditures, details on
expenditures by project component, a report on physical progress, and information on monitoring of
procurement. The information will focus on the work planned and actually performed during the
previous half, and on cumulative totals. The report will also present discrepancies and explanations for
therm It was agreed at the time of negotiations that, given the size of the project and the limited number
of transactions, the FMR would be produced using Excel spreadsheets. The DLCA will send a
preliminary version of the report to the Bank for review and comment in the second half of September
2002, before the format and content of the report are finalized. To this end, a copy of the
French-language version of the guidelines for preparing the FMR was given to the head of the
Department of General Affairs during the evaluation mission and is annexed to the project documents.
Example tables were also discussed with the Department of General Affairs. The first FMIR will cover
the first semester following the first loan disbursement and should reach the Bank no later than 45 days
following the period covered by the report and every six months thereafter until loan closure. In any
event, the first such report will be prepared no later than nine (9) months after the loan becomes
effective.
Procedures manual. The mission noted that certain procurement and other procedures were put in place
to define the relationship with the NGOs with regard to disbursements and reports, etc. However, these
procedures have not been collected into a single manual, and they do not cover all the department's
operations. For example, procedures have not been issued for accounting management, detailed
budgeting, and other areas. The manual will reflect new procedures put in place for the collection of
information from various parties, as well as the format, frequency and preparation of the FMR.
Annual external audit. The Inspectorate General of Finance will perform an annual external audit of this
project. The generic terms of reference for this audit have been discussed and developed with the IGF
for all Bank projects. These terms of reference define the content and format of the report as required by
the Bank. A copy is attached to the project documents. The report will be submitted to the Bank no later
than six months after the close of the fiscal year under audit.
Annex 4 contains additional details concerning financial management
c. Other
D. Risks
1. Social and Environmental Risk
This project poses no risk to the environment or to the poorest populations.
- 8 -



Environmental protection. There is no environmental risk as the project does not finance any
construction work. In addition, environmental issues will be taken into consideration during renovation
of literacy curricula and the design of new curricula, so that important information may be communicated
to the learners (for example, the literacy curriculum specifically designed for farmers includes more
efficient and more environmentally friendly agricultural techniques).
Social impact. The project poses no social risk; specifically, the project does not entail any population
displacement. The recommended approach calls for the strong involvement of civil society.
Nongovernmental organizations will be called upon as literacy service providers and will be responsible,
among other things, for identifying demand, recruiting teachers, evaluating outcomes, and devising a
post-training integration plan for learners. Deconcentration of DLCA functions to local offices of the
MEFP also helps build up local programs. Women, particularly in rural areas, are at a significant
disadvantage with respect to men in terms of literacy.
a. Safeguard Policies
See above (environmental protection and social impact).
Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
b. Other Social Risks
It seems unlikely that the elections scheduled for Fall 2002 could change the Govemrnment' s education
plans as the Charte nationale d'education et deformation enjoys broad support in the Parliament and
among the main social and economic players. Otherwise, these literacy programs generally encourage
greater social cohesion and aim to reduce exclusion by providing the learners with skills associated with
self-reliance and self-esteem.
Other
Financial management. Based on the evaluation mission and the satisfactory results obtained during
implementation of the literacy component of the BAJ Education Project (P005501/4024-MOR), no risk is
expected in the financial management of the project. As explained above, project accounting and
financial management will be strengthened through the preparation of a procedures manual that will
complement existing documentation and incorporate new procedures relating to project management and
report production (including the FMR). These actions will be taken before the loan enters into effect,
and will be evaluated by a Bank mission to ensure that the planned actions have been implemented.
-9-



Appropriation of innovations. Experiences throughout the world have demonstrated the great importance
of the participatory approach to design and implementation of social reforms, including in the literacy
sector. In order for local stakeholders to take ownership of the new tools and methods, the DLCA must
listen effectively to their ideas, criticisms, needs, motivations, and aspirations. Otherwise, the project
runs the risk of creating products (curricula, training sessions, systems) that fail to reach learners and
teachers and, consequently, that will not be fully utilized. To counter this risk, project design emphasizes
stakeholder participation, for example, by involving learners in curriculum preparation and offering
management training sessions to Government and NGO personnel alike.
Budgetarv supRort. In order for the project's expected outcomes (i.e. improving curriculum quality,
improving the knowledge base of training and support personnel, improving the effectiveness of program
management) to have an impact on the largest possible number of learners, sufficient budgetary resources
must be allocated for literacy services (especially through partnership agreements between the
Government and the NGOs). In other words, if the resources made available to the NGOs are insufficient
to bring more people into the literacy courses, this project risks producing upstream outcomes that the
Government will not be able to capitalize on downstream. The project aims to reduce this risk by
increasing management efficiency at all levels (resulting in lower unit costs for the system), and by
underscoring the importance that the GOM attaches to literacy efforts as a social and economic
development tool. The Five-Year Plan provides for a DLCA budget from the State that increases at a
slower rate than the numbers of individuals needing literacy services (see table below), thereby implying
the need for efficiency gains (e.g. efficiencies of scale) or extra-budgetary sources of finance.
Table 4: DLCA budget projection (2001-2004 Five Year Plan)
12001     12002        2003     1  2004    Total  I
Budget (in millions of MAD)        72.9      92.6      111.8     130.6    407.9
2. Other (external, reflecting the failure of the assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
Risk              -    RiskRating             Risk-Mitigation Meapurel
From Outputs to Objective
Resistance on the part of the various      M        Involvement of the stakeholders in testing new
stakeholders to the decentralized,                  approaches
partnership-based approach
From Components to Outputs
Insufficient government budget resources   M        On-going dialogue with Government on budget
allocated to literacy programs                      conmmitment over the three years of the project
lOverall Risk Rating                                 ____________________
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
-10-



E. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
No specific condition.
2. Other (classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.)
None.
F. Readiness for Implementation
0 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
12 1. b) Not applicable.
Z 2. The procurement documents for the first six months' activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implenentation; and a fiamework has been established for agreement on standard
bidding documents that will be used for ongoing procurement throughout the life of LIL
Z 3. The LiL's Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
G. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z  1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
El 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
Lm      .    K      0 < .   _    _   _    _   _   _    _      _   _    _   _   _    _
Jeffrey Waite                    Jacques F. Baudouy                Marisa Fernandez-Palacios
Team Leader                       Sector Director                  Country Director



Annex 1: Pro~ect Design SSutmmrawy
MOROCCO: AXpha Maroc Project
H_erarchY of Obiives 7n Key P&rmanoee            :  -a Colleti Stra            *    ;     
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:   (from Goal to Bank Mission)
To reduce the poverty level by Improvement in the education  Updated poverty surveys  Favorable political climate and
focusing on the participation  level of the Moroccan                            willingness on the part of
and social integration of all  population owing to increased                    decision- makers to implement
members of the "Second     adult literacy                                       the literacy strategies of the
Morocco," by supporting                                                         Charte nationale
implementation of the literacy
component of the Charte
nationale
Follow-on D3velopment
Objective:
To be determined
Project Development       Outcome I Impact           Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:  .              Indicators:
To offer the poorest adults an  Increase in the participation of Annual statistics of the DLCA  Sustained political
opportunity to obtain basic  the poorest adults in efficient,                   conmnitment of various
education through          high-quality literacy programs                       ministries for implementation
high-quality, well managed                                                      of the reform, particularly the
literacy programs                                                               ministry responsible for
literacy education
Increase in performance and  Annual survey of beneficiaries Sustained and coordinated
satisfaction level of                                support from entities
beneficiaries                                        responsible for program
implementation
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Improving program quality
1.1. Renovating curricula and (a) Production of the  (a) Reports; seminar minutes; Involvement of all players,
teaching materials        competency-based curriculum; competency-based curriculum; through consultation, in the
(b) and (c) number of curricula terms of reference; (b) and (c) design and testing of curricula
designed and renovated; (d)  DLCA data on the number of
number of users of the     curricula; user register
document collection
1.2. Strengthening the    (a) and (b) Number of trainers (a) and (b) Annual summary  Involvement of training and
teaching capacity of service  and senior trainers trained; (c) report on training sessions; (c) support personnel in
providers                 publication of the bulletin  number of issues published  disseminating literacy content
and methods
2. Strengthening
- 12-



management of the system
2.1. Strengthening         (a) Implementation of a   (a) Deconcentration plan; (b)  Involvement of training and
administrative management  deconcentration plan; (b) and  training plan; (b) and (c)  support personnel in
(c) number of personnel   annual summary report on  disseminating management
trained                   training sessions         techniques
2.2. Strengthening local  (a) Number of personnel    (a) Annual summary report on Involvement of all players,
operations                 trained; (b) post-literacy  training sessions; (b) seminar  through consultation, in the
activities; (c) local innovations minutes; (c) annual report of  design and testing of
the DLCA                  innovations
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each   Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                          Outputs)
1 - Improving program
quality
1.1 - Renovating curricula and Technical assistance, training, Reports: financial, audit, Bank Involvement of literacy sector
teaching materials        printing services, materials  supervision, formative and  participants; adequate State
(US$1.81 million)         summative evaluations     budget support
1.2 - Strengthening the   Technical assistance, training, Reports: financial, audit, Bank Involvement of literacy sector
teaching capacity of service  printing services, materials  supervision, formative and  participants; adequate State
providers                 (US$1.98 million)          summative evaluations     budget support
2. Strengthening
management of the system
2.1. Strengthening        Technical assistance, training  Reports: financial, audit, Bank Involvement of literacy sector
administrative management  (US$0.19 million)         supervision, formative and  participants; adequate State
summative evaluations     budget support
.2. Strengthening local  Technical assistance, training, Reports: financial, audit, Bank Involvement of literacy sector
operations                 costs (US$0.57 million)   supervision, formative and  participants; adequate State
sunmnative evaluations    budget support
-13 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
MOROCCO: Alpha Maroc Project
The development objective of the project is to reduce the level of illiteracy in the poorest sectors of the
working adult population, particularly among rural women and girls. To attain this objective, the
following two outcomes are expected: (i) improvement in program quality owing to renovation of the
curricula and training of literacy teacher trainers; and (ii) strengthening management of the system
through improvements in the partnership-based approach between the Government and service providers.
This project will implement the directives of the Charte nationale d'education et deformation of the
Govermment of Morocco.
This project will support the creation of new curricula designed for specific populations, and the
renovation of basic curricula. In addition, teacher trainers will be trained. At the same time, system
management capacity will be strengthened in the DLCA, the local offices of the MEFP, the NGOs, and
other service providers.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$3.79 million
Improving Program Quality
The objective of this component is to help improve the quality of literacy programs as the first stage in
lifelong learning, so that they will have a lasting positive impact on the learners' social and economic
lives. This component is based on the following principles: (a) stakeholder participation will be sought
in order to adapt curricula to the needs of the target group; (b) priority will be given to strategies that aim
to ensure the sustainability of the interventions; and (c) methods with a good cost/quality ratio will be
applied.
Subcomponent 1.1 Renovating curricula and teaching materials
The objective of this subcomponent is to produce literacy curricula that meet learners' needs, and to
supply teaching tools for the teacher training staff. These curricula will be used in literacy projects
operated by NGOs and other types of service providers.
1. .a Analysis of literacy curricula needs. Consultants will be hired to undertake the following actions:
an analysis among the stakeholders (learners, teaching staff, supervision staff, and service providers) to
identify learner needs in terms of literacy curricula in various sectors; development of a
competency-based curriculum (i.e. a document presenting the program's goals and objectives,
appropriate content and methods, and the type of evaluation to be performed) based on that analysis;
evaluation of existing curricula in light of the competency-based curriculum and adult learning
principles; definition of terms of reference for activities 1. Lb and 1. Lc, based on the competency-based
curriculum and the evaluation of existing curricula.
1. l.b Renovation and printing of existing literacy curricula. About eight literacy curricula (the two
volumes of the "core curriculum" and the six volumes of level 3, five of which are designed to meet the
needs of target populations) will be revised in light of the analysis performed in activity 1.1 .a, so as to
increase their efficiency. A teaching guide will be produced to accompany the curricula, specifically to
provide support for teachers in remote areas who generally have received little or no training and have
few teaching materials. Among other things, the guide will present teaching methods for use in
multigrade classrooms, teaching strategies for languages and mathematics, classroom and school
- 14 -



management techniques for rural areas, and community relations concepts. A loan from the Islamic
Development Bank will be used to print some of these curricula.
1.1 .c Design of new specialized literacy curricula. Three new level-3 literacy curricula will be designed
for other target populations (the craft industry, tourism, construction), again in light of the analysis
performed under activity 1.1 .a, to make them more effective.
1.1 .d Document collection. The DLCA will establish a document collection, and collection management
tools will be set up. The collection will be made available to DLCA personnel, researchers, and service
pro- ders. It will have a wide variety of resources, ranging from teaching materials (reference works,
documents, subscriptions to professional periodicals, etc.) to equipment (computers, video system, etc.).
Space in the DLCA building will be made available to house the document collection. The DLCA will
be responsible for making the space available and for providing basic equipment.
Subcomponent 1.2 Strengthening the teaching capacity of service providers
The objective of this subcomponent is to put in place a teacher training system based on increasing the
number of training sessions offered, so as to reach the greatest possible number of learners. These
training sessions will focus on those responsible for training teachers in the four types of programs. This
type of training makes it possible to reach a large number of literacy teachers and is more practical and
more economical than training literacy teachers directly. The activities of this component are:
1.2.a Training of literacy trainers. The senior trainers of the DLCA and provincial literacy coordinators
will offer initial and follow-up training to trainers (employed by NGOs and other service providers) on
the theory and practice of adult literacy education. These training sessions will incorporate the new skills
acquired under activity 1.2.b: group leadership, teacher communication skills, principles and theory of
adult learning, adult psychology, curriculum content, literacy course management, preparation of lesson
plans (objectives, skills, content, teaching strategies, and evaluation), teaching tools, evaluations
(diagnostic, formative, and summative), and teacher support. These 10-day training sessions will be
offered to approximately 2,400 teacher trainers.
1.2.b Training of senior trainers for educational reform. A three-year continuing education program will
be offered to about twenty senior trainers from the central offices of the DLCA and to provincial literacy
coordinators. The program will be held in Morocco and abroad, and will focus on highly specialized
issues in adult literacy education. Activities focusing on adult learning theory will give senior trainers
teaching an understanding of teaching methods adapted to the needs of their specific public, particularly
by developing teaching methods appropriate for adults and efficient, long-term strategies for using the
new information and communications technologies (television, radio, telephone, Internet) adapted for
that setting. This type of training will enable key DLCA personnel to try new ideas and become
conversant with new information in the field of adult literacy, while promoting exchanges among
professionals and fostering a sense of commitment and motivation.
1.2.c Professional research and communication. The DLCA will develop strategies for providing regular
teacher support for training personnel and service providers, to create a community of professionals, to
share information and ideas, and to improve their knowledge and skills in adult literacy training. A
quarterly newsletter will be created, published, and distributed at no cost to professionals and service
providers in the field of adult literacy. The bulletin will eventually be stored in digital format and posted
on the Internet.
- 15 -



Project Component 2 - US$0.76 million
Strengthening Management of the System
The objective of this component is to provide all levels of the system - in the central and deconcentrated
offices of the Ministry and within the service providers themselves - with the capacity to manage
large-scale programs so that Government's quantitative and qualitative objectives are attained.
A deconcentration movement is underway within the Ministry of Labor, Professional Training, Social
Development, and Solidarity. In this context, the Government's central departments will retain their
responsibilities for strategic planning, engineering, orientation, and supervision while the deconcentrated
departments will likely be responsible for program execution, control, and evaluation. As this approach
requires considerable effort by the central departments of the Government, which must coordinate more
than five ministries, approximately fifty provincial offices, approximately one hundred NGOs, and
several lenders, their management capacity must be extremely efficient. At the same time, the service
providers must also strengthen their own administrative and financial management systems, and
implement self-evaluation mechanisms.
Subcomponent 2.1. Strengthening administrative management capacity
The objective of this subcomponent is to strengthen the administrative management capacity of the
various players so as to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the partnership-based approach in
developing literacy programs, particularly to improve the monitoring and evaluation systems needed for
decision making. The activities of this component are:
2.1 .a Management of the deconcentration effort. The DLCA will use technical expertise in public
management to develop and implement a plan for deconcentration of the coordination, monitoring, ahd
evaluation of literacy projects to regional and provincial entities, with a view to an efficient transition to
deconcentrated management that will enable the Government to meet the increasing demand for literacy
courses.
2. .b Training for literacy project management. First, consultants in administration will analyze the
needs of the management personnel of service providers with respect to administrative and financial
management skills. This analysis will produce a training plan for administrative and financial
management, which will then be implemented for about 200 managers (personnel from the DLCA,
provincial offices, and service providers) to enable them to increase the efficiency of their literacy
services.
2. l.c Monitoring and evaluation. Approximately 200 managers (personnel from the DLCA, local
offices of the MEFP, and the service providers) will be trained in monitoring and evaluation of literacy
programs at the national and local levels, and particularly in the use of the evaluator's guide (designed by
the DLCA in 2002 with technical assistance) and in the development of appropriate monitoring and
evaluation tools.
- 16 -



Subcomponent 2.2 Strengthening local operations
The objective of this subcomponent is to promote the emergence of local innovations, particularly within
the NGOs, some one hundred of which are already involved in literacy efforts throughout the country,
often in the most remote areas. Their operations are frequently very precarious because they do not
always have the human resources and financial capacity to withstand the risks of business operations.
The following activities aim to strengthen these capacities:
2.2.a Literacy assessment training. Some 160 individuals (personnel from the DLCA, local offices of
the MEFP, and service providers) will receive basic training in survey methods to assess literacy levels,
giving them a tool to analyze the needs of local communities and to adapt the services more closely to the
real motivations of the learners.
2.2.b Post-literacy strategies. To raise stakeholders' awareness of post-literacy concerns, to inform them
of other experiences, and to identify promising avenues, the DLCA will (i) hold a seminar on
post-literacy strategies, bringing about one hundred interested parties together to discuss priority issues
(e.g. the mass media, literature, services of Government departments), and (ii) establish two annual
prizes to recognize one researcher and one NGO that have made a particularly meritorious and effective
contribution to literacy and/or post-literacy. Creation of these prizes will require that a legal text be
issued to establish, among other things, the eligibility criteria and the manner in which award winners
will be selected.
2.2.c Financing innovation. To encourage initiatives that aim to improve program quality, the DLCA
may propose to the Bank that financing be allocated to other activities that explore new proposals
identified in the course of project execution. These will be new actions designed at the local level (e.g.
by learners, teachers, service providers, researchers) and that aim to improve the effectiveness of a
literacy project.
Regular evaluation and analysis of literacy programs (US$0.77 million)
Aside from the components themselves, the project will include a regular evaluation of project outcomes
(see section B.6.) and an analysis of various aspects of the literacy programs, with a view to preparing to
take successful innovations to scale.
- 17 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
MOROCCO: Alpha Maroc Project
C.Ot. (US$)
IBRD           GOM
Actilitll.                                2003           2004          2005          TOTAL          FI.. nlog      Fl..n.Ing
COMPONENT I - IMPROVING PROGRAM QUALITY                                  745,000        843,00       2,196,000       3.780,600       2,907,310     S1,290
Sob-Component 1.1 . Re,.ot.tiag zoreio,.la end teOchiag ..ateriols        05,000        1J7.000     1,540,000       1012.000         1,574,100     2317,900
1.1 .o AonIy0i. of hte...cy ..rdic.l. ne.dS                               64.000          2.000             0          66,000          46.800       19,200
1. .b R nooattoo & pninling of not.ting liter-cy .crr-cola                    0        108,000      1,500.000       1,600,000       1.421.100     186.900
I I.c D-.Sng of n-m *p.c-altred liler.y cur-ioul.                             0         72.000        30.000         102.000          77.400       24,600
1.1 d D.oc ..ent collecrio                                                21,000          5,000        10,000          36,000          208.00        7,200
Sub-Component 1.2 - Srr-hening the teching capacily of ..r.ice
proiders                                                                 663,000       656,800        656,000       1,976,600       1,333,210      643,390
1.2.: Trining of Itt-rocy Irainor.                                       550,000       55S.000        355.000       1.674,000        1.123.200     550.800
.2.b Tr en.ng of ...... tr.inr- for 060liot reform                       S0,60.0 00      I2.00         S2.S00         246.200         186,460       59,740
1.2 c Profn.o-...l .e....ch .od .oOm-cOlio-                               24,400         16.000        16.000          56,400          23.550       32,350
COMPONENT 2 .STRENTHENING MANAGEMENT OF SYSTEM                           114,900        353,350       291,400         759,850         071,950      187.900
Stsb.Compoaent 2.1 . Stretgthe-img admini-trotiae mno/ goean capacily     90,300        70,330         21,800         188,040         144,910       43,540
2.1.0 4- -gomnl of th. d..o.c.ot.arioo Wffoel                             41,100         41.100             0          B2.200          63.360       18,40
2.1.b T          tojotog for Itleracy peobcl m.oogem1no                   29,000         10,S00         10,800         50,600           30.000      12.520
2.1.c Monilortig and .-oluantot                                           20.200         24.400        11,000          55,650          43,470       12.180
t.b-Component 2.2 - Str,1.8henin local operati.on                        24,600       277.200        269,600         571.400         427,040      144,360
2.2.0 Llneracy .bb.ssmn.l lcotn,iag                                        7.600         11,200         7.600          30.400           23.040       7,360
2.2.b POlt-IilerO-y lcotregias                                            17,000         12,000         12.000         41.000            4,000      37,000
2.2 c Finse...n ,novat,o0                                                      0        250.000       250,000         500.000         400.000      100,000
Project Impact .3.050.DI                                                  65,000        100000        100,000         260,000         190.750       60.200
A o.Ip.indi.I 250,000                                                                                 250.000         500,000         375.000      125.000
PROJECT TOTAL t           927,900       1,547,350     2,838,200       5.313.4 0       4,053,010    1,2.60.440
F..n0..nd 1 ....F..                                                       00,000                                       50.000           50.000           0
TOTAL           977,900      1.547,350      2,38,200       0.363.400       4,103,010    1,260,440
-18-



Annex 4: Financial Management
MOROCCO: Alpha Maroc Project
The DLCA' s Department of General Affairs handles accounting and contracts. Accounts are kept by a
financial accounting manager, and are under the control of the head of the Department of General
Affairs. Procurement is handled by a senior technical manager who monitors the procurement files
regularly. Given its public status, the DLCA complies with public procurement and accounting
regulations.
Based on the evaluation mission and the satisfactory results obtained during implementation of the
literacy component of the BAJ Education Project, no risk is expected in the financial management of the
project. As explained below, project accounting and financial management will be strengthened through
the preparation of a procedures manual that will complement existing documentation and incorporate
new procedures relating to project management and report production (including the FMR). These
actions will be taken before the loan enters into effect, and will be evaluated by a Bank mission to ensure
that the planned actions have been implemented.
Accounting and data management. The DLCA maintains centralized cash-based project accounting,
using a simple Excel spreadsheet. The system employs a public budget nomenclature, as it appears in the
detailed budget (Appropriations Bill). A second entry is made to track the project by type of project
expenditure, as stipulated in the loan agreement. This information management system allows for an
acceptable level of operations monitoring. However, two important comments can be made: (i) the
system does not use accounting software, and (ii) the system is not ideally suited to the project inasmuch
as it requires double data entry.
Budget control is based on the what is approved annually in the appropriation law, in the context of the
operations and investment budgets. However, there is no budget control with respect to the project
components as provided in the loan agreement. In the future, it is important to put such budgeting in
place, which will be an integral part of the project monitoring reports to be submitted to the Bank each
quarter. Appropriate procedures defining the roles of the various players, the methods of gathering
information, preparing the annual budget of the various components, and the breakdown of the budget by
quarter, as well as procedures regarding the communication of the information, the frequency the with
which the infornation is to be collected, must be established during the project preparation period, to
enable a suitable information system to be put in place. These procedures will be part of the procedures
manual to be prepared (see below).
Special account and financial flows. The DLCA will open a special account with the General Treasury
of the Kingdom of Morocco. The special account will be managed at the level of the General Treasury,
and requests for replenishment from the Bank will be made by the disbursement office of the Budget
Directorate. The Budget Directorate, a division of the Ministry of the Economy and Finance, is
responsible for requesting that the Bank replenish the special account, based on information received
from the DLCA and the Treasury. Payment requests prepared by the Department of General Affairs and
authorized by the director of the DLCA as the originator are sent to the General Treasury for payment.
As in all public administrations, expenditures are controlled a priori by the expenditure commitment
inspection office, a division of the Ministry of Economy and Finance.
Project financial monitoring reports. The Bank requires that project financial monitoring reports be
submitted every six months, no later than 45 days after the close of each half. These reports, known as
"financial monitoring reports" (FM), make it possible to monitor overall financial performance and
-19 -



project procurement. They include a financial report on revenues and expenditures, details on
expenditures by project component, a report on the physical progress, and information on monitoring of
procurement. The information will focus on the work planned and actually performed during the
previous quarter, and on cumulative totals. The report will also present discrepancies and explanations
for them.
It was agreed at the time of negotiations that, given the size of the project and the limited number of
transactions, the FUR would be produced using Excel spreadsheets. The DLCA will send a preliminary
version of the report to the Bank for review and comment in the second half of September 2002, before
the format and content of the report are finalized. To this end, a copy of the French-language version of
the guidelines for preparing the FMR was given to the head of the Department of General Affairs during
the evaluation mission and is annexed to the project documents. Example tables were also discussed
with the Department of General Affairs. The first FMR will cover the first semester following the first
loan disbursement and should reach the Bank no later than 45 days following the period covered by the
report and every six months thereafter until loan closure. In any event, the first such report will be
prepared no later than nine (9) months after the loan becomes effective.
Procedures manual. The mission noted that certain procurement and other procedures were put in place
to define the relationship with the NGOs with regard to disbursements and reports, etc. However, these
procedures have not been collected into a single manual, and they do not cover all the department's
operations. For example, procedures have not been issued for accounting management, detailed
budgeting, and other areas. The manual will reflect new procedures put in place for the collection of
information from various parties, as well as the format, frequency and preparation of the FMR.
Annual external audit. The Inspectorate General of Finance will perform an annual external audit of this
project. The generic terms of reference for this audit have been discussed and developed with the IGF
for all Bank projects. These terms of reference define the content and format of the report as required by
the Bank. A copy is attached to the project documents. The report will be submitted to the Bank no later
than six months after the close of the fiscal year under audit.
Aidion                             Respoje. Agent
1. Production/submission to the Bank for comment of a  DLCA (preparation) and
preliminary version of the financial monitoring report (FMR)  World Bank (comments)
by mid-September 2002.
2. Bank comment on the FMR and finalization of report format World Bank
and content during the second half of September 2002.
3. Complement existing procedures and develop a procedures  DLCA
manual grouping together all procedures for accounting, budget
control, procurement, working with the various partner
organizations, project monitoring reports, etc. before loan
effectiveness
-20 -



Annex 5: Project Processing Schedule
MOROCCO: Alpha Maroc Project
Project-Schedu1e    -. Planned                                         -.      Actual.
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       6                          10
First Bank mission (identification)              10/15/2001                 10/15/2001
Appraisal mission departure                      02/18/2002                 02/18/2002
Negotiations                                     04/15/2002                 08/06/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    01/01/2003                 01/01/2003
Prepared by:
Jeffrey Waite
Preparation assistance:
Claudine Kader
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Jeffrey WAITE                     Team Leader
Monique ASTALOS                   Education Policy
Dung-Kim PHAM                     Operations Officer/Procurement
Claudine KADER                    Project Assistance
Mohamed Arbi BEN-ACHOUR           Social Issues
Rafika CHAOUALI                   Financial Management
Meryem BENCHEMSI                  Financial Management
Issam ABOUSLEIMAN                 Financing
Hovsep MELKONIAN                  Disbursements
Ferid BELHAJ                      Legal Issues
- 21 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
MOROCCO: Alpha Maroc Project
Procurement
National rezulatorv framework. For activities financed through its general budget, the DLCA enforces
current legislation governed by decree 2-98482 of Ramadan 11, 1419, which establishes the forms and
conditions for procurement. The Bank reviewed the public procurement process with the Government of
Morocco in 1999. In general, the provisions of decree 2-98-482 correspond to the practices
recommnended by the Bank with the following exceptions: (i) for works and goods, bids are submitted in
two envelopes that are opened in two separate phases, (ii) monetary values are not used to quantify bid
evaluation criteria for goods, and (iii) use of competitive bidding for the services of consulting firms and
consultants. In the context of this project, for all goods contracts awarded through National Competitive
Bidding, the envelopes must be opened simultaneously, at a single session, and the bidders'
representatives are not required to leave the room. Price should be the guiding selection criteria if the
offer is consistent with the provisions of the bidding documents. For the employment of consultants, a
request for proposals will be sent to a short list of firms with appropriate qualifications and experience.
The financial bids will be opened at a public meeting after the technical evaluation of the bids has been
completed.
Organization and evaluation of procurement capacity and the associated risk level. Procurement will be
handled by the DLCA, which is familiar with the Bank's contracting procedures as it is already
implementing a component of the Bank-financed BAJ Education Project, in which literacy agreements
are made between the DLCA and the NGOs. The experience in procurement of goods and equipment
and the printing of literacy curricula acquired during execution of the BAJ Education Project will be
beneficial to this project. With regard to technical assistance, the DLCA's experience in hiring
consulting firms consists mainly of contracts with local university faculties. Under this project, the
DLCA will involve technical departments to a greater extent in cases where international technical
assistance is planned. In addition, the Bank's standard request for proposals document will be used,
particularly for contracts valued at more than US$100,000.
The procurement capacity is satisfactory and the associated risk level is medium. The procurement
methods and certain aspects of the project have been designed so as to lessen this risk: (i) the amount of
technical assistance contracts is low, and (ii) the threshold for prior Bank review is a function of the level
of risk identified. Moreover, the following elements have been integrated into the project's operations
manual: (i) a matrix summarizing the steps to be taken in the selection of consulting firms, according to
the different methods of selection, and (ii) a model table for the monitoring of technical assistance
contracts. The DLCA also has local assistance for procurement issues through the Bank's office in
Rabat.
- 22 -



Procurement methods. Technical assistance and training. Technical assistance activities relate mainly
to improving the teaching content of literacy curricula, the training of trainers, and strengthening
institutional capacity. Contracting for technical assistance will follow Bank procedures as established in
the Bank's "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (January
1997, last revised in May 2002). Consultants will be selected based on the following approaches: (i)
quality and cost-based selection; (ii) selection based on consultants' qualifications; and (iii) selection of
individual consultants. Selection of individual consultants will be used for activities requiring highly
specialized qualifications, provided exclusively by university technical faculties. For activities requiring
multidisciplinary qualifications and collective responsibility for the activity's purpose, the DLCA will
not hire individual consultants but will outsource the study to a consulting firm or university institution.
Prior Bank review is required for (i) the terms of reference for all activities regardless of contract value;
(ii) the first 2 contracts, irrespective of contract value; (iii) contracts valued at US$50,000 or more for
individual and US$100,000 or more for consulting firms; and (iv) all contracts requiring selection by
direct agreement.
Materials and equipment. These acquisitions consist of small-scale equipment purchased by the unit,
low-value documentation, and the printing of literacy materials. Such procurement will be handled in
accordance with the provisions of the Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" (January 1995, revised in January 1999). Given the nature and low value of the materials and
equipment, international competitive bidding (ICB) may not be required. In the event that ICB is
preferable, goods will be grouped in bid packages to cost $300,000 or more. National competitive
bidding will be used for the printing of literacy materials, and shopping may be used for the procurement
of small-scale equipment and documentation. The Bank's prior review is required for contracts valued at
US$300,000 or more.
Frequency of missions for ex post evaluation of procurement. This work will be performed within the
context of project supervision missions that will be conducted every six months starting from the project
implementation date. Additionally, a procurement workshop will be included in the work of the mission
at the start of the project.
23 -



No. Component/Description of Goods or     Estimated Cost Procurement    Issue Date of  Award of        Delivery/
Services                   (in US$)1     Method2       CBlconsult 2    Contract      Completion
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   D ate3
1. Services
1   1.1 .a Analysis of literacy curricula   64,000        QCBS         March 2003     May 2003       Dec. 2003
needs                                   44,800
2   I.l.b Renovation of existing curricula  108,000        CQ           Jan. 2004    March 2004      Sept. 2004
_________________________________        75,600
3   1.1 .c Design of new curricula          72,000         CQ           Jan. 2004    March 2004      Sept. 2004
50,400
4   1. ld Library management training        1,000    Direct contracting  Sept. 2003  Sept. 2003     Dec. 2003
800
5   1.2.a Training of 2,400 trainers /i  1,674,000        QCBS          Jan. 2003     April 2003      July 2005
1,123,200                    (1st contract)
6   1.2.b Training of 20 senior trainers,  246,200        QCBS         March 2003     June 2003      June 2005
including study missions /I            186,460
7  2.1 .a Planning and implementation of    82,200        QCBS         March 2003     June 2003     January 2005
deconcentration                         63,360
8  2.1 .b Project management training       50,600        QCBS         March 2003     May 2003        July 2005
38,080
9  2.1 .c Development and implementation    55,650        QCBS          May 2003      July 2003       Dec. 2004
of a monitoring and evaluation system   43,470
10  2.2.a Literacy assessment training       30,400         CQ           April 2003    June 2003       Oct. 2005
23,040
11  Project Impact Study                    264,430        QCBS          Sept. 2003    Nov. 2003       Dec. 2005
204,740
12  Analytical Studies                      500,000        QCBS            To be                       Dec.2005
375,000                      determined
Subtotal                  3,148,480
2,228,950
2. Material, equipment, goods
12  1.1.a/l.l.b/i.l.c Printing copies of  1,532,000         NCB          May 2003      July 2004       Dec.2005
literacy curricula                    1,374,500                    (Ist contract)
13  1. 1 .d Goods for document collection    35,000       Shopping       Oct. 2003         -           Dec. 2005
28,000
14  1.2.c Small equipment and materials for  56,400       Shopping       Jan. 2004                     Dec.2005
the production of a newsletter and an   23,550
adult learning periodical
15  2.2.b Colloquium on post-literacy         5,000       Shopping      March 2003     March 2003     March 2003
strategies                               4.000
16  2.2.b Post-literacy prize               36,000     Not financed by   Jan. 2003                     Dec. 2005
0          Bank
17  2.2.c. Goods associated with the        312,500         NCB            To be       Dec. 2005       Dec.2005
innovation activities                  250,000                      determined
18  2.2.c Goods associated with the         187,500       Shopping         To be       Dec. 2005       Dec.2005
innovation activities                  150,000                      determined
Subtotal                  2,164,400
1,830,050
TOTAL PROJECT COST                5,321,436
TOTAL FINANCED UNDER THE LOAN         4,059,000
/1 Training requiring specialized qualifications will be contracted to individual consultants.
Numbers in italics represent amountsfinanced under the loan
1/ The figures in parentheses are amounts to be financed by the IBRD loan. All costs include contingencies
2/ RFP: request for proposals; CB: competitive bidding; ICB: international competitive bidding, NCB: national competitive
bidding; QCBS: quality and cost-based selection; QBS: quality-based selection; SFB: selection under a fixed budget; LCS:
least-cost selection; CQ: selection based on consultants' qualifications.
3/ May not be later than the closure date of the loan.
- 24 -



Disbursement
Withdrawals from the proceeds of the IBRD loan will be based on the traditional disbursement methods
of the Bank, using direct payments, requests for special commitments and reimbursement applications,
either fully documented or using Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) as per applicable procedures. As
projected by Bank's standard disbursement profiles, disbursements would be completed four months
after project closure. Disbursements would be made against standard EBRD documentation.
Special Account: To facilitate disbursement of eligible expenditures for goods, services & training the
Government will open a special account at the General Treasury to cover part of EBRD's share of eligible
expenditures. Authorized allocation of the special account would be MAD 4,000,000 covering an
estimated 4 months of eligible expenditures financed by IBRD. The Ministry of Finance will be
responsible for submitting monthly replenishment applications based on appropriate supporting
documentation for expenditures incurred received from DLCA. DLCA will retain and make the
documents available for review by IBRD supervision missions and project auditors. To the extent
possible, all of IBRD's share of expenditures should be paid through the special account. All
expenditures eligible for IBRD financing of less than EUR 50,000 equivalent would be paid from the
Special Account.
The Special Account will be replenished through the submission of Withdrawal Applications on a
monthly basis and will include reconciled bank statements and other documents as my be required.
Use of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). All application to withdraw proceeds from the credit will be
fully documented, except for: (i) expenditures of contracts with an estimated value of EUR 300,000 each
or less for goods, ii) EUR 100,000 or less for consulting firms and (iii) EUR 50,000 or less for
individual consultants and training, which may be claimed on the basis of Statements of Expenditures
(SOEs). Documentation supporting expenditures claimed against SOEs will be retained by DLCA and
will be available for review when requested by IBRD supervision missions and project auditors. All
disbursements will be subject to the conditions of the Loan Agreement and the procedures defined in the
Disbursement Letter.
TABLE B: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
ExpenditLire Category      Aounut in E Mibons        F9nancing Pereente
1. Consultants' services and          2.00           75% for foreign and 70% for
training                                             local consultants' services and
training
2. Materials, equipment and           1.70            100% of foreign expenditures;
printing of curricula                                and 90% of items procured
locally
3. Contingencies                      0.46
Total Project Costs          4.16
Front-end fee                         0.04
Total            4.20
- 25 -



Annex 7: Documents in the Project File*
MOROCCO: Alpha Maroc Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Manuel d'execution: fiches d'activite
B. Bank Staff Assessments
World Bank (1996). Morocco - Basic Education Project (Social Priorities Program). Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR), 1996/05/09, http:J/imagebank No. P-6766-MOR (
http://www4.worldbank.orglsprojects/Project.asp?pid=PO05501).
World Bank (1996). Morocco - Social Priorities Program: Coordination and Monitoring of Social
Programs, and Labor Promotion Project. Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), 1996105/09, http:I/imagebank
No. 15075 (http://www4. worldbank.org,sproiects/Proiect.asp?pid=P042414)
World Bank (2001). Poverty Update. Volume I: Main Report. World Bank Document No. 21506-MOR,
30 mars 2001, Middle East and North Africa Human Development Group (NSHD), http://imragebank.
World Bank (2001). Poverty Update. Volume II: Annexes. World Bank Document No. 21506-MOR, 30
mars 2001, Middle East and North Africa Human Development Group (MNSHD. htt!p:Himagebank
World Bank (2001). Strategie de Cooperation 2001-2004. Memorandum of the President of the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the International Finance Corporation to the
Executive Directors on a Country Assistance Strategy of the World Bank Group for the Kingdom of
Morocco. Maghreb Department, Middle East and North Africa Region, May, 2001 (Country assistance
strategy (CAS), http://imagebank No. PIN65).
C. Other
World Bank (1995). Changing patterns of illiteracy in Morocco: assessment methods compared (Vol. 1),
1995/04/01, Living Standards Measurement Study Working Paper, http:1/imagebank No. LSMSl 15.
World Bank (1999). Education in the Middle East and North Africa: a strategy towards learningfor
development (Vol.1). Human Development, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office. 1999/04/01,
Working paper, http://imagebank No. 21589.
World Bank (2000). Education sector strategy, 1999, Human Development Network Series,
http://www-wds. worldbank.orgservletlWDSContentServer/WDSP/IB/2000/04/1 9/000094946 99090805
303687JRenderedJPDF/multi page.pdf
World Bank (2000). Note de strategie. Un Partenariat pour la reforme du systeme educatif [Strategy
Memorandum. A Partnership for Reform of the Education System]. Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office, Human Development Group, September 28, 2000. Excerpt from the World Bank
intranet site: http://wbln0023.worldbank.org/InltemalMENA.
Special Commission on Education and Training (1999). Charte nationale d'e6ducation et deformation
[National Education and Training Charter]. Kingdom of Morocco, October 1999,
http://www.dfc.gov.ma/content/chart/sommaire.htm
- 26 -



Hautier, J. (2001). L'education de base au Maroc [Basic Education in Morocco]. French Development
Agency.
International Institute for Educational Planning (2002). Evaluation des programmes d'alphabe'tisation
des adultes [Evaluation of Adult Literacy Programs]. A study commissioned by the World Bank in the
context of preparation of the Alpha Maroc project (P075808).
Ministry of Education (1999). Rehabiliter l'e'cole [Rehabilitating Schools]. Kingdom of Morocco,
March 1999.
Ministry of Education (2000). Statistiques scolaires 1999-2000 [School Statistics, 1999-2000].
Kingdom of Morocco.
Secretariat of the Monitoring and Evaluation Coordinating Committee for Social Action Programs
(January, 2000). Etude de suivi et d'evaluation du bilan des realisations a mi-parcours du premier
programme de priorites sociales (BAJI) [Monitoring and Evaluation Study of Midterm Outcomes of the
First Social Priorities Program (BAJ 1)], Kingdom of Morocco, Ministry of Economic Forecasting. (18
parts: Summary Report, Basic Education, Basic Health, 14 provinces of BAJ 1, and National Promotion,
Coordination and Monitoring of Social Programs).
*Including electronic files
- 27 -



Annex 8: Statement of Loans and Credits
MOROCCO: Alpha Maroc Project
09-Aug-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Orginal Amount in US$ Millions                              disbursements
Project ID    FY    Purpose                                      IBRD         IDA                  GEF     Canrcel.  Undisb.      Org    Frm Revd
P073531       2002 MA-Socia Developmenl Agency                        5.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00       5.76      0.00       0.00
P065736       2001 MA-INFORMATION INFRASTRUCTURE SECTOR              65.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00      65.00     65.00       0.00
P056978        2001 MA-IRRIGATION BASED COMMUNITY DEV.               32.57       0.00                 0.00      0.00      32.26      3.53       0.00
P065757        2000 MA-SUSTAINABLE COASTAL TOURISM DEV.               2.20       0.00                 0.00      0.00       1.91      1.36       0.00
P048314        2000 MA-PROTECTED AREAS MANAGEMENT                     0.00       0.00                 9.80      0.00       9.64      5.06       0.00
P063918       2000 MA-LEGALAANDJUDICIALDEVELOPMENT                    5.30       000                  0.00      0.00       5.24      2.55       0.00
P052247        1999 MA-PILOT FISHERIES DEV.                           5.00       000                  0.00 0o00            3.90      3.54       0.00
P005525        1999 HEALTH MANAGEMENT                                66.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00      55.05     61.73      12.34
P005524        1999 MA-FES/MEDINAREHAB.                              14.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00      11.49     11.26       0.00
P005519        1999 LAKHDAR WATERSHED MG                              4.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00       3.36      2.85       0.00
P005521        1998 MA-WATER RESOURCE MGMT.                          20.00       0.00                 0.00      1.81      12.40     10.69       0.00
P005523        1998 MUNICIPAL FINANCE 11                             70.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00       2.43      9.10       6.03
P043725        1997 RAILWAY RESTR & PRIV                             65.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00      63.68     66.45       0.00
P038978        1997 MA-PSO III-VOC TRG.                              23.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00       6.27      8.67       1.35
P042415        1996 SPI - HEALTH                                     68.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00       1.19      3.03       0.00
P042414        1996 MA-COOR/MON SOCIAL PRO                           28.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00       1.95       1.13      0.00
P005503        1996 SEW.& WATER REUSE 11                             40.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     27.25      23.65      0.33
P005501        1996 SPI - EDUCATION                                  54.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     25.67      18.67      1.16
Total:      587.07       0.00               9.80        1.81      334.44    298.28      21.21
- 28 -



MOROCCO
STATEMENT OF EFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jun 30 - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval         Company                      Loan    Equity  Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
2000                Maghreb Inv. Mgt              0.00    0.02    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.02    0.00    0.00
2000                Maghreb Invest P              0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    2.50    0.00    0.00
2001                Medi Telecom                 66.38    0.00   22.13   336.63   66.38    0.00   22.13  336.63
1987/93             SETAFIL                       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        66.38    5.02         22.13  336.63    66.38    2.52   22.13  336.6
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
2002               SGRI                              0.00     0.00      0.90     0.00
Total Pending Commitment:        0.00      0.00      0.90     0.00
-29 -



Annex 9: Country at a Glance
MOROCCO: Alpha Maroc Project
M. East   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          & North   middle-
Morocco      Africa  income      Development diamond-
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                      28.7       295     2,048                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, USS)                   1,180     2,040     1,140
GNI (Atlas method, USS bitlions)                     33.9       602     2,32Z
Average annual growth, 1994-00                                                                      T
Population %)                                         1.7        2.0      1.0     G                               Gross
Laborforce (J                                         2.6        2.8      1.3     per                            pross
per    I            /fl     Iprimary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                             capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% ofpopulation below national poverty tine)   19         .
Urban population (9 of total popuatIon)                56        59        42
Life expectancy at birth (yearns)                      57        68        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               49        44        32
Child m alnutrfiton (%6 otchtldresn under 5)                               I 1         Access to improved water source
Access lo an improved water source (# ofpopulation)    82        89        80
Illiteracy (9 of population age 15+)                   51        35        is
Gross primary enrollment (9 ofschool-age population)   86        95       114              Morocco
Male                                                 97       102       11     [         Lower-middle-income group
Female                                               74        88       114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999      2000
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS bitlIons)                          18.8     25.8       35.0     33.8
Gross domestic investmentlGDP               24.2     25.3       24.2     24.5
Exports of goods and services/GDP           17.4     26.5       30.1     31.4                     Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  13.7     19.3       20.1     18.1
Gross national savings/GDP                  17.4     24.7       23.0     22.9
Current account balance/GDP                  -7.5    -0.8       -0.4     -1 6      Domestic                   Investment
Interest payments/GDP                        3.5      3.1        3.0      33      savings        <
Total debt/GOP                              49.2     94.7       54.5     59 3       V0
Total debt servicefexporta                  33.1     20.1       23 9     27-5
Present va ue ot debt'GDP                                       49.2
Present value o debtexports                                   134,7
Indebtedness
11601 0 199010199040  1999     2000   2000-04
(average annuat growth)
GDP                                 4.2      2.2     -0.7        0.8      4.4               Morocco
GDP per capita                      2.0      0.4     -2.3       -C.9      2.7           -     ower-rniodle-income group
Exports ot gocds and servioes       7.9      4.8      6.7      -C.6       5 1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999      2000      Growth of Investment and GOP (%)
(St oftGOPJ)Z
Agriculture                                 16.4     17.7       14.8     12. 
Industry                                    30.9     32.4      32.7      33.4     20
Manufacturing                              16.8     18.4      17.3      17.9
Services                                    50.6     49.9       52.6     54.0
Private consumption                         57.9     65.2       60.6     65.6    -:s
General govemment consumption               18.3     15.5       19.3     16.3                    GDI      C*   GDP
Imports of goods and services               27.9     324        34.2     37.8
(average annual growth)                  1980-90  t990-GO      1999      2000     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                  6.7     -1.3      -19.8    -14.0 0
Industry                                     3 0      3.1       2.5       3.0     a-
Manutacluring                               41       27        2.5       4.0
Services                                     42       2.7        3.3      3.0     ID
Privale consumption                          4.3      2.6      -4.1       0.7      o     9           B7  9sI    9-9
General govemmment consumption               2.1      3.1       6.2      -3.8    'ID
Grossdomestic investment                     1.2      2.6       6.9      -0.1             --   Expors      elImpons
Imports of goods and services                3.4      5.7       5.3      -2.8
Note: 2000 data are preibminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its Income-group average. It data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 30 -



Morocco
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
D     tic prices                          1980    1990      1999     2000     Inflatlon (%)
(X change)                                                                   10 
Consumer pfices                            9.4      7.0      0.7      1.9      t
Implicit GDP deflator                     15.2     5.5       0.9      2.5     a
Government finance                                                            2
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                           20.9    24.0      27.1     26.2           95    96   97    9z    99
Current budget balance                     -0.5    2.1       1.1     -0.3           -GDP deflator         CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                   -9.7     -3.5     -3.8     -6.4
TRADE
(US$ mililions)                           1980    1990      1999    2000      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                      2,450   4,955     7,372    7,314    16,ozz
Agriculture and food items               762    1,232     1,590    1,542
Phosphate rock                           765     437       434      431     1 0
Manufactures                             387    2.246     4,085    4,137    0,000
Total imports (cf)                       4,266    7,442   10,804   11,505                       J
Food                                     720     584      1,177    1,371    s     _                  -
Fuel and energy                         1,006   1,171     1,330    2,022
Capital goods                            806    1,875     2,830    2,391       0
Export price index (1995-=100)              86      84        87      88            94  95   96  07   go  z9   oo
Import prie index (1995=100)                88      93        89      98                  *Exports    *lrolnrts
Terms of trade (1995=100)                   97      90        98       90
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                            1980    1990      1999    2000      Current account balance to GDP(%)
Exports of goods and serviceS            3,273   6,830    10,648   10,512     1 .
Imports of goods and services            5,247   8,374    11,964   12,652
Resource balance                        -1,974   -1,544   -1.317   -2,140     0
II          96 97 M 
Net income                                .562    -985      -977     -798      .
Netcurrenttransfers                      1,117   2,325     2,137    2,408
Current account balance                  -1,420   -204      -156     -531          -
Finiancing items (net)                   1,390   1.845     1,795      122    -
Changes in net reserves                     30   -1,641    -1,638     409    4 -
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ mi/lions)           2,130     5,920    5,714
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)           3.9     8.2       9.8     10.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980    1990      1999     2000
(US$ rnillions)                                                               ComposIion of 2000 debt (USS mlIL)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed     9,258  24,458    19,060   19,856
IBRD                                    539    3,099     3,194    2,837                    G 183
IDA                                      39       39       28       27                            A 2.837
Total debt service                       1,446   1,794     3,047    3,534                               B 27
IBRD                                     78      428      514      497
IDA                                        1       1        2         2       F:                       ;
Composition of net resource flows                                                                          D: 3.469
Official grants                           75     480        ..       ..                  .          .  -
Official creditors                       752     790      -226     -535
Prrvate creditors                        642     176      -212      396
Foreign direct investment                89      165       839      103
Portfolio equity                          0        0                                          E: e,372
Worid Bank program
Commitments                              146     402      356         8     A - IB1D                  E - Bilatera
Disbursements                            65      426      404      138      B - IDA  D - Other rriultllateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                     29      203      304      308      C - IMF                  G - Short-term
Net flows                                36      223       101     -171
Interest payments                        49      227      212      191
Net transfers                           -14       -3     -111     -361
Development Economics                                                                                        9/20/01
-31 -















IMAGING
Report No.:         23918  MOR
Type:     PAD



