                                      Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                          Report No: ICR0000680




              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                     (IBRD-46790)




                                         ON A

                          LEARNING AND INNOVATION LOAN

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF EURO 4.2 MILLION
                            (US$ 4.1 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                        TO THE

                                KINGDOM OF MOROCCO

                                        FOR AN

                                ALPHA MAROC PROJECT




                                     August 5, 2008




Human Development Sector
Maghreb Department
Middle East ad North Africa Region

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    Currency Unit = Moroccan Dirham (MAD)
                    Exchange rate (as of 9/18/2002, Board date)
                                  US$1 = Euro 0.69
                                  US$1 = MAD 7.81
                     Exchange rate (as of 12/31/2007, closing)
                                  US$1 = Euro 1.03
                                 US$1 = MAD 10.80

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1 - December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AREF:    Regional Education and Training Academies [Académies régionales
         d'Education et de Formation]
BAJ:     Barnamaj Al Aoulaouaiyat Al Ijtimaiya (Social Priorities Program)
CAS:     Country Assistance Strategy
CO:      Country Office
CPPR:    Country Portfolio Performance Review
CTF      Consultant Trust Fund
DH:      Dirham
DLCA:    Literacy Department [Direction de la lutte contre I'analphabétisme]
GoM:     Government of Morocco
ICR:     Implementation Completion and Results report
IIEP:    International Institute for Education Planning (UNESCO)
ISR:     Implementation Supervision Report
LIL:     Learning and Innovation Loan
NGO:     Non-Governmental Organization
PAD:     Project Appraisal Document
PDO:     Project Development Objective
M&E:     Monitoring and Evaluation
MoF:     Ministry of Economy and Finance
MoE:     Ministry of National Education
MEFP:    Ministry of Labor, Professional Training, Social Development, and Solidarity
         [Ministère de l'Emploi, de la Formation Professionnelle du Développement
         social et de la Solidarité]
MTR      Mid-Term Review
SEANF:   Secretariat of State for Literacy and Non formal Education [Secrétariat d'Etat
         chargé de l'Alphabétisation et de l'Éducation Non Formelle]
TL :     Team Leader


                          Vice President: Daniela Gressani
                        Country Director: Mats Karlsson
                         Sector Manager: Mourad Ezzine
                    Project Team Leader: Rachidi B. Radji
                       ICR Team Leader: Nadine Poupart

                    IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                    KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
                                   ALPHA MAROC PROJECT
                                           (LOAN 4679-MOR)


                                       TABLE OF CONTENTS




A. Basic Information...................................................................................................... iv
B. Key Dates.................................................................................................................. iv
C. Ratings Summary...................................................................................................... iv
D. Sector and Theme Codes ........................................................................................... v
E. Bank Staff................................................................................................................... v
F. Results Framework Analysis...................................................................................... v
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ..................................................................vii
H. Restructuring (if any)..............................................................................................viii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 9
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 12
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 12
6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 15
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 16
ANNEXES:
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 17
Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 18
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 22
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 23
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 25
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 27
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 28
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 30
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 31

A. Basic Information

Country:               Morocco                Project Name:          Alpha Maroc Project
Project ID:            P075808                L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD-46790
ICR Date:              04/10/2008             ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                     GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:    LIL                    Borrower:
                                                                     MOROCCO
Original Total
                       USD 4.1M               Disbursed Amount:      USD 1.2M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agency: Ministry of Labor, Professional Training, Social Development and
Solidarity (MEFP)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: N.A.

B. Key Dates

     Process             Date             Process        Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        11/27/2001    Effectiveness:       05/05/2003         05/05/2003
Appraisal:             02/19/2002    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              09/18/2002    Mid-term Review:     07/10/2004         09/12/2005
                                     Closing:             06/30/2006         12/31/2007

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Moderate
Bank Performance:                             Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Moderately Unsatisfactory



C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings               Borrower               Ratings

Quality at Entry:      Moderately                                    Moderately
                       Unsatisfactory         Government:            Unsatisfactory

Quality of Supervision:Moderately             Implementing           Moderately
                       Unsatisfactory         Agency/Agencies:       Unsatisfactory

Overall Bank             Moderately             Overall Borrower        Moderately
Performance:             Unsatisfactory         Performance:            Unsatisfactory

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                               QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators             (if any)                  Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                   Quality at Entry      Moderately
at any time (Yes/No):                           (QEA):                Unsatisfactory
Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                          No                                          None
time (Yes/No):                                  Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before          Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:  Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Adult literacy/non-formal education                               80                    80
Central government administration                                 20                    20




Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Education for all                                          Primary              Primary
Gender                                                     Secondary            Secondary

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                           At Approval
Vice President:            Daniela Gressani                   Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:          Mats Karlsson                      Marisa Fernandez-Palacios
                                                              Marlaine Lockheed
Sector Manager:            Mourad Ezzine

Project Team Leader:       Rachidi Radji                      Jeffrey Waite
ICR Team Leader and
                           Nadine Poupart
Primary Author:


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

According to Annex 2 of the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), the Project Development
Objective (PDO) is to reduce the level of illiteracy in the poorest sectors of the working adult
population, particularly among rural women and girls. To attain this objective, the following two

outcomes are expected: (i) improvement in program quality owing to revision of the curricula and
training of literacy teacher trainers; and (ii) strengthening management of the system through
improvements in the partnership-based approach between the Government and service providers.

In the section justifying the choice of a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) instrument (PAD,
p.2), it is indicated that the project's main purpose is to test new approaches to teaching quality
and adult literacy program management which, if proven effective, will enable the Government of
Morocco (GOM) to implement nation-wide programs that result in lasting literacy outcomes. A
project of this kind provides an opportunity to assess which approaches are best taken to scale.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

N.A.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target      Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator           Baseline Value           Values (from         Revised          Achieved at
                                                  approval           Target         Completion or
                                                 documents)          Values          Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Adult illiteracy rate (population aged 15 +)
Value
quantitative or 50%                          40%                                 43% (2006; latest

Qualitative)                                                                     survey)

Date achieved 09/12/2002                     12/31/2007                          12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %          Completed. The 8 curricula were revised by Literacy Department (DLCA) staff.
achievement)
                  Number of trainers trained in the theory and practice of adult literacy education.
Indicator 2 :     Number of senior trainers trained on highly specialized issues in adult literacy
                  education.
Value
quantitative or 0                            2,000 trainers                      2,400 trainers

Qualitative)                                 20 senior trainers                  20 senior trainers

Date achieved 09/12/2002                     12/31/2007                          12/31/2007

Comments          Number of trainers trained has surpassed target value. 41%-49% feel that the

(incl. %          objective of the training on andragogy (i.e., teaching to adults), communication

achievement)      and monitoring weree fully met (NGO). For all trainers, 34% feel that training
                  on M&E was fully met, and 65% partially met.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target      Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator           Baseline Value           Values (from                          Achieved at
                                                  approval           Revised         Completion or
                                                 documents)       Target Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Number of new and revised curricula designed and printed
Value             0                          11                                  8 revised and

(quantitative                                                                 printed and 3 new
or Qualitative)                                                               curricula designed.)
Date achieved 09/12/2002                  12/31/2007                          12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       Completed. The 8 curricula were revised by DLCA staff.
achievement)
               Number of trainers trained in the theory and practice of adult literacy education.
Indicator 2 :  Number of senior trainers trained on highly specialized issues in adult literacy
               education.
Value
(quantitative  0                          2,000 trainers                      2,400 trainers

or Qualitative)                           20 senior trainers                  20 senior trainers

Date achieved 09/12/2002                  12/31/2007                          12/31/2007

Comments       Number of trainers trained has surpassed target value. 41%-49% feel that the

(incl. %       objective of the training on andragogy (i.e., teaching to adults), communication

achievement)   and monitoring were fully met (NGO). For all trainers, 34% feel that training on
               M&E was fully met, and 65% partially met.

Indicator 3 :  Number of personnel trained in administrative and financial management skills
               and in M&E
                                                                              290 trained in

Value                                                                         administrative and

(quantitative  0                          200 trained.                        financial

or Qualitative)                                                               management skills.
                                                                              100 trained in
                                                                              M&E.
Date achieved 09/12/2002                  12/31/2007                          12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       Number of personnel trained has surpassed target value. But 72%-77% not

achievement)   consulted on training content. 62%-64% felt it is not adequate to their needs.

Indicator 4 :  Number of personnel trained in literacy assessment
Value
(quantitative  0                          160                                  94
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/12/2002                  12/31/2007                          12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       Number of personnel trained in literacy assessment lower than projected.

achievement)



G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                DO                          IP                 Disbursements
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     12/23/2002           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       0.00
  2     03/13/2003           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       0.00
  3     06/30/2003           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       0.05
  4     12/22/2003           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       0.05

 5     05/11/2004         Satisfactory            Satisfactory           0.05
 6     09/01/2004         Satisfactory            Satisfactory           0.49
 7     12/23/2004         Satisfactory            Satisfactory           0.49
 8     04/25/2005     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory    0.55
 9     11/15/2005     Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory           0.55
 10    06/29/2006     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory    0.73
 11    12/20/2006     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory    1.05
 12    06/19/2007     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory    1.20
 13    12/27/2007     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory    1.20



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable


Disbursement Profile




                                             .

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1. In 1999, the Government adopted an ambitious education "Charter" that aims to substantially
increase Morocco's educational attainment. The Charter sets goals and policies across the
education sector, from early childhood to adult learning. In the 2001 Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS), the Bank identified education as a priority. Within the education sector, the CAS stated
that the Bank's efforts would focus on non-formal education and adult literacy, along with basic
education, as key areas most likely to contribute to poverty reduction.

2. As a middle-income country, Morocco registered surprisingly high levels of illiteracy. The
Charter identifies the following illiteracy targets to attain by the end of the Education Decade
(2010): to reduce adult illiteracy from the official estimate of 50% in 1999 to 20% by 2010, and
to eradicate adult illiteracy by 2015. Considering that there were an estimated 10 million illiterate
adults in Morocco, an extensive literacy training program needed to be implemented over the next
7 years.

3. In 2001 (and up until the appointment of the Government at the end of 2002), non-formal
education was the responsibility of the Ministry of Education (MOE) and adult literacy the
responsibility of the Ministry of Labor, Professional Training, Social Development and Solidarity
(MEFP). Given the institutional capacity and the high level of motivation shown by the Labor
Ministry in implementing Component D ("Improving the Effectiveness of Literacy Programs") of
the BAJ1 Basic Education Project, the Bank moved forward quite quickly on developing an
operation in adult literacy.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

4. The PDO is not consistent across the documentation. As presented in the PAD (p. 2) and the
Legal Agreement, the PDO is to "test new approaches to teaching quality and adult literacy
program management, which if proven effective, will enable the GOM to implement nation-wide
programs that result in lasting literacy outcomes." This is the PDO against which the project is
assessed in this Implementation Completion and Results (ICR) report.

5. However, as presented in Annex 1 of the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), the PDO reads
as follows: "to offer the poorest adults an opportunity to obtain basic education through high-
quality, well managed literacy programs". And according to Annex 2 of the PAD, the PDO is "to
reduce the level of illiteracy in the poorest sectors of the working adult population, particularly
among rural women and girls." This is the PDO that was used in the ISR, and against which
project performance was evaluated during supervision.

6. The project had the following outcome indicators (PAD, Annex 1):
             - Increase in the participation of the poorest adults in efficient, high quality literacy
             programs; and
             - Increase in performance and satisfaction level of beneficiaries.




1Barnamaj Al Aoulaouaiyat Al Ijtimaiya or Social Priorities Program


                                                                                                1

7. These PDO indicators were informally redefined during implementation to allow for
measurement. In the ISRs, the teams monitored: (i) the adult illiteracy rate; and (ii) the number of
beneficiaries per year in Literacy Department (DLCA) sponsored programs.

8. Because of the pilot nature of the project, the PAD also cites a number of other indicators to
monitor. The project aimed to demonstrate to what extent the measures put in place to revise the
curricula and strengthen institutional capacity improve the overall quality of the adult literacy
system. Project activities were to be assessed would regularly, and assessment criteria included:
(i) the level of stakeholder satisfaction; (ii) learner enrollment rates; and (iii) dropout rates and
success rates at the beginning and end of the project.

9. Firstly, "knowledge" from this LIL was to be measured in terms of: (i) the number and
quality of curricula revised and training sessions given; and (ii) the range of measures put in place
to improve the institutional capacity of the units in charge of the various programs and projects.

10. Secondly, the project aimed at contributing to decisions regarding subsequent scale-up, and to
do so, the loan was to finance evaluations and determine whether: (i) users find that curricula
have been adapted to their needs; (ii) teacher training and support have been institutionalized; (iii)
literacy institutions and providers show increased capacity to manage program growth; (iv) an
effective sector evaluation and monitoring system has been established; (v) unit costs are
considered reasonable; and (vi) political will exists to support scale-up.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

11. There was no formal revision of PDOs and key indicators.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

12. The primary target group was composed of the learners of the NGO Program for two reasons:
(i) they were deemed to represent the majority of the learners in the medium term; and (ii) NGOs
tend to target the poorest population, particularly rural women and girls.

13. In addition, NGO trainers, DLCA staff at the central and local levels, and to a lesser extent
staff of public providers (MOE, Ministry of Agriculture, Entraide Nationale, etc.) would also
benefit directly from training financed under the project. More generally, the whole community
providing literacy services would benefit from improved curricula, and improved Monitoring and
Evaluation (M&E).

1.5 Original Components

14. Component 1: Improving the Program Quality (US$ 3.79M). The objective of this
component was to help improve the quality of literacy programs as the first stage in lifelong
learning, so that they will have a lasting positive impact on the learners' social and economic lives.

         1.1 Renovating curricula and teaching materials (US$ 1.8M). The objective of this
subcomponent was to produce literacy curricula that meet learners' needs, and to supply teaching
tools for the teacher training staff. These curricula were to be used in literacy projects operated
by NGOs and other types of service providers. Activities included: (i) analysis of literacy
curricula needs; (ii) revision and printing of existing literacy curricula; (iii) design of new
specialized literacy curricula; and (iv) document collection.


                                                                                                2

         1.2 Strengthening the teaching capacity of service providers (US$ 1.98M). The objective
of this subcomponent was to put in place a teacher training system based on increasing the
number of training sessions offered, so as to reach the greatest possible number of learners.
These training sessions were to focus on those responsible for training teachers in the four types
of programs. The activities of this component were: (i) Training of literacy trainers; (ii.) Training
of senior trainers for educational reform; and (iii) Professional research and communication

15. Component 2: Strengthen Management of the system (US$ 0.76M). The objective of this
component was to provide all levels of the system - in the central and deconcentrated offices of
the MEFP of Labor and within the service providers themselves - with the capacity to manage
large-scale programs so that Government's quantitative and qualitative objectives were attained.

         2.1. Strengthening administrative management capacity. (US$ 0.19 M).                   This
subcomponent was to strengthen the administrative management capacity of the various players
so as to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the partnership-based approach in developing
literacy programs, particularly to improving the M&E systems needed for decision making. The
activities of this component were: (i) development of an implementation plan for management of
the deconcentration efforts; (ii) training for literacy project management; and (iii) monitoring and
evaluation.

         2.2 Strengthening local operations (US$ 0.57M). The objective of this subcomponent
was to promote the emergence of local innovations, particularly within the NGOs, some one
hundred of which are already involved in literacy efforts throughout the country. The following
activities aim to strengthen these capacities: (i) literacy assessment training; (ii) post-literacy
strategies; (iii) financing innovations.

16. Regular Evaluation and Analysis of Literacy Programs (US$0.77 M). In addition, the
project included a third activity which involved a regular evaluation of project outcomes and an
analysis of various aspects of the literacy programs, with a view to preparing to take successful
innovations to scale.

1.6 Revised Components

17. There was no revision in project components. Specific project activities, however, were
revised during the mid-term review. Under Component 1, the revision of existing literacy
curricula was cancelled as the work was done at no cost by the DLCA. Under Component 2, the
functioning of the innovation fund was redefined, and under Activity 3 under Component 2, the
planned studies were cancelled. Other smaller adjustments were made.

1.7 Other significant changes

18. Scope and Scale. Due to modest project achievements in 2003 and 2004, slow disbursement,
and some cost savings, the Mid-Term Review (MTR) carried out in September 2005 agreed on
the need to: (i) cancel Euros 1.5 M (US$1.80 M equivalent) of the loan; and (ii) extend the
closing date by 18 months, from June 30, 2006 to December 31, 2007. The Loan Agreement was
amended accordingly in December 2005.

19. As a result of the partial loan cancellation, allocations to Components 1 and 3 were decreased,
while allocation to Component 2 was increased, resulting in the following new amounts:
     - Component 1: Improving the Program Quality: US$1.48 M (from US$3.79 M)
     - Component 2: Strengthen Management of the System: US$1.79 M (from US$0.76 M)


                                                                                               3

    - Component 3: Regular Evaluation and Analysis of Literacy Programs: US$0.19 M (from
    US$0.77 M)

20. Implementation Arrangements. The subsector went through important organizational
changes that had an impact on project implementation. The project was to be executed by the
Ministry of Labor, Professional Training, Social Development, and Solidarity (MEFP) through its
Literacy Department (Direction de la lutte contre I'analphabétisme or DLCA). However, just
after Board approval and before signing of the Loan Agreement, following the 2002 legislative
elections and the constitution of a new Government, the DLCA was transferred from the MEFP to
the MOE under a new Secretariat of State for Literacy and Non-formal Education or SEANF
(November 2002), headed by a Secretary of State.

21. This change, which was in line with the recommendation of the 2002 IIEP Report
(Evaluation des programmes d'alphabétisation des adultes au Maroc), had a substantial impact
on project execution (see Section 2.2). The Loan Agreement, which was signed only in February
2003, after the promulgation of the 2003 Budget law, was slightly redrafted to reflect the
establishment of the SEANF. Almost two years later, after the establishment of SEANF, a new
Secretary of State was nominated following a Government reshuffle (June 8, 2004).

22. In October 2007, following the legislative elections, and two months before project closing,
the SEANF was eliminated. The DLCA has since become a Department of the MOE.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

23. Lessons from Earlier Operations. The BAJ Basic Education Project (approved in May
1996 and closed in December 2003) included a literacy component (US$ 3.7 million) that was
satisfactorily implemented (ICR, June 2004). The BAJ Basic Education project showed that
NGO providers could reach at-risk populations. It also made evident two principal challenges
that needed to be faced if the Government was to successfully meet the ambitious literacy targets
set out in the National Education Charter. First, literacy achievement was disappointing as the
approaches used were often based on instructional strategies of primary education. Second, the
expansion of literacy programs meant a greater management burden at all levels of the system,
and scarce resources needed to be used more effectively.

24. The LIL was designed to help the DLCA acquire the tools to meet both challenges by: (i)
developing a variety of curricula geared to different populations, and (ii) reinforcing management
capacity to improve program effectiveness. In addition, the project aimed at monitoring and
evaluating these changes to assess whether the LIL-financed interventions would become the new
management tools for the literacy sector.

25. Assessment of Project Design. The project addressed a Government priority, and responded
to the DLCA's request to have a separate operation to support its activities. The project design
was innovative and supported one of the key goals of the CAS Pillars, which was to encourage
participation and inclusion.

26. The project design was consistent with the recommendations of a sector assessment done in
2002 by the International Institute for Education Planning (IIEP) (UNESCO) with Bank support
and at the Government's request. The draft report findings were discussed during the February
2002 appraisal mission in a lively workshop gathering about 70 participants (including


                                                                                             4

representatives from various Ministries, NGOs, the private sector and international organizations).
The report recommended inter alia2:
                  Strengthening DLCA management and creating a sound deconcentrated network;
                  Improving the quality of curriculum by responding to the specific pedagogical
                  needs of diverse populations;
                  Better monitoring of NGO activities and creating an incentive system for the
                  NGO-supported program activities; and
                  Improving M&E and research.

The project supported the implementation of these recommendations.

27. However, the choice of a LIL as a lending instrument was not consistent with the project
design. A LIL was not appropriate to support capacity building and quality enhancement of an
entire program. Furthermore, in the absence of baseline information on learners and their pre-
project learning achievement, the LIL hypothesis3 could not be tested. The two key performance
indicators selected (i.e., increased participation of the poorest adults in efficient, high quality
literacy programs, and increased performance and satisfaction level of beneficiaries) were not
well-aligned with the objective of testing new approaches to literacy. It is difficult for a LIL to
test new approaches and at the same time achieve major results regarding increased participation
or increased performance and satisfaction during the life of the project. In fact, the PDO
indicators showed some improvement when no implementation had really started (see section
3.2).

28. Assessment of Risks. The PAD rightly recognized insufficient government budget resources
allocated to the literacy program as a risk. Inadequate budget resources were raised continuously
by Bank teams during supervision. The Fall 2002 elections were mentioned as a risk as they
could change the education plans spelled out in the Education Charter, but this was deemed
unlikely to happen. Because it was difficult for the team to foresee at that time that the elections
would lead, instead, to an institutional change affecting implementation during the first 2 years,
this was not identified as a risk. Yet, during the QEA, the team acknowledged that the transfer of
the DCLA to the MOE was an important risk to the success of the project (Office Memo, dated
May 20, 2003). The institutional risk linked to the expansion of the programs was not identified.

29. Moreover, the institutional risk was not sufficiently analyzed. At preparation stage, the
Country Director "urged the project team to consider more ambitious objectives aiming to
support the Government's whole adult literacy strategy on a programmatic approach" that would
include "an assessment of institutional capacity [of the MEFP] , fiscal impact [...] in moving
from 200,000 to 500,000 beneficiaries per year" (Office Memorandum, October 12, 2001).
Before appraisal, one peer reviewer also raised the need to pay more attention to the institutional
structure under which the project would operate, as the DLCA was expanding its literacy
programs at the same time as it was decentralizing many of its functions. These institutional
issues were not sufficiently analyzed during project design.             They became an even bigger
challenge after: (i) the creation of the Secretariat of State which imposed additional institutional



2The report also recommended: (a) establishing a Secretariat of State for Literacy, or a Literacy Agency;
(b) allocating adequate recurrent budget to the DLCA; (c) reconsidering the language of instruction; and (d)
expanding and improving the private sector involvement.

3 The LIL was testing whether the measures put in place to revise the curricula and strengthen institutional
capacity would improve the overall quality of the adult literacy system.


                                                                                                       5

complications at the central and local levels; and (ii) the decision of the new Government to raise
the already ambitious target of 500,000 adults trained per year to one million. These changes,
occurring before signing, did not lead the team to reassess the project design, and the
implementation agency capacity. Also, while the DLCA had no M&E indicator nor an M&E
plan, the project did not include activities to build the system, which would have been a
prerequisite for monitoring the impact of the LIL.

30. The May 2003 QEA 6 rated the quality at entry marginally satisfactory (3), equivalent to
Moderately Unsatisfactory under the new QAG rating. The project was rated unsatisfactory on
technical and economic analyses, institutional aspects, and analysis of risks and sustainability.

2.2 Implementation

31. Loan Effectiveness (May 5, 2003) was declared about 8 months after Board approval. There
were no effectiveness conditions but the CPPR recommended project launch readiness checklist
conditions (preparation of a set of bidding documents, and finalization of the project
implementation manual). Implementation had two phases: a first phase during 2003-2004 where
project activities were very limited (drafting/ revising terms of reference and adjusting
consultants' contracts (to include some operating costs), and a second phase during 2005-2007
where most activities were implemented, many of them during the last year.

32. At the time of the planned MTR in September/October 2004, no disbursement had been made
beyond the first advance to the special account, and no project activity had started (3 contracts out
of 12 had just been signed). The MTR was carried out a year later (September 2005) and at that
time, only 12% had been disbursed. The MTR concluded on the need to postpone the closing
date by 18 months and to cancel Euros 1.5 million (US$ 1.80 million equivalent) of the project
activities due to cost savings and slow implementation. While the project was implemented over
5 years, most of the activities were completed in the last years (Annex 2). At closing, total
disbursement reached Euros 1.2 million (US$ 1.76 million equivalent), i.e., 28% of the original
amount, and 44% of the revised amount.           Three series of factors may explain this poor
performance.

33. Factors outside the control of Government or implementing agencies. The main factor
under this category was the difficulty finding qualified national consultants specialized in literacy.
As a result, several bids had to be launched more than once, and some did not yield results. This
factor was compounded by the limited budget allocated to some studies.

34. Factors generally subject to Government control. Creating the SEANF was a good
decision that aimed at: (i) giving much-needed visibility to the literacy program, (ii) strengthening
the DLCA ability to coordinate the programs, (iii) stimulating new and innovative initiatives, and
(iv) mobilizing resources. The transfer of the DLCA to the SEANF, however, considerably
slowed down initial implementation of the project for two main reasons. Firstly, the Secretary of
State, nominated in November 2002, had limited ownership of the project.                 Rather than
improving quality and efficiency, her priorities were to: reach the one million target announced
by the GoM, develop a new literacy strategy following a broad consultation process, establish a
deconcentrated network at the provincial and regional levels, reorganize the NGO program to
allow participation of smaller NGOs, coordinate with public providers, establish a literacy
passport, and mobilize budgetary resources. The new Secretary of State, who took office mid-
June 2004, had a much stronger interest in project activities, and was able to push them forward.

35. Secondly, the SEANF initially had no separate budget from the MoE and no authority to
commit its budget. All operational expenses had to be approved by the general accounting

                                                                                                6

division of the MOE which, given MOE's capacity at the time (which led the BAJ Project team to
create a Project Management Unit (PIU) with staff attached to the civil service), and the difficult
relationship between the Secretary of State and the Minister of Education, prevented the
implementation of project activities. This situation was resolved in February 2004 when the
SEANF received the authority to commit its budget.

36. Moreover, although a budgetary line for recurrent costs had been established specifically for
the project, no funds were allocated until early 2005. The issue of counterpart funds was
considered resolved by the Bank team towards the end of 2005.

Factors generally subject to the implementing agency control.

37. Deconcentration of Functions without Adequate Capacity at Local Level. Just after the
transition of the DLCA to the SEANF, the literacy agenda was moved away from the antennes of
the MEFP and given to the délégués provinciaux of the MOE. Staff selected did not have an
incentive to take on this additional burden and often did not have the capacity to do so. Around
April 2004, the SEANF appointed 130 cadres (chefs de service) to serve as literacy and non
formal education officers at regional (AREFs) and provincial (Delegations) levels. However, in
the absence of an organizational chart for the SEANF, their responsibilities were not well defined,
especially with regard to M&E. The chart, designed with support of the Bank team, was finally
approved in 2007 and institutionalized the activities the cadres had been carrying out. These
activities included technical supervision, administration, financial control and M&E, and were too
large for one person, sometimes without secretarial support. This staffing constraint remains to
be addressed.

38. Limited Capacity at the DLCA Central Level. Project implementation was affected by
staff turn-over for key positions, lack of motivation and insecurity due to the institutional change
and lack of incentives, as well as difficulty in recruiting high caliber candidates which led to
insufficient capacity for administration and procurement.         This resulted in delays in the
preparation of procurement plans, and in hiring consultants, and repeated rejections of invoices
submitted for payment to the Treasury (MOF) because of lack of conformity with World Bank
procurement procedures. The Bank team tried to facilitate communication between the DLCA
and the MOF, but the DLCA proactivity in implementing recommendations was lacking. At the
technical level, the DLCA also faced difficulties in dealing with the complexity of the work
required by the project.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

39. Design. The December 2004 mission Aide-Memoire stated that "the [DLCA] capacity to
evaluate the impact of training activities and their cost is quasi-non existing [...] A strategy to
define precisely the respective roles and responsibilities of the central and local level is still
missing." Basic conditions to generate the information on the learning process required by the
LIL were therefore absent. Focusing only on developing M&E tools and providing training,
without attention to the general strategic and institutional framework, was insufficient. The
project design should have included activities to build up the M&E system.

40. Implementation. Immediately after Effectiveness, weak M&E capacity was identified as a
risk. In 2004, the Bank mobilized a Consultant Trust Fund to provide support to the DLCA on
M&E to compensate for this design flaw. The Bank consultant was able to make a diagnosis of
the M&E situation, and helped develop an M&E Plan, including the definition of key indicators,
and a training strategy, while the development of software was supported by other donors. Some
tools were produced (4 booklets and one CDROM), and were accompanied by training. The

                                                                                               7

project also financed key equipment (computer and printers) to support the M&E process within
DLCA. The Bank continuously raised the issue of staff shortages at the local level, but without
much impact. The annual Beneficiary Assessments (BA) was not carried out. A two volume BA
was eventually produced at the closing date of December 2007.

41. Utilization. The tools for M&E were provided to the regional and provincial DLCA staff.
However, their distribution to providers has been difficult because of lack of resources. Measures
to assess the quality and the efficiency of the services delivered continue to need more attention.
Finally, many of the indicators mentioned in the PAD were not monitored and the learning
experiences could not be captured to lay the groundwork for a full-fledged program.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

42. The DLCA faced difficulties complying with the Bank procurement procedures, which was
compounded by difficult communication with the Ministry of Finance. In 2005, the Bank
assessed that DLCA needed one year on average to contract consultants. But given slow
implementation, and the limited number of contracts to review, Bank missions often did not
include a procurement specialist (only 2 missions out of 11 had one), and only one ex-post review
was conducted. Most missions, however, included a procurement proficient Operations Officer
who was able to advise the DLCA. During 2005-2006, a Procurement Specialist was based in the
Country Office, and was able to provided more continuous support.

43. The DLCA also faced some difficulties on financial management.               Un-audited interim
financial statements were not systematically submitted as specified in the Loan Agreement (e.g.,
2006). Annual audits, however, were carried out regularly by the Inspection Générale des
Finances (IGF).

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

44. There are discussions under the Morocco Basic Education Reform Program II- PARSEM II
(P095714) Project preparation as to whether the Bank should continue its involvement in the
literacy program. Although the continued importance of the issue of literacy in Morocco's
human development agenda is recognized, the added value of the integration of a literacy
program under this new operation is questioned. Given the past Bank interventions (BAJ
Education Project and the LIL Project), the country team felt that the Government has already
been able to develop a sounder approach to literacy with improved delivery mechanisms. The
PARSEM II may be used to strengthen the capacity for M&E of the literacy program.

45. The EU is currently preparing a 17 million Grant that will likely pursue some of the LIL
activities such as capacity building of central and local staff, and of service providers, M&E, etc.
A MTEF for the literacy sub-sector has been prepared and indicates the need for additional
resources to maintain an even more modest than expected increase in the number of beneficiaries
over the next 4 years. Depending on the EU Grant specific activities, there may be a role for the
Bank to continue its support to M&E which is an unfinished agenda and a requirement to improve
literacy policies. Another area where the Bank could share international experience with the
Government is the establishment of the planned Literacy Agency. Finally, the Bank could also:
(i) mobilize around promising innovations (e.g., the ALEF pilot project4), or delivery modes (e.g.,


4 E.g.: In the USAID/ALEF pilot project, teaching in Darija and Amazighe has helped reduce
learning time (100 h to 60h) and increase retention (90%).


                                                                                             8

the introduction of ICT); and (ii) contribute to the review of the 2004 strategy for literacy and non
formal education.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

46. Reducing literacy rates remains a priority for the Government. Improving quality of programs
by adapting them to the specific needs of the population is an activity that DLCA continues to
pursue under the GOM budget. The need to strengthen the management system based on
deconcentration and partnership with various providers, and reinforcing the M&E system are still
relevant, and may be reinforced by the EU program. Efforts to multiply and disseminate the tools
produced by the project to the local level are ongoing.

47. Project objective, design and implementation are also valid under the current Country
Assistance Strategy (Report No. 31 879-MA, June 2005) which supports: (i) the improved access
to basic services, social programs, and economic opportunities in pockets of poverty and
vulnerability; and (ii) improved education system efficiency.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

48. The project was not able to test new approaches to literacy. Some tools were produced too
late during implementation to allow for measurement, and for those that could be evaluated the
M&E system was not adequate to measure their direct impact on program effectiveness. Yet, the
two outcomes indicators monitored in the ISR showed substantial improvement. The number of
people enrolled in literacy programs, and who are likely to be poor, was multiplied by 2.5
between 2002/03 and 2007/08, and the national illiteracy rate for adults aged 15 and above has
been reduced from 50% to 43% between 2002/03 and 2005/06 (Table 1). The project has likely
contributed to these outcomes, although they may have been influenced by other factors as well.
In fact, the strongest increase in the number of people enrolled (57%) happened in 2003/2004
when project activities had not started.

                        Table 1: Evolution of Project Outcome Indicators
                             2001/2002 2002/2003          2003/04 2004/05       2005/06 2006/07
 Number of                   390.000       286.425        450 000 470.000       655.478 709.000
 beneficiaries per year
 in DLCA sponsored
 programs
 % increase                  25.8%         -5.62%         57%       4.2%        37%         8.2%
 Illiteracy rate (15+)                     50%                                  43%
    Source : DLCA, 2008




                                                                                                9

49. The Project was able to produce most of the tools that may have contributed to these
outcomes, and overall to the satisfaction of beneficiaries, as evidenced by the two volume
Beneficiary Assessment 5 completed at Project Closing.           The study's main conclusions are
summarized in Annex 5.           Specifically, the project supported the production of a good
competency-based curriculum that has been used by the DLCA staff to revise (without
consultant's support) the existing literacy curricula. These revised curricula are deemed to be
relevant to trainers' needs. Yet they do not seem to be systematically used (60% of trainers use
them, and 32% often use them). Training on use of the manuals was well appreciated by DLCA
staff (91% satisfied), although coverage for providers was insufficient. Yet, the teaching guide
raises some concern regarding its content, and its insufficient dissemination (67% of surveyed
trainers not informed of its existence). Regarding the specialized literacy curricula (e.g., craft
industry, tourism, and construction), DLCA staff, especially at the local level, feel they do not
sufficiently take into account the sector needs.

50. Regarding the strengthening of the management system, the project was able to train 51% of
total NGO literacy trainers in the country, with 95% satisfied or very satisfied, which represents a
good performance. The project was also able to strengthen the capacity for deconcentrated
management of DLCA staff and public providers with strong satisfaction although with regional
disparities. More training on monitoring and evaluation, however, is requested by DLCA staff
and public providers. Finally, although the project was able to train 200 managers as planned in
literacy project management, only 32% of DLCA staff and only 15% of providers surveyed said
they participated in training on administration and financial management of literacy projects.
This underlines the need to scale up this activity in the future.

51. The report also indicates that 95% of primary beneficiaries felt that the literacy training was
useful for their daily lives, and 72% that it helped improve their lives, with, some regional
disparities. Finally, the project introduced a process of selecting innovative NGO sub-projects on
a competitive basis. The innovation features mainly focus on increasing productivity and job
opportunity. Because implementation is still ongoing, this activity could not yet be evaluated.
The NGO classification method produced by the project now allows DLCA to select the more
qualified NGOs, which should contribute to improve governance and to encourage NGOs to
strengthen their professional skills for better teaching quality.

3.3 Efficiency

52. According to the IIEP study, in 1999/2000, the unit cost for the NGO-operated program was
double that of the campagne générale, run by the MOE, and of other public provider programs
(DH316 against DH150). However, there was no monitoring of the unit cost evolution during
project implementation that could inform on efficiency gains.

53. Yet there is evidence that improved program quality and management resulted in efficiency
gains. While the DLCA budget for literacy remained constant during 2003 and 2007, the number
of people enrolled was multiplied by 2.5. Rough calculations indicate that the unit cost decreased
substantially (see Annex 3).




5 Impact Evaluation of the Alpha Project, November and December 2007. A third volume is
under preparation.


                                                                                             10

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

54. The project objective was generally relevant to the country's needs and priorities. Under the
project, most of the tools to improve the quality of literacy program were produced, and overall,
these tools meet the needs of beneficiaries, include their views, and are being used, with some
degree of variation. Training was provided to 1,800 trainers, 200 public providers, 100 DLCA
staff and 200 managers (DLCA and providers) to accompany the use of these tools and improve
performance. Innovative NGO projects were initiated.

55. The direct impacts of these activities on teaching quality/learning and efficiency were not
measured. The M&E system was deficient from the beginning and, despite improvements made
during project implementation, it could not generate the necessary data to assess the achievement
of the PDO. Yet, the reduction in the adult literacy rate, the increase in annual enrolment, and the
efficiency gains under the NGO program likely result, at least partially, from project activities.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

56. Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development. It is not possible to assess the
project impact on gender and poverty. At the program level, however, women - who have a
higher illiteracy rate (52% vs. 34.8% for men, 2006) were able to benefit predominantly: 82% of
all literacy programs beneficiaries between 2002/2003 and 2006/2007 were women. In addition,
half of the beneficiaries were living in rural areas where poverty and illiteracy, which are
correlated, are more widespread (1998/99 LSMS).

57. Institutional Change/Strengthening. DLCA's delivery strategy is built on a partnership
approach with other actors (NGO, MOE, other public providers, and the private sector). The
institutional capacity built through the project has contributed to increasing the credibility of
DLCA in its partnership with other providers, which may have led to the increase in delivery of
literacy programs. More specifically, the project helped strengthen the country's capacity to
implement overall higher quality literacy programs, except perhaps for the new specialized
curricula (cf. BA). Although the project did not finance revisions of existing curricula, the Bank
team provided technical support to do so, and the project provided a means to further improve it
(competency-based curriculum). Yet more effort should be made to ensure a better use of these
programs, and to disseminate the teaching guide which may be further improved at a later stage.
The DLCA is now able to operate under a clear post-literacy strategy. M&E tools have been
produced, but their multiplication and dissemination to trainers is an issue that needs to be solved.
DLCA staff, public providers and 50% of all NGO trainers have been trained on M&E but at
levels that remain insufficient. The project helped establish a functional documentation center
that can be used by all providers and researchers. NGO small grants are now being completed
under Government's budget, and may provide useful lessons. The DLCA will continue to
implement this NGO innovation program in the future. The system established through the
project to classify NGOs is now used under the NGO program.

58. Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative). The Bank mobilized a
CTF-financed international consultant to provide technical assistance on M&E activities but his
role went beyond the project scope. His support was critical in developing indicators on access,
quality and management of the literacy program; and in designing an M&E plan. The Bank also
influenced several other areas, such as the initial strengthening of the DLCA local level, which
may have accelerated the nomination of 130 cadres.



                                                                                              11

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
See Section 3.2

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

59. The risks to development outcome are deemed Moderate. Reducing illiteracy is an objective
of the Education Charter that remains a valid strategy for the Government. Despite the absence
of reference to literacy in the recent Emergency Plan to accelerate the implementation of the
Charter, literacy is likely to remain a high priority in Morocco. To address the challenge of this
sub-sector, the new Government announced the creation of a National Agency for Literacy for
which statutes are currently being defined. It is hoped that this agency will be able to attract
additional funding, and qualified human resources to further improve the efficiency of programs,
which will involve disseminating and making full use of the tools produced under the project.
Yet, the role and modus operandi of the agency vis-à-vis the existing structures of the MOE at the
central and local levels remain to be defined. As a result, there is a risk of losing part of the
project output, i.e., the strengthened capacity of the DLCA staff at central and local levels.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

60. The project was prepared after the successful experience of the literacy component of the
BAJ Basic Education Project implemented by the DLCA. Therefore, the team could not easily
anticipate the capacity constraint that the DLCA faced under the Alpha Project, although this
project had more complex activities. The project represented a quick response to the country's
request for assistance in the context of the sector dialogue; it was focused, not overly ambitious,
and innovative. Yet, the institutional challenges posed by the entire literacy program and raised
by the Country Director and a peer reviewer during preparation were not taken into account.

61. The QEA (May 2003) assessed the quality at entry "Marginally Satisfactory"6. A key area of
concern was the use of a LIL as a lending instrument. In the absence of baseline information on
learners, their pre-project learning achievement, and the capacity strengths and weaknesses of
providers, the panel deemed that the LIL hypotheses could not be tested. The ICR team concurs
with this assessment. Moreover, as there were no M&E indicators, strategy, and system, the
project should have helped to build them from the outset.

62. The economic analysis and financial sustainability sections of the PAD were deemed
insufficient. The ICR team also agrees with this assessment. For example, the LIL was about
improving efficiency and the reduction in the unit cost is mentioned in the PAD as an indicator of
project success. But there was no discussion of existing data (a rough assessment existed in the
IIEP report) or any plan to monitor this indicator, and data today is still lacking. The panel also



6Equivalent to a "Moderately Unsatisfactory" rating in the new QAG rating structure.


                                                                                              12

felt the capacity building activities were insufficiently designed. This aspect, however, was not a
determining factor in terms of project outcomes.

63. The PAD lacked clarity in presenting the facts, contextual conditions and project
arrangements as raised by the QEA. The documentation shows some inconsistency in the PDOs,
and the indicators (p2 and Annex 1). The choice of the PDO indictors is also questionable. They
had to be redefined during implementation to allow for measurement.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

64. The Bank underestimated the initial impact of the transfer of the DLCA to the MOE
Secretariat of State that occurred between Board approval and signing of the Loan Agreement on:
(i) budget management; (ii) deconcentration arrangements; and (iii) reduced political attention to
the project objectives. The team should have reassessed the project design and implementation
arrangements at that time. It should have reassessed the capacity of DLCA to carry out the
project, not only in terms of procurement and financial management capacity, but also at the
technical    level.     The    Bank     team    should   have    suggested    hiring   a consultant
(procurement/administration) to follow up on day-to-day project management.

65. The team lacked candor in assessing project achievements. The Bank kept a satisfactory
rating during the first 2 years despite the lack of progress, and the absence of disbursement. After
some improvements in 2005, the new Team Leader downgraded the PDO to marginally
satisfactory. Earlier realism could have led to a reassessment of the DLCA capacity to implement
the project and find appropriate solutions in a timely manner.

66. It is only in April 2005 that the relevance of the project was re-examined. A good analysis of
the reasons for the implementation delay was made, and scenarios for the future of the project
were discussed with the GOM which led to the Mid-Term Review decision to cancel funds, and
to extend the closing date. This coincided with the arrival of a new TL based in the Country
Office (CO), who mentioned to the GOM the possibility of cancelling the Loan if no progress
was made, and who was then able to provide frequent quality advice during 2005-2006.
Implementation progress also coincided with the arrival in the CO of a Procurement Officer. The
Bank team suggested the establishment of a Project Steering Committee headed by the DLCA
Director, and organized monthly meetings with this Committee, an arrangement that provided the
necessary momentum to improve project performance.

67. The Project had four different TLs during lending and supervision but hand-over was done
appropriately and there was continuity in the implementation staff. To address M&E, the team
was able to mobilize a CTF financed international consultant who provided extensive support to
DLCA (7 missions during December 2004 - April 2007). He was also able to provide TA on a
larger number of issues (including for example drafting TORs for studies and developing a
Technical Note for the small grants to NGOs). Given the needs, DLCA and the project would
have benefited from earlier and more continuous TA of this type.

68. References to Financial Management (FM) and procurement are not systematic in the Aide
Memoirs (AMs), and only 2 missions out of 11 included FM and procurement specialists. Yet
support was systematically provided by the Operations Officer who participated in all missions.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

                                                                                             13

69. The Bank's performance during preparation was adequate with regard to the relevance of the
proposed activities but less so with regard to building the case for a LIL. During the first two
years, supervision was strong technically but weak on implementation as project implementation
arrangements were not reviewed after the change brought by the 2002 elections, and assessment
of project performance lacked candor. The team at that time made some effort to raise the
political ownership--although without success--and to facilitate the dialogue between the
SEANF on the one side, and the MOE and MOF on the other side. Later on, the Bank addressed
implementation issues by cancelling part of the loan, postponing the Closing Date and providing
technical assistance either directly (during monthly meetings with DLCA in 2005-2006) or
through frequent missions of the CTF funded consultant, in addition to regular supervision
missions. These measures helped improve project performance from 2005 onwards, but to an
insufficient level. As a result, most Project activities were completed late, while some remained
incomplete.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

70. The 2002 Government was able to raise the visibility of the literacy agenda by: (i)
establishing the SEANF, which may have been the first of its kind in the MENA Region; and (ii)
announcing ambitious objectives (one million adults trained/year).

71. Yet, despite this new challenging goal, the budget allocated to SEANF remained stable over
the project implementation period.       DLCA had insufficient personnel and lacked logistical
resources especially at the local level. In addition, the SEANF was unable until February 2004 to
commit its budget which slowed down activities, and the first Secretary of State paid limited
attention to the project activities. Counterpart funding was also lacking to finance transport and
other stipends of training participants until end 2005.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

72. The establishment of the SEANF mobilized DLCA staff at the central level. The Chef de
division des programmes, appointed Project Coordinator, could not devote much time to the
project. With the move of the DLCA under the MOE, the DLCA kept the same team but the
accounting was managed by the MOE. High turnover and difficulties in recruiting skilled people
resulted in weak administration, and in particular, procurement.

73. The dynamism created by the Secretary of State and the DLCA Director from 2005 onwards
permitted the implementation of many of the project activities. Nevertheless, structural problems
within DLCA limited the realization of the project's full potential after that date: lack of internal
coordination between services, an organizational chart that did not facilitate the integration
between literacy and post-literacy, and implementation plan and annual budgets not shared
between actors to allow a regular administrative, financial, and technical follow-up.




                                                                                              14

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

74. The project interventions started at a difficult juncture. A new institution (SEANF) was
being created and had to establish its operating environment (offices, budget, program,
relationship with the MOE). Simultaneously, the same institution was given an unprecedented
mandate for the country (training one million adults per year), and this without additional
resources. These paramount challenges naturally relegated the project to a lower priority during
the first two years.

75. Following this growth crisis, the arrival of a new senior management team at SEANF and
DLCA, combined with the arrival of a CO-based TL, helped save the operation from cancellation.
While the DLCA followed an accelerating path during the last 3 years, structural constraints and
lack of skilled staff at the central and local levels of the administration have limited the possibility
of regaining the time that had been lost.

6. Lessons Learned

76. In MICs, the incentive to invest in mastering Bank procedures is low for small capacity
building loans. Morocco has a less than satisfactory performance in terms of disbursements for
Bank investment projects, in particular when the Bank is disbursing against "soft" objectives such
as capacity building. Investing, for example, in mastering Bank procedures to recruit consultants
may be too costly for small loan amounts.

77. A LIL should be used to test new approaches, and not simultaneously to scale up project
activities. Therefore, it is important to maintain as a priority the experimental aspect of a LIL
and to not overburden it with expectations of going to scale.

78. Institutional stability is a condition for successful program scale-up. Major institutional
changes, such as the establishment of the SEANF, can have an impact on the organization, human
resources, financing mechanisms, and M&E system of a sector. Under these circumstances,
scaling-up a program massively, while trying to improve quality and efficiency, is a daunting task.

79. Institutional change should be carefully managed to limit impact on program objectives.
The transfer of DLCA from the MEFP to the MOE contributed to the lack of project
implementation for the first two years. The Government will need to carefully manage the
transition between DLCA and the Literacy Agency, technically and administratively, but also
with regard to how this transfer is communicated to staff. More transparency on the preparation
of the Literacy Agency would help reduce DLCA staff uncertainty about their jobs in the future.

80. Before a project begins, it is essential to undertake an appraisal of the capacities of the
implementing agency. This lesson drawn from the BAJ Education project experience (cf. ICR,
2004) is also valid for this project. With the transfer of the DLCA to the MOE, the capacity to
implement the project changed and should have been reassessed. This would have helped
identify DLCA's needs for support in terms of project administration and procurement, but also
on technical aspects, which could have led the Bank to recommend the help of one or two full
time qualified staff or consultant to the DLCA, and to include fiduciary specialists more often in
missions.

81. Candor should be used to assess PDO and Implementation Progress (IP) during project
supervision. Assessing the PDO and IP with candor early on would have helped recognize the


                                                                                                15

project as a problem project, thereby motivating the team to provide a stronger and more effective
response to the lack of progress on project implementation during the first two years.

82. It is not possible to test approaches under a LIL without an adequate M&E system.
Building an effective M&E system is a pre-requisite, and should have been included in the project
design. At project closing, the M&E system is still not operational. M&E tools have been
produced but their use at the local level is not complete. As a result, basic data are not
systemically collected, let alone analyzed.

83. When project outcomes largely depend on consulting services, it is necessary to analyze
both the international and the national market for these services during preparation. Based
on the findings, the Bank should agree with the Borrower on the share between national and
international consultants. Also, consultant selection methods should be in line with the size and
complexity of a project. Better use of the quality­cost based selection method should be made to
allow for a stronger focus on quality.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
N.A.

(b) Cofinanciers
N.A.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
N.A.




                                                                                          16

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                 Appraisal Estimate    Actual/Latest
          Components                                                      Percentage of
                                    (USD millions)    Estimate (USD
                                                         millions)         Appraisal

IMPROVING PROGRAM
QUALITY                                   3.79                1.20            31%

STRENGTHENING
MANAGEMENT OF THE                         0.76                1.60           210%
SYSTEM
EVALUATION AND
ANALYSIS                                  0.77                0.30            39%


            Total Baseline Cost           5.32                3.10            58%

Physical Contingencies                    0.00                0.00            0.00

Price Contingencies                       0.00                0.00            0.00
             Total Project Costs          5.32                3.10            58%
Front-end fee PPF                         0.00                0.00            .00
Front-end fee IBRD                        0.04                0.00            .00
      Total Financing Required            5.36                3.10            58%



(b) Financing
                                                    Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds              Type of      Estimate      Estimate  Percentage of
                                     Cofinancing      (USD         (USD       Appraisal
                                                    millions)     millions)
Borrower                             N.A.         1.26         1.53         121%

and Development
International Bank for ReconstructionN.A.         4.10         1.57         38%




                                                                                   17

Annex 2. Outputs by Component



Component/sub-       Targeted Outputs               Actual Outputs       Comments
component
Component 1:
Improving
Program Quality
1.1. Renovating
curricula and
teaching materials
(a) Analysis of      A needs assessment;            Competency-based      Difficulty in
literacy curricula   development of a               curriculum            selecting a
needs.               competency-based               completed in          consulting firm;
                     curriculum; evaluation of      December 2007.        first bid launched
                     existing curricula, definition                       in 2003 (was the
                     of TORs for activities 1.1.b.                        first project
                     and 1.1.c.                                           activity) but not
                                                                          successful;
                                                                          payment delays
                                                                          related to tax
                                                                          issue slowed
                                                                          down
                                                                          implementation.
(b) Revision and     8 literacy curricula revised,  8 Completed in 2005.  Given the delay
printing of existing and a teaching guide           These curricula have  in doing activity
literacy curricula   produced                       been used since 2006. 1.1. (a), it was
                                                    They are              decided not to
                                                    continuously          invest in
                                                    improved.             consulting
                                                    Teaching guide        services and
                                                    produced.             revisions were
                                                                          done by DLCA
                                                                          staff.
(c) Design of new    Design 3 new manuals for       Completed early
specialized literacy the craft industry, tourism    2007
curricula            and construction
(d) Document         Establish a document           Completed in
collection           collection, and set up         December 2007
                     collection management tools
                     for DLCA, researchers, and
                     service providers.
1.2 Strengthening
the teaching
capacity of service
providers
(a) Training of      2,400 trainers trained, esp.   1 800 trained.        Request for
literacy trainers    those of NGOs                  Completed between     proposals was
                                                    mid-2005 and in June  published twice;


                                                                                       18

                                                     2006                  First time, bids
                                                                           were too high;
                                                                           still, Number of
                                                                           trainees was
                                                                           reduced to match
                                                                           the budget
                                                                           allocation to this
                                                                           activity.
(b) Training of        Train 20 senior staff from    Completed in May
senior trainers for    DLCA at central and           2005
educational reform     provincial levels through a
                       3 year continuous education
                       program, including 5
                       workshops in Morocco; one
                       workshop in Canada
(b) (i) Training of                                  200 trained           Activity added
public providers                                     Completed in          during MTR
(other ministries) on                                September 2007
the use of the revised
curricula;
(b) (ii) Training of                                 100 trained.          Activity added
DLCA                                                 Completed in 2007     during MTR.
deconcentrated staff                                                       Done by DLCA
on use of teaching                                                         staff at a reduced
guide                                                                      cost.
(c) Professional       Develop a strategy, and       Not done
research and           create and publish quarterly
communication          newsletter
Component 2:
Strengthen
Management of the
system
2.1. Strengthening
administrative
management
capacity.
(a) Develop an         A plan for the                Plan was produced in  Contract was
implementation plan    deconcentration of the        early 2006, and       signed in early
for management of      coordination, monitoring      training was provided 2004.
the deconcentration    and evaluation of literacy    to regional and
effort.                projects to regional and      provincial staff of
                       provincial entities is        DLCA.
                       produced and implemented.
(b) Training for       Needs assessment and          Plan was produced in  As for activity
literacy project       training plan on              June 2004. 200        1.1. (a), payment
management             administrative and financial  managers were         delays related to
                       management of literacy        trained in 2006       tax issue slowed
                       projects produced. 200                              down
                       managers (DLCA personnel,                           implementation.
                       local offices of MEFP,
                       service providers) trained on


                                                                                        19

                    administrative and financial
                    management.
(c) Monitoring and  200 managers (DLCA             - tools to assess      Activity was
evaluation.         personnel, local offices of    quality of learning    redefined in
                    MEFP, service providers)       developed + training   March 2004 and
                    trained in M&E, and            of 100 central and     during MTR.
                    development of appropriate     deconcentrated
                    M&E tools.                     DLCA staff on the
                                                   use of the tools
                                                   completed in
                                                   December 2007.
                                                   - Guide for lit.
                                                   project monitoring
                                                   produced+ training
                                                   of 100 staff
                                                   Both completed in
                                                   December 2007
                                                   - purchase of
                                                   computers and
                                                   printers for DLCA
                                                   deconcentrated staff
                                                   (2006, 2007)
                                                   - GIS being
                                                   developed
2.2 Strengthening
Local Operations
(a) Literacy        160 persons (DLCA              Not done               First bid not
assessment training personnel, local offices of                           successful. Cost
                    MEFP, service providers)                              deemed too high
                    trained on survey methods                             for expected
                    to assess literacy levels.                            benefits.
(b) Post-literacy   A seminar on post-literacy     Seminar carried out
strategies          strategies (100 participants)  end 2006 to review
                    carried out,;                  national post-literacy
                    2 annual prizes (one           experiences. Post ­
                    researcher, one NGO)           literacy plan          Prize not deemed
                    established (with legal text). produced in 2007,      a priority.
                                                   and used.

                                                   Prizes not created.
(c) financing       Finance innovations            Small grants           Activity was
innovations         designed at the local level to provided to 21         redefined during
                    improve effectiveness of a     NGOs. Sub-project      MTR. Needs to
                    literacy project.              implementation still   be evaluated (not
                                                   ongoing.               planned)
                                                   Implementation
                                                   manual revised;
                                                   system of
                                                   classification and
                                                   qualification of
                                                   NGOs designed; will
                                                   be used in 2008.

                                                                                      20

Regular Evaluation 3 annual reports;    2 Reports were        Studies were
And Analysis Of    Studies              produced in           canceled during
Literacy Programs                       November 2007 and     MTR.
                                        December 2007.
                                        Final report expected
                                        soon.




                                                                        21

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

It can be observed that from 2003 to 2007, while the national budget allocated to the DLCA
remained constant, the total number of adult literacy learners was multiplied by 2.5 (Table 1).
This comparison however may be misleading as the DLCA budget does not finance equally the
four programs. The budget finances fully the NGO program and the campagne générale (run by
the MOE), and partially other public provider programs (curricula, some training and in some
cases trainers' fees) and the job-based program (curricula). However, the DLCA budget does not
cover the program of the Ministry of Habous and Religious Affairs in which the number of
people enrolled increased seven fold between 2003/04 and 2006/07 (from 19,960 to 137,970
people enrolled). Looking at the evolution of all other programs financed or partially financed by
DLCA, one can still notice a 33% increase of the number of people enrolled under a constant
budget.

In 1999/2000 the unit cost for the NGO-operated program was estimated at DH316 by the IIEP
study. A rough estimation of the evolution of this unit cost during the project implementation
period shows a decrease from DH 351 to DH 180 per enrolled person during 2003 and 2007.
This suggests that some important efficiency gains have resulted from improved program quality
and management.


                           Table 1: Evolution of the DLCA Budget and
                    Evolution of number of participants in literacy programs
                                2003       2004         2005         2006          2007       % Increase
                                                                                              2003-2007
 Budget (in million DH) 100. 6          88.2        92.9          103.0        103.0
 % increase in Budget       8.2%        -12.3%      5.3%          10.9         0%            2.3%
 Total Number of            286,425     450,335     469,206       655,478      709,155
 people enrolled
 % increase                 -5.62%      57%         4.2%          37%          8.2%          147%
 Number of people           [n.a]       430,373     447,659       522,202      571,183       33%
 enrolled, excluding the
 Religious Affairs
 Program
 Unit cost (in DH)           351 (*)    205         207           197          180
Source: DLCA, 2008
(*) based on the total number of people enrolled.




                                                                                           22

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members

           Names                         Title                 Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                           Specialty
Lending
Jeffrey Waite             Sr. Education Specialist           MNSHD TL
Dung-Kim Pham             Operations Officer                 MNSHD
Michel Welmond            Sr. Education Specialist                    TL
Monique Astalos           Consultant                                  Literacy
Ferid Belhaj              Lawyer

Meryem Benchemsi          Consultant                        MNCMA Financial
                                                                      Management
                          Lead Financial Management
Rafika Chaouli            Specialist                         MNAFM

Supervision/ICR
Michel Welmond            Sr. Education Specialist

Siaka Bakayoko            Sr. Financial Management
                          Specialist                         MNAFM

Meryem Benchemsi          Consultant                        MNCMA Financial
                                                                      Management
Fatiha Bouamoud           Executive Assistant               MNCMA
Ousmane Diagana           Country Manager                   AFMNE TL
Amadou Wade Diagne        Consultant                        AFCF1     Literacy/ M&E
Alaleh Motamedi           Sr. Procurement Specialist         MNAPR
Dung-Kim Pham             Operations Officer                 MNSHD
Maman Sidikou             Consultant                                  Literacy

Anas Abou El Mikias       Sr . Financial Management
                          Specialist                         MNAFM

Rachidi B. Radji          Sr. Human Development Specialist MNSHD TL



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                      No. of staff weeks     USD Thousands (including
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY02                                       11                          61.92
  FY03                                         3                         17.78
  FY04                                                                    0.00
  FY05                                                                    0.00
  FY06                                                                    0.00
  FY07                                                                    0.00
  FY08                                                                    0.00

                                                                                  23

                   Total:    14     79.70
Supervision/ICR
 FY02                                0.00
 FY03                        13     49.89
 FY04                        11     75.90
 FY05                        18     65.71
 FY06                        17     77.67
 FY07                        15     78.47
 FY08                         3     14.34

                   Total:    77    361.98




                                          24

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

                    Key Conclusions of the Project Impact Evaluation Study
ACTIVITY                   RESULTS
Component 1: Improving program quality

Competency based           DLCA staff: satisfied (97%) but 1/5 feels it cannot be easily used by
curriculum                 service providers, and trainers
                           Providers: satisfied (95%) and large majority feel that it can be easily
                           used. 94% feel it was used to revise the manuals.
Revised existing           DLCA staff. 85% feel that meet the needs and 68% feel that they are
curriculum                 used by the trainers.
                           Providers. 96% feel that revised manuals are always or very often
                           used by trainers
                           Trainers. 60% use them, and 32% often use them. 84% satisfied with
                           content and form of revised manuals.
Teaching guide             DLCA staff. Mixed results on the content, 96% think it is used by
                           trainers, 84% feel it meets the needs
                           Providers. Mixed results on content. But used, and overall deemed
                           useful to trainers (89%)
                           Trainers. Only 33% of them informed about the guide. 93% of those
                           informed feel it meets their needs. 33% always used it and 46% used
                           is often.
Specialized literacy       DLCA staff: feel they don't take into account sufficiently the need of
curricula (craft industry, the sectors.
tourism, construction)
Training on pedagogical    DLCA staff: 91% satisfied.
reform                     Providers: 95% NOT informed about the training. Among those who
                           participated, 78% satisfied.
Training of trainers       NGOs Trainers: 51% of total NGO trainers in the country benefited .
                           95% satisfied or very satisfied. Yet only 41%-49% feel that the
                           objectives of the training on andragogy, communication, and
                           monitoring have been fully met (41%-47%: partially met)
                           All trainers. Regarding training on M&E, 34% and 65% respectively
                           feel it fully and partially met its objective.

Component 2: Strengthen management of the system

Strengthening capacity     DLCA staff and public providers: 86% of satisfaction but large
for deconcentrated         regional disparities (less satisfaction in Fes Boulemane and Tadla
management                 Azial regions, and oly 50% among DCLA staff). More training on
                           monitoring and evaluation is requested.




                                                                                           25

Training for literacy       Low participation: 32% of DLCA staff and only 15% of providers
project management          surveyed said they participated in training on administration and
                            financial management of literacy projects. Were not informed.
                            Moreover among those informed, 77%-72% not consulted to design
                            training plan, and 64%-62% felt it was not adequate for their needs.
                            Yet, the number of projects analyzed by provider per year was
                            multiplied by 3 over 2002/03-2004/05.

Note: It is interesting to note that at times, the DLCA and the providers were out of touch with
the teachers/participants, as regarding the question related to the teaching guide: only 33% of
teachers knew about them, and of these, only 33% used them; yet the DLCA and the providers
were overwhelmingly convinced that the guides were used widely. There also appears to be low
interest in the management training provided despite its importance to the management
component of the project, but it is unclear whether this is because there was lack of commitment
on the part of the expected participants or if this suggested perceived low quality and/or relevance
of the proposed training.

Source: Adapted from: DLCA, IIHEM Conseil, Evaluation de l'Impact du projet Alpha Maroc
(Nov. 2007 and Dec. 2007). The study is based on a review of documentation (2002-2005), and
on a qualitative survey carried out in 12 regions among 100 DLCA staff, 300 service providers,
700 trainers, and 3000 beneficiaries (has been carried out at different times since 2006).




                                                                                              26

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results


N.A.




                                                    27

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Except for three activities still under implementation ((i) design and development of a
Geographic Information System for illiteracy, (ii) printing, and distribution of curricula
and (iii) small grants for NGO innovative projects) all planned activities were completed.

Project preparation, quality and content.          The project benefited from excellent
collaboration between the GOM and the Bank during preparation and appraisal. The
project responded to GOM's priorities.

Implementation was delayed due to: (i) a long preparation phase (2001-2003); (ii) no
budget allocation for recurrent expenditure linked to project activities; (ii) complex and
cumbersome IBRD procedures that were not mastered by DLCA; (iii) the need to use
concomitantly national and IBRD procedures; (iv) multiples changes of the DLCA
institutional framework; and (v) the qualitative nature of project activities which made
implementation relatively difficult.

PDO achievement. The project targeted the poorest zones and zones where illiteracy
rates are highest; gender was also taken into account. The PDO is seen as being largely
met given the expansion of literacy programs: the enrollment rate in literacy programs
increased from 470,000 in 2004/2005 to 709,000 in 2007.              This reflects (i) the
Government's awareness raising efforts, (ii) a strategy based on partnership and the
mobilization of all the actors of the four programs, as well as a focus on improving the
quality of the programs. Concerning the project outcome, the BA indicates that the
average dropout rate remained around 11% between 2003 and 2005, compared to 20%
before 2003.

Bank Performance. The performance of the Bank in assuring quality at entry is rated
satisfactory. The Bank encouraged innovation throughout the life of the project and
sought to draw lessons about alternative mechanisms for literacy programs that are
developed in partnership between the private and public sectors and NGOs, and lessons
about the best international practices in implementing (NGO sub-projects) and the
integration of a competency-based approach for literacy programs. The quality of Bank
supervision is rated satisfactory. Supervision missions were conducted regularly with
adequately staffed teams. The mission findings brought forth issues that were critical to
monitoring the project's performance.

Borrower's performance is rated satisfactory. Overall DLCA implemented project
activities in a satisfactory manner. Government participation in the project preparation is
rated satisfactory.    The Ministry of Finance adequately ensured the Government's
contribution to the project, followed up and submitted the audit reports carried out by the
General Inspectorate of Finance.

Nevertheless, because certain actions or tools were only recently put in place, or recently
completed due to delays in the execution of these activities, as mentioned earlier, it is
likely that their effects on the quality of the programs will not be seen until at their full
completion, i.e. in less than one trimester.


                                                                                     28

The loan disbursement level is considered moderately satisfactory. Difficulties became
apparent and were, as indicated earlier, likely due to a number of factors related to the
nature of the project, the institutional framework of DLCA and to the commitment and
payment cycle of the Government

Lessons learned. Planned activities were not implemented early enough to allow for an
evaluation of their impact on the ground, but it is clear that the project contributed
significantly to the creation of a positive dynamic by laying a strategic path for the sector
that will promote the quality of literacy programs in Morocco.

Unfortunately, inefficiencies were noticed in project administration, namely these relate
to delays in implementing planned project activities. This is due to several factors:

   - The non-mastery of World Bank procedures and their incompatibility with
       national procedures;
   - Institutional instability in the sector at the start of the project; and
   - The innovative nature and the complexity of actions in the project framework
       (studies, NGO pilot projects, designing and setting up of the tools ...) made it
       difficult to identify resource people with the requisite competencies and
       leadership skills.




                                                                                      29

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N.A.




                                                                     30

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


World Bank

World Bank ( 2002) Project Appraisal Document, Alpha Maroc Project, Report No. 23918-
MOR

World Bank (2004) Implementation Completion Report, Social Priorities Program (BAJ) Basic
Education Project, Report No28397-MOR.


Government

International Institute For Education Planning, UNESCO (Sept. 2002) Evaluation des
programmes d'alphabéstisation des Adultes au Maroc

DLCA, IIHEM Conseil, Evaluation de l'Impact du projet Alpha Maroc (Nov. 2007). Rapport
final de la Phase II, Evaluation continue du projet

DLCA, IIHEM Conseil, Evaluation de l'Impact du projet Alpha Maroc (Dec. 2007). Rapport
final de la Phase III, Evaluation continue du projet

Royaume du Maroc, Conseil Supérieur de l'enseignement, Etat et perspectives du système
d'Education et de Formation. Rapport annuel, 2008.

Royaume du Maroc, Ministère de l'Education nationale, rapport d'achèvement et de résultats,
March 2008.




                                                                                       31

