Document of                  FILE COpy
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL, USE ONLY
Report No. P--2985-TU
REYioRT aND RECOMMENDATION
i-xESTDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR A
SECOND FRUIT AND VEGETABLE PROJECT
March 10, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TURKEY
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      Calendar 1978      July 1979      Jan. 1980 /1    Februar  19
US Dollar l    -      TL 24.28        TL 47.10 /2    TL 70.0 /3       TL 96.00 /3
TL 1           -     US$ 0.04         US$ 0.02        US$ 0.01        US$ 0.01
/1 Since January 1980 the rate is being adjusted for the differential
inflation between Turkey and its major trading partners. TL 78/$1 was used
for this report.
/2  Except for imports of crude oil, petroleum products and fertilizer raw
materials, and exports of agricultural products benefitting from official
price supports, for which it was TL 35 - US$1.00.
.L Except for imports of fertilizers and insecticides/pesticides, as well as
raw materials and inputs for their manufacture, for which the rate was
TL 55 - US$1.00, TL 70.0 - US$1.00 as from October 1980, TL 78.6 - US$1.00
from January 31, 1981.
FISCAL YEAR
Republic of Turkey             March 1 to February 28
Turkiye Cumhuriyeti Ziraat
Bankasi (TCZB)               January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
cMO      -   Central Marketing Organization
GDU      -   General Directorate of Agricultural Affairs of NAF
GDAR     -   General Directorate of Agricultural Research of MAF
GDPPQ    -   General Directorate of Plant Protection and
Quarantine of MAF
GOT      -   Government of Turkey
NAF      -   Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
MEYSEB   -   General Directorate of Fruit and Vegetable Export
Development Projects of NAF
RMC      -   Regional Marketing Corporation
SEE      -   State Economic Enterprise
SIS      -   State Institute of Statistics
SOF      -   Special Operational Fund
SPO      -   State Planning Organization
TCZB     -   Agricultural Bank of Turkey (Turkiye Cumhuriyeti Ziraat
Bankasi)
TOPRAKSU -   General Directorate of Land and Water -Resources
Development, Ministry of Village Affairs
TZ       -   Agricultural Extension Service of GDAA of MAF
(Teknik Ziraat)
TZDK     -   Agricultural Supply Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TURKEY
SECOND FRUIT AND VEGETABLE PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                   Republic of Turkey
Beneficiaries:              (i) General Directorate of Fruit and Vegetable
Export Development Projects (MEYSEB) and (ii) the
Agricultural Extension Service (Teknik
Ziraat--TZ), in the Ministry of Agriculture and
Forestry (MAF); (iii) Agricultural Bank of Turkey
(Turkiye Cumhuriyeti Ziraat Bankasi--TCZB); and
(iv) the State Planning Organization (SPO)
Loan Amount:                US$40 million equivalent in various currencies.
Terms and Conditions:    17 years including 4 years grace, with interest at
9.6 percent.
Relending Terms:            The Borrower will onlend US$28.1 million equi-
valent to TCZB, for a similar period, at an
interest rate which will allow TCZB a spread of
3.5 percent on all its onlending in the project;
the Borrower will assume the foreign exchange risk.
The Project:                The project's major objective is to help Turkey
gradually realize its export potential int fruits
and vegetables through: (a) increasing the
production of fruits and vegetables in those areas
most suited to horticultural production;
(b) creating a nucleus of marketing organizations
in the private sector to facilitate increased
export earnings through fruit and vegetable
exports; and (c) formulating a master plan for a
further integrated development of the
horticultural sector. The project covers the
first four and a half years of a nine and a half
year development program designed to achieve these
objectives.
To ensure increased production, the project will
support the establishment of 7 new nurseries, 500
citrus and 350 noncitrus orchards (2.5 ha each),
and 1400 small citrus and non-citrus orchards (0.5
ha each), 100 vineyards and 150 greenhouses,
besides providing operating credit to support 850
existing vegetable farms and 1,500 orchards, and
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
helping integrate applied research with extension
to ensure the dissemination of its benefits. The
training and visit extension system developed by
MEYSEB under the First Fruit and Vegetable Project
(Ln. No. 762/Cr. 257-TU) will be strengthened in
the three provinces included in that project, and
expanded to cover seven new provinces. To help
increase exports, the project will establish one
central and four regional marketing organizations,
to rationalize the marketing abroad of fruits and
vegetables and develop a national strategy for
expanding such exports. The project will also
cover provision of working capital to existing
processing and packing facilities to enable them
to utilize their installed capacity fully.
Assistance for studies and the preparation of a
master plan for a rational future development of
the horticultural sub-sector is also envisaged.
Additional production resulting from the project
will increase the supply of quality fruits and
vegetables for both exports and domestic consump-
tion, gradually increase Turkey's export earnings,
and benefit some 7,000 farm families in the
project area through higher and more evenly
distributed incomes. Though the project is not
aimed specifically at small farmers, it is
expected that about 28 percent of the subborrowers
will be at, or below, the relative rural poverty
level. In addition, it will benefit some 28,000
families providing labor, and indirectly the
suppliers of goods and services widely scattered
through the project area, especially those dealing
with machinery services, inputs distribution and
downstream packing and trading activities.
The risks are; possible delays in the appointment
of required specialists whose input is critical
for project implementation; inadequate coverage of
the extension services due to insufficient
operating budgets; and a time lag in the exporter
acceptance of marketing organizations. However,
these are normal risks inherent in projects of
this type. With the measures proposed to minimize
them, they are acceptable.



Estimated Cost:
Local    Foreign    Total
------ US$ Million --
Investment credit                          15.9       10.8      26.7
Production credit                           8.2        4.5       12.7
Technical support services                 13.6        9.7       23.3
and training
Agroindustry working capital                2.3        4.5        6.8
Marketing Organizations                     4.3        1.8        6.1
Studies and Master Plan                     0.6        1.0        1.6
44.9      32.3       77.2
Price Contingency                          18.1       11.7       29.8
Total Project Cost                         63.0       44.0      107.0
Financing Plan;
Local    Foreign    Total
…-- US$ Million ------
Bank                                                 40.0       40.0
TCZB                                       22.4        -         22.4
Government                                 19.4       4.0        23.4
Sub-borrowers                              15.3        -         15.3
Shareholders                                5.9        -          5.9
63.0    44.0        107.0
Disbursements:
US$ Million
Bank FY    82    83    84    85    86
Annual        5.5   7.5   9.6  12.1   5.3
Cumulative   5.5  13.0  22.6  34.7  40.0
Economic Rate of
Return:                          About 25 percent
Appraisal Report:                No. 3203a-TU, dated March 4, 1981.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRI)
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR A SECOND FRUIT AND VEGETABLE PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Turkey for the equivalent of US$40 millicon to help
finance a four and one-half year time slice of the Borrower's nine and
one-half year program for fruit and vegetable development. The loan would
have a term of 17 years including 4 years grace, with interest at: 9.6
percent per annum. The equivalent of US$28.1 million would be onlent to
the Agricultural Bank of Turkey (TCZB) for 17 years, including 4 years of
grace, at an interest rate which would leave TCZB with a gross spread of at
least 3.5 percent on Bank funds it will onlend to its sub-borrowers.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       A Special Economic Mission visited Turkey in April/May 1979 to
evaluate the Fourth Five-Year Plan (1979-1983). Its report entitled
"Turkey: Policies and Prospects for Growth" (No. 2657a-TU dated December
12, 1979) was distributed to the Executive Directors on December 26, 1979
and its Postscript on March 24, 1980. A small mission visited Turkey in
May 1980 to update information and Bank analysis of the country's economic
prospects. its findings are reflected below. Annex I contains the Basic
Country Data.
Development Trends and Policies
3.       As the result of a strong commitment to rapid growth and moderni-
zation, GDP increased at an average annual rate of 6.4 percent, 6.7 percent
and 7.2 percent respectively, during the First Plan (1963-67), Second Plan
(1968-1972), and Third Plan (1973-1977) periods. This compares favorably
with the experience of 55 "middle income" developing countries, whose GDP
growth averaged a little under 6.0 percent per annum between 1960-1978.
Moreover, the relatively high growth rate in Turkey was achieved without
significant deposits of oil or other important natural resources.
4.       Growth was accompanied by significant social changes.  Although
population grew annually at 2.5 percent, rapid GDP growth allowed
substantial advances in per capita income. However, rising income levels
were not accompanied by better income distribution. Although basic needs
have been met, significant sectoral and regional inequalities in income
continue.
1/ This Part is identical to Part I of the President's Report on the Labor
Intensive Industry Project (P-2956-TU) dated February 11, 1981.



- 2-
5.       The public sector has played a key role in Turkey's development.
Between 1963-1977, its share in total fixed investment fluctuated around 50
percent, and its share of fixed investment in manufacturing increased from 21
to nearly 49 percent. The public sector dominates basic industries. Never-
theless, the private sector has emerged as an increasingly important and
dynamic element in the economy and is beginning to shift its orientation from
consumer goods to intermediate and investment goods, and from the domestic
market to exports. Private sector investment increased at nearly 11.5 percent
per year in real terms during 1967-1977 compared to an average annual increase
of only 4.8 percent between 1963 and 1967.
6.       Turkish development between 1963-1977, however, exhibited a number of
structural characteristics which are of considerable relevance for future
development policy. First, for a country of Turkey's size and per capita
income, it has a very low level of exports relative to GDP--about 4 percent in
1977--as against a more or less "normal" import level of around 20 percent for
middle income countries; this highlights the vulnerability of the balance of
payments and the importance of export development to sustain the needed inflow
of foreign exchange resources. Second, while the level of investment relative
to GDP increased rapidly and compares favorably with other developing
countries, mobilization of domestic savings has lagged; the ratio of domestic
savings to GDP, is well below the average for middle income countries; the
growing gap between domestic savings and investment led in the mid-1970s to a
relatively high level of external borrowing, and domestic inflationary
pressures emanating from excess demand and deficit financing. Third, a
relatively high proportion of the labor force is still in agriculture, reflec-
ting significant disguised unemployment and the need for accelerated job
creation in non-agricultural activities; that in industry is low compared to
other large middle income countries; furthermore, the relatively inadequate
generation of additional employment has become more serious following the near
cessation of workers' migration to Europe since 1974. Fourth, despite the
growing dynamism of the private sector, the industrial scene is dominated by
inefficient State Economic Enterprises (SEEs) which have not been exposed to
market forces and serve not only economic but social goals; their growing
deficits have imposed an inflationary burden on the budget, while their ambi-
tious investment programs were financed through Central Bank borrowings, since
their controlled prices have, until recently, not enabled most of them to
generate sufficient cash to cover costs or investment expenditures. Fifth,
due to the successes achieved since the early sixties through economic
planning, there has been an increasing tendency to plan to a micro-level and
seek to achieve changes through administrative fiat; however, the economy has
reached a stage where such excessive reliance on this becomes counter produc-
tive; planning needs to be increasingly geared towards setting a framework in
which market forces could secure the desired economic results in both the
public and private sectors.
The Economic Crisis and Stabilization Efforts
7.       These institutional and structural characteristics of the economy
made it particularly vulnerable to the sharp increase in import prices (inclu-
ding oil) in 1974 and the simultaneous occurence of recession, inflation and



rising unemployment in the industrial countries. These factors played a key
part in the deterioration of the economy. However, the politically weak
governments, their policies in response to these factors and their efforts to
pursue a high growth policy despite the worsening international environment
through increasing reliance on short-term external financing, together created
forces that brought about the economic crisis in mid-1977 which is still con-
tinuing. The detailed analysis oG this crisis, and of Turkey's attempts to
stabilize the economy in the short-run up to late 1979, is provided in the
abovcmn^tioned Special Economic Report and Postscript, as well as in paras. 8
to 15 of the President's Report (dated February 29, 1980) for the Structural
Adjustment Loan approved by the Board on March 25, 1980.
8.        Despite domestic and international efforts, 1979 was another diffi-
cult year for the economy; production stagnated, unemployment increased,
inflation accelerated, the balance of payments position remained tight, export
performance was poor, severe import rationing continued and the external debt
position remained precarious. Policy initiatives taken till then proved
inadequate to reverse the tide, as political and economic uncertainties con-
tinued to erode the impact of the measures taken.
9.        Compared to a growth of 3 percent in 1978, GDP stagnated in 1979.
Value added in agriculture increased by 2.5 percent, and in services by about
I percent, but in industry value added declined by about 2 percent. In agri-
culture, further growth was held back by a sizeable decline in production of
industrial crops, mainly cotton, and a bad olive crop; the area cultivated
declined, due to shortages of fuel and fertilizers. In industry, worsening
shortages of imported raw materials and energy, especially oil, led to a
decline in production of about 3.5 percent.  Production of manufacturing SEEs
declined by about 2 percent, and was manifested by decreases oif 28 percent in
cement production, 9 percent in steel production and 51 percent: in certain
petroleum production and processing operations. In contrast, t-he construction
and transport sectors grew modestly, but insufficiently to overcome the
decline in other sectors. This stagnation was accompanied by unprecedented
inflation of about 65 percent in 1979.
10.      The overall public sector deficit increased from TL 80 billion in
1978 to TL 132 billion in 1979. It was financed mainly by borrowing from the
Central Bank (TL 70 billion). The consolidated budget and the operations of
the SEEs were almost equally responsible for the enlarged deficit. The
deterioration in the consolidated budget was caused mainly by a sharp increase
in transfers to the SEEs, which in 1979 amounted to TL 89 billion.
II.      On the external account, there was a marginal decline in the value of
recorded exports of goods to $2.3 billion, although in volume terms, exports
actually declined by an estimated 17 percent. The value of merchandise
imports was about 10 percent higher than the previous year at $5.1 billion;
but due to substantial price increases, the volume is estimated to have
declined by 19 percent. The current account deficit in 1979 was the same as
in 1978, i.e. around $1.7 billion.



12.      Turkey achieved some success in diversifying the sources, and
increasing the level, of M&LT commitments, including $250 million in project
credits from the Saudi Fund. Perhaps the most important arrangement arrived
at was the May 1979 OECD sponsored pledging of $1.45 billion in special assis-
tance, including about $900 million in M&LT bilateral credits and export
credits, besides $407 million of medium-term credits from commercial banks
(finalized in September 1979). However, actual capital inflows were about the
same as the previous year (see para. 18 for rescheduling in 1980).
13.      Also, throughout 1979, Turkey made a major effort to alleviate the
critical burden of external debt through: (a) slowing the growth of shortterm
liabilities; (b) debt relief arrangements; and (c) efforts to pursue new
sources of credits, especially M&LT credits. The first debt relief operation,
arranged through the OECD Consortium for Turkey in May 1978, involved consoli-
dation of $1.14 billion in arrears on guaranteed short-term and bilateral M&LT
debt, as well as amounts due over the thirteen month period May 21, 1978 to
June 30, 1979. A second major rescheduling took place in July 1979, involving
payments of about $1.02 billion on official bilateral and private guaranteed
credits due between July 1, 1979 and June 30, 1980. A third major arrange-
ment, finalized in July and August 1979 with commercial banks, rescheduled
convertibfe lira deposits ($2.3 billion), banker's credits ($429 million) and
third party reimbursement credits ($300 million). About $317 million in oil
debt was also rescheduled. The total amount thus rescheduled was about $5.5
billion. This was perhaps the largest debt rescheduling operation anywhere.
Even so, net arrears of about $500 million emerged given the remaining high
debt service burden in 1979.
January 1980 Structural Adjustment Program and Policy Objectives
14.      Against this background, it was quite clear that drastic and painful
stabilization measures were not enough to reverse the adverse economic tide.
What was needed, was a major program of long-term structural adjustments, if
the economy was first to be nursed back to normalcy and then to resume viable
growth. Such a bold and far-reaching program of policies to effect structural
adjustments in the economy over the medium term was announced on January 25,
1980, accompanied by initial measures to implement adjustments in certain
critical areas. These were described and discussed in detail in the Presi-
dent's Report (No. P-2725-TU dated February 29, 1980) for the Structural
Adjustment Loan. The policy objectives underlying the program, and the
measures it initiated, represent a basic departure from past planning objec-
tives. Turkey has undertaken, through it, the essential first steps to foster
major structural and institutional changes in the key economic areas.
15.      The program's stated goal of "bringing about a major reorientation of
the economy" calls for; (i) greater reliance on market mechanisms and forces,
by both the public and private sectors; (ii) reduction in the rate of infla-
tion; (iii) improved management of the balance of payments and external debts;
(iv) policies to encourage the public and private sectors to be efficient and
internationally competitive; (v) the implementation of rational exchange rate



policies and of measures encouraging exports; (vi) domestic resource mobiliza-
tion efforts to be substantially augmented through increased tax efforts,
realistic SEE pricing, and increased private savings via the banking system
and the development of financial markets; (vii) an investment po:Licy aimed at
fuller utilization of existing productive capacity and completion of ongoing
projects requiring modest inputs, and tailored to scarce resources; and
(viii) conditions to stimulate foreign investments in oil, industry and agri-
culture.
16.      Successful implementation of this program over the medium-term, will
require persistence and courageous action on the part of the Government. It
will also call for substantial support from the international coimmunity, with-
out which it is unlikely to succeed. However, if Turkey implements it vigor-
ously, and periodically makes critical in-depth reviews as to the impact of
the measures and what further modifications and adjustments are needed to
achieve the program's economic goals, it will strengthen the basis for
Turkey's creditworthiness and re-establish a path of stable economic growth.
17.      Following the announcement of this program, the IMF approved a modi-
fication of the terms of the July 1979 Standby Arrangement and the release of
larger second and third tranches on February 21 and March 24, 1980. In addi-
tion, SDR 71.6 million ($93 million) in compensatory financing for export
shortfalls was provided on February 21, 1980, together with the modification
of the Standby. Together, this resulted in the provision of $301 million (SDR
231.6 million), with the remaining $26 million (SDR 20 million) to be provided
in June. However, on June 18, this Standby was cancelled. Instead, the IMF
Board approved a new three-year Standby Arrangement involving SDR 1.25 billion
($1.63 billion), with SDR 460 million ($600 million) in the first year, SDR
400 million ($522 million) in the second year and SDR 390 million ($509
million) in the third year. The key conditions of the new Standby are that;
(i) exchange rate policy is to be kept more flexible; (ii) the financial
position of the public sector is to be improved, mainly as a result of the
restructuring of the operational policies of the SEEs; (iii) monetary condi-
tions are to be kept extremely tight, as a result of the observance of limits
on Central Bank lending; and (iv) interest rates are to be adjusted to reflect
market conditions.
18.      In addition, Germany took the lead in organizing the provision of
sizeable external assistance, as well as a further debt relief operation. In
meetings under OECD auspices in March and April, $1.16 billion of bilateral
aid was pledged, with much more rapid disbursements than in 1979. The Bank
also supported OECD's and IMF's efforts through a $200 million Structural
Adjustment Loan in March 1980. Furthermore, about $2.5 billion in service
payments to OECD countries on public and publicly-guaranteed debts falling due
prior to June 1983 were rescheduled, again under OECD auspices, in July 1980.
This included all arrears up to June 30, 1980, payments due prior to June 1983
on debt not previously rescheduled, and payments due up to June 1981 on debt
already rescheduled in 1978 or 1979. Ninety percent of these sums were
rescheduled over 8 to 10 years, including 4 to 5 years of grace. With these
developments, Turkey secured debt relief estimated at $1.1 billion in 1980 and



another $0.8 billion in 1981, with smaller amounts thereafter. The only size-
able new commitment in recent months has been a $250 million cash loan on 15
year low-interest terms from Saudi Arabia, of which $100 million has been dis-
bursed, with another $100 million scheduled for December and the balance for
March 1981. Turkey has approached leading commercial banks to secure a
softening of the terms of the August 1979 rescheduling agreement. After con-
siderable delay due to wariness on the part of banks both of a new reschedu-
ling and, to some extent, of extending new credit to Turkey, a modest syndi-
cated loan is under discussion. The Government will try to reduce to the
extent possible the current and prospective large net outflow of funds to the
commercial banks.
Economic Developments in 1980 and Outlook for 1981
19.      As expected, the initial impact of the January 1980 package has been
to exacerbate many of the economic pressures. Uncertainty about the course of
future policies and about the timing and pace of economic recovery, as well as
tight monetary conditions aimed at reducing aggregate demand, have slowed
investments and economic growth. Devaluation and the removal of price con-
trols on both private business and SEEs, while necessary to alleviate allo-
cative distortions in the economy, contributed to a large initial upsurge in
the rate of inflation. Also as expected, the financial rehabilitation of the
SEEs and their reorientation to market conditions has only begun, and will
require more fundamental changes than price liberalization alone over the
medium term. Budgetary transfers to the SEEs to cover remaining operating
subsidies and investment expenditures have continued to rise. The budget
position as a whole continues to be weak. It is still too early to say
whether the initial adjustment phase is over. However, preliminary data
suggest that the worst may be past. Inflation has come down sharply, and
indeed more rapidly than expected (next paragraph); the impact of higher
import prices (especially for oil) has been alleviated (though so far only for
1980) by a commensurate increase in capital inflows; and 1980 saw a very
modest resumption of economic growth.
20.      For the full year, GDP growth is likely to be between zero and 2 per-
cent, with growth in agriculture of about 2.5 percent, but stagnation in
industry. Public investment has continued to fall in real terms for lack of
financial resources, and private investment remains depressed. Unemployment
is still rising, and real disposable incomes are falling. As mentioned above,
inflation--which averaged over 100 percent on an annual basis in early
1980--has since slowed considerably, and expectations are that over the
remainder of this year it will be about 2 percent per month. The fiscal and
monetary situation remains difficult. There has been a substantial increase
in Government expenditures over previous forecasts, in line with inflation.
However, there is evidence of tax revenues lagging behind inflation, and sub-
stantial arrears have built up in tax collection. SEE operations will show a
small profit this year after several years of mounting deficits. However, to
finance their investments and debt repayments, budgetary transfers to SEEs
will rise again to TL 138 billion. As a result, the budget deficit is likely
to be TL,155 billion in spite of a further accumulation of Government arrears



- 7 -
vis-a-vis the private sector. Pressures have therefore built ul? to expand
Central Bank credit, which is strictly limited under the IMF Standby Arrange-
ment. Nevertheless, the first discussions under the Standby were satisfac-
torily concluded at the end of August, and the second drawing was made avail-
able on schedule on September 29. However, IMF Board agreed to a small
increase in the ceilings on Central Bank net domestic assets and credit to the
public sector to accommodate crop purchases by the Soil Products Office
(particularly of wheat) without impinging on the availability of financing for
the pzi_'ate sector, especially for exports.
21.       The balance of payments position remains quite tight.  Over the first
eight months of 1980, the value of merchandise exports was only 6 percent
higher than in the corresponding period of 1979. However, taking into account
the seasonal rise in agricultural exports, the end of various labor disputes
in industry, and the risil.g trend in production, and provided markets recently
established in the Middle East are not long disrupted by the Iran-Iraq war,
the Government projects exports of $2.8 billion for the year as a whole, com-
pared to $2.3 billion last year. While the value of merchandise imports is
expected to be considerably higher than in 1979--$6.7 billion (including $3.2
billion for oil) as against $5.1 billion, the volume increase will be negli-
gible due to increases in import prices, especially for oil. As a result,
fairly severe import rationing continues. Workers' remittances have increased
strongly this summer and should reach $1.8 billion for the year as a whole.
Even so, it is estimated that the current account deficit will increase from
$1.7 billion in 1978 and 1979 to $3.1 billion in 1980. Capital inflows will
also be higher than last year, with gross public M&LT disbursements expected
to be about $2.2 billion, given the Government's concerted effort to disburse
the pipeline of OECD sponsored external assistance pledged in F[ay 1979 and
April 1980. Moreover, the massive July rescheduling (para. 18) has eased the
external debt position considerably.
22.       The outlook for 1981 is slightly more promising, although the balance
of payments position is likely to remain extremely difficult. It is too early
to predict the impact the Iran-Iraq war may have, given that these two
countries normally provide nearly 55 percent of Turkey's oil imports on favor-
able terms. Assuming the impact can be mitigated, the growth rate of real GDP
is projected to be about 3 percent, with value added in agricu]ture and
industry growing on the order of 3 and 4 percent respectively. Investment is
likely to grow only by about 1 percent, after real falls in recent years. The
Government hopes to reduce the rate of inflation substantially again. The
external position is expected to remain tight. Exports should grow by about
20 percent to $3.4 billion, and imports by about 16 percent to $7.8 billion,
in nominal terms. As in 1980, the volume increase in imports is likely to be
negligible due to increases in import prices, especially for oil, and hence
import rationing will have to continue. With only a modest rise in service
receipts and workers' remittances, the current account deficit in 1981 is
expected to be $3.6 billion, or $500 million more than in 1980. Turkey has
already begun to make preparations to meet the very large financing gap in
1981, and hopes to secure considerably higher capital inflows than in 1980,
particularly gross public M&LT disbursements which need to be iaround $3.5
billion. Apart from the Bank, IMF and commercial bank loans arranged or being
processed, the Government intends to seek further special aid from OECD
members in 1981.



- 8-
Turkey's Medium-Term Economic Prospects
23.      The international oil situation, following the substantial end-1979
price increases, has a major impact on future prospects. Even if Turkey
allows only a marginal increase in oil imports during 1980-1985 to sustain a
gradual resumption of growth, the oil import bill is estimated to increase
from $3.2 billion in 1980 to $6.1 billion by 1985; as a percentage of merchan-
dise exports and non-factor services, this is equivalent to about 83 percent
in 1980 and is likely to remain at about 70 percent until 1985. The pressure
this will exert on Turkey's already difficult balance of payments position is
obvious. The projected current account deficit as a percent of GNP in current
dollars increased from 3 percent in 1979 to about 8 percent in 1980 and is
projected to remain at or above 5 percent until 1984. Considering the limita-
tion on available external assistance and given the need for continued sound
external debt management, Turkey can sustain the projected annual current
account deficits of the order of $3-3.5 billion annually in the short run,
given further quick-disbursing assistance in 1981; the deficits are projected
to decline to a sustainable $2.5 billion annually in the next few years.
24.      Taking into account international inflation and the substantial obli-
gations for debt amortization, despite the July 1980 debt rescheduling, this
situation necessitates a large and sharply increasing annual average gross
inflow of foreign capital, rising to $4 to 5 billion during the next five
years.   Such major inflows of foreign capital can only be sustained on the
basis of prudent external debt management. In any case, debt service obliga-
tions are likely to remain high over the coming 5 years. In 1979, total debt
service payments were 26 percent of exports of goods, non-factor services and
workers' remittances after rescheduling payments. The ratio is projected to
rise to around 45 percent in 1984, taking account of the July 1980 debt
rescheduling. This, however, should represent the culmination of the finan-
cial consequences of the present crisis and the debt burden should remain
manageable, provided the structural adjustment policies are successfully
implemented and the export drive is sustained.
25.      Given the accumulation of economic problems of the last three years,
the political difficulties, the significantly increased cost of oil imports,
and the difficulty of significantly increasing the net inflow of capital, Bank
projections suggest that GDP growth in real terms may average around 4 percent
p.a. with a real growth of exports about 9 percent p.a. during 1980-1985.
These growth rates appear attainable, assuming continuiation of appropriate
economic measures (including those announced in January 1980), and taking into
account the low export base and present underutilization of capacity.
26.      The recent political changes do not change these expectations regar-
ding economic developments. The military government which assumed power on
September 12 is determined to pursue the program of structural adjustments
announced in January 1980, as well as economic policies and commitments agreed
with the Bank, IMF and members of the OECD Consortium for Turkey. Indeed, two
days after the takeover, both the Bank and the IMF were officially informed of
this decision. A civilian Cabinet, responsible to the military's new National



- 9 -
Security Council, has been named, with the principal architect of the recent
economic policy reforms, Mr. Ozal, assuming the position of Deputy Prime
Minister for economic affairs. Its program confirms the commitment to con-
tinue implementing the January 1980 program, and the intention to introduce
those portions of it which have been blocked hitherto by deadlock in
Parliament.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY I/
27.      A large lending program for Turkey was begun following the intro-
duction of its 1970 Stabilization Program. To date, the Bank/ID)A have lent
$2,775 million, through 64 projects. Agriculture accounts for 22 percent of
funds lent, industry and DFCs for 35 percent, power for 13 percent and urban
development, transportation, education and tourism for the rest. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as
of January 31, 1981, with notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
28.      Since mid-1975 the implementation of private sector projects has been
satisfactory. Political uncertainty, limited coordination amongst ministries
and staffing problems resulted in uneven and delayed project implementation in
the public sector. Therefore, a system of joint project reviews between
Turkey and the Bank was instituted in June 1975. This resulted in distinct,
but modest, improvements up to end 1977. The situation was again reviewed
with the Government in March 1978, and further discussed with the then Prime
Minister in April 1978. Subsequently, Turkey established a new high-level
coordination team.  This team set up procedures for monitoring and achieving
realistic implementation and disbursement targets.  As of June 1980, disburse-
ments increased to 70 percent of appraisal estimates against 51 percent in
June 1975.  The encouraging progress allows cautious optimism that performance
can be gradually improved further, provided it is not eroded by the new
factors including shortages of resources.
29.      Bank lending is aimed at supporting the economic policies initiated
in January 1980, especially: (a) the pursuit of an export oriented develop-
ment strategy; and (b) domestic economic policies aimed at esta'blishing
macro-economic balance, increasing domestic savings, restraining public
investment and reorienting it to reflect the priorities implicit in the
present situation-especially completion of ongoing projects, emphasis on
quick-yielding new investments, and balance of payments impact. The Bank has
discussed with the Government how its overall lending can best contribute to
the latter's medium-term objectives, without projects being handicapped by
1/ This part is substantially the same as Part II of the President's Report
on the Labor Intensive Industry Project (P-2956-TU) dated February 11,
1981.



- 10 -
past policy and institutional obstacles. A series of proposed structural
adjustment loans are envisaged, at the Government's request, to support its
program of structural adjustments to be implemented in the medium-term,
through specific detailed measures and policy actions under the period that
may be covered by each such loan. Agriculture, industry and energy will be
the key sectors for project lending. In agriculture, projects emphasize live-
stock, exports, and rural development; in industry (including DFCs), the
emphasis is on promotion of exports and employment, as also the gradual
strengthening of the SEEs. Energy projects underway are in power generation
based on domestic hydro and lignite resources; future projects will emphasize
the oil/gas sub-sector. Projects for urban development and public utilities
supplement these efforts. We propose to maintain a close macroeconomic and
sector dialogue with Turkey. The economic and sector work planned over the
next several months includes special studies of the public investment program,
of industrialization and foreign trade strategy, and of the energy sector, and
completion of sector memoranda on agriculture and industry. In addition, the
progress made in fostering structural adjustment will be monitored in the
context of each future structural adjustment loan.
30.      A supplement to the Structural Adjustment Loan, the Bati Raman
Enhanced Oil Recovery Field Demonstration and Petroleum Exploration Projects
were approved by the Executive Directors in November 1980. A labor intensive
industry project was approved by the Executive Directors earlier this month.
Other projects likely to be presented this fiscal year include loans for
industrial finance, fertilizer industry rehabilitation, and a second
structural adjustment loan. Projects being processed for consideration in the
next fiscal year include: rural development, seed production, sewerage devel-
opment in Istanbul, paper and cement modernization and promotion of export-
oriented industries.
31.      The Bank Group's share of the estimated total external debt (inclu-
ding short-term obligations) was 8.0 percent in 1979, and is expected to grow
to 10.0 percent by 1981 and 12.5 percent by 1985. Its share of service pay-
ments is projected to fall slightly from 8.8 percent in 1979 to 6.4 percent in
1981, thereafter increasing to 7.6 percent by 1985.
32.      IFC has invested in synthetic yarns, pulp and paper, glass, aluminum,
iron and steel products, motor bicycle engines, piston rings and cylinder
liners, and tourism. It has also invested in the Industrial Development Bank
of Turkey (Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi--TSKB). As of January 31, 1981,
gross IFC commitments totalled about $212 million, of which $91 million were
still held by IFC. New investment opportunities are being pursued.
PART III - AGRICULTURE SECTOR AND
THE HORTICULTURE SUBSECTOR
Role and Recent Performance of the Agricultural Sector
33.      Between 1962 and 1979, the share of agriculture in GDP fell from 38
percent to 24 percent, in employment from 77 percent to 60 percent and in



- 11 -
exports from 77 percent to 60 percent. Thus agriculture still continues to
play a dominant role in the economy. However, the long-term trend continued
to be one of steady growth of 3.2 percent per annum, mainly through increased
irrigation, improved cultural practices and increased use of fertilizers.
Major agricultural exports include cotton, hazelnuts, tobacco, dried fruits,
and recently fruits and wheat. Between 1962 and 1979, agricultural export
earnings increased by 9.3 percenL per annum (p.a.).
34.      With its climatic, soil, water and human resources, Thrkey has con-
siderable potential for further expanding agricultural production and
exports. Constraints on agricultural growth and productivity are: (a) poor
utilization of irrigation capacity; (b) small and fragmented farm holdings;
(c) inadequately funded and poorly coordinated research and extension
services; (d) insufficient availability of credit; and (e) inadequate
marketing arrangements, e3pecially for export. Improvement in productivity
could be realized with more efficient allocation of investments, backed by
more coherent credit and price policies and support services.
The Horticultural Subsector
35.      With a climate distinctively suitable for horticultural crops, Turkey
produces a variety of fruits and vegetables in quantities sufficient for both
a large domestic consumption and exports. However, much needs to be done to
make full use of its comparative advantage in this subsector.   Due to the
location of major irrigation systems, fruit and vegetable production is
currently concentrated along the Mediterranean and Aegean coasts, with some
deciduous fruit and vegetable production in mountain valleys. The most
important fruits are grapes, citrus, and apples.
36.      Between 1969-79, fruit production increased at an average rate of 5.5
percent p.a. due largely to the growth in citrus production achieved partly as
a result of the Bank-assisted First Fruit and Vegetable Project (Loan
762-TU/Credit 257-TU); citrus production increased at about 9 percent p.a. and
vegetable production at 5.7 percent p.a. in the last six years of that period.
37.      Fruits and vegetables now represent about 18 percent of the total
value of agricultural production and more than a third of all agricultural
exports, although they occupy only 16 percent of the cultivated land area.
Except for citrus, growth in this subsector has been mainly due to increased
acreage, from 1.5 million ha in 1950 to 4 million ha in 1979, rather than a
notable increase in yields. Essentially, lack of credit, improved seeds and
propagation material, effective applied research, extension and training has
handicapped increased productivity. The long gestation period associated with
orchard establishment, and the negative cash flows in that period, tends to
discourage many farmers, especially small ones. This situation could however
be mitigated by supplementary income through careful intercropping with
seasonal vegetables under effective extension supervision, with their gradual
phasing out, as fruit trees grow in size.



- 12 -
38.      The production potential for fresh vegetables is quite good.  It
could be realized through increased cropping intensity, and increased use of
greenhouses and plastic row covers in open fields during the early season. A
major constraint is lack of quality seeds for high-yielding varieties. This
will be tackled under the proposed project by the use of imported seeds, and
nation-wide under a seeds project planned for FY82.
39.      Domestic consumption of fruits and vegetables is very high.  High
population growth, increasing urbanization and better living standards have
resulted in demand growing faster than production. However, Turkey has
established a modest position for its produce in East European and Middle
Eastern markets. Its share in Western Europe is low, but it has the potential
to increase it. The export of processed items, such as tomato paste, has also
been successfully developed in recent years. Annual exports of the subsector
fluctuate from year to year, depending on the availability of quality produce,
after satisfying increasing domestic demand. While in the short-run, Turkey
can and should export such produce at the expense of domestic consumption in
order to earn scarce foreign exchange, in the longer-run an increase in their
production, together with effective marketing, would provide a sound basis for
expanding exports in terms of both volume and value.
Sub-sectoral Institutions and Policies
40.      The responsibility for extension and research is fragmented among
several ministries and, even within the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
(MAF), among several agencies. Teknik Ziraat (TZ), within the General
Directorate of Agricultural Affairs (GDAA) of MAF is the main national agri-
cultural extension agency. GDAA is represented at the provincial level in all
the provinces and in some 4,200 village centers. But TZ especially lacks
trained horticultural staff. In connection with the First Project, a special
implementation unit, the General Directorate of Fruit and Vegetable Export
Development Projects (MEYSEB) was created within MAF, with a trained and
highly mobile technical staff of subject-matter specialists skilled in citrus
production and village foremen, to work in three provinces. Its training and
visit system of extension achieved notable success. Under the proposed
project, MEYSEB's services will be strengthened to cover horticultural
products other than citrus and expanded to more provinces. Besides this, it
will help develop TZ's capabilities to provide horticultural services in four
provinces.
41.      Agricultural research activities needed to back up extension, are
also fragmented and inadequately coordinated. MAF is involved in horti-
cultural research through its General Directorate of Agricultural Research
(GDAR) and the General Directorate of Plant Protection and Quarantine
(GDPPQ). However, commodity-oriented research programs, which are ambitious
considering available resources, are coordinated by individual research
institutes. To improve coordination between basic and applied research, and
to promote effective links between research and field extension the proposed
project includes special arrangements to support agricultural research,
extension and training.



- 13 -
42.      Fruit and vegetable marketing within Turkey is characterized by spot
purchases and consignment sales. While adequate within the domestic market,
where the trading system is well established and "lubricated" by long standing
commercial ties, it is inappropriate for export marketing which requires
consistent quality, attractive presentation and reliable delivery. The
Government has repeatedly tried to rationalize the production-marketing chain,
but with limited success. This is primarily because of the large number of
institutions involved in the chain. Agencies under different ministries are
responsible for issuing sanitary certificates, enforcing quality and packaging
standards, supplying market information, regulating communication and trans-
portation, importing inputs and equipment, and promoting exports. Additional
institutions are involved at the regional level to organize and coordinate the
activities of local traders and exporters, and transmit market information.
Overall coordination for promotion of exports of all Turkish products is the
responsibility of the State Planning Organization (SPO) and the Export
Encouragement and Development Department of the Prime Minister's Office.
43.      To encourage fruit and vegetable exports, the two most important
incentives recently provided by the Government are: (a) extension of the
foreign exchange retention scheme in May 1980 to fruits and vegetables
exports, which allows such exporters to retain 10 percent of their foreign
exchange earnings for their operational requirements; and (b) an interest
rebate of 8 percent on export financing credits. More recently, thie
Government has introduced income tax incentives, interest rate incentives to
encourage investment in cold storages and refrigerated fleet, and complete
prefinancing of imported and local materials needed for export operations.
While these incentives should help horticultural exports, Turkey cannot derive
the full benefits of its export potential in this subsector, unless a rational
marketing organization is installed. Technically, there are problems relating
to poor sorting and grading, improper packaging, storage and transit and
unreliable transport and deliveries. Export activity in the subsector is
presently characterized by a large number of firms engaged in internecine
competition in the same foreign markets. The lack of a cohesive national
marketing strategy for the subsector is another major constraint. The
formulation of such a strategy, the creation in the export market of a unified
brand name synonymous with quality, and the organization of the marketing
channels, are the key to accelerated export earnings.
Potential of the Horticultural Subsector
44.      The subsector's potential can be realized if major impediments are
alleviated. What is needed is increased production of quality fruits and
vegetables of the types in demand in export markets, through the improvement
of horticultural practices and provision of effective extension services. The
establishment of more nurseries for better root and bud-stock, will result in
substantial improvements in the performance of the subsector. The improvement
of grading, packing methods, the import of better quality packaging materials
and the formation of marketing organizations to provide centralized marketing
services, will help increase horticulture exports.



- 14 -
The Financial Intermediary; Turkiye Cumhuriyeti Ziraat Bankasi (TCZB)
45.       TCZB channels about 99 percent of institutional credit to agri-
culture. Its authorized capital is TL 15 billion, of which TL 3.5 billion has
been paid-in. Its management is competent. Its higher pay and benefits
permit it to attract and retain qualified staff. TCZB holds large non-
interest-bearing government deposits and enjoys access to Central Bank redis-
counts and advances. TCZB's net banking income has grown 20 percent p.a. Its
profitability is expected to remain satisfactory and its lending volume high
over the next few years despite continuing high, though gradually declining,
inflation.
46.       Overall, institutional credit still remains insufficient; until
recently, it was relatively inaccessible to small farmers. This has resulted
partly because TCZB's resources have remained inadequate, despite their rapid
growth, but mainly because of its past strict collateral requirements. The
Agricultural Credit Law of April 1979 and TCZB'S June 1979 guidelines have
however liberalized lending policies towards small farmers and cooperatives,
by incorporating some of the suggestions made by the Bank to the Government
and TCZB over the last few years. Lending based on viable investments and
farm plans, has been made the main vehicle for credit to agriculture.
Collateral requirements have been liberalized and increased reliance placed
upon the use of co-signatories and, nominally, on chattel mortgages. As a
result, TCZB's lending is now sufficiently oriented towards small farmers.
47.       Interest rates have traditionally played a relatively minor role in
Turkey in resource mobilization and allocation, but are expected to be of
increasing importance in future. With high inflation in Turkey, (average of
50 percent in 1978, 65 percent in 1979 and 105 percent in 1980) they did not
reflect market conditions. However, in line with Government's policy to
reorient the economy towards reliance on market forces, Turkish commercial
banks were allowed in May 1980 to set their deposit and lending rates. The
commercial banks' lending rates were increased substantially in July 1980.
Since then, deposit and lending rates are periodically reviewed and re-
adjusted, in the light of changing market conditions. TCZB applies the same
rates for deposits and non-agricultural lending as the commercial banks.  But
since the bulk of its lending is for small and medium farmers, its agri-
cultural lending rates are still subject to approval by Government. Govern-
ment increased them substantially in July 1980, in light of its policy of
liberalizing the interest rate regime. Its current basic rates are 22 percent
for short-term, 24 percent for medium and long-term. The short-term rate for
agro-industries has recently been raised to 31 percent. At the same time,
given agriculture's importance for Turkey's exports and employment, some
incentives are needed to stimulate investment in agriculture. Further, given
price distortions, the sharp increase in agricultural input prices and the
higher taxation of agriculture contemplated under the envisaged tax reform
package, the present interest rates are considered acceptable. However, to
ensure that interest rates reflect changing economic conditions as the economy
adjusts itself from its present transition phase to a fully market-oriented
one, this matter will be periodically reviewed in the context of the Bank's



- 15 -
sector dialogue with the Government, in addition to that connected with our
structural adjustment lending activities. Moreover, the Government has
undertaken to continue its practice of adjusting agriculture interest rates
required by changing economic conditions, following an annual reviLew with the
Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 4.04).
Bank Involvement in the Agriculture Sector and Horticulture Sub-sector
48.       2nnk/IDA have made 12 loans and 7 credits, totalling US$609 million
for 15 agricultural projects, including irrigation, livestock, agricultural
credit, grain storage, fruits and vegetables and agroindustries. The First
Fruit and Vegetable Project (Loan 762/Cr. 257-TU) included. (a) I:he esta-
blishment and development of citrus nurseries and orchards; (b) the provision
of equipment for an integrated refrigerated transport system to facilitate
export; (c) agroindustries development, especially packing houses and cold
stores; (d) export marketing development through technical assistance for a
national association of exporters; and (e) technical assistance to sub-
borrowers. A nucleus of an effective horticultural extension service was
established in three provinces, which was later combined with the Project Unit
to form MEYSEB.  This helped to extend supervised production credit to over
9,600 ha of existing citrus orchards with a notable increase in production.
Limited success was achieved in the establishment of the citrus nlrseries.
Though the project helped to provide an integrated refrigerated transport
system, its use for fruits and vegetables has been limited by poor
coordination. Few problems were encountered with the packing houses and cold
stores; they were fully operational by the 1978-79 season, though they are
currently underutilized due to difficulties in getting imported raw
materials.  The technical assistance for the association of exporters in a
central marketing organization was never utilized, because this organization
was not activated following changes in goverments. The four joint: stock
companies that were to provide a nucleus of this organization, worked
independently as uncoordinated exporters, with no centralized marlketing
assistance.
49.       The Agricultural Credit and Agroindustries Project (Loan
No. 1248-TU), which started in mid-1977, included assistance for investment
credits for agroindustries. Satisfactory progress has been achieved in
supervised credit, and in training. However, mainly because of (i) poor
coordination between TCZB and MEYSEB in appraising the financial and technical
aspects of the agroindustry subprojects, and (ii) sub-borrowers' unwillingness
to assume the foreign exchange risk, the agroindustry component has progressed
very slowly. Following discussions between the Government, TCZB, MEYSEB and
the Bank, the Government has recently instituted measures to make TCZB solely
responsible for agroindustry investments. It is also considering the possibi-
lity of bearing the foreign exchange risk, to enable speedy utilization of
about $18.7 million for financing additional cold storage and agro-processing
facilities. Because of this availability of funds, the agroindustrial invest-
ments needed to process the increased fruit/vegetable production resulting
from the proposed project until 1985, will be met from this ongoing loan. No
monies for this purpose are therefore being provided under the proposed loan.



- 16 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
50.      The project was identified during the implementation of the First
Fruit and Vegetable Project. It was prepared by the General Directorate of
Fruit and Vegetable Development (MEYSEB), of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Forestry (MAF) with the assistance of Bank staff, taking account of lessons
learnt in the execution of the First Project. It was appraised in June/July
1980. Negotiations took place on February 19 and 20, 1981, with a Turkish
delegation led by Mr. Altinok, the Chief Economic Counselor of the Embassy,
and which included a representative of the Agricultural Bank of Turkey (TCZB).
Project Objectives and Description
51.      The major objectives of the project are to;  (a) increase production
of selected quality fruits and vegetables in ten provinces having the greatest
potential for increased production and exports, three of which were covered
for citrus production only under the First Project; (b) help create an effec-
tive marketing organization to capitalize on the export potential of Turkish
fruit and vegetables; and (c) help devise a master plan for future investments
for production of fruit and vegetables and their processing.
52.      The project represents the first phase (mid 1981-85) of a government
program expected to be implemented over a nine and a half year period1, for
the further development of fruits and vegetables in Turkey. It includes;
(a) supervised agricultural investment credit, through TCZB, to help establish
7 nurseries (10 ha each), 500 citrus and 350 noncitrus orchards (2.5 ha each),
1400 small citrus and non-citrus orchards (0.5 ha each), 100 trellised vine-
yards (2.5 ha each), and 150 vegetable greenhouses covering 75 ha; (b) similar
credit for increasing production in 1500 existing orchards and 800 vegetable
farms based on provision of improved inputs, including seeds, fertilizers, and
pesticides; (c) strengthening and expansion of horticultural extension
services in the project area by MEYSEB and the agricultural extension service
of the general directorate of agricultural affairs (TZ), both in the MAF by
the addition of about 84 subject matter specialists, 289 foremen and 240
technicians; (d) training in horticulture, in Turkey and abroad; (e) support
of applied research in horticulture and promotion of effective links between
research, extension and farmers; (f) equipment and vehicles required during
project implementation; (g) technical assistance for applied research,
extension and training through provision of five internationally recruited
consultants; (h) provision of working capital, especially foreign exchange
through TCZB, to meet imported inputs of agroindustrial units to facilitate
better utilization of existing capacity; (i) the establishment of four
regional marketing corporations (RMCs), and a central marketing organization
(CMO); (j) technical assistance for providing effective marketing services;
and (k) preparation of a master plan for the rational development of the
1/ The total cost of the program is estimated at $156.7 million equivalent,
including $3.1 million in local taxes.



- 17 -
horticulture subsector, including production and processing.  Project features
are summarized in the Loan and Project Summary, and detailed in the Staff
Appraisal Report entitled "Second Fruit and Vegetable Project" (No. 3203a-TU),
dated March 4, 1981, distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Project Costs and Financing
53.        Over the four and a half year time slice that constitutes the pro-
posed project, total costs are estimated at about US$107 million equivalent,
including US$44 million in foreign exchange. The estimates include $2.1
million in local taxes and price contingencies of nearly US$30 million to
cover both foreign and local costs expressed in dollar terms, at 10.5 percent
in 1980, 9 percent in 1981, 8 percent in 1982, and 7 percent during 1983-5.
Consultant services consisting of 1714 man-months of internationally recruited
experts, are estimated at US$5.3 million. Average direct costs have been
estimated at US$2,520 equivalent per man-month as of April 1980,, ranging from
US$10,000 per man-month for horticultural specialists to US$640 per man-month
for local services for the master plan and studies. These rates include
travel costs of internationally recruited consultants, and overhead and per
diem for all the consultants. They are in line with those prevailing in the
industry and are considered reasonable.
54.       The proposed Bank loan will finance 91 percent of the foreign
exchange costs (37 percent of total costs). Government will meet the
remaining $4 million needed in foreign exchange, to cover the cost of gasoline
and lubricants used by the vehicular fleet of the agencies involved in
developing and supervising the farm plans. Of the local costs of US$63
million, TCZB will finance some US$22.4 million equivalent (21 percent),
sub-borrowers and RMC shareholders about US$21.2 million equivalent (20
percent), and the Government, the remaining US$19.4 million equivalent (17
percent).
55.       The proposed loan will be made to Turkey for 17 years, including 4
years grace, at an interest rate of 9.6 percent. The Government will onlend
to TCZB the equivalent of US$28.1 million in TL for a period s-Lmilar to that
of the Bank loan, at an interest rate which will leave it a spread of at least
3.5 percent on all proceeds of the Bank loan lent to subborrowers under the
project. The foreign exchange risk will be borne by Government. In effect,
at TCZB's current lending rates the interest rate on the Bank funds relent to
TCZB by the Government will bet 18.5 percent for short-term production
credit, (27.5 percent for similar credit to agro-industries) and 20.5 percent
for medium and long-term loans. The conclusion of a satisfactory subsidiary
loan agreement between the Republic of Turkey and TCZB is a condition of loan
effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(b)). Of the remaining US$11.9
million of the loan, Government will make US$8.4 million equivalent available
to MEYSEB for technical support services, and US$3.5 million equivalent to the
State Planning Organization (SPO) for the marketing organizations, the studies
and master plan components of the project.
56.       In turn, medium and long-term subloans will be made by TCZB at the
basic rate of 24 percent p.a. for investments in nurseries, new orchards and



- 18 -
greenhouses. Supervised short-term production credits will be at the basic
rate of 22 percent p.a and short-term loans for agro-industries for working
capital will be at 31 percent p.a. plus applicable taxes and charges. -These
interest rates will be modified in the light of changing conditions. Short-
term loans will be for a period of not more than one year. Maturities for
investment credit will be 6 to 12 years and will be dependent on the projected
cash flows.  The grace period will vary from 1 to 5 years, being generally
more favorable for the smaller farmers.
Marketing Organization
57.      Turkey can increase its export earnings from fruits and vegetables
exports, if some of the technical, marketing, transport coordination and
organizational problems are resolved. To facilitate the attainment of these
objectives, four regional marketing corporations (RMCs) and a central market-
ing organization (CMO) are proposed to be established. SPO, through its
Export Promotion Division, will be specifically responsible for their organi-
zation and promotion. To initiate this process, SPO will draft proforma
Articles of Incorporation and By-laws for them not later than July 31, 1981,
for the Bank's review and approval and will appoint a staff marketing
specialist no later than September 30, 1981; thereafter, it will ensure these
organizations are established and start operations not later than January 31,
1982 (Loan Agreement, Sections 3.08(a), (b), and (e)).
58.      To encourage initiative in the private sector, which is expected to
play a major role in increasing production and exports, the RMCs will be
established as private stock corporations, operating under Turkey's commercial
law, To provide the foreign exchange needed for their technical and marketing
services and equipment, the proposed loan includes $2.3 million, to be uti-
lized through SPO. When utilized, the loan disbursements may be treated as
Government's eauity in the CMO and RMCs. The Government's equity holding will
be no more than 30 percent of the total issued (Loan Agreement, Section
3.08(c) and (d)). The remaining shares will be held by private individuals,
firms and corporations involved in horticulture. To encourage wide parti-
cipation, single holdings will be limited to 5 percent of the total. The
Articles will provide for the gradual retirement of Government's equity, to
emphasize the private character of these organizations. The RMCs will be res-
ponsible for providing market intelligence, identifying export opportunities,
ensuring consistent quality control, monitoring cold storage and packing
procedures, etc. (Loan Agreement, Schedule 2, Part E).
59.      The RMCs will form and capitalize CMO.  The CMO would be responsible
for developing a national brand name for Turkish fruits and vegetables ex-
ported, and for performing functions for the RMCs, like foreign promotion,
market intelligence, procurement of supplies and coordination of transport-
ation. SPO would engage consultants before January 31, 1982 to assist the CMO
and RMCs in general management, marketing, market intelligence, transport-
ation, cold storage, packaging and export promotion (Loan Agreement, Section
3.08(f)).



- 19 -
Development of Horticultural Sub-sector
60.      A rational development of the horticulture subsector and related
agroindustries, is needed to help Turkey exploit its export potential through
efficiently planned investments for production, processing, transport and
marketing of fruits and vegetables. To assist in the planning of future
investments in this subsector, the project includes the carrying out of a
number of studies in various areas affecting the sector, culminating in the
preparation of a master plan. These studies, relating to potential export
markets, the production potential at farm level, domestic needs, existing
facilities for storage and processing, and case studies of prob:Lem areas in
marketing, production, management and transport, would be carried out in the
early years of project implementation. SPO will engage no later than January
1, 1982 consultants whose terms and conditions of employment are satisfactory
to the Bank to carry out the studies under its direction; it wiLl periodically
exchange views with the Bank on their progress; it will make available perti-
nent findings from the supporting studies as these become available to assist
the CMO and RMCs in their operations (Loan Agreement, Section 3.09). The
inputs from this study could lead to a further refinement and sitrengthening of
the Government's nine and one-half year program for fruits and vegetables,
which is being supported through this project.
Project Implementation
61.      SPO will be responsible for overall project coordination, supervision
and monitoring. To facilitate periodic review of progress and timely actions
for resolving identified project implementation problems, SPO will appoint a
Project Coordinator by September 30, 1981 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02(a)).
Further, by December 31, 1981, it will establish a Coordination Committee,
comprising representatives of the participating agencies and farmers, which
will meet at least once in every six months (Loan Agreement Secition 3.02(b)).
In carrying out their respective parts of the Project, MEYSEB and SPO will be
assisted by about 12 internationally recruited consultants, whose terms and
conditions of employment are satisfactory to the Bank (Loan Agreement Sections
3.04(a), 3.08(f) and 3.09(a)).
62.      MEYSEB will be responsible for the technical support services and
training components of the project. In addition to its existing staff in
three provinces, MEYSEB will establish three new regional offices to extend
its extension services to three other provinces (Loan Agreement Section
3.03(a)). It will supervise TZ which will implement extension services in the
remaining four provinces according to a protocol between MEYSEB and the
General Directorate of Agricultural Affairs (GDAA), TZ's supervising General
Directorate within the Ministry of Agriculture. Thus using MEYSEB directly
and indirectly, extension services will be expanded to cover seven new
provinces. For this purpose, about 84 subject matter specialists, 289
foremen, and 240 technicians will be recruited early in 1982.
63.      To assist MEYSEB in formulating, planning and implementing horti-
cultural extension, and related training programs for its own and TZ extension
staff, and to ensure their coordination with the applied research, MEYSEB
would employ no later than January 1, 1982, five internationally recruited



- 20 -
horticulture production specialists for three years (Loan Agreement, Section
3.04(a)). To help integrate research and field extension, the consultants
would be located at research stations in Antalya, which is centrally located
in the project area. Further, MEYSEB, TZ, and TCZB and cooperating research
institutes will assign counterparts to each consultant, so that Turkish
personnel can carry on the work when the consultants leave Turkey. To enable
counterparts to realize the full benefits of consultants' services and to help
develop a training program for the project extension staff, the Government
agreed that these counterparts would be recruited by September 30, 1981 (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.04(b)). MEYSEB would develop a comprehensive training
program no later than July 1, 1982 for the Bank's review, and then carry out
such a program in accordance with a schedule satisfactory to the Bank (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.05). Assurances were obtained from Government that every
effort will be made to retain staff in the project after completion of their
training (Loan Agreement, Section 3.07). Applied research, extension and
lNraining programs will be coordinated, according to protocols agreed with
GDAA, General Directorate of Agricultural Research (GDAR), General Directorate
of Plant Protection and Quarantine (GDPPQ) and Cukurova University (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.02(d)).
64.      MEYSEB and TZ will be responsible for preparing the farm plans for
the horticultural investment and production credit components of the Project;
TCZB will be responsible for determining the subborrowers' creditworthiness.
As TOPRAKSU (the General Directorate of Land and Wxater Resources Development
in the Ministry of Village Affairs) is also involved in onfarm development,
the existing agricultural credit protocol between TCZB, MEYSEB and TOPRAKSU
will be suitably amended (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02(c)). TCZB will be
responsible for providing loans to eligible farmers.
65.      It is necessary that the extension staff be mobile to help farmers as
needed. To facilitate this, the project financing includes vehicles and
equipment. In recent years, limited Turkish resources have resulted in
serious cutbacks in operating budgets, especially for purchase of gasoline,
lubricants, vehicle spare parts and maintenance. To ensure that the project
does not suffer from such operating budget constraints, Government will
provide the Bank by March 1 each year, an estimate of such operating
expenditures for the following fiscal year, and the funds allocated therefor
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(b)).
66.      TCZB will be solely responsible for evaluating and providing the
working capital subloans for agroindustries to meet the foreign exchange
requirements of fruits and vegetables storage, processing and packing units.
The provision of such subloans, which will take the form of an overdraft
facility, would enable fuller utilization of existing agroindustrial units and
help increase exports from present production. TCZB's operating staff is
currently being trained in various aspects of agroindustry project evaluation
including assessment of working capital needs.
67.      Sub-borrower repayments of all subloans to the extent they are not
required for amortization of the subsidiary loan to the Borrower, will be



- 21 -
placed by TCZB in a revolving fund to sustain such financing in later years
(Project Agreement, Section 4.03). As in earlier agricultural projects, a
Special Operating Fund (SOF) will be established. TCZB will deposit into the
SOF, on the Government's behalf, an amount equal to 1 percent per annum of the
total outstanding subloans out of the interest due to the Borrower (Project
Agreement, Section 4.02).  The amounts thus accruing to SOS will supplement
resources available to MEYSEB for meeting partially the costs of technical
services provided by it and TZ to farmers under the project, and to provide
incentives to MEYSEB and TZ staff undertaking field work through increases in
per diem expenses.
Procurement and Disbursement
68.      Procurement of equipment and services will be done in accordance with
the Bank's guidelines. Procurement of vehicles under the project, estimated
to cost US$1.7 million equivalent, will be done through international
competitive bidding. Procurement of greenhouses, laboratory and other
equipment for MEYSEB, and equipment for marketing organizations, estimated to
cost about US$1.7 million equivalent will be done through limited
international tendering. Purchase of small tools and farm inputs will be
through normal commercial channels.
The Bank loan will be disbursed as follows:
(a)  100 percent of foreign expenditures on training abroad,
marketing services, imported vehicles and equipment including
spares;
(b) 100 percent, ex-factory, of local expenditures for vehicles, and
equipment procured under international competition;
(c) 90 percent of total expenditures for consultants services;
(d) 50 percent of total amounts disbursed by TCZB for subloans to
farmers; and
(e) 65 percent of the total amounts disbursed by TCZB to
agro-industrial units under the working capital component.
Disbursements are expected to begin in 1982 and be completed by December 31,
1985. The Closing Date will be June 30, 1986.
Project Benefits and Risks
69.      The expected economic benefits will accrue from:  (a) a significant
net increase in the volume and quality of fruits and vegetables, valued at
about US$43 million p.a. (in March/April 1980 prices) at full development;
(b) the organization of the production-marketing chain through the building up
of efficient marketing organizations; (c) the potential of higher export
earnings from existing volume and from increased production of fruits and



- 22 -
vegetables; (d) higher stable incomes for some 7,000 farm families and employ-
ment for some 28,000 more families providing labor -- (although the Project is
not specifically aimed at small farmers, it is estimated that 28 percent of
the subborrowers are expected to be at or below the relative rural poverty
level); (e) an efficient horticultural research and extension system that
could be applied to other provinces; and (f) an investment program and a
master plan for the future rational development of the subsector. The overall
rate of return is an attractive 25 percent.
70.      The risks in this project are that:  (a) the marketing organizations
may not be immediately acceptable to exporters, delaying the benefits of
organized exports; (b) there may be a delay in appointing specialists,
counterparts and extension staff whose input is critical to the success of the
project; and (c) inadequate coverage of the extension services due to
insufficient operating budget. These problems are not unusual in projects of
this type in developing countries like Turkey. In view of the safeguards
built into the project to minimize these risks, they are considered
acceptable.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
71.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Bank,
the draft Project Agreement between Turkiye Cumhuriyeti Ziraat Bankasi (TCZB)
and the Bank, and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
72.      A Special condition of loan effectiveness is the execution of a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and TCZB (Loan Agree-
ment, Section 6.01(b)). Other features of special interest are mentioned in
paragraphs 47, 55-61, 65 and 67 and are listed in Section III of Annex III.
73.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
74.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 10, 1981
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
- 23 -                                   Page I of 6
TURREY - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHNET
TURKEY                            REYTRENE GRMUPS (WEIGHTED AVF,RAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND 50. rM.)                                                         -  lEST RECENT ESTIIMATE)
TOTAL            780.6                                HOST RECENT            MIDDLI INCME1           INDUSTRIALIZED
ACRICULTURAL     553.8              1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE Tb               EUROPE                COUNTRIES
GNP PER CAPITA (059)                 300.0       550.0    1330.0                  2749.5                   9499.2
ENERGY ODNSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OP COAL EQUIVALENT)     245.0       479.0     798.0                  1641.4                   7021.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
PDPLLATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     27.5        35.3      43.1
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 29.7        38.4      45.6                    53.9                     76.0
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      65.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       100.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       35. 0       45. 0     55. 0                   77.2                    142.8
PER SQ. 1H. AGRICULTURAL LAND     51.0        64.0      78.0                   129.5                    523.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         41.3        41.7      39.1                    30.6                     23.5
15-64 YRS.                         55.2        54.0      56.4                    61.1                     65.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.5         4.3       4.5                     8.2                     11.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.8         2.5       2.5                     1.6                      0. 7
IRBAN                              5. ILC      5.1       4.8                     3.3                      1.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     44.0        38.0      32.0                    22.8                     13.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     17.0        12.0       10.0                    8.9                 -   9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              2.9         2.6        2.1                    1.5                      0.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..        65.6      66.6
USERS (PERCENT OP MARRIED WOMEN)   5.3         8.2      38.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          96.0       100.0     110.0                   113.1                    110.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  110.0       110.0     115.0                   125.3                    131.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER MAY)          81.0        80.0      82.0                    91.0                     98.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       24.0        26.0      24.0                    39.6                     62.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MDRTALITY RATE     24.0        16.0      10.0                     4.3                      0.8
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    51.0        57.0      61.0                    67.8                     73.5
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          187.O/c     153.O/d   118.0                    55.9                     13.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        52.0      75.0
URBAN                               .         51.0      70.0
RURAL                               ..        53.0      80.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..       19.5
RURAL                               ..          ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          3000.O/e    2250.0    1772.0                  1030.1                    624.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..      1880.0   1403.0                    929.4                    218.9
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            590. Ofe    490.0     506.0                   289.7                    121.2
URBAN                            190. Ofe    200.0
RURAL                               *-      5890.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        20.0      20.0                    17.0                     17.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.7         5.9
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..         2.2
URBAN                              2.0         1.9
RURAL                               ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
Or DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             29.0        40.0      57.0
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                              2.0        18.0



ANNEX I
- 24 -                                 Page 2 of 6
TURKEY - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TURKEY                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVFjRACPS
-  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME           INDUSTRIALIZED
1960  /b   1970 Lb ESTIMATE L               EUROPE                COUNTRIES
EDUCAT ION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 75.0       109.0      98.0                  105.9                     100.1
MALE                 90.0       124.0     106.0                  109.3                     102.2
FEMALE               58.0        94.0      90.0                  103.0                     102.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                14.0        28.0      43.0                   64.0                     87.1
MALE                 20.0        39.0      59.0                   71.1                      84.4
FEMALE                8.0        16.0      27.0                   56.9                     84.3
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  18.0        14.0      15.0                   28.8                      19.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           46.0        38.0      34.0                   29.4                     21.3
SECONDARY                         19.0        28.0      27.0                   26.1 L. 
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       38.0        55. 5/f   60.0                     ..
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         2.0         4.0      11.5                   84.6                     334.
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        49.0        89.0    103.0                   192.2                    932.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
P0PULATION                          ..         1.8      43.0                  118.5                    354.P
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 51.0          ..        ..                   93.0                    327.4
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  1. 1        6. 7       ..                    5. 7                      3. 3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    13782.1    15829.6  18858.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  40.2        37.2      36.0                   30.4                     36. 1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             78.5        67.7      60.0                   37.0                       7.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                10.5        12.1      14.0                   29.3                     3S.9Y
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               50.1        44.3      42.8                   40.9                      44.5
MALE                                58.7        54.9      53.2                   55.9                     58. 1
FFMALE                              41. 2       33.4      32.1                   26.2                      3L. 7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              0.9         1.0       1.0                    1.0                      0.8
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   33. DAg     32. 82      *
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  61. 0_L&    60. 6/h
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4. 2/s      2. 9       *-
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   10. 6/g      9. 4       *j*
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USs PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..     342.0
RURAL                               ..          ..     270.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..
RURAL                               ..          ..     220.0                  385.8
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..
RURAL                               ..         ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithaetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
Lb  Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1955-60; /d 1967; /e 1962; /f Six years and over; /R 1963, h 1968.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October. 1980



- 25 -                                                                ANNEX I
PaLge 3 of 6
DEFIIIIONS OF SOCIAL INC1,ATO.N
Notes:  Although the data are drawn from sources generally judged the most a-thorltat-ve cod reliable, it should alan be noted that they may not be itter-
nationally oap-rablr hecausa of the lack of ntandardtaed dmfiailtion and con-ptns uned by different countrien in tollectiog the data. The dait are none-
theless, useful to deacribe oders of magairude, iodicte toeods. and churacrt.ite terrain  Ia_or difiermooms
Thn rrterence troupe  rar  (1)  hrh some ceourry grout  of the sob-r otmtthery act (2) acpuotry goun   aih mesthet higher average tncome than tho touotry geaup
of the -ubieat country (rxcept for  CapItal Sorplos Oi lEperters' groop a             ihere  Middle Inco=e North Afhita cod Middle Eact  ix cioonen hecausect stranger
nocoa-och total offtotrlo).  In rho refetence group data the averages are popalatiot  -cighted -rithRetio means foe each indi-ator and shen on.Ly ahen at
est half of ohe a    -cunrro  ito a group hos deta for that iadfcaror.  Sitos the co-erage of oountries among the itdicat.rs deperds o the aca-llability of
date a_d Is oot aucifr,  _aorioa must be Ieercised it relating averagma of .na  idittaror to another.  There averege. are only unefnhl Os o            lpauog the oclam
at one Indnceoto at a rite umo-g the country ood referents groups.
LAND ARdA (fhou,aad sq.kn. lropulation let Yhsysoiae - topuacotin -dlged.d by acmamr a.: pecntiiag phy-
Torol - rotod   surface area co-posog land area mod i=land eaters. s-icirs qualified from a meditcl erhoal at oanierrity Is-el.
Aer-ul--ral - tetiae of agri-lslurIl erra used tespormrily or pamanessely              Parulattn are lursnie Person - Pepulenoan divided by ocalser of praonsttsg
for oops, pasuruors.  -uket  cd kitohen gardens at to lie fallen; 1-77 dans.            mle and female graduc-m nurses  pe-ti-cal aurees, end sasotant Iestem.
GN                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Peolatian ear Namitre1 Ned - nta.t1  -ebe.o mmtd I. - Papalathem  (natal,
lP tER    tTA luiS' - C.NP pet capia piamrItes at current nerkee prices  cal-                dadhae  aer       dnidled hy theihr Irespe ste  soml r   atbpit.1 beds
oalated by name conversion sashed as torld tank Atlas (t977-79 beets); 1960,              available ib   publit and private general cnd epecialired behpitc1 and re-
1970, and  lN79data.                                                                     babllltatlen renters.  tEepitelb  arm ettabltshm etss permanently staffed
ENERGY ONSUlf'PTION PER CAPITA - Nomad  conausptiao of coemeraal energy (Iral               tare care nt included. iRarae hesprltah  ht      e P , -idi u pribciphlly and   dil
and ligelto, peteotromo, natural gai and hydro-, nuclear end geathercl nlet-              renters net parmanmetly staffed by a physiotan (bat by a -cedinal casiste.t,
rticity) t  kilograms of coal equi-ale-t per apita.; 1960, 1970, cod 197B                 noree, eddetfe  eta.) clrhh ofuer It-patient araaaadarhme acd precide a
data.                                                                                     liRited r-age of mndilal taailiti.e.  Pee rtatiatical puepame. mebse beapi-
rule iminlde WH40. peimcipel general and dpeni l end haspitals, end rural
hospitals leca  or eurel h-epittle aed nedinal end  ta.serity  -eeteer.
lvncIvulcrtyz MOd-Year (molltionn   - hA  of July 1; 1960, 1970, ad 1978                Ad on=   ae.--r Ndivitde Bed - Total somber at admis.ions tE  or dietheeges
data%.l                                                                                 from hospitals divided by nbm  -b-he of hids.
febcv Polation  (aeroent of total) -    iatio of urban -t  teted  ypulsati-;
diffrent defititions of urb-n areas may affect compar-bility of data                HOUSING
amoag  nountrles; 1960, 1970, od 1978 data.                                          AVerase Site  of hgusehold (perrons per household) - tara]. urbsa, and enesl-
PEeulaetom_rolcrio.n                                                                      A household a-nNifte of a group at Endilduals ofho share living q.actets
rapstcolno- t yact lff  - C-orene populatihe  pent ectlons are based on i980            and thetr sate meale.  A. naoade  or lodger may or may  nt bhe included ih
total pI oulanlen by  age and sea and the  mortality and fertility rates.             the h.o.eheld for rtatistical porposes.
ttoieccnoo parsrtetmes fo i 'trialcnyturnes rehonpeis  of pher  levelsi csea-      Avercaretuabet of pNrrnva Ree  eaea-  total, "rIco  ant rorel  coneenag na1
bevel, and female life eupecoancy stablielrig an 77.5 years.  The paea-               dwellings, respentively.  Dcellings rxalude non-permamaaut structurresntd
meters for fertilty rate also haa's  three levels oncoming derline tn                 unoapled parts.
fertilty acordntg to ticont  laneE and  past flastly  ploaning perfommance.       Aacess at Ileetty  (esenmaoa  deellings) - nta-l, reaa. and tonal -
tach country ts thenaauognrd ate af thcesenineca=binations at eprtaloty               Conventinonal deelllaga conk electtrictty in lIvIng quarteru as peroestger
aed fertIlIty  erenda ifr projet iiN          g putposes.                             of eoal, urban, ant  ural dwellings nesperttvely.
Staioroary taopulmtioo- Inosmstararlary potulation there is no groanha sice
thin biorth rata in cqual to the desth rate. aad also the age strocture  ra-     EDCTO
ntins  fonrzauo.  This Ei  achiered otly attar fertility rates declinslto           Adjastet Esrellmeut tatics
rho ceplacemeut leoel of andltones reproductionerate, when math generation            Peitmth scobol - total, masle mad femlale - Groeu natal, maile sad tamkale
s-ilee reploams oinIf eaac-ly.  The statt _ary populartio  szem yac                     enrllmrep ofi all ages at nhs primary lintel as peramatagam  of repectte
estimated 00 the hosis of the pt-jeated                  'Iaraiterhation at the populction  primrdy nh1-ge  papulatm   anaslly inalotes children aged g-11
is tIe yact 21ff, oat she rare of tecliar of feratilope Iac  to replcam-                  r   hot ad jas    t   d a t         gs           prir uam
meat level.                                                                              acoutries eith untoessal stunatiec enesllmena mapy esarat 100 peereat
Yearsteaticnarv popalesOan is reaocbed - The year affhee satetonery pepulantee            siance smae pupils ars bmlen or ahove the aftftrial eabaal age.
sire has been esuhed.                                                                 amcountcry scheel - natal, male cad gamale - Eamputed C abeni; secnedcey
Fcyucoion Ioale                                                                  edcatee  equies  s lest Ilcu  tyer  at appnevm                  P-may  esettiem
the gltk   - o        d-yac  ppoplaton pet sr tare hilonorer 1109 hertsrsn) oI            preEides geterb-, deatgonsl  aor -etcher trening  nsTartima ree P
Pea sn . iongrioultorel land - ferapatet as above tor agricultural loand                  excluded.
4Avearul)  and retIred (IN yearst and evrrn as-1 peooseer) ofrin mt-aae POP_             detarlyor7 asr d=epatmpents   of seratey  ast)tVtcnne
laraca; 196y, 1970, sot 1970 data.                                                      Fuoal-teccher testso - ertmary. and searatary - Tatal altutents enrolled in
_p_ouavn IrortE atue (percent) - tonal - heespl geoyth rates of aetal nti-                  prittay and aeaoDdary levels dieided by mncberN of  :achere iD the
yeart pcpulations foe 1950-hE0  1960-70, set 197f-PN.                                     cerrsspeadtng levels.
Populalato Crovth hans (percentt) - urban -A.nnual gasesth raese of utrban popu-          Adult literaceY are (aeracat)    Ltsra'utei  tgled (abl ysta  tnad anterEtn
Crude Biteth  cRse (tea thousand) - Annual live bieahs per thousand at mid-year              sa      c 
populstLion; 1961. 1970, cat 1970 data.                                             CININ41EnTOs
Crude Death lane fret thousand) -Annua7 deaths pen thoasend of mid-year                 l'esenems  Eats. (per sbauannid ppaeslanoa)   rassuegar o uatse9 hempasesetnd
Grosn Raproduction Rlate -dverage aumbee at daughters a coaman will beat Eu               mIiary eat olec.t     
h roorrua7 reprodotovm  strand if she erperienoer Pirent age-spm atii  fee-           satin aeteivee9 leer thousa7nd ap°ulestor -gn  Al tp pl    ;aues ofro ne   l a   ai,
Feaglty Olaolaag- Acmttrors, Annual lthruscnde) - Annual uumher of soceptets              cented receivers inucountries catd to yearn thee registration of ratie arms
of barth-control devicen undar aurpioes of nartiontl facilly pleaslog pragrum.          vas Eu effeot; data for reors yeesrn may not he co-psrable since mast
Parilo. olasolt - csers (reeenst of= larried vcen) - Percentage of married                rountries aballshet liceastng.
tunerD of ohild-hetelng age (lb-At years) eha use bienb-aomteel devices to           IN teceivers (per theusuad papulaniem) - ITt receavars for broadtcast to
al 11cFrried roemn on maim age group.                                                   genarcl publla per thousand pepaleelen; enaladra unlicmased TV receivers
tOOt AbD0 NtTaITION                                                                         inecounetries end En ynen the-n reglataiPs )  T- Shoe haers ccci    igeon,
cy-Tnd   l of     alld foodiP  coemed itlee t1Pruductla  exciudes seed and teed and      eisaster  rec atet prmeily to peopuia  gnea  Ges   itis ctee
is or calendar year basis.  foemndltlenaeovme primzary gnats (e.g. suRacrcae            no he "tclly' it it appears at least fear times a ree!k.
instead of vouea) thach are edible ant coattattnotrlisnt  (e.g. coaffee cud           Cimamla hAmaus Atamndanca pee EGaPits tee Near - Baset as: the number at
tea use excluded) . AggregAte prodaction at sach country is based oa                   rtiketD salt during the yeer, imnludtag atlmisetese t<a trive-imn isessas
outhInal average protucer pricswesIh  ht; 1961-65  197, ast 1970 dtna.                    d   bil    its
O'er csDita soarEr af cclariru foes-cent at renulammDents) - Camputtteenrm               nro eu
energy equivalent at net f red supplilee cavalable to coanatry pet aepita        LABOR PORCE
per day.  Avetlable supplies tomprtst denestia pesduction, impoena laes             Natal Labor Farce (thouaneds) - fonaemiaally active pecssas, Eanbuludg
eryprtes  otd chsnges to stack.  Nwet supplies maclute animal feed, meets,            asmd irecs oat ouseplayet has excluding heusentoes, etuteats, eta,
qoantitisesansed in fond proeesstng, and lasses in distributian.  Require-            Deftnitiong an oariaus eountries see art conpareble; 1960, 1970 eatd
tents waterat tessted hy FAt hst- at physinlagIctl needs far artgl  anti-             1979 data.
ony snd hathr iuati r if tg p-jirrenatal reept_asur,j  body  tghth    s age         F emal_e (aerrm na) F             forte as perenrage of  tal 7ahtr tarts.
household lael; 6lod-f I, 1971, oud 1977 data,                                        fIg   At sa e                           tet;         1    et  1    t t
Per aacrta Nepply of protein forumDs per tcy) - irutmr ceateat of per ccpitc          Induetty (eNtrees) -      pLFUbo  face in mining. iantttatiOnd mnanfeaturiDg
ret supply of feat par day.  Net supply at fret is tefimed ss  habve.  tin-           end electrictty, Ymater  d gins as percemtage of toal lhabr fsrae;  196
qutrenernt  far ull countries establiabed by UStA peovite ftr ninatj-                 1970 ant 1970 data.
allowance of 60 grams at total prortai per day sand 20 grGms of snimal eatd         Partieitio  mane (amerenr) - octal, male, eatd feme - Participation or
pulse pr.reis, at thich 10 grume shoult he anImal proteta.  ThCse stand-             aret  teemsn      e  aumuse as e    tl mlaie, and feimale lehoriea as
ardn art I rear rimo those at 79 geama at total proteie ant 23 tress of               p  e rtages .g toia, male and female pepaisaion at ullucgesreapectively;
cam  al tpretei  me sn seersga foe the worlt, proposed by FAD is thC Thirt            lOl, '1971, and 1971 data.  These ars IL0's paarldipFtiae tense retleatiag
World  co    i Sarney; 1961-65, 1970 Ced 1977 d.ta... stru -ur                                                    .. 1, or   and loig i=etr .tA  fey    i-
Fer  capita protein sutoly  from animal art eulee - Perptei  sapply as feed tin-        e9t-sen  te 1otum  at toe populiaesla tmsed.
rarmd tono attuals art puls  in aton  per day; 1961.61, 1971 nd 1077 data.    enenia leemaenan Ratio -                   Rania at  pepopuletat  ute  15 mad I6 and ever
Obtit (ages 1-A) Mortaltry tate (rem thousand)  - ATnual teaths pin thousand in           to the ntal 1sbabr force.
age group 1-6 years, as children is this age group; tot mast teveloptng coun-a
ories data teriont free lime tables; l96t, 1970 eat 1977 deta.                      EINCIE SIITtIRlUiNINN     npe(ohi  cs   n   id  -Reevdb   ihs
hELTh a ascar   nBrh(ee)-Amag   ubro   er   tlf   eaua                                        perenent Tichest 20 peroet, pearen 20 percent, sad pooeest 40 percent
L i:-   h )   - Averagenuzber of years  f life resainin             of hoaseholds.          ecn        oa
At birth, 19h6, 1970  eat 1978 data.
o.-I ant  pettho y t         h  and)  -  AKnnual  deaths   at   ianfants   outer    one year  et Tt A   7 I PIF    e           vey  i  tt     io_
at  gspe  theancut lIvef-hI.eo hitethe.                                               astim1tet-heslneyaery  ean  Iedm  (EN) eraat-1) s1bmedasn
Accea. to loSe Water (rerrent at  opulYtior) - total. aelca. Cat aural - N                Abealane poverey imea  lare in ten   anc   lieal             t        a lm
Number of people (teoul, uabaa, sat rural) with tessonable aresa ato safe               setrinionally etequate diet plus essential nine-feet requiremgents7 Iasnot
eater  supply (inlud9es nesret' aurteos waters at 9  n07 eened bat ant.ent..asted       oftaetmhle.
watet such as that fron arstectet herselPes, springs. gnd mamma ry cells) as          Esiae 7     ml7nt;epFverty ia ; Lvel fon pahrestis -f serage  pent capit        -
taurtaJl, cr noendyaca located noat on s-nctie  200 enters fro=mabausa may be           peessnel EaremIe at nbeacountry.  Uaban level is terveet froa she eceal
Poustdered as beta0 vithin reasonahle  oarses  of that bsea.  Is rural areas            l
ressonuble ecoess osuld imaly that the housawifn an members at the boushahld            level d  c   1s atio Baelot Set hi e ranetva lIningsi  arisen (cemes-. ubs
do not bleo  to spentd  tldisroportionste pert at the dyin fetciigthatet ropularirn  plop Aslutei  Pvene Endsrm  Lite ferment    aauebpor"
faly's wanter uqetds.anrr                                                                             erno          u    on r            u
Ae  Iso toxcarens  -isosel (oecant of  As      --l-atIn - thtel,  ofha  b ant
torah - Number at people (natal, urhen, ant r-ral) served by serrate
dispossl as percmnsagns of their respertine ppoplanteas.  Eracernt dis-                                               Baamumisi end iSrcil Pasa Bleislee
pearl m.ar inalude the collereion end tuapesal, nich or aitubut treatmtent, Irmaumic naclysts and Proaerntiams lepeantment
t humtan enorr  cud  ciar-a-=ser hycaner-betas nystet or ohm  s  of                                                                    ctoy
pit ortotee art stmilme tossaillaniuts.



- 26 -
TURKE6Y - 0C0U8C DEY1LP488E?T DATA SHEET1                                      AXW0F I
Pag. 4 of 6
1970     1973      1975      EL77          8      1979       1980      1982       1983      1985      1990       70.78     79A       85.90      19 78
A. ATI00A-L ACCOUNTS (TL Billion. 1978 Prince)
1.  dro.  .O.e..Oo Prod-ot                      720.3    876.1    1034.2    1234.5    1272.7   L269.2    1288.2    1386.6    1469.0    1582.3    1971.9            7.4        3.8       4.5      100.0
2.  G.in fron tor-  of trad.                     -6.0       3.8      .0.2     -I0.1        3.0    -20.0    .15.9       -20.3     -21.7      -24.0    .41.7          -          *         -         0 0
3.   rooe doen. 01  incott                      714.3    879.9    1034.0    1224.4    1272.7   1249.2    1272.3    1366.3    1427.3    1553.3    1930.1             7.5       3.8       4.4      100.0
4.  Ooporn 0 I   NFS)                            42.7      66.3      50.8       62.0      06.0     71.2       77.0      92.1      100.I     119.2     113.3         7.1       8.9       8.9        5.8
5.                                               60prto tC n BFS)  b0.0  93.9  140.4  167.4  liB.d    112.0  117.3     127.6     132.2      141.2     172.3         8.9       3.9       4.1        9.2
6.  lnon. 1en0130.0    158.1                                        245.0     273.2      243.4    263.7     263.7      280.2     26.8      326.2      420.3        8.4        3.3       5.2       19.5
7 .   o.o,pllon                                 590.4    723.7      846.5    1036.8    1875.9  1053.5    1094.9    112.0   1I66.1    U278.1    1540.4             7.8        3.3       3.8      84.5
8.  000.0000.001.8.                             129.9    192.6      187.7      197.7     196.8    212.6     207.5      22f.4     241.2     280.2      389.8        5.3        4.7       6.8       15.5
9   OlaBiotal eaavnln                           143.3    19i.3      214.2     213.0      222.7    36.8      216.2      237.3     260.8     304.0      423.6        5.1        4.3       6.9       16.7
0. 0ECTO6 OUTPUT                                                                          Sha.   T8  .1 O.tnut (PF-ent)
1.  .8nlo .Born                                  29.6      27.9      29.5      28.1       27.0      23.4      26.7       26.2      25.9      29.0       24.2
2   I0d.: oy                                     27.2      26.5      26.1       26.1      27.7      30 0      27.4       27.8      20.2       25.4      31.0
3.  OtOno                                        43.2      45.6      44.4      45.8       45.4      46.6      45.9       46.0      43.9       45.6      44.8
C. PRICES (i978 . 100)
1.  007000 prio..                                43.7      63.8      84.0       95.6    10.O      105.6     119.8      16.0      156.6     185.5    256.7
I. 2I,700  pOICrO                                47.7      61.8      84.2      96.0      102.0    125.6    1s1.1        1864.8    200.0     232.4      329.6
3.  Ter.-  of  -0d.                              91.6    103.2       99.7      99.6      100.0      84.1      79.3       77.9      78.4      79.6       77.2
4.  CDP dflato- 2/                              20.2      33.7      50.2       73.4     102.0     160.0     320.0      922.0    1198.0    2025.0    5039.0
5.   --0mg. -h-panon rte (41.00 * TL)            11.0      14.2      14.4       18.0      24.3      36.4
D. PUbLICI FNAdCBE                                                F0-ht of CDP
i.  I0F00,1      ..o.ro.nt re.n.e                22.6     20.9       23.1      24.2       24.2      22.8
2   Contral Eo .ern...et peopditre               24.9      22.0      23.7      27.9       28.5      25.9
3.  Pbil .eeoto- d.fitt 3/                        -        2.1       6.1       9.0        3.7       6.2
1970.78                                                                            1970      1975     1977     1978
E. SELECTED INDIrATOFS                                                            F.  1AboR FO3CE
ICOR                                              3.0                               Cl,ilin labor f-1. (.11linO)                   13.6     15.8      16.0     18.4
ITp-rt otioltty                                   2.4/                             UneUpl  _nlt *td u.dr....ploy-.nt ('            11.0     12.3      13.1     13.5
:.oorase do_teol c avIng role                    16.9                               Cil110  o*plyo-t (-Illion)                     13.1      14.7     1.7      14.8
M-rgiral dnoe-ti. -0i0s r-te                      13.6                                of  tiOh (1)
Inmoo800nt/CDP                                   20.2
1,0r-/CDP                                        11.4                              .tgrlnlt-rn                                     67.1     64.5      61.9     61.3
Ind.otoy                                       13.3     14.9      16.3     16.5
Other                                          19.6     20.6      21.8     22.2
/  Tonale eay 0t dd up bn . f .drodtog a......
g/  Projootod r_t_  of if7Ltio_      biShloty iep    tl_ a   .bjtt tO t4W.
3/ rOrrn.,ing neqntroeDt of naetfal  ..Oo .- 0.  t1a  Ln.eeB   b1.eri.Oi.  4  ook.n po&1o obho6tits_
3   For 1970-g77 per-oi.
Ontinhr 1980
021DA



- 57 -
TURKEY - SAIANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                         NEI
(Million US Doller.)                                                                           PNEX. 5if
Actuel                          ProIsonL                                        Prjete
1970       1973        197        19797         78--  1N1979          -198-0      1981        1982        1963       1984        195        1990
A.  SUSISiAY (28 OLANCE OP PAYMENSTS
S.    xpot. of goods and NW                              754       1799        2152       2556        3208         3537       3400       4508        3462        14113       7680       9114       18234
2  .. loot   f good  eNdFSF                           -1096       -2391       -5219      -6436       -5059        -0699      -7300      -11W8       -971       -108677     .12142     -13524     -23405
3.  Remount- talen.-                                     - 342      - 592       -3067       -3880      -1953        -442       -3300       -3900      -4252      - 4460      - 4482    - 4410       - 4151
4.Itos   er   /-   47                                               -  59       - 124       - 570      - 680         -930      -1350       41670       .2308     - LOS    . 1749    - 1824          - 2309
5.  ProIt.  -Z:                                             33      -     5     -36         -116       -  60          -50        -           -        - 103    -  18            1146        120        130
6.    koner., eltnts273                                               1183       13122        982        983         1694       'O00        30          2400       30CK)       3400       3800        3800
7.Netfo o I         ooeRg.                                 193       1099        1152         366        243          714        430         330         797       13173       1337       1754        3341
0.  Traefra91                                                           18      _123           12          -            -         -           -           -          r           -          -           -
9.Curret account belonte                                    58         515      -192       -3 5722     -1710        -1728      -3050      .3330       -3675      -31311        2 943      2 603    -   08
SO.  polv-tsoo---..cpittel                                   92          77        251         169         147         209        173         200         220        264         273        299         Soo
11.  PublIt, nedo  &, long-no.-  (M6.T) (gross) 2/          271         376        386         502        530         1434       2175        3340       3133        334         3426       6233        4423
12   Arteno of poblit M&LT 1/ 2/                          -I4             2      -11            1          8          -363      -360       -4mm        -1474      -21716    -2692    -2897    -3729
13.  PublicM4L.r (eNI)                                      125        304         269         288        150         1069        935        3140       1641        1364        1134       1334         694
14.  Short-term  (.en) 3/                                    66       -235        1159        1807       1097          56         939           o2     - 170        -II'S       .94        -so          -
15:  Cu1pital eon ileolded elneeher ~-39                                 67      -204          742        464        - 306       10ow        1018       216"        182         1832      1286          -
16.  Change leeere          A-ioes  I                        86      -728          417         566      .148             7          0          -       -42          .NI         -0         22         .8
B. M161. LOAM CSOIMITMNES 5/                                   506         547         755       1205        1407         1896
Poblir lenten                                               487        491         649        1105       1307         1794
1. eni groo                                              40         135         156         164        358          304
2.  Ita   xtl rl132                                                    10          40           6         54          123
3.     .   -oxmets:  eeeken etoxule                       1154         718        197         282        208          s0o
4.  G-rrments:  ...ntrolly plaged eoeoe                    114           3           3        150        204            35
5.  Ouppli-r                                                47           4         79         260        123           2
6.FPleool1 Lnetltetiona                                     -           32        17;2        263        201          07
7.  Othar                                                   -           -          -
PrIvet. exet-r                                               19          16        106         100        -100         in0
C. AVERAGE TERMS OF 6661T LOAN5 COM8ITMENTS 5/
1.  Onset elean  It                                       37.4       39.2        15.6        lids4      14.2          14.7
2.  toeret           (1.)                                  3.6        4.7         7.2         36          7.2          7.0
3 M. MtuIty          (year.)                              10.8       23.7        13.3.       11.6       10.8          11.9
4.  Irene            (years)                               4.6         7.1        3.8         4.2.       3.1           5.0
J/  feasnettent. 110   an rlie  SfAe.   iselSad akespNl-n  nla                    -e ildad.  2b. fleera  are    Late t relief INS gW2  dtite. 101 9559 sSE11.
1983 *i73  LillIe  en  1903 $142 willing; an  prLftip.1 relef 1980 $733  illi0..  1981 $518  .1l11., 1962 9387 .IllIe    ned 1960A3 M   IllEm..
j    O  ne -d En-ldi.& 1978 ike.. fiEseee  ar  ae-raw   setitS.ae     elob are net xeelentat with Saab En  dene
I.Iely xeneseiible  Iweklsh Ie. depesine   -n-ptn.en   eradlts, ooenla1 sa  ai rree  beake...  erdits.  ra.Ibna t needlts, evetd-fts.  Dreednr fa-k ache.  d-xelie, sea fU.
/IneledIn  sreer  aed   ei..es ep Ia 19791 Ofr peJenltd ja-e  in ieeld.. gepfEL1, prirone  1661  b-reLee-   -t beste nd gel1 debt raliaf 191062  ilIlte  ix 1980, 9777 nili-x
Rn 1901.  .560 willIe   . E  18, end 8328   illIe  . R  1983).
r/PblEx ad, pebliL.y sarateed .aterna  debt ely.
Ont*en 1888
mmD



- 28 -
TURKEY - EXTERNAL DEBT AND CREDITWORTHINESS                           ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
Actual                                      Provisional
1970        1973        1975        1976        1977       1978             1979
A.  OUTSTANDING DEBT (Million US Dollars)
1.   Public Medium and Long Term (M and LT)(Disbursed)  1/             1854        2869        3176        3519        4326       6100             10452
2.   Private M and LT (disbursed)  1/                                    42         115         160         253         479        557               650
3.   Short Term  2/                                                      ..         279        1398        3441        6600       7469              4823
4.   Total Outstanding Disbursed Debt                                  1896        3263        4734        7313       11405      14126             15925
5.   Undisbursed Public M and LT  1/                                    840        1101        1641        2393        2804       3500              3775
B.  DEBT SERVICE (Million US Dollars)
1.   Interest on all Debt (net of relief)  3/                           -47         -59        -450        -300        -570       -710              -930
2.   Amortization of M and LT Debt (net of relief)                     -146         -72        -117        -119        -214       -380              -365
3.   Total Debt Service Payments                                       -193        -131        -267        -419        -784      -1090             -1295
C. DEBT BURDEN
1.   Debt Service Ratio  4/                                            18.8         4.4         7.7        11.2        22.2       26.7              26.2
2.   Total Outstanding Disbursed Debt/GDP  5/                          15.0        15.7        13.1        17.9        23.9       28.3              26.5
D.  EXPOSURE
1.   Bank Group DOD/Total Outstanding Disbursed Debt                    7.2         7.8         9.1         7.6         6.1        6.0               8.0
2.   Bank Group Debt Service/Total Debt Service                         3.2        14.9        12.2        10.8         8.3        7.7               8.8
E.  COMPOSITION OF TOTAL OUTSTANDING DISBURSED DEBT                                                                          1979-6/  _
(Million US Dollars)                                                                            (AMount)  (AS % of Total)
1.  Medium & Long-Term Debt                                                                                          iin69.7
a.     Public Medium and Long-Term                                                                           . 10452           65.6
(i)  Bank Group                                                                                          1080           6.8
(ii)  Other Multilateral                                                                                   639           4.0
(iii)  Governiments                                                                                        4692          29.5
(iv)  Suppliers                                                                                            352           2.2
(v)  Financial Institutions                                                                             3654           22.9
(vi)  Bonds                                                                                                 35           0.2
b.     Private Medium and Long-Term (Total)                                                                       650           4-1
2.  Short Term                                                                                                       4823          30.3
(i)  Convertible Turkish Lira Deposits                                                                    642           4.0
(ii)  Suppliers' Credits/Commercial and Oil Arrears                                                       1516           9.5
(iii)  Acceptance Credits                                                                                   634           4.0
(iv)  Bankers Credits, Reimbursement Credits,Overdrafts                                                    244           1.5
(v)  Dresdner Bank                                                                                        344           2.2
(vi)  134F                                                                                                 623           3.9
(vii)  Oil Credits                                                                                          408           2.6
(viii)  Other                                                                                                412           2.6
3.  Total Outstanding Disbursed Debt                                                                                15925         100.0
1/  Bank DRS data.
2/ Based on Turkish Central Bank estimates.
3/ Based on Turkish Balance of Payments data, except for 1979.
4/  Total debt service (line B3) divided by exports of goods and non-factor services plus workers' remittances.
5/ At market prices.
6/ DNk DRS data, Turkish Central Bank and Treasury estimates.
Oetober 1980
EMENA CPIIA



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 9
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of January 31, 1981)
Loan and
Credit
Number    Year   Borrower                   Purpose                          Bank       IDA   Undisbursed
Twenty-three loans and fourteen credits fully disbursed                      614.5      177.4
748-TU   1971   Republic of Turkey         Education                         13.5                  0.6
844-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey         Istanbul Water Supply             37.0                  9.2
883-TU   1973   Republic of Turkey         Ceyhan Aslantas                   44.0                 18.7
893-TU   1973   Turkish State Railway   Railway Project                      46.7                  1.3
957-TU   1974   Republic of Turkey         Antalya Forestry                  40.0                  0.2
1023-TU   1974   TEK/TKI                    Elbistan Power                   148.0                 50.6
1024-TU   1974   DYB                        Industry                          40.0                  0.6
1130-TU   1975   Republic of Turkey         Rural Development                 75.0                 39.3
1248-TU   1976   Agriculture Bank of
Turkey (TCZB)          Agriculture Credit                 54.3                31.2
1258-TU   1976   State Pulp and Paper
Industry (SEKA)        Newsprint                          70.0                 9.1
1265-TU   1976   Republic of Turkey         Livestock III                     21.5                 11.6
1194-TU   1976   TEK                        Power Transmission II             56.0                 10.9
1310-TU   1976   Republic of Turkey         Tourism                           26.0                 22.5
1379-TUI  1977   DYB                        Industry                          70.0                 22.1
1430-TU   1977   TSKB                       Industry                          74.0                 10.7
1585-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey         Northern Forestry                 86.0                 67.5
1586-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey         Livestock IV                      24.0                 22.3
1606-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey         Erdemir Steel Stage II            95.0                 83.1
1741-TU   1979   Republic of Turkey         Ports Rehabilitation              75.0                 75.0
1742-TU   1979   Republic of Turkey         Grain Storage                     85.0                 85.0
1748-TU   1979   TSKB                       Industry                          60.0                 56.4
1754-TU   1979   TSKB                       Private Sector Textiles           65.0                 63.2
1755-TU   1979   SYKB                       Private Sector Textiles           15.0                 15.0
S-15-TU   1979   Republic of Turkey         Ankara Air Pollution Control       6.0                  5.7
1818-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey         Structural Adjustment            200.0                  8.3 Ic
1844-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey         Karakaya Hydropower              120.0                120.0
1847-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey         Sumerbank Cotton Textiles /a    83.0                   83.0
1862-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey         Livestock V                       51.0                 51.0
1915-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey         Structural Adjustment
Supplement                      75.0                75.0 /d
1916-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey         Petroleum Exploration /a          25.0                 25.0
1917-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey         Oil Recovery /a                   62.0                 62.0
Total                                                     2557.5 /e  177.4   1136.1
of which has been repaid                                 230.9        6.4
Total now outstanding                                     2326.6      171.0
Amount sold                       3.6
of which has been repaid        3.6                      - 0 -      - 0 -
Total now held by Bank and IDA /b                         2326.6      171.0
Total undisbursed                                         1136.1        0     1136.1
/a Became effective on February 27, 1981.
/b Prior to exchange adjustments.
/c $3 million undisbursed as of end February 1981
/d $56 million undisbursed as of end February 1981.
7e Excludes $40 million loan for the Labor Intensive Industry Project approved
by the Board on March 3, 1981.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 9
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of January 31, 1981)
Fiscal                                                     Amount in US$ Million
Year     Obligor       Type of Business                    Loan   Equity    Total
1964     TSKB          DFC                                  -       0.92      0.92
1966     SIFAS I       Nylon Yarn                         0.90      0.47      1.37
1967     TSKB II       DFC                                 -        0.34      0.34
1969     TSKB III      DFC                                 -        0.41      0.41
1969     SIFAS II      Nylon Yarn                         1.50      0.43      1.93
1970     Viking I      Pulp and Paper                     2.50      0.62      3.12
1970     ACS           Glass                             10.00      1.58    11.58
1971     NASAS         Aluminum                           7.00      1.37      8.37
1971     SIFAS III    Nylon Yarn                          0.75       -        0.75
1971     Viking II    Pulp and Paper                       -        0.05      0.05
1972     SIFAS IV      Nylon Yarn                          -        0.52      0.52
1972     TSKB IV       DFC                                 -        0.43      0.43
1973     TSKB V        DFC                               10.00       -       10.00
1973     Akdeniz       Tourism                            0.33      0.27      0.60
1974     Borusan       Steel Pipes                        3.60      0.43      4.03
1974     AKSA          Textiles                          10.00       -       10.00
1975     Kartaltepe   Textiles                            1.30       -        1.30
1975     Sasa          Nylon Yarn                        15.00       -       15.00
1975     Aslan         Cement                            10.60       -       10.60
1975     DOKTAS        Steel                              7.50      1.37      8.87
1975     TSKB          DFC                               25.00      1.23    26.23
1976     NASAS         Aluminum                           1.58       -        1.58
1976     TSKB          DFC                               25.00       -       25.00
1976     Asil Celik   Steel                              12.00      2.20    14.20
1977     Borusan       Steel Pipes                         -        0.06      0.06
1978     DOKTAS        Steel                               -        0.09      0.09
1979     Ege Mosan    Engines for Mopeds                  2.15       -        2.15
1979     ISAS          Motor Vehicles & Accessories       8.62      0.68      9.30
1979     Asil Celik   Steel                                -        1.80      1.80
1979     Trakya Cam   Glass                              33.17      2.25    35.42
1980     TSKB          DFC                                 -        1.09      1.09
1980     ISAS          Motor Vehicles & Accessories         -       0.95      0.95
1980     MENSA         Textile and Fibers                 4.00       -        4.00
Total Gross Commitments                        192.50    19.56   212.06
Less Cancellations, Terminations,
Exchange Adjustments, Repayments
and Sales                                    117.63      3.49   121.12
Total Commitments now held by IFC               74.87    16.07    90.94
Total Undisbursed                                 .77      0.23     1.00



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln. No. 748 Education Project: US$13.5 million loan of June 9, 1971. Effec-
tive Date: September 29, 1971. Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
The project was substantially delayed due mainly to initial diffi-
culties in providing the project unit with adequate qualified staff and
authority commensurate with its responsibilities. Implementation is completed
for most items, although completion of some training institutions, including
the Management Training Institute, has been delayed by contract disputes.
Alternative steps to formally establish the Management Training Institute are
likely to be needed. Training of teachers for technician schools, adult
training centers and practical trade schools has made considerable progress.
Sixty-seven local advisory committees for vocational and technical education
have been established, one in each province. Project expected to be closed on
schedule.
Ln. No. 844 Istanbul Water Supply Project; US$37 million loan of June 30,
1972. Effective Date; January 4, 1973. Closing Date; June 30, 1981.
Project construction was delayed about 2-1/2 years due mainly to
problems in the use of ICB procurement procedures and inefficient management.
However, construction moved swiftly in 1977 and the two major water resources
development programs were completed in early 1979. Substantial improvements
to the distribution system, required to enable full utilization to be made of
the new water sources, are under implementation. Tariff increases have been
implemented recently, and a reorganization of the management, accounting and
financial systems is under consideration.
Ln. and Cr. Nos. 883/360, Ceyhan Aslantas Multipurpose Project: US$44 million
loan and US$30 million credit of March 22, 1973. Effective Date; March 20,
1974. Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Following delays due to difficult rock conditions and inappropriate
tunnelling methods, two diversion tunnels have been completed, about two years
behind appraisal estimate. The upstream coffer dam has also been completed.
Progress in 1980 was in general satisfactory. The pace of construction of the
power-house was lower than forecast, but is not expected to delay completion.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9
The construction of the irrigation system is progressing, with the system now
ready to transport irrigation water to about 40,000 ha, one third of the
target. On-farm works are progressing steadily, with about 50 percent
completed. Tile drainage is being delayed until the main drains are located.
Staffing of the extension service is satisfactory except as regards consul-
tants; the Government is taking steps to hire the latter.
Ln. No. 893 Turkish State Railways: US$47 million loan of May 25, 1973.
Effective Date: August 28, 1973. Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
After initial delays, physical progress, including track renewals,
rolling stock, and locomotive production, the latter financed by the European
Investment Bank, is satisfactory. Over 95 percent of the loan has been
disbursed and procurement action has been completed for use of the remaining
loan funds. Despite several tariff increases since the loan was made, the
Railways have continued to fall short of the financial targets in the revised
Plan of Action agreed with the Bank in mid-1975. However, it is hoped that
further increases in passenger fares and freight tariffs averaging 70 to 170
percent, which became effective in January 1980, will improve the Railways'
financial situation. While the dieselization program is making satisfactory
progress, other measures to improve operational efficiency, such as
appropriate manpower planning, have not been given sufficient attention.
Project is expected to be closed on schedule.
Ln. No. 957 Antalya/Akdeniz Forest Utilization Project: US$40 million loan of
January 28, 1974. Effective Date; May 26, 1976. Closing Date; June 30,
1982.
Construction is substantially completed. Most of the main ancillary
process equipment is in place, but construction is hindered by material
shortages. The project is expected to be completed by January 1982 and
production commence in mid-year, two and a half years behind the revised
schedule. Sufficient foreign currency is available to complete the project.
Local currency payments for the Akdeniz establishment are now being made.
Substantial price increases in 1980 should enable the company to meet most of
the local currency requirements.
Ln. No. 1023 Elbistan Lignite Mine and Power Project: US$148 million loan of
June 28, 1974. Effective Date: June 1, 1976. Closing Date; July 30, 1982.
Project implementation had been delayed by critical problems,
including insufficient staff, inefficient management, inadequate coordination
among various agencies and unsatisfactory performance of civil contractors.
Following continuous Bank and co-lender reviews of the situation with the
Turkish authorities from early 1977, the remedial measures initiated by Turkey
resulted in some improvement of project execution, until mid-1979. However,
continuing and serious shortage of local funds has affected project progress,
which has been aggravated by staff and management deficiencies. The Govern-
ment's expected timely provision of adequate local funds for this high



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9
priority project from the Structural Adjustment Loan Counterpart Funds is
likely to help resume momentum in future. The colenders and the Government
agreed in November 1980 on a detailed program of action to overcome remaining
implementation problems; this program is now being implemented.
Ln. No. 1024 DYB (State Investment Bank of Turkey): US$40 million loan of
June 28, 1974. Effective Date: September 30, 1974. Closing Date: March 31,
1981.
The loan was fully committed in February 1977, with eleven sub-
projects approved by the Bank. Project implementation is satisfactory and
disbursements are nearly complete.
Ln. No. 1130 Corum-Cankiri Rural Development: US$75 million loan of June 23,
1975. Effective Date: January 22, 1976. Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project is in general progressing satisfactorily though because
of disruptions in construction it is probable that the irrigatioTn works will
be completed only by end 1983. Corum dam has been completed as also the works
to divert run-off from 5 nearby watersheds. Kumbaba pumping station is ready,
and irrigation has started. Alaca dam is expected to be completed by end
1981. Damage to the Alaca diversion tunnel, because of rock slides, has been
regained and the tunnel lining is almost finished.  Contracts for the irri-
gation systems of the Guldercek and Alaca areas have been awarded and work is
in progress. The project extension service is operating successfully and its
impact on agriculture is promising. The Government has replaced one of the
two vacant consultant posts. Further construction of village centers is being
delayed until agreement is reached on satisfactory plan for using and
maintaining existing centers and plans for additional centers are revised.
Ln. No. 1194 Second TEK Power Transmission Project: US$56 million loan ot
June 14, 1976. Effective Date: April, 21, 1978. Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
Procurement action is complete, somewhat behind schedule, and almost
the entire loan is committed. Some deliveries have also been delayed because
of foreign exchange shortages. Improvements are expected to continue in over-
all project implementation and the rate of disbursement.
Ln. No. 1248 Agricultural Credit and Agroindustries: US$54.3 million loan of
May 5, 1976. Effective Date: May 11, 1977. Closing Date: September 30,
1981.
The ferryship component has been implemented, and the two roll-on and
roll-off ships purchased under this project and the Fruit and Vegetable Export
project are now operating a regularly scheduled service between ports in



34 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9
Turkey and two ports in Italy. The implementation of agro-industries
component is delayed, mainly due to investors' reluctance to assume the
foreign exchange risk. Government is reviewing possible measures to overcome
this problem. The Agricultural Bank (TCZB) has introduced improved lending
procedures for its ongoing supervised credit program, and this component is
being implemented satisfactorily. After considerable delay, consultants have
begun the study of TCZB's structure and procedures. At the Borrower's
request, a cattle-fattening component of the Project, and US$7.7 million of
the original Loan amount of $63 million allocated for this purpose, were
cancelled on May 5, 1977. Also, as provided for in the Loan Agreement, $1.04
million for training was cancelled on December 22, 1977, following approval of
UNDP funds for this purpose.
Ln. No. 1258 Balikesir Newsprint: US$70 million loan of May 21, 1976.
Effective Date: October 15, 1976. Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project is nearing physical completion. The sawmill has begun
operations, although wood supply and marketing problems now must be resolved.
Recent price increases have helped to correct the local currency shortage
situation and the project is expected to start production in early 1981, 2
years behind the appraisal schedule. Trial production runs have already begun.
Ln. No. 1265 Livestock III: US$21.5 million loan of May 26, 1976. Effective
Date: February 25, 1977. Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
After a slower than anticipated start-up, project implementation
improved but has recently deteriorated due to resource constraints affecting
field staff travel. This has adversely affected the preparation of farm
development plans. Though project area offices have been established, they
are not fully staffed. Government has taken some measures, and is reviewing
others to correct the situation. A higher than expected proportion of
sub-loans has been made to small farmers.
Ln. No. 1310 South Antalya Tourism Infrastructure: US$26 million loan of
July 9, 1976. Effective Date: March 1, 1978. Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Implementation of most project components is underway, with progress
being made in preparation of specifications and project design work, although
the pace of overall project implementation is somewhat slower than expected
due to staffing constraints and difficulties in ensuring adequate
inter-ministerial and inter-agency coordination. However, measures to
strengthen the Project Unit and its consultants, the Tourism Bank, are being
taken.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9
Ln. No. 1379 DYB (State Investment Bank of Turkey); US$70 million loan of
March 23, 1977. Effective Date: July 21, 1977. Closing Date: March 31,
1982.
The loan is expected to be fully committed in the next few months.
DYB still has severe staff constraints, which it has in part overcome by
recru:tmont of additional junior staff.  It hopes improved contract terms will
enable it to fill more senior positions as needed.
Ln. No. 1430 TSKB XII (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey): US$74.0
million loan of June 3, 1977. Effective Date: August 29, 1977. Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
Progress is satisfactory and the loan has been fully committed. TSKB
has essentially reached its agreed targets for allocation of its resources to
projects in less developed regions and export-oriented industries. It has so
far been unable to raise resources in international capital markets as
expected because of Turkey's economic difficulties, but the interest of
several financing sources is anticipated once conditions permit renewed
efforts.
Ln. No. 1585 Northern Forestry; US$86.0 million loan of June 5, 1978.
Effective Date: October 30, 1978. Closing Date: March 31, 19136.
Industrial wood production for 1979 was close to forecasts but there
were significant shortfalls in some other targets, principally as a result of
Government budget cuts. Continuing local resource constraints have adversely
affected all targets during 1980, causing delays in preparation of forest
management plans over about 22 percent of the project area and timely payment
by SEEs' for timber delivery. Foreign procurement is effectively up to date
but local state enterprises have been unable to supply much of the locally
produced equipment (principally vehicles to replace existing stocks).
Consideration is being given to procuring them internationally.
Ln. No. 1586 Livestock IV: US$24.0 million loan of June 5, 1978. Effective
Date: October 31, 1978. Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The supervised credit program for farm development has not yet been
initiated, mainly because of difficulties being encountered in recruiting
veterinarians and agronomists to serve in eastern Turkey and by resource
constraints adversely affecting field staff travel. Government has taken some
actions and is reviewing other measures to overcome them. The milk industry
study has been satisfactorily completed. International recruitment of
technical specialists, considerably delayed, is underway.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9
Ln. No. 1606 Erdemir Stage II Steel: US$95.0 million loan of June 30, 1978.
Effective Date: July 30, 1979. Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Procurement for the phenol treatment plant, the raw material handling
system and the hot rolled shear line are completed. Product selling prices
have been substantially increased in January 1981. Production from existing
facilities has been severely restricted from time to time because of the lack
of raw materials due to the limited availability of foreign exchange.
Ln. No. 1741 Ports Rehabilitation: US$75 million of July 2, 1979. Effective
Date: January 22, 1980. Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project coordinating committee is in place and functioning
effectively. Procurement is making good progress. UNDP has appointed a
project manager to implement the project related training programs. The port
sector planning studies have been delayed by lack of staff, but steps are
being taken to correct this.
Ln. No. 1742 Grain Storage: US$85 million of July 2, 1979. Effective Date:
January 21, 1980. Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Project implementation has begun. Proposals from prequalified
consultants for engineering design and supervision of construction are under
evaluation.
Ln. No. 1748 TSKB XIII (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey): US$60 million
of July 12, 1979. Effective Date: October 25, 1979. Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
After initial delays, the progress is now satisfactory with over 75
percent of the loan committed. TSKB and ITC finalized in November the
technical assistance program for training and export development is under
implementation.
Lns. Nos. 1754 TSKB (US$65 million) and 1755 SYKB (US$15 million) Private
Sector Textiles loans of September 17, 1979. Effective Date: February 29,
1980. Closing Date; December 31, 1984.
Consultants have prepared the preliminary program for local
training. The additional consultants for technical services and for the
extension services are in place. Revised Action Plans are being prepared.
Approval of sub-projects has begun, and about 25 percent of the loan has been
committed.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9
Ln. No. S-15 Ankara Air Pollution Engineering: US$6 million loan of
December 12, 1979. Effective Date: April 4, 1980. Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Consultants being selected for project studies.
Ln. No. 1818 Structural Adjustment Loan: US$200 million loan of March 26,
1980.  Effective Date:  April 1, 1980.  Closing Date:  September 30, 1981.
The loan is fully committed and disbursements were $188 million as of
January 30, 1981.  Progress has been satisfactory: the second tranche was
released on July 30, 1980 and the final one on October 23, 1980.
Ln. No. 1844 Karakaya Hydropower:  US$120 million loan of May 21, 1980.
Effective Date: August 15, 1980. Closing Date; December 31, 1988.
Project implementation is making progress.
Ln. No. 1847 Sumerbank Textiles Modernization and Rationalization: US$83
million of Mav 28, 1980. Effective Date: February 27, 1981. CLosing Date:
June 30, 1984.
Project implementation has begun. Arrangements for conisultants are
nearly finalized and procurement actions have commenced.
Ln. No. 1862 Livestock V: US$51 million of June 6, 1980. Effective Date;
October 22, 1980. Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
Project implementation has begun. Consultants are being selected.
Ln. No. 1915 Structural Adjustment Loan Supplement: US$75 million of
November 24, 1980. Effective Date: January 7, 1981.
Closing Date: August 31, 1981.
The loan has just become effective.
Ln. No. 1916 Petroleum Exploration Project; US$25 million of November 24,
1980. Effective Date: March 24, 1981. Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The loan is not yet effective.
Ln. No. 1917 Bati Raman Enhanced Oil Recovery Field Demonstration Project:
US$62 million of November 24, 1980. Effective Date: March 24, 1981
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The loan is not yet effective.



- 38 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
TURKEY
SECOND FRUIT AND VEGETABLES PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Project Identification                  -   February 1978
(b) Agency preparing Project                -   General Directorate of Fruit and
Vegetable Export Development
Projects (MEYSEB), with Bank
assistance
(c) Time taken by country for preparing
project.                                -   15 Months (February 1978 to May
1979)
(d) First presented to Bank                 -   May 1979
(e) Appraisal                               -   June/July 1980
(f) Negotiations                            -   February 1981
(g) Planned Loan Effectiveness              -   July 1981
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Conditions of Effectiveness
ti) Execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Republic of
Turkey and the Agricultural Bank of Turkey (TCZB), on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 55).
(b) Other Conditions
(i) SPO will coordinate project implementation, appoint a project
coordinator, and establish a horticultural coordination committee
representing applied research, extension, growers, credit and
marketing which would meet at least every six months (para. 61).



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(ii) Government will satisfy the Bank, by March 1 each year, that adequate
operating funds have been allocated to the participating agencies for
the forthcoming year (para. 65).
(iii) SPO will appoint a marketing specialist no later than September 30,
1981, to help promote the establishment of the RMCs and CMO through
its Export Promotion Division, draft their Articles of :Incorporation
and bylaws and submit them for review and approval by the Bank no
later than July 31, 1981, (para 57).
(iv) SPO will ensure the establishment and start of operations of the RMCs
and CMO not later than January 31, 1982, with initial Government
participation in their share capital which will not exceed 30 percent
of all stocks issued (paras. 57-58).
(v) SPO will carry out studies, under terms of reference satisfactory to
the Bank, and prepare a master plan for the horticultural subsector,
with the assistance of internationally recruited experts, to be
recruited no later than January 1, 1982 (para. 60).
(vi) Government will review with the Bank, interest rates for subloans and
other lending terms and conditions periodically, and continue its
practice of modifying them in light of changing conditions (para. 47).
(vii) TCZB will place in a special operating fund (SOF) for MEYSEB's
account, an amount equivalent to 1 percent per annum of the total
outstanding amount of TCZB's subloans (para. 67).






IBRD 15242R
25-                                                     30-                                                    35-                                                     40-                                                  DECEMBER 1980
B U L GAR I A
-     Edi   a   c t Se  a =k       B / a ck         S e a                                            Si                                                                                  U.    S.    S.         R.
tW >. ot                     2                 n       d        oPRTVIN'
j~~)  ~~AN*K~~~ I -                                                                \. 0(7    Q~~~~~ ~2i~~  Ak~~~o         RABZON1~~~'A 0
40nokk.I .                                                       0L                on,                   oo                                                                    EZ U hst~'                                       0
%/////S  1 st Proirect Anrv  \<  r  1                                                                   40-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4'
LU       NAKK ALE                                k                                                (                                                                                 c-      ~     niAr
L00                -8!ae' EMEteb5EB  /einb Ofie                                             Vogo              \_                                               ~               tor
*U     Regiora<   Mor     KUttin                                  K CArtnHIR>                      /                     |                                    U5
,CS',       RIoong        R0 search0                              cenier ;/VAN  
2                                                                        eo       D~~~~~~~~~      ~ ~~~~~~            ~~~IYARBAKIR  - tt BTE7
---------  Matn Roods                                      /                         N                   > KONYA  N  J.
(1              r~~~~'   BURDURS21                                    E-                                        oo,          F~             ,eo
~Urto Rtord~4AARlNI   RreAQ
Aromw                                   A. Roilways  \ /       |                  G; <ts                   B/ocTURKEY S.
'_--q            MWe di t e r r a n eao  Sea                                                                          -                 SECOND FRUIT AND VEGETABLE PROJECT
3. 5;tJraiOo   <Londr#                                                                                                                                                                                                          35'-ULAI     _,%     '~  
Project Area
2 nd Protect Area                                      c *  P RU s
i I,///    1 st Project Area                                                                                                                       40'
C0  0    MEYSEB Regional Of fices                                  TE                                                                                                  T
*      Teknik Ziroat Offices                                                                                             jPOLAND,,
*      Regionarl Marketing Corporations                                                                                  IU                                              S          S         R
*  Central Marketing Organization  (Proposed tocation)                                                                                              - 
Cooperating Research Centers:N                                                                                               ~                                       
A   A      Main, Others                                                                 N/MAt-                                                                                        <7
Main Roads
Railways                                                                                                                                2bUL I                Black Seao
-.- lntarnat~iomal Boundaries                                                                                                                                                                                  'Po
~~~u~~~~~aries ~~~~~~~~~~Th.. ,e h-e b-e ~presd h,rh the                                                O-'L         _(c_c
Rivers                                                                                                  Wthe  V- cnOnet o.f t f.rad ,  Ar k->
,hpoo -er h,tonrd                                    T  U ~,R  K  E  Y~
too                200           300Th, *-6    -d -dht,                                                                .~
KILOMETERSS                                                                                                        do no itoplr. on the Pe- affo                                                          L
MtILES                                                                                                        WorldBank.andto ff,hote -nt                                                   I          t   IRAN
0                   100                   200                                                           joddt-O 00 the egal ?tts-                                              YI          IRAQ   I
10'                                            ~~~           ~          ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~3t'  _oortn- of -oo ho-der-e          CYPRUS(`, 



