Document of                     FILE  COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3203a-TU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TURKEY
SECOND FRUIT AND VEGETABLE PROJECT
March 4, 1981
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1         = Turkish Lira (TL 78.00) /I
TL I         = US$0.012
TL 1,000,000 = US$12,820.51
/_  Since January 1980, the rate is being adjusted for differential
inflation between Turkey and its major trading partners. This report
is based on data as of March 30, 1980, and the exchange rate of TL 78
Ub$1 has been applied.
Previous Rates Were:
Currently (February 28, 1981)             TL 95.95 = US$1.00
From June 1980 to August 1980             TL 78    = US$1.00
From April 1980 to June 1980              TL 73.7  = US$1.00
From January 1980 to April 1980           TL 70    = US$1.0o
From June 1979 to January 1980            TL 47.1  = US$l.00
From April 1979 to June 1979              TL 26.33 = US$1.00
From March 1978 to April 1979             TL 25.25 = US$l.00
From September 1977 to March 1978         TL 19.44 = US$1.00
WEIGHIS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)                       = 2.20 pounds
1 metric ton (t)                      = 1,000 kilograms
I metric ton (t)                      = 0.98 long ton
1 meter (m)                           = 1.09 yards
1 kilometer (km)                      = 0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha) = 10,000 m2            = 2.47 acres
I decare = 0.1 ha                     = 0.25 acres
1 square kilometer (km2) = 100 ha   = 0.386 square mile
I liter (1)                           = 0.264 gallon
ABBREVIATIONS
CMU      -  Central Marketing Organization
EDLD     -  Encouragement and Development Loan Division of TCZB
GDAA     -  General Directorate of Agricultural Affairs of MAF
GDAR     -  General Directorate of Agricultural Research of MAF
GDPPQ    -  General Directorate of Plant Protection and Quarantine of MAF
GOT      -  Government of Turkey
MAF      -  Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
XEYSEB   -  General Directorate of Fruit and Vegetable Export Development
Projects of MAE
KiMlC    -  Regional Marketing Corporation
SEE      -  State Economic Enterprise
SIb      -  State Institute of Statistics
bOF      -  Special Operational Fund
SPO      -  state Planning Organization
TCZB     -  Agricultural Bank of Turkey
TOPRAKSU -  General Directorate of Land and Water Resources Development of
*             Ministry of Village Affairs
TZ       -  Agricultural Extension Service of GDAA of MAF
TZDK     -  Agricultural Supply Organization
GOVERNMENT OF TURKEY
FISCAL YEAR
Republic of Turkey - March 1 to February 28
TCZB                - January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TURKEY
SECOND FRUIT AND VEGETABLE PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.     INTRODUCTION ............................................         I
II.  THE SUBSECTOR IN THE ECONOMY.                                        2
A. Recent Performance.                                            2
B. Production in the Project Area.                                3
C.  Government Policies and Institutions.                         6
D.  Performance Under Previous Projects .12
III. THE PROJECT .14
A. Project Objectives .                                          14
B. Detailed Features .15
C. Cost Estimates .25
D. Financing .26
E. Procurement .28
F. Disbursements .                                               29
G. Environmental Impact .30
IV.     PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ................................          30
A. Organization and Management .30
B.  On-lending Terms and Procedures .31
C. Accounting and Auditing .34
D. Monitoring and Evaluation .35
V.     PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .35
A. Production .35
B.  Markets ............................................. .   41
C. Prices ..                                                     45
D. Financial Analysis .46
VI.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .49
A. Economic Return .49
B. Other Benefits .54
C. Risks .57
VII.     AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS    .        .58
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Text Tables
3.1   Phasing-in of Farm Plans for Investment and Operating Credit
3.2   Project Costs During Period of Time Slice
3.3   Project Financing During Period of Time Slice
3.4   Estimated Disbursements
5.1   Phasing of Areas Planted using Investment Credit or to be Provided
with Production Credit
5.2   Present and Future Yield Levels at Full Development
5.3   Estimated Increase in Crop Production
5.4   Estimated Present and Future Income of Beneficiaries
5.5   Producers Benefits and Financial Rates of Return
6.1   Summary Economic Analysis
Annexes
1.    Total Program Cost Estimates
2.    Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
Charts
C.1   World Bank 22148  Project Organization
C.2   World Bank 22149  Applied Agricultural Research and Extension
C.3   World Bank 22150  Crop Calendar
C.4   World Bank 22212  Implementation Schedule
Mp
IBRD 15242 Project Area



TURKEY
SECOND FRUIT AND VEGETABLE PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     The Government of Turkey has requested a Bank loan in order to
assist in financing a second fruit and vegetable production development
project. The proposed project originated during the implementation of the
First '"-it and Vegetable Export Project (Loan/Credit 762/257-TU) and is
based upon a preparation report prepared by the General Directorate of
Fruit and Vegetable Export Development Projects (MEYSEB) within the Min-
istry of Agriculture and Forestry (MAF).  Disbursements for the First Proj-
ect were completed by March 20, 1980, and a draft completion report was
received (in the field) and reviewed by the appraisal mission for the pro-
posed project. Lessons learned during implementation of the First Project
were considered in the formulation and design of the proposed project.
1.02     The principal objective of the Second Project is to capitalize on
Turkey's identified export potential in fruits and vegetables by raising
the production level of selected fruits and vegetables and establishing
effective export marketing channels, thus generating foreign exchange
needed to alleviate the country's present economic problems. The project
is designed to go beyond the objectives of the First Project--which concen-
trated on citrus production in three provinces and provision of transport,
processing and packing facilities--by developing the production of selected
fruits and vegetables in ten provinces, through the improvement of existing
orchards and vegetable farms and the establishment of new ones using cul-
tivars with high export potential.   The project also goes beyond the First
Project in providing for an effective fruit and vegetable export marketing
organization, rooted in the private sector, which is expected to overcome
the historical export constraints, particularly in transportation, market
intelligence and reliable supply of high quality produce.
1.03     The Bank and IDA have previously made 12 loans and 7 credits to
Turkey for agriculture as follows: Grain Storage, Loan 27-TU (US$3.9
million); Seyhar. Irrigation, Loan 63-TU (US$25.2 million), Credit 38-TU
(US$2O million); Fruit and Vegetable Export, Loan 762-TU (US$10 million),
Credit 257-TU (US$15 million); Intensive Dairy Production, Credit 236-TU
(US$4.5 million); Irrigation Rehabilitation and Completion, Credit 281-TU
(US$18 million); Second Livestock Development, Credit 330-TU (US$16 mil-
lion); Seyhan Irrigation, Stage II, Loan 587-TU (US$12 million), Credit
143-TU (US$14.2 million); Ceyhan Aslantas Multipurpose, Loan 883-TU (US$44
million), Credit 360-TU (US$30 million); Corum-Cankiri Rural Development,
Loan 1130-TU (US$75 million); Agricultural Credit and Agroindustries, Loan
1248-TU (US$53.4 million); Third Livestock Development, Loan 1265-TU
(US$21.5 million); Northern Forestry, Loan 1585-TU (US$86 million); Fourth
Livestock Development, Loan 1586-TU (US$24 million); Grain Storage, Loan
1742-TU (US$85 million); and Fifth Livestock Development, Loan 1862-TU
(US$51 million).
1.04     This report is based on the project proposals prepared by MEYSEB
(May 1979) and the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Turkey in



June/July 1980.  The mission consisted of Messrs. H. Eisa, C. Eugenio, R.
Burcroff II and Mrs. T.J. Ho (Bank) as well as Messrs. I. Matthews and R.
Lacroix (consultants).
II. THE SUBSECTOR IN THE ECONOMY
A. Recent Performance
2.01     The horticultural subsector occupies an important position in
Turkey's national economy and has played a major role in agricultural
growth in recent years. Fruits and vegetables represent about 18% of the
total value of agricultural production and about a third of all agricul-
tural exports (which, in turn, account for about 60% of all exports). In
1978, 7% of Turkey's agricultural land area was planted to orchards, vine-
yards, olive trees and nuts, and 2% to leafy or stem, fruit bearing and
other fresh vegetables. While total planted area had increased by only 2%
over the previous decade, the orchard-growing area increased 18% and the
vegetable-growing area 25% over the same period. However, per ha fruit and
vegetable yields have remained largely stagnant.
2.02     Principal fruit crops are grapes, olives, apples and citrus.
During 1969-79, fruit production (including nuts but excluding grapes)
increased at an average rate of 5.5% p.a., due largely to the growth in the
production of citrus. Sizable production gains also were achieved for the
traditional varieties of apples, peaches, apricots, cherries and plums,
although the production of grapes gradually declined due to disease and
slow replanting of vineyards.
2.03     Although vegetable production increased at a moderate rate of 3.9%
p.a. in the decade 1969-79, the growth rate during the last six years of
the period was higher, averaging 5.7% p.a. Most of the gains were realized
from the expansion of open field areas using traditional cultivars and pro-
duction techniques. Early vegetable production (i.e., intensive cultiva-
tion under cover) was introduced in Turkey during the late 1940s. Never-
theless, as recently as 1977, less than 1% of the total vegetable growing
area was under cover, although this method is expected to spur growth in
vegetable production in the coming years. The Fourth Five-Year Plan
projects a growth of 40% in area under cover between 1980-84, although it
is highly unlikely that this target will be achieved.
2.04     Principal vegetable crops grown under cover are tomatoes, cucum-
bers, peppers and eggplants. Recent growth rates in the production of
these vegetables have been above average. An active market for these
products exists and further gains in production will be advantageous both
for export and in domestic markets.
2.05     Turkey's domestic per capita consumption of fruits and vegetables
is quite high. Domestic demand is increasing and per capita consumption in



1975 was 127.2 kg for fruits and 149.3 kg for vegetables. Citrus consump-
tion was about 12 kg during the same year and is expected to reach 20 kg by
the early 1980s. The upward trend in domestic demand is mainly due to ur-
banization, high living standards and better awareness by the consumers of
the nutritional value of fruits and vegetables. This has led to moderate
though sustained increases in the real prices of horticultural crops since
1973 and shortages in supply. The importance of fruits and vegetables in
the national diet is demonstrated in rural food consumption patterns.
About 12% of all expenditures (and 18% of all expenditures on food) are
allocated to fresh and dried fruits and vegetables, with hardly any
variation across income groups (Annex 2, C.14).
2.06     The fruit and vegetable subsector also plays a vital role in
Turkey's external trade position. Turkey has established a modest position
in East European and Middle Eastern markets, and a still weak one with
Western Europe, which could be further exploited to her advantage. I/
One-third of Turkey's agricultural exports originate from the subsector.
About 86% of these exports consist of dried fruits and vegetables with the
balance consisting mostly of fresh produce. Principal exports are dried
fruits (e.g. nuts and raisins), chick peas, broad beans and lentils.
Citrus, apples, tomatoes, potatoes and, very recently, onions are the
principal export commodities in fresh form. The export of tomato paste has
also been successfully developed in recent years. Nevertheless, annual
exports fluctuate from year to year depending on availability of export
quality produce. Limited supplies, deficient varieties, poor quality of
production, lack of a coordinated export marketing policies and increasing
domestic demand have not provided a sound basis for exploiting Turkey's
export opportunities. Increased production through higher yields and
lesser unit production costs; improved varietal selection, quality and
packaging; systematic and aggressive marketing and more reliable delivery
are prerequisites to achieving Turkey's export objectives for the subsector.
B. Production in the Project Area
2.07     Turkey's natural resources--i.e., climate, soil and rainfall--are
distinctively suitable for horticultural crops.  The country grows about 80
horticultural species out of perhaps 140 cultivated worldwide. Along the
Mediterranean coast, citrus, grapes and vegetable crops, particularly early
vegetables, are predominant. Grapes, satsumas, peaches, apples and
open-field vegetables are grown in the Aegean region. The Marmara region
produces peaches, apricots and artichokes. In Central Anatolia, apples,
pears, peaches, plums, apricots and winter vegetables occupy most of the
horticulturally cropped area. Today in Turkey, around 16% (4 million ha)
of the total cultivated land is horticulturally cropped. It is estimated
that another 1.5 million ha can be put to horticultural crops in areas with
irrigation and adequate rainfall (see Annex 2, C.2.1). Considerable pro-
duction improvement also is possible in existing areas, considering the
present state of productivity, if new technologies are adopted through
1/ Presently, Turkey supplies only about 1% of the EEC's annual fruits and
vegetables import requirement.



- 4 -
fresh investment and improved cultural practices coupled with effective
technical assistance. However, a number of constraints must be overcome
which will be addressed in this project before widespread yield increases
can be attained.
2.08     The main identifiable production constraints are;  (a) lack of
healthy budlings, productive fruit trees and adequate supply of improved
vegetable seeds at reasonable prices; (b) inadequate and unreliable pro-
vision of credit; (c) inefficient links and feedback between farmers and
applied research and extension organizations; (d) inadequate farm manage-
ment studies at the source to assist agricultural policy formulation; and
(e) fluctuating prices.  Improvement of fruit and vegetable yield levels in
the project area through the introduction of high quality and disease
resistant cultivars, suitable for export, would'result from coordinating
the applied research and extension activities, and the timely provision of               (
credit and inputs.
Citrus and Deciduous Fruits
2.09     The production of quality budlings for citrus and deciduous fruit
orchards is limited by the availability of healthy budwood and
disease-resistant rootstock in Turkey. This, in turn, limits the yield
potential of new or replanted orchards. Budlings are mainly produced by
the public sector in research stations and agricultural schools and to a
small extent by farmers and private nurseries. Screening of budwood mother
trees is undertaken solely by the research stations and agricultural
schools, but, because of limited equipment and resources and lack of
trained staff, screening and certification have not kept up with demand.
The research effort of more than a few stations is further diluted by
undertaking commercial production of budlings. For citrus, intensive
applied research efforts are required to find substitute rootstocks for the
predominantly used sour orange which is susceptible to tristeza virus.
Applied control measures for this and other important viruses such as
psorosis and exocortis should be incorporated in the budling certification
program. The production of quality budlings also is limited by the number
of properly operated private nurseries in the country. Only three citrus
nurseries have been established with technical supervision, all under the
First Bank-assisted Project. No deciduous fruit nurseries were included in
the First Project, these being operated mainly by horticultural research
institutes, agricultural schools and private farmers without supervision.
Budwood screening and budling certification and production are features of
the proposed project.
2.10     The yields of citrus, stone and pome fruits are constrained by the
predominant use of low yielding, locally propagated cultivars and improper
orchard management. Farmers tend to plant their trees closely together,
often at depths which cover the grafted portion of the budling. Both
inhibit tree development. Other causes of low yields are improper land
preparation and irrigation, aggravated by inadequate or untimely fertiliza-
tion, incorrect pruning and poor attention to pest control during the
development and production periods of the tree's life. Under the project,
the horticulture extension efforts will tackle these problems.



- 5 -
2.11     The long gestation period associated with orchards' establishment
discourages many farmers from investing in planting new orchards. The
impact is especially severe on small farmers who cannot sustain negative
cash flows during the three to five-year establishment periods for citrus
and deciduous orchards. Although some small farm sizes are involved, the
number of farms and thus the potential hectarage involved is large.
Supplementary income could be generated on newly established orchards by
careful intercropping with seasonal vegetables during the establishment
period, with a gradual phasing out of vegetable cultivation as the trees
increase in size. This technique has been used elsewhere in the Middle
East (e.g., Egypt and Cyprus) with favorable results. However, careful
supervision by the extension service is required, which is a feature of the
proposed project.
Grapes
2.12     The production of grapes, which still ranks first in fruit pro-
duction in Turkey, is declining due to the spread of phylloxera disease and
slow replacement of vineyards with resistant rootstocks, the predominance
of traditional (non-trellised) orchards, failure of the extension service
to promote the use of modern practices such as the use of trellising and
careful pruning, and the resultant increase in the cost of labor compared
with yields. There is a need to augment the production of early and
disease-resistant cultivars, which existing Turkish research stations are
capable of doing, extend investment credit to vineyard operators for
trellising, and strengthen the quality of extension supervision in the
areas of vineyard establishment. These problems will receive attention in
the proposed project.
Vegetables
2.13     Turkey's production potential for fresh vegetables is quite good.
Tomatoes, cucumbers, peppers, eggplants, beans, salad vegetables, cole
crops, root crops, etc., could be planted in Turkey most of the year. The
most notable potential is through increased use of greenhouses, and plastic
row covers (low tunnels) in open fields during the early season to increase
cropping intensities which would also permit farmers to capitalize on high
prices of early vegetables. Yields could also be increased by use of
hybrid seed with proven performance, by improving existing greenhouse
structures and providing farmers with systematic training in cultivation
techniques under controlled conditions.
2.14     Present glass greenhouses are constructed from ordinary glass and
iron. The use of hammered glass, fiberglass and aluminum frames is still
to be introduced. Plastic greenhouses are constructed from plastic and
wood frames and often cannot make maximum use of solar radiation because of
poor layout and orientation. The use of high grade plastics with UV resin
and aluminum frames is very limited. Ventilation is inadequate in most
greenhouses, leading to excessive humidity, uneven heating, decreased
yields and the predominance of fungal diseases such as powdery mildews on
cucumbers and cladosporium on tomatoes. Present cultural practices in



- 6 -
greenhouses and low tunnels have been developed through farmers' accumu-
lated experience with minimal assistance from research organizations and
the extension service. Some farmers recognize the value of hybrid seeds
and are using these in spite of their initial high cost; however, limita-
tions on supply and/or availability of production credit inhibit widespread
utilization. Significant yield increases in vegetable production under
open-field conditions also are possible with some increase in working
capital outlays and effective supervision. Production of early vegetables
under cover and intensified open-field production is emphasized in the
proposed project.
C. Government Policies and Institutions
Agricultural Research
2.15     The public sector is primarily responsible for agricultural
research, wherein activities and research entities are fragmented among
five ministries and seven general directorates within the Ministry of Agri-
culture and Forestry (MAF). Some agricultural universities are also
involved in research but mainly on the academic side to support graduate
student training programs. The overall coordination for research is
carried out by the Scientific and Technical Research Council of Turkey,
established in 1968, to develop, promote, organize and coordinate basic and
applied research. MAF is the principal ministry involved in horticultural
research through the General Directorate of Agricultural Research (GDAR)
and the General Directorate of Plant Protection and Quarantine (GDPPQ).
Soil sciences are undertaken by the General Directorate of Soil Conserva-
tion and Farm Irrigation (TOPRAKSU) of the Ministry of Village Affairs. To
coordinate commodity specific research, national research programs have
assigned coordination responsibilities to individual research institutes.
At present, about 27 national research programs are in operation; most are
overly ambitious considering the limited resources available. The
coordination between basic and applied research in many of these programs
is weak. Notably lacking in horticulture is periodic familiarization and
training for extension personnel with recent horticultural research find-
ings, the multiplication of resistant and improved cultivars under con-
trolled conditions by the research entities and ultimate distribution to
farmers' fields, the involvement of horticultural research entities in
field trials, testing and making specific recommendations for improved
on-farm performance in cooperation with the extension services, and
inability or unwillingness to tailor ongoing crop research programs to
counter specific disease and cultivation problems as these may arise.
These problems will be addressed by the proposed project.
Agricultural Extension
2.16     Responsibility for agricultural extension is carried by five
general directorates in MAF, and one in the Ministry of Village
Affairs. In addition, some state economic enterprises (SEEs) such as the
Agricultural Bank of Turkey (TCZB) and the Turkish Sugar Factories



-7-
Corporation undertake specialized extension work geared to their
operations. Privately owned food processing companies also offer extension
advice to farmers under contract with them, e.g. tomato paste manufacturers.
2.17     Teknik Ziraat (TZ), within the General Directorate of Agricultural
Affairs (GDAA) of MAF, is the main national agency for agricultural exten-
sion. GDAA is represented at the provincial level in all of the 600 dis-
tricts in Turkey and in some 4,200 village centers. At the district and
the village level, TZ is mainly staffed by general agriculturalists from
agricultural technical schools who receive support on technical matters
from subject matter specialists (SMS) at the provincial level. By and
large, TZ still utilizes the lecture and demonstration approach to agri-
cultural extension which is inadequate for the specific farm needs of most
fruit and vegetable growers. Lack of trained horticultural staff, housing,
transportation and mobility, in-service training, extension equipment,
feedback from research entities and farmers, and a proliferation of collat-
eral duties inhibit the effectiveness of TZ in its work. Declining staff
morale is a problem and turnover is high.
2.18     In the horticultural subsector, the Government has experimented
with the training and visit (T&V) system with some measure of success. A
special project implementation unit (PU) which was elevated later to the
General Directorate of Fruits and Vegetables Export Development Project
(MEYSEB) was created within MAF to implement the First Fruit and Vegetable
Project utilizing a trained and highly mobile technical staff of SMS and
village foremen in citrus extension. Effective extension is recognized in
Turkey as a sine qua non of fruit and vegetable development, the lack of
which would impede the effectiveness of other production programs. The
Government recognizes the positive results obtained using the T&V system,
and through this project, intends to transfer the special experience of
MEYSEB (and other special project agencies) to the national agricultural
extension system, without unduly compromising MEYSEB's professional
integrity or engendering a bureaucratic response within TZ protective of
its own interests.
Financial Intermediation
2.19     Government Policy.  The Government-owned T.C. Ziraat Bankasi
(TCZB), which is the largest bank in Turkey (25% and 20% respectively of
the total assets and total deposits of the Turkish banking system), is the
main channel for assistance to agriculture and, in a real sense, the only
institutional supplier of funds to the sector, holding as it does at least
99% of the agricultural loan portfolio of the banking system at any one
time (see Annex 2, C.9 for details of TCZB's present organization and
operation). A consistent policy of Government is to provide credit for
agriculture at attractive interest rates which are lower than those for
other sectors. This policy was adopted because of the relative risk and
inflexibility inherent in agricultural operations once investment and
production decisions have been made and because TCZB has been mandated to



give lending preference to small and medium-sized farming operations
(para. 2.24). Besides its principal responsibility as financier to the
agriculture sector, TCZB is authorized to accept all kinds of deposits (it
is a depository for official deposits), to borrow from domestic and foreign
banks and sources, and to issue bonds on its own account. It has access to
the Central Bank of Turkey (CBT).
2.20     Organization and Management.  TCZB's annual lending program is
determined by the Supreme Board for the Regulation of Credits whose members
according to law include, among others, the Minister of Commerce as
Chairman (TCZB, although relatively autonomous, is under the Ministry of
Commerce), and the Ministers of Finance and Agriculture. A Board of
Directors decides on policy and general procedures and approves loans and
investments beyond the authority of TCZB officers to act upon. TCZB's
chief executive officer is the Director General, assisted by six Deputy
Directors and a Secretary General who, in turn, are in charge of seven
groups totalling 31 divisions. Some divisional responsibilities overlap
and there is need for reorganization along functional lines, which is now
under study by outside consultants (engaged-under Loan 1248-TU), whose
report is expected in May 1981. TCZB's management is competent and is
better able to attract and retain qualified personnel than most other
Government entities because of its high salary scales and benefits. TCZB
has a network of 1,028 branches.
2.21     Lending Policies and Operations.  At least 80% of TCZB's lending
must be used in financing agriculture; statistics now available for the
period 1975-1979 indicate that the bulk of lending (80%) has benefitted
agricultural credit and marketing cooperatives and their unions, whose
membership is mainly comprised of small and medium-sized farmers. The
balance has been loaned mostly to individual small-sized farmers (SSF) and
medium-sized farmers (MSF), commercial enterprises supportive of agricul-
ture (especially those which supply imported inputs or are engaged in agri-
cultural exports) and for State Economic Enterprises (particularly the
Agricultural Supply Organization--TZDK),
2.22     The new Agricultural Credit Law of 1979, together with the Agri-
cultural Credit Guidelines issued by TCZB (Annex to Circular 4770, June
1979) have liberalized lending policies towards small farmers and coopera-
tives. The new law and guidelines incorporate some of the suggestions made
by the Bank to TCZB and Government over the last few years, and extend the
credit arrangements agreed under earlier Bank-financed projects to all TCZB
activities. Basically, they make lending based on viable financing and
farm plans the main vehicle for credit to agriculture; they define farmers
in three income classes; they have liberalized collateral requirements;
they permit the use of chattel mortgage on farm assets and have markedly
liberalized the use of creditworthy cosignatories to govern the overall



- 9 -
lending operation to small farmers. Now, small- and medium-size 1/ farming
operations can borrow as much as 90% of a project's cost solely on the
strength of their signature or together with cosignatories; large-scale
farming operations, on the basis of tangible security only, can get a loan
of from 60% to 70% of project cost. The TCZB definitions of farmer size
have been applied nationwide and are updated as Government periodically
updates the minimum wage level by decree.
2.23     As part of the Government's desire to revise interest rates to
meet changing conditions, Government Decree No. 8/909 of May 1980 left to
Turkish banks the determination of loan interest rates; however, TCZB rates
continue to be decided by the Government. In accordance with the Govern-
ment's policy of using loan interest rates to encourage agricultural
production and investments, agricultural loan rates are substantially lower
(to the borrower) than commercial loan rates; e.g., short-term loans, 22%
p.a. against 30% p.a. for commercial loans; medium- and long-term loans,
24% p.a. against 33-35% p.a. for business loans. In addition to interest
received from borrowers, TCZB is paid 6% p.a. for all agricultural loans
from the Interest Rate Differential Fund (IRDF) which is maintained and
operated by the Central Bank of Turkey from payment bv banks from a part of
the interest collected on commercial loans.
2.24     Lending to agriculture almost tripled during 1975-79, reaching a
volume of TL 133.6 billion in 1979. Of total loans granted, 80% were
approved to finance cooperatives--20% for agricultural credit cooperatives
and 60% for agricultural marketing cooperatives. The rest of the loans
were mainly granted to SSFs and MSFs. Because agricultural borrowers are
allowed to pay lower rates of interest than commercial borrowers, the large
bulk of TCZB's interest income is raised by interest subsidy from IRDF.
Nevertheless, the resulting net income is negative in respect of recent
inflation resulting in erosion of TCZB's lending potential. TCZB has tried
to offset this erosion by expanding its lending program. 2/ While it is
desirable to have loan interest rates which would result in net incomes
I/ A small farmer is defined as one whose net annual pre-development
family income does not exceed the national minimum wage level
(TL 64,800 in April 1979, equivalent to US$2,464 at the time) and a
medium-sized farmer as one whose family income is not more than four
times the small farmer ceiling.
2/ The following percentages show expansion of TCZB lending, in nominal
terms, over each preceding year: 1976 - 12.5%, 1977 - 26.0%, 1978 -
35.0%, 1979 - 51.4%. Lending during the first five months of 1980
already exceeded the total for 1979 by 11%. Through these years, the
number of TCZB borrowers have remained fairly constant; it would
therefore appear that TCZB has been able to maintain the number of
beneficiaries in status quo.



-10-
positive in respect of inflation, other factors should be taken into con-
sideration in order to maintain a sustained lending program.
2.25     Sources of Funds.  TCZB's lending funds come from deposits
received (normally around 50% of total) and the balance, almost all from
borrowings from the CBT. 1/ Around 47% of deposits received during 1975-78
were non-interest earning Government official desposits (31%) and commer-
cial deposits (16%); the rest were in the form of small individual savings
deposits gathered by TCZB's wide network of branches. Savings deposits are
paid interest at rates equal to those of commercial deposits, are therefore
competitive.
2.26     Financial Condition.  TCZB has consistently recorded net income
since at least 1964 (earliest available data to IBRD). In constructing
TCZB's loan interest rate schedule, the Government has been careful to set
rates which allow very modest margins to TCZB in order to minimize the cost
of funds to small farmers and cooperatives. Overdue loans have fluctuated
from some 16% of the total portfolio at the end of 1975 to around 28% at
the end of 1978 to less than 15% by the end of 1979. Almost all overdue
loans are under litigation since it is TCZB's practice to aggressively
collect loans that have been in arrears after a reasonable wait. The fact
that most loans are to cooperatives (which are under TCZB's financial
supervision) makes its collection efforts relatively successful. TCZB's
books show that it is in good financial condition. Its financial equity
has been unimpaired by losses; however, TCZB's equity appears to be inade-
quate to protect its creditors from losses. In December 1979, the ratio of
equity to "risk assets" (for practical purposes, total assets less cash
assets and Government-guaranteed bonds) was only 3.3%, meaning that a loss
in assets exposed to risk of more than 3.3% would affect TCZB's creditors.
Nevertheless, as a highly visible Government-owned bank with thousands of
small depositors involved, there is no question that Government would make
good on TCZB liabilities should such an unforeseen need occur.
Fruit and Vegetable Marketing
2.27     Fruit and vegetable marketing in Turkey is characterized by spot
purchases and consignment sales, which, while adequate within the domestic
market where the trading system is well understood and lubricated by
long-standing commercial ties, is inappropriate for export marketing.
Several government organizations are involved in marketing. The GDPPQ
within MAF is responsible for plant quarantine and issues phytosanitary
certificates; the General Directorate of Standardization within the
Ministry of Commerce has responsibility for enforcing quality and packaging
1/ Since expansion of deposits received is not fully within TCZB's
control, it has turned to CBT in recent years to finance expansion of
its lending program. TCZB's net borrowings from the CBT have risen
from TL 6 billion in 1976 to TL 29.7 billion in 1979.



- 11 -
standards developed by the National Institute of Standards. The General
Secretariat of External Commerce (with commercial attaches in 46 countries)
is supposed to supply foreign market information. The Ministries of
Communications, Interior Affairs, Industry and Technology and of Customs
and Monopolies regulate communication and transportation, importation of
materials and equipment, and exports. Regionally, the various chambers of
commerce and chambers of industry, municipalities, transport unions and
export unions are supposed to organize and coordinate the activities of
local traders and exporters, and to transmit market information received
from the Ministry of Commerce and other organizations (these local entities
are usually headed by public officials and function as public organiza-
tions). Another semi-public agency, IGEME (Export Research Center), whose
Board of Directors is chaired by the Undersecretary of Commerce, collects
market information, undertakes export promotion, and supplies exporters
with market situation reports. Overall coordination of export promotion is
vested in the State Planning Organization (SPO) and the Export Encourage-
ment and Development Department of the Prime Minister's office.
2.28     To alleviate disparities between low returns in the export markets
and more favorable returns domestically, export incentives have been intro-
duced. The most important recent incentives are: (a) agricultural
exporters can now deduct up to 20% of gross export earnings from taxable
income before tax, with premia if exports increase during subsequent
periods; (b) specific interest rate incentives for fruit and vegetable
exporters to encourage investment in cold stores and refrigerated cold
fleets; (c) complete prefinancing of imported materials and local procure-
ment requirements to sustain export operations; (d) extension of the for-
eign exchange retention scheme in May 1980 to allow 10% of their foreign
exchange earnings for operational requirements; 1/; and (e) all agricul-
tural exports including foodstuffs are entitled to an 8% rebate on interest
via the Central Bank's discounting mechanisms if export financing credits
are utilized. While the traditional system works well to serve the needs
of the domestic market, the supply response for export to the pyramiding of
public agencies and export incentives has been slow. Partially, this is
caused by mistrust of government initiative in the private sector, which
has been reinforced until very recently by the small incentives offered.
But slow response is mostly due to the comparatively low prices offered in
foreign markets for Turkish horticultural produce, which in turn is influ-
enced by variable quality, poor grading, improper packaging, damage in
storage and transit, and unreliable delivery. Until considerable attention
is paid to these technical marketing problems, only marginal response to
governmental promotional and export incentive schemes can be expected. The
project is designed to resolve these problems.
1/ By way of contrast, exporters of industrial and mining products can
retain up to 50% of their foreign exchange earnings to sustain future
operations.



- 12 -
D. Performance Under Previous Projects
2.29     Fruit and Veaetable Export Project (First Project--Loan No.
762/Credit No. 257-TU). 1/: The objectives of the First Project were: (i)
on-farm citrus development through the establishment of 8,000 ha of citrus
orchards and about 60 ha of citrus nurseries in three Mediterranean
provinces; (ii) the provision of an integrated refrigerated transport
system to export markets through procurement of 385 refrigerated trailers
(20-ton capacity), 100 towing units and two roll-on/roll-off (ro-ro) ferry
ships; (iii) agroindustries development through establishment of packing
houses, cold stores and a cardboard-box manufacturing plant with capacity
of 150,000 tons; (iv) supply of technical assistance to activate a national
organization of exporters (MEPA); and (v) technical assistance to sub-
borrowers, a virus-indexing program for citrus research, training and a
comprehensive credit survey. The on-farm citrus and agroindustries com-
ponents were implemented by supervised credit, using TCZB as the financial
intermediary and PU established under the project as the supervising agency.
2.30     After an initial delay in project effectiveness, the project
encountered organizational difficulties caused by a change in government.
Initially, the PU was a separate entity from the Citrus Extension Unit
(CEU), and placed under the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations (which
was later disbanded), then transferred to the Ministry of Commerce. The
CEU was placed under MAF. As a result, project implementation was
uncoordinated and disbursements lagged. In 1975, in consultation with the
Bank, the PU was transferred to MAF and combined with the CEU into a new
unit--MEYSEB--which was elevated to General Directorate status.
2.31     Following reorganization, project performance was generally satis-
factory in the on-farm citrus component. Extension coverage, using SMS and
trained village foremen, reached about 20,000 ha of citrus in the three
provinces (Hatay, Adana and Icel) comprising the project area. Because of
limited success with citrus nurseries development (see below), it was
necessary to de-emphasize the establishment of new orchards in the project
and focus on improved production techniques for existing orchards. As a
result, only 743 ha (about 9% of the appraisal estimate) of new citrus
orchards were planted, but supervised production credit was extended to
over 9,600 ha of existing ones with notable increases in production. About
4,500 farmers benefitted, about half of whom farmed orchards of only
0.1-1.0 ha in size. Only 3 of the programmed 8 citrus nurseries were
established in the project and only in its latter years. Nurseries'
establishment was inhibited by lack of identifiable and healthy budwood,
and MEYSEB's requirement that budlings be sold at government procurement
prices rather than the prevailing market prices. Recently MEYSEB has
1/ Approved on June 21, 1971. The original closing date was June 20,
1976, but was extended until June 30, 1979.



- 13 -
adjusted budling prices to take into consideration increased production
costs leaving a reasonable profit margin to nurserymen.
2.32     Performance of the transport and marketing components was gen-
erally unsatisfactory. There were cost overruns on ferryboat purchases,
and only one vessel was procured under the project, the other was being
financed through Loan 1248-TU (see below). Because of the operating
patterns of Turkish trucking firms it was necessary to procure cabs and
trailers as a single unit. Thus 155 of each were purchased, compared with
the 100 cabs and 385 trailers expected during appraisal. The roll-on
roll-off ferryboats have experienced continuous breakdowns and have
suffered from unreliable scheduling.   As a result, exporters of fresh
fruits and vegetables, who prefer overland truck routing have made only
limited use of them. Maintenance of the refrigerated trailers also has
been a problem. The central export marketing organization (MEPA), which
was already being promoted amongst exporters prior to approval of the First
Project and thus was not included as a project component, was never fully
activated because of a change in government soor. after its creation. As a
result, the four participating joint stock companies--which were formed to
provide an operating nucleus for MEPA-- worked independently as uncoordi-
nated exporters and some are presently managed by the major shareholder.
2.33     Establishment of cold stores, citrus packing plants and the cor-
rugated box manufacturing plant was completed in 1977 and they became fully
operational during the 1978-79 season. Few problems were encountered
during implementation, though all are presently operating beneath rated
capacity because of lack of working capital. This in turn has been caused
by Turkey's overall financial retrenchment during 1979 and 1980. The
Agricultural Credit Survey was not undertaken due to resistance from TZCB.
2.34     Though all of the objectives of the First Project were not
achieved, implementation of the on-farm production component and, to a
lesser extent, the agroindustries component proceeded well after MEYSEB was
formed, valuable services were provided to farmers in the project area, and
a viable approach to horticultural extension evolved including recognition
within MAF of the merits of the T&V approach.
2.35     Agricultural Credit and Agroindustries Project (Loan No.
1248-TU).  The project became effective on May 11, 1977 with TCZB as the
Borrower and the Government as Guarantor. The original loan amount of
US$63 million was decreased to US$54.3 million following cancellation of
the cattle-fattening component and provision of training funds through
UNDP/FAO. The project now consists of the following components; (i)
supervised investment and short-term credit to farmers; (ii) investment
credits for agroindustry with emphasis on fruits and vegetables marketing
and processing; (iii) credit for the purchase of a ro-ro ferryboat for
marketing perishable produce in European countries; (iv) technical services
to strengthen TCZB's organization and operations, and to assist in imple-
menting the first two components utilizing training provided by UNDP/FAO;
and (v) provision of vehicles for TCZB's field staff.



- 14 -
2.36     Satisfactory progress has been achieved with the supervised
credit component, and actual disbursements have been ahead of appraisal
estimates. The ferryboat was procured on schedule and placed in service in
1978; vehicles for TCZB have been purchased and the mobility of its field
staff has been increased; and the training programs for TCZB and MEYSEB
staff in agricultural credit and agroindustries have been completed.
2.37     After considerable delay, consultants were appointed to assist
TCZB with a study of various aspects of its management, organization and
lending procedures, who are currently preparing their report. TCZB would
implement their recommendations (after consultation with the Bank) in
accordance with Section 4.01(d) and (e) of the agreement for Loan No.
1248-TU. Amongst the various credit components, progress has been partic-
ularly slow in implementing the agroindustries component. This has
resulted from (i) poor coordination between MEYSEB and TCZB; (ii) continu-
ing inflation, and the uncertainties posed for potential investors; (iii)
the unwillingness of many investors to assume the full foreign exchange
risk on subloans under the project as required by Government; and (iv) dis-
bursement delays due to rather inadequate evaluation of agroindustry sub-
loan applications by TCZB. The Government has recently instituted measures
proposed by recent supervision missions to resolve the coordination problem
by entrusting TCZB with sole responsibility for the technical, financial
and economic appraisal of agroindustries subloans. It has also engaged
consultants to undertake a training program acceptable to the Bank for TCZB
staff in evaluation methods of agroindustry subloans (paras 3.10 and 3.11),
and prepare a manual for agroindustry project evaluation for TCZB's use.
Other proposals by Bank staff to overcome investors' reluctance to assume
the foreign exchange risk are presently under consideration by the Govern-
ment, including acceptance of the full foreign exchange risk by Government
on subloans for investment in agroindustry, to be offset by an increase in
the onlending interest rate to subborrowers. If adopted, it is believed
that these measures would hasten the utilization of the remaining
uncommitted funds in Loan 1248 (US$18.74 million) which could be applied
inter alia to the financing of additional cold stores and agroprocessing
facilities for fruit and vegetable production. These investments, together
with improved utilization of existing processing facilities to be encour-
aged in the project (paras. 3.10-3.11), should be sufficient to process the
increased production of fruits and vegetables during the period to be
supported by the proposed loan.  Additional investments in agroindustries
will be studied in the proposed project as part of a master plan for horti-
cultural subsector development (paras. 3.19-3.21).
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
3.01     The objectives of the project are:



- 15 -
(a) to increase production of high quality fruits and vegetables
primarily for export, in ten provinces of Turkey (Map IBRD 15242)
which have the most experience and the greatest potential for
export production;
(b) to create an effective marketing organization that would
capitalize on the identified export potential of Turkish fruits
and vegetables in order to increase foreign exchange earnings from
*               important overseas markets such as the Middle East, the Eastern
European countries, and to a lesser extent Western Europe;
*          (c)  to plan future investments for production and processing in the
subsector through a study of export and domestic marketing
opportunities and a detailed examination of existing and potential
land use, production techniques, processing needs and
capabilities, transportation, storage, skilled manpower
requirements and organizational constraints; and
(d) to consolidate gains achieved under the First Project and expand
it to include other fruits and vegetables besides citrus.
3.02     The project is part of a program for an integrated fruit and vege-
table development effort, that balances investments between the need for
quick gestation and the need to support the medium- and long-term develop-
ment requirements of the sub-sector. The more rapidly gestating features
of the program include technical and financial support for vegetable
production--both under cover and in open field, improved production from
existing orchards, increased utilization of existing agro-industrial
capacity--particularly packing houses and cold stores, and creation of an
effective export marketing institution in the private sector which would
initially concentrate on increasing export from present production. The
longer term features include the establishment of fruit tree nurseries and
new orchards and vineyards utilizing high yielding cultivars suitable for
meeting export demand, and the implementation of proven nurseries and
orchard management reconmendations developed by cooperating research and
extension entities on farmers to be established in the project and on
existing orchards and nurseries. Full implementation of the program will
take nine and one-half years; proceeds of the proposed Bank loan will be
X      utilized to finance a portion of the investment costs expected to be
incurred during its first four and one-half years of implementation
(July 1, 1981-December 31, 1985).
B. Detailed Features
Agricultural Credit
3.03     Investment credit would be provided to private farmers for
establishing four citrus nurseries to supplement production of improved



- 16 -
budlings from three ongoing ones established under the First Project.
Credit would also be extended to establish three deciduous fruit nurseries
to augment the production of budlings for pome and stone fruits. Each
nursery will be about 10 ha and have a production capability of 70,000
budlings annually starting in the fourth year of establishment. Since the
provision of improved budlings is required to establish the number of
orchards envisaged in the project, MEYSEB's staff and an internationally
recruited nursery consultant would concentrate their efforts during the
first year of the project on existing nurseries, to provide needed techni-
cal assistance and assist with locating healthy budwood mother trees in
cooperation with the research institutes.
3.04     Under the program, investment credit would be extended for the
establishment of 700 citrus and 550 non-citrus orchards of about 2.5 ha
each, and 2,000 small orchards of about 0.5 ha each which w4ill be inter-
cropped with vegetables during the establishment period. In addition,
about 100 vineyards, each 2.5 ha, would be financed from project funds.
Trellising will be the main investment item for vineyards in the project,
which will permit the production of early grapes of high quality suitable
for export. Provision is made to establish 50 glass greenhouses and 100
plastic greenhouses (each 0.5 ha) to intensify vegetable cultivation and
produce early vegetables. Proceeds of the proposed loan will be utilized
to finance about 91% of the foreign costs (para. 3.23) expected to be
incurred during the four and one-half year period of the time slice asso-
ciated with farm investment plans to be phased in between 1983 and 1985
(2,450 of the 3,500 farm investment plans envisaged in the program) and all
7 nurseries in the program, which will be phased in between 1982 and 1984.
Supervised production credit will be provided to producing orchards (mainly
citrus and apples), existing greenhouses and vegetable farms to improve
yields and the quality of horticultural produce from existing farms. Pro-
duction credit under the project will be extended to about 2,350 farms of
the 3,575 farms expected to avail of supervised production credits in the
program. Subborrower loan applications for financing under the project
will be evaluated and approved in accordance with provisions of the exist-
ing protocol between TCZB, MEYSEB and TOPRAKSU (Annex 2, C.10), which will
be appropriately amended with respect to dates and locations, and will be
submitted to the Bank for its review and approval (para. 4.03). Consider-
able retraining of extension service personnel and expansion of these ser-
vices in the project area is needed to provide adequate supervision for
subborrowers in the program (paras. 3.07-3.08). Most of this training will
take place in 1982, thus the implementation of all farm plans excepting
those for two nurseries will begin in 1983. The Bank loan will be utilized
to finance a portion of the equivalent of the estimated foreign exchange
component of each subborrower's incremental production credit requirement
during the period of the time slice. The phasing-in of subloans for
investment and production credit is detailed in Table 3.1.



- 17 -
Table 3.1: PHASING-IN OF FARM PLANS FOR INVESTMENT & OPERATING CREDIT
(No. of Plans/Credits)
1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   Total /1
Nurseries Establishment
Citrus (10 ha)                      I        2      1        -       -      4
Non-Citrus (10 ha)                  1        1      1        -       -      3
Orchards Establishment
Citrus orchards (2.5 ha)            -      100    200    200    200       700
Citrus intercrop (0.5 ha)           -      250    300    300    350   1,200
Non-citrus orchards (2.5 ha)        -      100    100    100    250       550
Non-citrus intercrop (0.5 ha)       -      150    200    200    250       800
Vineyards (2.5 ha)                  -        -     50    '50        -     100
Vegetable Farm Establishment
Glass greenhouses (0.5 ha)          -       10     15      25      -       50
Plastic greenhouses (0.5 ha)        -       20     30      50      -      100
Production Credit
Citrus orchards (2.5 ha)            -      200    300    400    600   1,500
Non-citrus orchards
(apples)(2.5 ha)                  -     100    200    300    400  1000
Glass greenhouses (0.5 ha)          -        -     10      15     25       50
Plastic greenhouses (0.5 ha)        -        -     25      50     50      125
Low tunnel (0.5 ha)                 -        -     75    125    150       350
Open field vegetables (1.0 ha)    -        100    200    250       -      550
/1  The foreign cost portion of plans to be phased-in between 1982-1985
will be totally or partially financed with proceeds of the proposed
Bank loan.
To provide suitable high quality cultivars for use by subborrowers in the
project, the Government has asrured that it will take all necessary
measures to facilitate procurement of improved vegetable seeds, partic-
ularly hybrids, and healthy buds from internationally reputed organizations
and seed companies to meet farmers' demand.
Technical Support Services and Training
3.05     In order to implement applied research and the expansion of exten-
sion and training programs envisaged under the project, five internation-
ally recruited horticultural production specialists (consultants) would be
employed by MEYSEB for three years, one in each of the following areas:
(a) nurseries; (b) citrus; (c) pome fruits; (d) stone fruits; and (e) early
vegetables. All consultants would be located in Antalya which is centrally
placed in the project area. In addition, four leading research stations
are located in Antalya where citrus, deciduous fruits, and early vegetables
are important crops.



-18-
3.06     Applied Research and Extension.  Essential to successful imple-
mentation of the production aspects is the evolution of a strong team
work approach between farmers, trained extension staff and able research
workers. To achieve this, the vegetable consultant would be housed in the
Vegetable Research Institute and the four fruit consultants in the Citrus
Research Institute which undertakes research in temperate fruit crops in
addition to citrus. Four counterparts from MEYSEB, TZ, TCZB and the coop-
erating research institutes would be assigned to each consultant to lay the
groundwork for the consultants' arrival, and assist with the planning and
timely implementation of the project's applied horticultural research,
extension and training programs (para 3.08). Other cooperating research
institutions will be Cukurova University in Adana, the Aegean Regional
Agricultural Research Institute in Menemen, the Viticulture Research Insti-
tute in Manisa and the Horticultural Research Institute in Yalova. Two
counterparts from each cooperating institute also will be assigned to
undertake cooperative applied research programs with the international
consultants, thus involving a total of 28 counterparts. The Government
agreed during negotiations that international recruitment of consultants
would begin after negotiations and their appointment would be no later than
January 1, 1982. The Government has also agreed that all 28 counterparts
would be assigned and posted as indicated above not later than September
30, 1981, that all information on horticultural crops research and exten-
sion programs will be made available for the consultants' use, and that
it would cause MEYSEB to provide the consultants and counterparts with
adequate transportation, suitable office facilities and clerical assistance
to enable them to carry out their duties efficiently. Funds for
greenhouses, laboratory equipment and transportation have been provided
under the project to accomplish the applied horticultural research pro-
grams. There is a need to systematize budwood screening procedures to
ensure that only healthy budwood of uniform high quality is utilized.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the consultants will out-
line a program for screening healthy budwood mother trees and producing
improved budlings in sufficient quantities to meet the requirements of
fruit orchards to be established under the project. Such a program would
be prepared jointly with cooperating research entities under MEYSEB's
supervision and submitted to the Bank for review by September 30, 1982.
3.07     Present horticultural extension activities are generally inade-
quate, poorly staffed and do not address farmers' needs and problems except
for citrus in the area of the First Project (3 of the 10 provinces in the
present project). Under the project, all extension activities would be
supervised by MEYSEB which would establish three new regional offices in
Antalya, Mugla and Izmir in addition to its present offices in Dortyol
(Hatay), Adana (Adana) and Mersin (Icel). MEYSEB's regional office in
Izmir would be housed in the Aegean Research Institute, to facilitate
needed coordination between research and extension workers. In the four
provinces of TZ's responsibility (Bursa, Amasya, Tokat and Kayseri), TZ
would implement extension activities under MEYSEB's supervision and accord-
ing to the agreed protocol of June 25, 1980, between DGAA, (under which TZ
falls), and MEYSEB (see Annex 2, C.10). During the initial year of project
implementation TZ staff would be jointly trained with that of MEYSEB by the



- 19 -
consultants and their counterparts. Both would apply the T&V system using
SMS and foremen (MEYSEB) or technicians (TZ) in their areas of respons-
ibility. Assurances of the above were obtained during negotiations.
Necessary extension equipment, vehicles and office equipment will be
provided under the project. It is considered that these arrangements will
help MEYSEB and especially TZ to upgrade their staff qualifications and
alleviate present constraints on mobility. In the meantime, it introduces
an element of needed cooperation between MEYSEB and TZ which would ulti-
mately lead to the transfer of knowledge gained by MEYSEB to the extension
service countrywide.
3.08     Training.  Training programs for SMS, foremen and technicians of
MEYSEB, GDAA, TCZB and other cooperating research institutes would be
conducted mainly at Antalya using facilities available at the research
institutes and the agricultural schools. Training in viticulture would be
undertaken at the Viticulture Research Institute in Manisa. During the
first six months of project implementation, the consultants, their counter-
parts and present citrus SMS will study horticultural production in the
project area, and plan the applied research and training programs for 84
new SMS. The total number of SMS to be trained in the second half of 1982
would be 110 who also would receive intensive English language training
before starting their horticultural training. Foremen (289) and techni-
cians (240) would be selected and appointed at the beginning of 1983.
Present MEYSEB's extension staff (26 SMS, 71 foremen and 10 technicians)
will continue with citrus extension activities until training programs for
other fruits and vegetables have been developed. Local and overseas train-
ing will be concentrated in the first three years of project implementation
to gain maximum benefits from the consultants, and will be carried out
mainly during the summer months. Training will be continued after the
departure of the consultants by their trained counterparts and SMS.
Overseas training for outstanding SMS and extension staff would be carried
out at the end of 1982 and during 1983 to ensure use of techniques learned
abroad early in the project implementation period. Following the
consultants appointment and with their assistance, MEYSEB will prepare a
comprehensive training program for both local and foreign training, which
will include a roster of names of the initially selected trainees, fields
of study and institutions chosen for their study. Such a program will be
developed not later than six months from the posting of the consultants and
will be forwarded to the Bank by July 1, 1982 for its review. Assurances
to this effect were obtained during negotiations. The Government also will
make every effort to retain staff employed in the project after finishing
their training programs.
3.09     Recurrent Costs.  Turkey's current economic problems have forced
the Government to make deep cutbacks in the public budget including alloca-
tions to line agencies for recurrent expenditures. Its significance cannot
be overstated. Cutbacks have been especially severe on the allocation of
budget for fuels and lubricants, spare parts and general maintenance of
government vehicles. This has impeded the mobility of the operating
agencies, and its impact has been severe on the implementation of projects



- 20 -
wherein the need for mobility is paramount. It has also impeded the opera-
tion of crop research entities especially during the colder months. This
situation is likely to continue until economic recovery is well underway.
To guarantee the reliable operation of the applied research and extension
services in the present project, assurances were obtained during negotia-
tions that the budget required by the project would be provided on time and
in the amount required to prevent implementation delays. It was further
agreed that by March 1st of each year during the four and one-half year
time slice in which disbursements for the technical services and training
component are expected to occur, Government will satisfy the Bank that
adequate annual operating budget estimated to be about US$1.0 million
equivalent has been allocated to meet the needs of the project during the
forthcoming fiscal year. Subsequent to the end of each corresponding
Turkish fiscal year (the Turkish fiscal year ends February 28), the
Government has agreed to furnish the Bank with a summary of operating
budget requested by each agency for purposes of the project and of amounts
actually allocated and spent during the recently completed fiscal year.
Agroindustries Working Capital
3.10     It has been noted elsewhere in this report (para. 2.33) that many
cold stores, processing and packing plants in the fruits and vegetables
subsector are underutilized including most of the plants installed under
the First Project. The reasons for poor performance are often plant-
specific, but a common factor is their inability to secure operating
capital when needed and in sufficient amounts to procure imported materials
for cardboard and wooden box manufacture and other inputs such as spares
and machinery parts, and raw materials. The operational pattern of agro-
industries in the sector tends to be seasonal in Turkey, which results in
a high need for working capital during critical months, that quickly
diminishes in later months after the marketing cycle opens (see Annex 2,
C. 4 for examples of monthly cash flows). 1/
3.11     The fuller utilization of cold stores, processing plants and pack-
ing houses would help increase exports from present production. To facil-
itate this, and in view of Turkey's difficult foreign exchange situation,
provision is made under the proposed Bank loan to augment TCZB's working
capital fund for agroindustries, and assist it to meet the seasonal direct
and imputed foreign exchange requirement of fruit and vegetable storage,
processing and marketing for such items as cartons, boxes, electric power,
fuel, and transportation costs (a detailed list was agreed upon during
negotiations).  The Government has agreed that, for purposes of disburse-
ment, proceeds of the Bank loan will be incorporated into overdraft facili-
ties, to be opened each year for eligible subborrowers by TCZB before the
1/ One reason for poor performance of packing plants established under
the First Project is that supporting working capital credits were
appraised by MEYSEB and TCZB on the basis of average monthly needs,
which markedly underestimates actual peak season requirements.



- 21 -
peak season occurs in order to assure the timely availability of needed
working capital. Bank loan proceeds will be allocated by TCZB to cover
the expected incremental foreign exchange content of such lines of credit
as each is approved; however actual disbursement of loan proceeds will be
done upon receipt of normal documentation from TCZB. It will not be
necessary for TCZB to establish new offices or new divisions to implement
the agroindustries working capital component; its existing network of over
1,000 branches is considered sufficient for the task. The subloans are
expected to be sufficiently large to require appraisal by staff of TCZB's
Encouragement and Development Loan Division (EDLD). TCZB's operating staff
is currently trained in various aspects of agroindustry project evaluation,
and a detailed manual for the appraisal and evaluation of agroindustries
subloans is being prepared for TCZB's use under revised implementation
responsibilities for the agroindustries component of Loan 1248 (para
2.37).  The training and manual will emphasize inter alia the working
capital needs of fruit and vegetable processors including methods to
properly determine monthly overdraft requirements. Both are proceeding
satisfactorily and are expected to be completed by mid-1981. The Govern-
ment has also agreed that subborrower loan repayments under the prbject, to
the extent that such repayment is not required for amortization of the sub-
sidiary loan, will be placed in a fund which will be rolled-over from year
to year by TCZB in order to sustain the overdraft credit facility.
Marketing Organization
3.12     To quickly capitalize on the export potential of present produc-
tion, the project will provide funds to support new institution building
through the establishment of four regional marketing corporations (RMCs)
under the umbrella of a central marketing organization (CMO). In the
period immediately following its establishment the organization will seek
to streamline transportation and market intelligence, and to convince
producers of the benefits of improved packing, processing and quality
control. In subsequent years, it is expected to assume direct management
of Turkish fruit and vegetable exports under a unified brand name which
would be synonymous with high quality. Because participation in the RMCs
will be voluntary 1/ it is essential that the RMCs should be seen to
function effectively from the outset. This points to the creation of RMCs,
at least initially, in a group of highly productive regions, serviced by a
team of experienced specialists. The four RMCs will be established,
therefore, at Adana-Mersin, Antalya, Izmir and Bursa-Istanbul which are
centers of the horticultural industry; have good communications with both
domestic and export markets by land, sea and air; and have cold storage and
packing house facilities. When operational, each RMC will identify export
opportunities, and provide skills, resources and services which by defini-
tion are outside the financial capability of most individual exporters.
These include market intelligence; marketing per se; quality control;
1/ Under present Turkish conditions, this is the only practical approach
for organizing to encourage horticultural exports.



- 22 -
monitoring of cold storage, packaging and packing house procedures; and
transport coordination.
3.13     The CMO will be owned by the RMCs to perform services for the RMCs
vital for achieving regional export objectives, but which will be beyond
the capability of individual RMCs either to direct or influence. It is
expected that the CMO ultimately will be empowered to: (a) coordinate all
export related activities from production to sale and collectively repre-
sent RMCs in foreign markets; (b) set quality standards in collaboration
with concerned Government agencies, for Turkish horticultural produce; (c)
appoint resident representatives in overseas markets, monitor the perform-
ance of overseas agents, and negotiate on behalf of the RMCs with multiple
retail chains and wholesale buyers in importing countries; and (d) repre-
sent the RMCs in bilateral trade negotiations. It will also be responsible
for preparing annual export promotion plans in consultation with the RMCs,
which will contain regional export sales targets for each commodity,
expected monthly shipments and destination. In addition, a formal market
intelligence service, transport coordination service, marketing and sales
promotion service, and purchasing finance service will be established
within the CMO to assist the RMCs with their daily operations (these are
described in Annex 2, B. 6). The CMO will probably be located in Istanbul
because of its excellent communications facilities.
3.14     The RMCs and CMO would be organized in the form of stock corpora-
tions which would come into existence when the minimum capitalization
required by Turkish law has been satisfied. Shares in the RMCs initially
would be available both to the public and the Government; however, the
Government's capital participation when the corporations are formed will be
limited to about 30% of all stock subscribed to ensure that control of the
organization is vested in the private sector from the start, and to furnish
producers with incentives to participate in order to avail of the services
to be provided as a result of Government's involvement. Participation by
individuals or companies will be limited to not more than 5% of the sub-
scribed shares. Shares of RMCs issued would be at no more than TL 1000 par
value to allow small investors to participate. Shares of the CMO would be
available to the RMCs only, and in equal proportion; in the future CMO
shares would be available only to other RMCs which may be established
later. Government would pay its stock subscription in the RMCs from the
proceeds of the Bank loan only when actual disbursements in foreign
exchange are necessary. It is intended that Government's shares ultimately
will be retired at a later date through a mechanism to be enunciated in the
by-laws (para 3.18).
3.15     When operational, the services of the RMCs and CMO could be made
available to any producer, whether a shareholder or not. Fees will be
established by the RMCs to cover the costs of the marketing intelligence
service and other specific services availed of by the exporters, while the
marketing activities of the CMO will be reimbursed on a commission basis.
In later years a separate charge also will be levied for use of a national
brand name, the ownership of which will be vested in the CMO. During the



- 23 -
initial period of operation, however, it is expected that the RMCs and CHO
will have to supplement their equity with some debt financing until suffi-
cient revenues can be generated to cover costs.
3.16     Five internationally recruited consultants will be engaged by the
SPO on or before the date of establishment of the RMCs and CGO and in any
event, not later than January 1, 1982 to assist the CMO and RMCs in each of
the following key areas: general management, transportation, marketing,
market intelligence, and cold storage. In addition, short-term consultants
(for periods ranging from three to six months) will be engaged to promote
services and train Turkish staff and entrepreneurs in the areas of packag-
ing and promotion.
3.17     Funds provided in the project for the marketing organization
component will be used to finance the foreign exchange requirements of
consulting services, the market intelligence service, international
promotion and marketing, vehicles and office equipment, etc. duting the
first four and one-half years of implementation. The funds provided will
take the form of Government subscriptions to joint stock of the RMCs and
the CMO, which will be administered through the SPO.
3.18     Agreement was obtained during negotiations on the concept and
functions of the CMO and RMCs, their date of organization and the utiliza-
tion of Bank funds thereafter as discussed in paras. 3.12-3.17. Additional
assurances were obtained that SPO would draft pro-forma basic articles of
incorporation and by-laws for the RMCs and CMO which would describe among
others authority for incurring third party indebtedness as well as
procedures for incurring expenditures to be covered by the projected
capital contributions of the Government. These will be transmitted for
approval by the Bank immediately following loan negotiations, and in any
event not later than July 31, 1981. Following receipt of bank approval,
the Government has agreed that SPO will initiate a vigorous promotional
effort amongst private exporters to ensure that the RMCs and CMO are
organized and capitalized not later than January 31, 1982. All subsequent
procurement for the RMCs and CMO utilizing proceeds of the loan will be
done by these entities through the SPO.
Master Plan for the Subsector
3.19     Although high priority has been assigned to the fruit and vege-
table subsector in the Government program for export development, the
information base for a rational future development of the subsector is
shallow and incomplete. Appropriate surveys and studies need to be carried
out both to facilitate the planning and coordination of future investments
in the subsector and to assist the marketing organization with its
operational planning. Between 1982-1983 a master plan for the fruit and
vegetable subsector will be prepared by internationally recruited
consultants under terms of reference which are acceptable to the Bank.
SPO will be the executing agency for this component. The plan will
identify agroindustry investment needs to more efficiently exploit Turkey's



- 24 -
fruits and vegetables potential--especially for export--and will be com-
plete in regard to the regional location and phasing of investment in new
farm production and agroindustrial capacity and/or rehabilitation of
existing capacity. An investment program will be appended. To prepare a
foundation for the plan, a research effort of some magnitude is required.
Discrete studies will be undertaken as detailed in Annex 2, C.1. These
include: (i) general design of studies, implementation program and
periodic monitoring of progress, (ii) export market screening and a desk
study of Turkey's existing production, processing and markeiing capabili-
ties, (iii) an in-depth examination of existing fruit anl vegetable
production at the farm level, present constraints and potentials, and of
optimal plant location and sizing to meet present and futSre storage,
processing and packing requirements, and (iv) an in-destt ai-alysis of
regional and seasonal domestic demand for fresh and prccessed fruits and
vegetables in order to gauge with some precision the expectei surplus for
export.
3.20     Prototype prefeasibility studies and programming models will be
used to provide a quantitative basis for the investmenr program. Case
studies of particular agroprocessing and export marketing problem areas 1/
will be used in conjunction with the investment program and prototype
prefeasibility studies to provide the qualitative dimecion of the master
plan. Completion of the supporting studies will overlap with the estab-
lishment of the marketing organization and its initial operations. SPO has
agreed that the findings of each study will be made available to the CMO
for use as soon as it has been accomplished.
3.21     Consulting services required for completion of this component, to
be recruited internationally consist, of 8 man-months of highly specialized
expertise and about 1,349 man-months of general specialist expertise. The
experts are expected to consist of (i) one or two highly qualified
expatriate agroindustry research specialists to be recruited separately by
SPO from universities or institutes which specialize in agroindustry
management, training and research, who will assist with the design and
layout of the work program during the start-up phase, and then will revisit
Turkey at least once to monitor progress; and (ii) the Main Study Con-
sultants who will carry out the work described in para. 3.19. Because of
the need for survey work and intimate familiarity with agribusiness prac-
tise 4in--Turkey, anrrJput of local expertise is desirable, which expertise
presently exists in Turkey. As called for in the draft Terms of Reference
(Annex 2, C.1), the Main Study Consultants should also have had prior
experience with investment programming for important agricultural and
related subsectors; the production, processing and export marketing of
agricultural produce; and agroindustry or agribusiness systems analysis
1/ Including transportation scheduling and utilization, raw material
procurement and delivery, plant operation and production management,
appropriate product standards and maintenance of quality, and agro-
industry manpower and training requirements.



- 25 -
and related survey work. Specific man-month requirements are set forth in
Annex 2, C.6, and include agroindustry specialists, agricultural engineers,
mechanical engineers, economists, statisticians and systems analysts.
During negotiations, Government agreed that all consultants required to
carry out this component would be recruited throu,h SPO no later than
January 1, 1982. It further agreed that the progress made by the consul-
tants will be periodically reviewed by the SPO, which will also approve
changes in scope and work plans in consultation with the Bank as may be
required during the progress of work, and that the completed studies and
master plan would be made available to the Bank for its review and comment.
C. Cost Estimates
3.22     The total cost of this project is estimated to be $107.0 million
equivalent in March 31, 1980 terms (US$1 = TL 78.0), 1/ including some
$2.1 million in taxes of which some US$44.0 million (about 41%) is foreign
exchange. The project cost represents the estimated investment cost of the
first four and one-half years (July 1, 1981-December 31, 1985) of a nine
and one-half year investment program costing $156.7 million. The estimated
foreign expenditure during this part of the implementation period will
largely be for vehicles and equipment, technical specialists and overseas
training, technicai studies, imported farm chemicals and building
materials. Imputed foreign exchange includes a portion of farm implements,
local materials, fuel and other imported energy, machine rental and opera-
tion and maintenance of project vehicles. Price increases of US$29.8 mil-
lion were allowed over the four and one-half year time slice. They provide
for price contingencies between April 1980 and the end of the time slice,
applied to both local and foreign costs in US$ terms at the following
annual rates; 10.5% in 1980, 9% in 1981, 8% in 1982, and 7% in 1983-85.
Presenting cost estimates and measuring both foreign and local price con-
tingencies in US dollar equivalents implies a certain relation between
domestic and foreign prices. Specifically, it has been assumed in line
with the Government's policy that the lira exchange rate would change so as
to offset the inflation differential between Turkey and its major trading
partners. The lira has been devalued roughly in accordance with this pat-
tern since 1977 and is now adjusted on a sliding basis. It is expected
that this will continue as necessary. About 1,714 man-months of inter-
nationally recruited consulting services will be required for the project,
costing US$5.3 million in total. Average direct costs have been estimated
at US$2,520 equivalent per man-month as of April 1980, ranging from
US$10,000 per month for the production specialists to US$640 per month for
1/  Although the official rate of exchange during April was US$1 = TL 73.7
the Lira was slightly overvalued at the time. The mission felt that
US$1 = TL 78 was more representative of its true value in exchange for
the US$. Subsequently, the Lira was adjusted to TL 78 in June 1980 and
on February 28, 1981 the Lira was at TL 95.95 = US$1.



- 26 -
local services tor the master plan and studies component. These rates are
inclusive of international travel, overheads and per diems. Project costs
during the expected disbursement period of the proposed loan are summarized
below in Table 3.2; more detailed breakdowns for the entire project are
contained in Annexes 1 and 2, C.7. Although some expenditures for the
project could be incurred in 1981, it is expected that actual expenditures
and disbursements will not commence until the first quarter of calendar
year 1982 after preparations for project start-up have been completed; the
project has been costed on this basis (Annex 1).
Table 3.2: PROJECT COSTS DURING PERIOD OF TIME SLICE /1
Foreign
Local   Foreign   Total   Exchange
------(US$ million)----       (%)
Agricultural Credit:
-  Investment credit                      15.9     10.8      26.7      40
-  Production credit                       8.2      4.5      12.7      35
Technical support services & training         13.6      9.7      23.3      42
Agroindustries working capital                 2.3       4.5      6.8      66
Marketing organization                         4.3       1.8      6.1      29
Studies & master plan                          0.6       1.0      1.6      63
Total Baseline Cost                           44.9     32.3      77.2      42
Price Increases                               18.1     11.7      29.8      39
Total Project Cost                            63.0     44.0    107.0       41
/1  January 1, 1982 - December 31, 1985.  Figures in the table were rounded
to one decimal.
D. Financing
3.23     The Bank loan of US$40.0 million will finance 90.9% of the foreign
exchange cost of the first four and one-half years of project implementa-
tion, estimated at 37% of overall cost to be incurred during this period.
TCZB will finance some US$22.4 million, or 21% of the total; subborrowers
and RMC's shareholders contributions would amount to about US$21.2 million,
or 20% of the total. Government will contribute the remaining US$23.4 mil-
lion, or 22% of the total including US$4.2 million equivalent in foreign
exchange required for operating costs for the technical support services
and training component (para. 3.09). Financing of investment and technical
assistance costs will be shared as follows:



- 27 -
Table 3.3: PROJECT FINANCING DURING PERIOD OF TIME SLICE
Sub-      Share-
Project /1  borrowers   holders /2        TCZB          Gov't       IBRD          Total
Component   Amount   %  Amount   %  Amount   Z  Amount   %  Amount   %  Amount   %
--------------------(US Fmillion)---------------------------------
Agricul-
tural Credit
-Investment
credit        6.9   18      -      -   15.8   42      -      -   15.4   40    38.1  100
-Prod-..ction
credit        5.5   30      -      -    6.2   34      -      -    6.6   36    18.3  100
Technical
support
services &
training        -       -    -      -     -       -  22.6  73      8.4   27    31.0  100
Agroindustry
working
capital        2.9   31      -      -    0.4    4      -      -    6.1   65       9.4  100
Marketing
organization   -        -   5.9  72       -       -    -      -    2.3   28       8.2  100
Studies &
master plan    -        -   _      -      -       -   0.8  40       1.2   60      2.0  100
Total      15.3   14    5.9   6    22.4   21   23.4  22    40.0   37   107.0  100
/1 Price increase added to each component.
/2 RMC's private shareholders.
3.24     The Bank loan of US$40.0 million equivalent will be made to the
Government of Turkey which will assume the foreign exchange risk. The loan
will be for 17 years including a 4-year grace period at the prevailing rate
of interest. Government will on-lend to TCZB in local currency the equiv-
alent of US$28.1 million, which, together with a further US$22.4 million
from TCZB's own resources, will comprise the US$50.5 million for on-farm
lending and working capital sub-loans for agroindustries. The Government
will lend to TCZB at a rate which will leave it with a spread of at least
3.5% on Bank funds on-lent by TCZB to sub-borrowers in the project. The
project cash flows indicate that a repayment period to Government by TCZB
of 17 years including a grace of four years is appropriate. These terms
were agreed upon during negotiations. A condition of effectiveness will be
the signature of a subsidiary loan agreement, acceptable to the Bank,
between the Government and TCZB. Government also has agreed to make avail-
able to MEYSEB, TZ and cooperating research institutes the equivalent of



- 28 -
US$31.0 million (including US$8.4 million from the proposed loan) for
technical support services and training, US$2.3 million to SPO for the
Government's financial participation in the marketing organization, and
US$2.0 million to SPO for carrying out the studies and master plan. Assur-
ances to this effect were obtained during negotiations. The Government has
also agreed that it would provide or cause to be provided sufficient addi-
tional funds (amounting to about US$49.7 million of which US$15.0 million
would be foreign exchange) after the proposed loan has been disbursed to
fully implement the remainder of the nine and one-half year program,
including both the incompleted farm plans in the project and those to be
initiated in 1986, provide these with adequate supervision, and subscribe
to additional shares of the marketing organization in 1986-87 to finance
the remaining portion of its estimated foreign exchange requirement during
its initial period of operation. The recurrent costs which the Government
will continue to bear will amount to US$3.9 million equivalent per year in
constant April 1980 US Dollars, which is only a very small portion of total
government recurrent expenditure. They would be offset by tax revenues on
increased incomes which, while unquantified, are expected to be substan-
tial. The assumption of foreign exchange risk for the credit aspects of
the project is consistent with Government's policy for Bank-financed proj-
ects (to which the Bank has agreed) where the proceeds of the Bank loan
are not used directly (e.g. direct international procurement) by the sub-
borrowers. Instead, the Government is protected by a subsidiary loan
agreement whereby the proceeds of the Bank loan are passed on to the
financial intermediary--in this case TCZB--at an interest rate higher
than the Bank's interest rate, but at a level which would still allow the
financial intermediary to cover its loan administration costs and earn net
income.
E. Procurement
3.25     Procurement through ICB according to the Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement of March 1977 will be limited to motor vehicles. Bidding
documents will stipulate that suppliers will guarantee adequate servicing
and provision of spare parts within Turkey. The estimated costs under ICB
procedures amount to US$1.7 million.
3.26     Greenhouses (glass and plastic) for cooperating research insti-
tutes, laboratory equipment, furniture and office equipment including type-
writers and telex equipment (for MEYSEB, cooperating research institutes
and the RMCs and CMO), estimated to cost US$1.7 million, will be procured
on the basis of not less than three quotations from Bank member countries
and Switzerland. Details of procurement will be advertised in the local
press and circulated to accredited representatives of those Bank member
countries which are potential suppliers, and Switzerland.
3.27     Procurement of greenhouses for on-farm investment will be done by
TCZB, also using international shopping procedures (para. 3.26) as each



- 29 -
procurement would be in small amounts extending over a period of three
years and does not warrant the use of ICB. In evaluating the greenhouse
bids, TCZB will seek the advice of the internationally recruited greenhouse
specialist employed under the project in order to determine the most
suitable greenhouse structure. Purchase of anci iary equipment and farm
machinery, small tools and farm inputs will be through normal commercial
channels as is usual in credit projects. Fertilizers and some chemicals
are available through the Turkish Agricultural Supply Organization (TZDK)
while pesticides are freely available from the private sector. Importation
of improved seeds and propagation materials (e.g. budwood) would be
supervised by MEYSEB and based on the technical advice of MEYSEB's staff
and that of cooperating research institutes who have appropriate authority
for importing such materials.
F. Disbursements
3.28     The Bank loan of US$40.0 million equivalent will be disbursed over
four and one-half calendar years as follows:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures on imported motor vehicles, training
abroad, imported equipment, market promotion, market information
services, and communications equipment required for the technical
support services and training component and/or by the marketing
organization component;
(b) 100% of local expenditures ex-factory (less taxes and duties) for
locally procured vehicles and office and other equipment for the
marketing organization, and for applied research, extension and
training;
(c) 65% of the total expenditures for goods and services procured for
existing cold stores and packing plants and processing factories.
A list of goods to be financed was agreed upon during negotiations;
(d) 90% of total expenditures on consultants' services; and
(e) 50% of the total amounts disbursed by TCZB for nurseries,
orchards, vineyards, greenhouse establishment and/or production
credit to existing fruit and vegetable farm operators.
3.29     Disbursements will be made against normal documentation except for
sub-lending to farmers by TCZB, which will be made against statements of
expenditure. Documents for disbursement against the working capital
requirements of agroindustry and all statements of expenditure will be
audited and the supporting documents will be retained by TCZB and MEYSEB
and be available for review by project supervision missions. Any savings
in the loan after project completion will be cancelled. The estimated
annual disbursements of the Bank loan by Bank fiscal year are as follows:



- 30 -
Table 3.4:  ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS /1
FY82     FY83      FY84     FY85      FY86
---      (      US  mllion)-
Annual                  5.5       7.5      9.6      12.1       5.3
Cumulative              5.5      13.0     22.6      34.7     40.0
/1  A quarterly schedule is shown in Annex 2, C.ll.
It is expected that disbursement will be completed on December 31, 1985,
and the closing date of the Loan will be June 30, 1986.
G. Environmental Impact
3.30     The project is not expected to have adverse effects on the
environment. The use of chemical fertilizers, pesticides and herbicides
will be based on proven applied research and extension recommendations
which minimize adverse effects on local ecology. Extension staff and
farmers will be trained by MEYSEB, TZ and GDPPQ in the safe handling and
use of pesticides. The use of biological pest control methods at the farm
level will be investigated. It is expected that the plastic rolls to be
provided in the project for greenhouse and low tunnel construction will be
recycled as is the tradition in Turkey and not burned or ploughed under.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
4.01     The Borrower would be the Government of Turkey.  Overall coor-
dination of the project components would be the responsibility of the SPO,
through which each executing agency will submit its respective progress
reports. The main executing agencies (MEYSEB, TCZB, SPO) would be
responsible for implementation of their respective components and would
communicate directly with the Bank.
4.02     MEYSEB would be responsible for coordinating the implementation of
the technical support services and training component according to signed
protocols with TCZB and TOPRAKSU (agricultural credit), GDAA on behalf of
TZ (extension), GDAR and Cukurova University (applied research). TCZB
would be the executing agency for on-farm credit aspects and, assisted by
MEYSEB and TZ with sub-loan preparation, would extend sub-loans to
beneficiaries in accordance with its rules and regulations which have been
applied in other Bank financed projects. The management of the
agroindustries working capital component will be vested solely in TCZB.



- 31 -
This arrangement corresponds with the revised arrangements for implementing
the agroindustry component of Loan 1248-TU, wherein the previous arrange-
ment--which featured conjoint responsibility between TCZB and MEYSEB--was
simplified to avoid coordination problems which have impeded disbursement
(para. 2.37). In addition to overall coordination of the project, SPO
would promote the establishment of the RMCs and CMO through its Export
Marketing Division, and would be responsible for implementing the study and
master plan component. The SPO will appoint: (i) a project coordinator
who will be responsible for overall project coordination and who will
directly coordinate the implementation of the marketing organization and
studies components; and (ii) a staff marketing specialist who will under-
take the promotion of the marketing organization and its establishment.
The Government has agreed that both would be appointed no later than
September 30, 1981. To provide vertical links between production and
marketing entities, the Government agreed during negotiations that SPO will
establish a horticultural coordination committee representing the following
areas: applied research, extension, production credit and marketing to
meet at least once every six months to review the experience of the preced-
ing six months, and identify and resolve production-marketing constraints.
These arrangements are considered to be satisfactory.
B. On-lending Terms and Procedures
4.03     Farm Lending.  Under the agricultural credit component, any farmer
operating irrigated land or land which is potentially irrigable, with
experience in field crops, orchards or vegetables production and with a
sound investment plan for the establishment of nurseries, orchards, vine-
yards or greenhouses, or who has a technically sound plan for the utiliza-
tion of production credits and a demonstrable need therefor, and who would
meet the creditworthiness criteria of TCZB is eligible for a loan. Poten-
tial sub-borrowers should occupy, or have access to, an area of tillable
land which, in the opinion of the MEYSEB/TZ technician preparing the farm
plan, is adequate to produce the incremental produce necessary to achieve
the objective of the plan. In addition to the above criteria, to be
eligible for a subloan, small farmers must be known to MEYSEB/TZ staff as
bonafide farmers of good character, for whom viable farm development plans
can be prepared. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that only
farmers meeting the above criteria will qualify for loans. Farmers will
apply for a loan to the nearest office of TCZB, MEYSEB or TZ. After deter-
mination of the farmer's creditworthiness and credit limit by TCZB, an
appropriate farm development plan will be prepared by MEYSEB's SMS or TZ's
technicians who will submit the plan to the regional manager for review.
In accordance with TCZB's recently extended delegation of authority, plans
for less than TL 300,000 (US$3,846 equivalent) credit will be approved and
funded on the authority of the local TCZB manager with copies to the MEYSEB
and TCZB regional and head offices. Plans for credit in excess of TL
300,000 but less than TL 1,000,000 (US$12,821 equivalent) will be reviewed
by MEYSEB's/TZ's regional manager and will be forwarded by the latter to



- 32 -
the local TCZB manager. Applications in excess of TL 1,000,000 will
further need the approval of the General Director of MEYSEB and will be
submitted by him through EDLD to the Board of TCZB for credit approval. In
recent years, these credit limits have been periodically increased by TCZB
to adjust for domestic inflation. The existing protocol between MEYSEB,
TOPRAKSU and TCZB will be appropriately amended with respect to dates,
areas of implementation, etc. of the proposed project. The Government has
agreed to submit the amended protocol to the Bank for its review and
approval. The basic procedure outlined above was followed in the First
Project and in five earlier livestock projects and was satisfactory.
4.04     In accordance with TCZB's credit guidelines, individual farmer
contributions to investment plans will be at least 10% in the case of small
and medium size farmers and at least 30% in the case of large farmers
excepting special cases wherein specific incentives are enjoyed by
producers holding government encouragement certificates in which case TCZB
regulations establish a higher percentage. Farm family labor expected to
be utilized during the improvement of some on-farm facilities in the proj-
ect, including buildings and greenhouse construction, will also be counted
as part of the equity requirement. For purposes of assessing the credit-
worthiness of small farmers, a portion of the collateral requirement may be
satisfied by chattel mortgage to TCZB on farm assets and the equity itself
can be paid in over several years.
4.05     As under earlier projects, small farmers will be expected to
provide family labor as part of their contribution. Incremental labor
costs associated with the implementation of farm plans is expected to be
minor, except during harvest, as utilization of labor under pre-project
conditions is relatively inefficient on small farms. 1/ Credit will be
provided for incremental costs of labor only in special cases where, in the
written opinion of the technician preparing the plan and the concerned TCZB
manager, it is considered necessary. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations on the acceptability of these conditions.
4.06     Agro-Industries Working Capital.  On-lending for agroindustries
working capital will be through the opening of overdraft facilities by TCZB
that may be drawn upon by subborrowers as needs arise. To secure approval
of credit each applicant must prepare a sound financing plan with export
objectives, in which monthly working capital requirements are demonstrated
in good detail, the maximum cumulative monthly indebtedness on operating
account clearly identified, the expected monthly utilization of the
facility is indicated, and a viable repayment schedule is presented which
will completely clear the repayment obligation of the subborrower before
the next annual production cycle begins. The application will be submitted
to the EDLD for approval and funding through TCZB's local or regional
1/ With technical assistance and improved planning, it is considered that
the productivity of labor could be considerably increased without
significant additional cost.



- 33 -
offices in accordance with TCZB's established procedures. Subborrower
equity contributions will be determined on the basis of the approved over-
draft limit and not actual utilization of the overdraft facility, which
might be less. These will range from 30% to 40% of the loan amount,
depending upon the state of development and relative affluence of the prov-
ince within which the borrowing entity is located. The first such appli-
cation to be favorably appraised by EDLD will be submitted to the Bank by
TCZB for review before funding is approved. Assurances on the accept-
ability of these conditions were obtained during negotiations.
4.07     Interest Rates.  Responding to the continuing inflation in Turkey,
interest charged on loans by TCZB has been revised upwards three times
between April 1979 and July 1980.  Under the project, medium- and long-term
subloans will be made at least at a rate of 24% per annum to individual
farmers for subloans for nurseries and orchard establishment and invest-
ments in greenhouse construction. Supervised short-term production credits
will be made available at the basic rate of 22% per annum. The commissions
and duties result in an effective cost of 30% for medium- and long-term
loans from TCZB to individuals. Given Government's policy to reduce income
inequities throughout Turkey, the rebates to individual borrowers located
in undeveloped regions would reduce the effective interest rates in these
cases to 23.9% for medium-term loans and 23.2% for long-term loans. The
effective cost of short-term production credit will be 27.5%, except in
underdeveloped regions where it will be 22.0%. For the agroindustries
working capital component, the rate to all subborrowers will be 31%. With
commissions and duties, the effective cost of agroindustries working
capital in developed regions will be 38.75%, while in underdeveloped
regions, it will be 31%.
4.08     While the aforementioned rates remain negative in real terms the
actual cost should be measured over the commitment period and expected life
of the loans. Inflation has accelerated to 24% in 1977, 53% in 1978 and
64% in 1979 and averaged about 100% per annum during the first six months
of 1980. Because of uncertainties associated with changes in economic
structure expected in response to recent government policy initiatives, it
is difficult to forecast the rate of inflation with any accuracy. However,
if the Government's policies are effectively implemented, inflation may
decline to 80% in 1981, 60% in 1982, before reaching a much lower and
tolerable level in the late 1980s. As a result, the lowest effective
charges of 23.9% per annum on investment credits may be expected to imply
negative real rates of about -4.4% over the life of the loans, which, while
undesirable, is tolerable in view of project objectives. Further, 28% of
project beneficiaries will be small farmers with per capita family incomes
at or below the relative poverty level of US$367 per capita. Nevertheless,
they will pay progressive income taxes, since only farm family incomes up
to US$770 per annum are exempt. 1/
1/ In January 1981, the Government imposed a general 5% sales tax on
marketed produce which will considerably increase expected tax payments
by farmer beneficiaries in the project, since most of the incremental
output will pass through formal marketing channels.



- 34 -
4.09     Maturities for investment credit will be 6 to 12 years, with 1 to
5 years grace, depending on the cash flow generated by the farm plan. Debt
service of subborrowers will be in equal installments. Grace periods for
small farmers generally will be more favorable than for larger farmers, but
each case will be evaluated individually by TCZB technicians, depending on
net income generated in the investment plan. Sub-loans for development of
nurseries or establishment of greenhouses to a project beneficiary in
excess of 0.5 ha, individually or in total, will be made after Bank's
review. The appropriateness of the interest rates charged by TCZB for
project subloans and other terms and conditions will be reviewed annually
and in the light of changing conditions by TCZB, the Government and the
Bank. The agreements reached will thereafter be implemented. Assurances
on these terms and conditions were obtained at negotiations.
4.10     Special Operating Fund (SOF).  Contributions to the Special
Operating Fund (SoF), established under earlier projects, will be used to
enable MEYSEB to supplement payment of miscellaneous expenditures incurred
in the technical services provided to farmers under the project, and to
provide incentives to staff undertaking field work through increases in per
diem, but it will not be used to maintain and operate project vehicles for
which separate provision by the Government is made in the project (para.
3.09). Expenditures from this fund will be authorized by the General
Director of MEYSEB or any other person duly designated by him for such
purpose. TCZB will place in the SOF each February 1 and August 1, out of
the part of the interest due on the Government loan to TCZB (para. 3.24),
an amount equivalent to 1% per annum of the total outstanding amount of
TCZB's subloan to a farmer sub-borrower. Assurances to this effect were
obtained during negotiations.
C. Accounting and Auditing
4.11     EDLD will open separate accounts satisfactory to the Bank for the
investment, production credit and agroindustries working capital compo-
nents, as it did for the previous project. Each six months, a summary of
the TCZB's accounts will be included in the semi-annual project reports
prepared by executing agencies and submitted to the Bank through SPO. The
accounts will be audited annually by the Sworn Bank Examiners of the
Ministry of Finance, which procedure is satisfactory. Copies of the certi-
fied accounts and audit report in English will be sent to the Bank within
seven months of the end of TCZB's financial year. Assurances on these
matters were obtained during negotiations.
4.12     SPO and the Director General of MEYSEB will maintain accounts
satisfactory to the Bank of their respective expenditures as related to the
project. SPO will cause similar accounts to be maintained by the RMCs and
CMO, and details of these, MEYSEB's and SPO's accounts will be included in
the reports submitted by SPO to the Bank (para. 4.11). SPO and MEYSEB's
accounts will be subject to annual audit by the Financial Inspectors of the



-35 -
Ministry of Finance. The accounts of the RMCs and CMO will be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to SPO and the Bank. Copies of the certi-
fied accounts and audit reports in English will be sent to the Bank within
seven months of the ending of the Government's fiscal year (February 28).
Assurances on these procedures were obtained during negotiations.
4.13     The accounts of the SOF will be maintained by the General Director
of MEYSEB who will be responsible for providing the Bank with a detailed
accounting of expenditures from the Fund by March 31 of each project year.
Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.14     Timely monitoring and systematic evaluation of project achieve-
ments would be implemented by the main cooperating agencies, i.e. SPO,
MEYSEB and TCZB, and measured against the project implementation schedule.
Details of monitoring and evaluation methodology were explained to the
implementing agencies during project preparation and negotiations. Early
supervision missions will include a monitoring specialist to assist execut-
ing agencies in developing monitoring and evaluation systems and key indi-
cators for project implementation. SPO would follow the implementation of
the project components but would pay particular attention to progress
achieved in streamlining the activities of the marketing organization and
the fruit and vegetable studies and master plan. SPO would submit to the
Bank six-monthly progress reports with summaries from cooperating agencies,
MEYSEB, TZ, TCZB, the RMCs and CMO which would include an assessment of
technical and financial aspects. The report will be prepared according to
format agreed upon during negotiations and will be forwarded to the Bank
within two months from the end of each six-month period. Assurances to
this effect were obtained during negotiations.
4.15     Routine records for the implementation of project components, e.g.
staffing, technical, financial and economic aspects, will be kept by each
agency. In addition, SPO would prepare a completion report and submit it
to the Bank within six months of the Loan closing date. An assurance to
this effect was obtained during negotiations.
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Production
5.01     It is expected that all production benefits in the project area
will be realized on irrigated land, of which about 55% in the project area
is presently used to grow cotton, wheat and various other field crops, and
38% is planted to higher valued project commodities. Fifteen models have
been used to illustrate the impact of supervised credit. These include two



- 36 -
models of nurseries establishment, four of orchards establishment, one-for
vineyard and two for greenhouse establishment, and six for supervised
production credit to existing orchards and vegetable farms. Each has its
individual mix of cropping patterns and input utilization (Annex 2, C.2).
5.02     Without the provision of supervised investment and production
credit, the cropping pattern would remain essentially unchanged on the
approximately 4,520 ha to be used for orchards, vineyards and greenhouse
establishment, and the 7,063 ha already in fruits and vegetables which are
to receive supervised production credit. Open-field vegetable cultivation
in horticultural areas or a cotton/wheat rotation would continue to be the
main cropping pattern in non-horticultural areas. Vegetable yields would
remain more or less stagnant while cotton/wheat yields would peak in four
or five years due to the combined effect of rising input prices, failure to
rotate with leguminous crops to rebuild soil fertility and overuse of
pesticides on cotton to combat mounting pest problems. On already
established orchards and farms cultivating vegetables under cover, yield
potentials would not be realized because of close spacing of trees,
improper irrigation and use of chemicals, inadequate pruning in the case of
citrus and deciduous fruit orchards, and poor cultural practices in the
case of vegetables. Moreover, the government expectations of production,
would not be reached to implement its production program for early
vegetables under cover in open field vegetable areas. This, combined with
poor heating and ventilation of existing greenhouses, would limit to
existing levels the average prices and returns received by producers.
5.03     With the provision of supervised credit, there would be a change
in the cropping pattern on lands presently under open field vegetables,
cotton, wheat and other field crops.  These crops would be replaced in the
main by citrus orchards and some deciduous fruits in the coastal provinces,
and deciduous fruit orchards and vineyards in the inland provinces.  Inter-
cropping with vegetables will be practiced during the establishment period
of smaller orchards to provide small farmers with a steady cash flow.
Glass and plastic greenhouses will be established in or near existing
vegetable-growing areas. Newly established citrus orchards would benefit
from presently available proven extension recommendations developed and
implemented in the area of the First Project. Moreover, the citrus con-
sultant and his counterparts would consolidate present extension efforts,
build upon it and extend it to other provinces (Antalya, Mugla and Izmir).
For pome and stone fruits, grapes and vegetables, the newly appointed staff
must first assimilate information provided by the consultants and the staff
of cooperating research institutes prior to its dissemination to the
farmers. Therefore, extension activities for citrus production would
continue during the first year of project implementation while deciduous
fruits and vegetables would start in the second year. Two nurseries, one
for citrus and the other for deciduous fruits, will be established in the
first year of project implementation. It is expected that budlings
produced from these nurseries will be used in planting orchards established
in the fourth year. Supply of budlings for orchards established during the
first two years can be met from present nurseries which will be supervised
by the nurseries consultant and his counterparts. Based upon these
considerations, credit would be extended to cover areas presented in
Table 5.1.



- 37 -
Table 5.1;  PHASING OF AREAS PLANTED USING INVESTMENT CREDIT
OR TO BE PROVIDED WITH PRODUCTION CREDIT
1982      1983       1984       1985      1986      Total /1
__________--_ - - - ---(h -)______-  __________
Nurseries Estab-
lishment
Citrus (10 ha)        10         20         10         -          -         40
Non-CS1tus (10 ha)   10          10         10         -          -         30
Subtotal              20         30         20         -                    70
Orchards Estab-
lishment
Citrus orchards
(2.5 ha)              -        250       500        500        500     1,750
Citrus intercrop
(0.5 ha)              -        125       150        150        175        600
Non-citrus orchards
(2.5 ha)              -        250       250        250        625     1,375
Non-citrus inter-
crop (0.5 ha)         -         75        100       100        125        400
Vineyards (2.5 ha)    -           -        125       125          -        250
Subtotal               -        700     1,125      1,125      1,425      4,375
Vegetable Farm
Establishment
Glass greenhouses
(0.5 ha)              -          5          7.5      12.5        -         25
Plastic green-
houses (0.5 ha)       _         10         15        25          -         50
Subtotal                         15         22.5      37.5        _         75
Production Credit
Citrus orchards
(2.5 ha)              -        500       750      1,000      1,500      3,750
Non-citrus orchards
(apples) (2.5 ha)    -         250       500        750      1,000     2,500
Glass greenhouses
(0.5 ha)              -          -          5         7.5       12.5       25
Plastic green-
houses (0.5 ha)       -          -         12.5      25         25         62.5
Low tunnel (0.5 ha)   -           -         37.5      62.5       75        175
Open field vege-
tables (1.0 ha)       -        100        200       250          -        550
Subtotal               -        850     1,505      2,095      2,612.5   7,062.5
Total                 20      1,595      2,672.5   3,257.5   4,037.5  11,582.5
/1  The foreign exchange cost element of improving production on areas to
be phased between 1982-1985 will be totally or partially financed
utilizing proceeds of the proposed loan.



-38-
5.04     Present yield levels of fruits and vegetables in Turkey vary from
one province to the other due to several interrelated factors, notably
climate, soil, market demand, pricing policies and intensity of applied
research and extension efforts. Citrus yields have been improving in the
last decade which may be attributed to export encouragement, increased
domestic demand and improved extension efforts during implementation of the
First Project. A recent surge in apple exports to Middle Eastern markets
has stimulated apple production, as has increased domestic demand by the
processing industry for the production of sour cherries.  A similar trend
for vegetables, particularly during the winter months is leading to
increased establishment of greenhouses and cultivation of early vegetables
under low plastic tunnels. Table 5.2 shows present and future yield levels
for the main crops in the program expected at full development.



- 39 -
Table 5.2: PRESENT AND FUTURE YIELD LEVELS AT FULL DEVELOPMENT _I
Present
Without  Newly Established        Producing
Supervised (with Investment   (with Operjiing
Crop                                Credit          Credit)            Credit4-
-------------------(t/ha)------------------
Fruits
Citrus
Lemons                             27             35                   32
Oranges                            26             37                   34
Mandarines                         28             40                   37
Grapefruits                        34             50                   43
Pome Fruits
Apples                             19             30                   26
Pears                              10             25                    -
Stone Fruits
Peaches                            12             25                    -
Sour cherries                      10             15                    -
Grapes                               10             25                    -
Vegetables
Glass Greenhouses
Cucumbers (Fl Hybrid)             108            140                  140
Tomatoes (Fl Hybrid)               74             90                   90
Plastic Greenhouses
Tomatoes (Fl Hybrid)               62             80                   70
Cucumbers (Monoecious)             34             50                   45
Low Plastic Tunnel
Tomatoes                           49              -                   60
Peppers                            29              -                   35
Eggplants                          34              -                   50
Open Field
Tomatoes (Staked)                  39              -                   50
Cucumbers                          24              -                   30
Peppers                            19              -                   27
Eggplants                          30              -                   35
/1  Yields are calculated on a decare basis (1 decare = 0.1 ha), assuming
full development for lemons, year 15; oranges, year 13; mandarines,
year 11; grapefruits, year 14; apples, year 12; pears, year 11;
peaches, year 11; sour cherries, year 10; grapes, year 10; and
vegetables, year 5.
/2  Operating credit is extended for producing orchards with healthy trees
during years of yield take-off (for citrus, years 5-7; non-citrus,
years 7-9; and vegetables, years 2-4.



- 40 -
5.05     The projected yields are considered conservative as some farmers
raising the same fruits and vegetables, both under the First Project in
citrus areas and those applying correct techniques are now reaching these
levels. The use of improved budlings with proper soil preparation spacing,
fertilization and irrigation during the establishment period would allow
higher potential yields, which could be achieved were proper practices
followed during the production period. The use of supervised production
credit on existing orchards, if introduced early enough during the tree's
life, would also enhance yields, though normally not to the extent expected
of new orchards in the project. In the greenhouses established under the
project, vegetable yields will be increased through better design, layout
and atmospheric control, coupled with improved seed, fertilization, and
modern cultural practices. In existing greenhouses and open-field
vegetable farms production would be intensified through supervised
production credits permitting use of improved seed and inputs, minor
rehabilitation of greenhouses and irrigation systems, and use of low
tunnels for early-season planting. Present and future production is
summarized in the table below:
Table 5.3. ESTIMATED INCREASE IN CROP PRODUCTION
Production
Future
Without        With
Supervised    Supervised
Present                    Credit        Credit       Increment      % Change
('----------------------------('000 tons)------------------------------
Lemons                     25.3         50.6             25.3            100
Oranges                    24.4          53.6            29.2            120
Mandarins                  26.3          58.2            31.9            121
Grapefruits               31.9          69.7             37.8            118
Apples                     11.9          81.0            69.1            581
Pears                        -           13.3            13.3             -
Peaches                      -            8.9             8.9             -
Sour Cherries               -            5.3              5.3             -
Grapes                       -           6.3              6.3             -
Cucumbers                  9.0          16.4              7.4             82
Tomatoes                  15.4          23.2              7.8             51
Bell Peppers                5.0           5.7             0.7             14
Eggplants                   7.2           7.7             0.5            6.9
Lint Cotton /1             2.4            -              -2.4           -100
Wheat /1                    7.3           -              -7.3           -100
/1  Assumes that all establishment occurs on cotton/wheat lands.



- 41 -
B. Markets
5.06     Part of the incremental output would be exported and part would be
consumed domestically.
Export Markets
5.07     Because of location and favorable climate, Turkey has been able to
export horticultural produce to three important markets, viz. the Middle
East, Eastern Europe and Western Europe. The value of fruit and vegetable
exports has risen since 1976 (Annex 2, C.15) from about US$128 million to
nearly US$200 million in 1978. Fresh and dried fruits accounted for about
85% of these exports. Based on value, lemons are the most important fresh
fruit export, followed by mandarins (satsumas) and apples. Tomatoes are
the most important fresh vegetable export. Based on tonnage, about 85% of
recent lemon exports were marketed to Eastern Europe, while 63% of mandarin
exports went to the EEC. Nearly all apple and fresh vegetable exports go
to the Middle East with the exception of peppers, for which a small demand
has developed among Turkish residents of West Germany. Turkey's existing
market shares for off-season produce are difficult to document in the
principal export markets, though these are undoubtedly quite small.
Volume, value and import price statistics for off-season produce are not
published by most importing countries except the EEC, and existing annual
figures of many importing countries are inconsistent with reported Turkish
exports. There also is evidence that substantial re-exports of Turkish
produce by third countries has occurred, both to Middle Eastern markets,
within Eastern Europe, and to Western Europe. (Both of these factors
obviate the possibility of solid quantitative marketing analysis and
projections of market shares.) The following judgements are thus
necessarily subjective, being derived mainly from discussions with
importers of horticultural produce, commercial counsellors of importing
countries, Turkish exporters and concerned government officials. It is
clear from these discussions, however, that a good potential exists for a
considerable expansion of horticultural exports during the off-season.
5.08     The Turkish climate favors the production of off-season vegetables
for Middle Eastern countries (principally summer vegetables), and early and
late vegetables for European markets. It also favors the early and late
production of both citrus and deciduous fruits. These seasonal aspects and
Turkey's proximate location appears to give it a long-term comparative
advantage in the export of many project commodities vis-a-vis most of its
potential major competitors. Turkey already exports to these markets and
to Western Europe in a limited way, 1/ but many export opportunities are
missed and exporters are unable to obtain high prices. If Turkish farmers
and exporters can be encouraged to improve quality and ensure systematic
1/ More to Eastern Europe and the Middle East than to Western Europe where
Turkey only supplies 1% of total EEC horticultural imports.



- 42 -
and reliable delivery, Turkey could exploit her comparative advantage at
prices three or four times greater than presently received. The production
improvement aspects of the program and the proposed marketing organization
are key elements in the country's strategy to improve horticultural export
performance.
5.09     Turkey's trading partners in Eastern Europe comprise the USSR,
Romania, Czechoslovakia, Bulgaria, Poland, E. Germany (GDR) and Hungary.
All purchases are executed by the central buying agencies of these
countries in accordance with annual quotas allocated to each exporting
country. Bilateral meetings at government level are held annually with the
Turkish Government and quantities and prices are agreed upon for the coming
year.
5.10     The Eastern European market accounted for 27% of Turkish citrus
exports by volume in 1979 compared to 47% in 1978 and 45% in 1977. Lemons
constituted approximately three quarters of total exports; the remainder
was divided evenly between oranges and mandarins. The USSR and Romania are
the most important market for fruits, with USSR in 1979 purchasing 40% of
total Turkish lemon exports. Vegetable exports to the Eastern European
countries, are selective and occasioned only by shortfalls in supplies
or by some policy decision. However, orders are substantial when they
occur 1/ and these have been increasing in recent years. Lower quality
standards than Western Europe is the norm for Eastern European countries
since fixed prices and quantities, with guaranteed delivery, take priority
over quality. Turkish exporters are anxious to secure orders from Eastern
Europe in spite of low prices because payment is regular and less time need
be spent on proper packaging and quality control.
5.11     There are good indications of potential export growth of citrus
to markets of selected East European countries. For example, sales of
mandarins to Czechoslovakia have tripled in the past three years to 6,200
tons in 1979 taking Czechoslovakia from 16% of the market to 86%, more than
offsetting declining sales to Romania, which fell from 2,000 tons to 300
tons during the same period. Exports of grapefruit to Romania have risen
from 500 tons to 2,200 tons. It is reported that mandarins exported to
Romania and Czechoslovakia have been re-exported to Austria. Projections
are conservative and no spectacular increases are predicted either by
product or market from a volume base of 73,944 tons in 1979. It is crudely
estimated that average growth between 1979 and 1986 of about 5% per year is
reasonable.
5.12     The Middle East represents a market potential of major importance
to Turkey due to its proximity, regular transport connections by road and
sea and religious affinities. Iraq and Libya are important suppliers of
1/ For example, Romania took 10,000 tons of potatoes in 1977, the USSR
order 2,500 tons of onions in 1978, and a further 2,000 tons in 1979.
Poland ordered 660 tons of tomatoes in 1979.



- 43 -
oil to Turkey and exports of Turkish produce to these two countries are
granted favorable terms including high prices. Nevertheless, competition
is strong, especially from Italy, whose traditional relations with Libya
facilitate entry of a wide range of fruit and vegetables of excellent
quality and good presentation. Until very recently, both countries
primarily imported large quantities of apples. Large quotas have been
granted, which Turkish exporters rarely fill. Iraq is less demanding than
Libya with respect to packaging and produce quality, and has recently
liberalized imports of other produce as well.
5.13     Trading in the Saudi Arabian, Jordanian, and Kuwaiti markets
and in the United Arab Emirates is done on an ad hoc basis and Turkish
exporters appear to have paid little attention to market needs. The
potential in these markets is good because their ever-increasing demands
for high quality consumption goods can be satisfied without undue regard
for cost. This applies no less to fresh fruit and vegetables with the
result that high quality produce from Greece, Italy, Spain and South Africa
has secured strong footholds in these markets. Access and affinity pro-
vides a unique opportunity for Turkey to become a major exporter. Turkey's
principal Middle Eastern market is Jordan, accounting for 50% of all
Turkey's fruit and vegetable exports to the Middle East. Only a small
percentage of produce so "imported" by Jordan is consumed locally. The
bulk of the fruits and vegetables from Turkey is regraded, repacked and
re-exported to Kuwait and Saudi Arabia. On average the price paid for the
top grade in Middle Eastern markets covers the costs of the whole consign-
ment bought in Turkey.
5.14     Since Middle Eastern markets are largely undocumented in respect
of imports, and existing foreign trade data are conflicting and incomplete,
it is difficult to quantify either the size of the overall Middle Eastern
fruit and vegetable market, or the increase in commodity specific exports
that Turkey could achieve, though prospects for expanded sales seem excep-
tionally good. Increased exports of apples is the most likely future
success for Turkey in Middle Eastern markets, especially to Libya and Iraq
assuiming improved packaging and transportation, and better use of cold
storage facilities. Off-season vegetable exports to the Middle East also
are expected to increase, though not at the same rate, due partly to the
increasing production of vegetables in potential importing countries.
5.15     Effective July 1980 Turkey was granted freer access to the
European Common Market. Although Turkish exports of fruits and vegetables
to the EEC at present are negligible in comparison to overalL EEC imports,
a potential exists to markedly expand selected exports to Wesit Germany,
Great Britain and non-EEC members in Western Europe, principally Austria.
The selective tariff barriers which the Turkish Government believes have
prejudiced Turkey's exports to the EEC have been replaced by a system of
quotas to prevent oversupply at any time. This is unlikely tio affect
Turkey because the country's principle opportunity in the EEc is expanded
export of off-season produce, for which generous quotas are allowed. The
real problems confronting Turkish exporters in Western EuropO are poor



- 44 -
grading and presentation, irregular and unreliable deliveries, especially
during periods normally favorable to Turkish produce, and insufficient
quantities.
5.16     It appears that Turkey could easily expand its off-season exports
of selected project commodities to some West European markets. Austrian
traders believe that the country could absorb five times the present volume
of grapes imported from Turkey and could, at a minimum show a 200% increase
in imports of satsumas and oranges. The Austrian market also has good
potential for vegetable export, but wastage en route at the present time
is often as high as 60%. Green and red bell peppers are increasingly
popular. Given Turkey's ability to produce early season vegetables, the
popular California bell pepper could be grown for Austria, West Germany and
the United Kingdom. The major competition today is Kenya, which must
absorb higher shipping costs.
5.17     Citrus importers in Germany confirmed that Turkish lemons and
satsumas are generally quite good but badly packed, not graded or presented
to attract the German consumer who is very quality conscious. As a result
Turkish exports of early lemons are rapidly losing market shares to Cyprus
and Spain. Quality control in the packing house is important since German
customs do not accept Turkish Ministry of Commerce certificates. British
importers believe that the United Kingdom offers excellent prospects for
early grapes, lemons and satsumas from Turkey. Britain imports 600,000
tons of citrus and 100,000 tons of grapes and muskmelons each year. The
country also imports about 112,000 tons of grapefruit, as well as 44,000
tons of lemons. Of the latter, barely 1,000 tons come from Turkey.
Because of price and seasonal advantages, Turkish grapefruits also appear
to have an open market in the United Kingdom. However, shipments in March
1980 were a loss due to premature picking and delays en route. Eggplants
could compete with the Kenyan product from October through March. The
market for cherries has recently changed following termination of produc-
tion by Holland. Recent early sales of Turkish cherries in the UK have
fetched very good prices.
5.18     These examples demonstrate that the prospects for increased sales
of Turkish fruits and vegetables in Western Europe are good. And because
Turkey would be starting from such a small base vis-a-vis EEC import
demand, she could probably expand exports of early and late season produce
by several times at current prices without fear of creating over-supply.
The Domestic Market
5.19     Domestic consumption of fruits and vegetables increased rapidly
between 1971-1979, and is expected to continue to increase in the fore-
seeable future, but at a slower rate. During 1973-1979, annual per capita
consumption of citrus and major project deciduous fruits increased at rates
of 3.1% and main project vegetables by 5.7%. During the last three years
of the period, the respective growth rates tapered off to 0.8% and 4.9%.
Present per capita consumption of citrus, main stone and pome fruits and



-45 -
project vegetables is estimated to be 19.5 kg, 51.2 kg and 84.9 kg, respec-
tively, which approaches European consumption levels. In the past, the
real farm gate prices of these commodities have also been increasing.
Since consumers prices have not been subsidized for fruits and vegetables,
nor have farmgate prices been supported, this t:-nd indicates a shortage of
supply relative to domestic demand in view of the fact that the very large
bulk of all project commodities has been consumed domestically (Annex 2,
C.15). If present trends continue, the satisfaction of this buoyant demand
will become prerequisite in future years to realizing a sustainable surplus
for e.&urt. In addition to export requirements, incremental production
will be required to satisfy growing domestic offtake, which might otherwise
reduce the availability of project commodities for export. Thus longer
gestation on-farm investments for nurseries, orchards and vineyards (as
well as the more quickly gestating greenhouse investments) were designed
into the project to satisfy, inter alia, this requirement.
C. Prices
5.20     With the removal of the export registration (licensing) system,
levies on horticultural products and the dual exchange rate system in early
1980 and the recent substantial reduction of inputs subsidies the domestic
prices of all project commodities and most agricultural chemicals have
become largely free of distortion. The prices of other major inputs, such
as labor and machine rental also are not controlled. Prices used in the
financial analyses are therefore based on actual farmgate prices received
(or paid) in recent months, converted to US dollars at the prevailing rates
of exchange and held constant over the life of the farm plan. The price
assumptions used in the financial analysis may be considered conservative
as prices used were observed during early 1980 when Turkey's farm-to-market
transportation system was severely affected by petroleum shortages. Many
farmers could not have their perishable produce moved to urban markets at
the time and had to accept lower prices in regional markets. Prices used
are below the expected trend in future prices based upon extrapolation of
the trend of deflated 1973-1978 prices using ordinary least squares regres-
sions (Annex 2, C.13) as well as below the available projections of the
Bank's Economic Analysis and Projections Department.



- 46 -
D. Financial Analysis
Producer Income
5.21     Increases in the income of the various participating farmers are
estimated to be as follows:
Table 5.4. ESTIMATED PRESENT AND FUTURE INCOME
OF BENEFICIARIES
Per Capita Annual Income
Derived from Lands Allo-
Number      cated to Receive Loans /1
Farm     of Sub       Without        With
Supervised    Supervised
Size    Borrowers    Credit         Credit /2
-ha                 --US$---------
Establishment
Citrus Nursery                      10.0           4           323         9,598
Deciduous Fruits Nursery            10.0           3           323         3,553
Citrus Orchard                       2.5         700            81         1,434
Non-citrus Orchard                   2.5         550            81         1,442
Citrus Intercrop                     0.5       1,200            16           287
Non-citrus Intercrop                 0.5         800            16           288
Trellised Vineyard                   2.5         100            81         2,361
Glass Greenhouse                     0.5          50           391         8,543
Plastic Greenhouse                   0.5         100           391         2,787
Supervised Production Credit
Citrus Orchard                       2.5       1,500           737         1,222
Non-citrus (Apple) Orchard           2.5       1,000         1,097         1,255
Glass Greenhouse                     0.5          50         6,121         8,543
Plastic Greenhouse                   0.5         125         1,580         2,463
Low Tunnels                          0.5         350           856         1,196
Open Field Vegetables                1.0         550           782         1,003
/1 From farming activity, average household size in the project area is
7.0 persons. Suitable household income statistics from the project
area are not available. However, it is reasonable to assume that
pre-project income from farming activity constitutes no more than half
of the operator's household income from all sources (including
non-agricultural sources) except possibly for the class of farmers who
will temporarily intercrop fruits with vegetables under with-project
conditions. These generally are marginal farm operators that depend
upon farming for the large bulk of their income, and daily wages as
agricultural labor for the rest. Further, lands allocated to the
expansion of nurseries, orchards and vineyards in the project normally
constitute no more than half of the land operated by each farm. These
constitute an even lower percentage in case of greenhouse establishment.
/2 At full development.



- 47 -
Producers' Benefits and Financial Rates of Return
5.22     Producers benefits, classified for each farm category, and the
financial rates of return (FRRs) derived from the farm models are
summarized in Table 5.5. The amount of household incomes at full
development from farm operation is expected to increase considerably from
the establishment of nurseries, orchards and greenhouses as a result of
shifting from low valued field crops and low yielding vegetables to the
intensive production of horticultural crops. Incomes on farms utilizing
supervised credit will also rise considerably because of increased
production and the use of cost saving techniques. The large increase in
net operating income on newly established fruits and vegetable farms stems
from (i) the fact that fruits and vegetables are extremely high valued
crops in comparison with other uses of irrigated land, and (ii) the
expansion of horticultural crops in the project area will take place on
already irrigated land. Farmers need only incur land development expenses
for opening field channels and farm drains.  The gestation period for
nurseries and fruits expansion is quite long, however, resulting in a
lengthy period of negative cash flows (after financing) for all models
except the small fruit farmers who will intercrop with vegetables during
the farm plan's early years. Further, the amounts needed in the early
years for investment are high in all models (Annex 2, C.2.11). 1/ With the
exception of the intercrop models, it is expected that only the more
affluent households in the project area will be able to absorb the large
cash requirements of the early years, which is characteristic of present
horticultural development in the project area. With these restrictions,
the cash flows for all the models, both for establishment and production
credit, are satisfactory and can withstand a reasonable decrease in
incremental net benefits without imperilling their financial viability.
5.23     All financial rates of return indicate that it should be
financially rewarding for farmers to utilize the investment and/or
production credits and to introduce the supporting technology. Sensitivity
tests are in general satisfactory with the exception of the deciduous
fruits nursery. The analysis indicates that the most adverse general
situation which can be reasonably anticipated is a one-year delay in
start-up accompanied by a two-year delay in production. In this situation
no financial rate of return will fall below 10.8%. The worst particular
situation (a 20% increase in the combined investment and operating costs of
the deciduous fruits nursery) will result in a financial rate of return of
10.0%. Sensitivity analyses are in Annex 2, C.13. The trends in prices
paid to farmers (Annex 2, C.13) and the with- and without-project crop
budgets indicate that the best estimate of the basic return is more likely
to be the case than the lower values indicated in the sensitivity tests.
The analysis also indicates that the deciduous fruits nursery will have to
be established on lands where cotton, wheat or other low-valued field crops
are grown, though all other establishment models could displace higher
valued open-field vegetables and still show good incremental returns.
1/ These considerations and the largely ineffective horticultural
extension assistance have served to discourage spontaneous investment
in project activities.



Table 5.5: PRODUCERS BENEFITS AND FINANCIAL RATES OF RETURN
Estimated Net Operating
Income from
Farming Activities at
Full Development                               Projected Cash Flows After Financing
Without        With      ----------------------------------------Year------------------------------------------    Rate of
Type of Farm      Supervised  Supervised       1          2          3         4          5          6          7          8          9       Return /3
Credit/2    Credit/2
-------US$ ----
Establishment /1
Citrus Nursery         2,264       67,189    -5,404   -13,136   -25,340    54,512   27,197    27,917    27,917    27,917    67,189               19.3
Deciduous Nursery      2,264       24,870    -4,970   -12,006   -23,638    12,760  -13,334   -13,334   -13,334   -13,334    24,870               11.1
Citrus Orchard           566       10,042       -361       -436         43       -542        24      1,619      3,136      4,564      5,692      25.5
Non-citrus Orchard       566       10,093       -368       -415       -594       -726       231       -348      1,446      3,472      5,375      26.4
Citrus Intercrop          113       2,099      3,616        609        676        955    1,460        -284         19        306        531      21.7
Non-citrus Intercrop    113         2,099      3,588        613        550        920    1,502        -677       -318         87        468      23.4
Vineyard                 566       16,530    -1,256    -2,069    -2,274          -880   -6,311    -4,042         -488      5,837      8,241      35.0
Glass Greenhouse       2,737       59,800    46,441    15,359    20,279    25,199   30,119    30,119    59,800    59,800    59,800               40.6
Plastic Greenhouse    2,737        19,507    23,176         624      3,130      6,229    9,622       9,622    19,507    19,507    19,507         27.6
Production Credit
Citrus Orchard         5,158        8,557        -95      1,665      2,990      4,174     5,434      6,379-     7,217      7,496      7,775      93.3
Non-citrus Orchard    7,678         8,785      3,684      4,791      5,936      7,063     7,708      8,350      8,350      8,350      8,350      44.6
Glass Greenhouse      42,845       59,800    41,726    46,358    50,986    55,615    55,615    55,615    55,615    55,615    55,615                 *     O
Plastic Greenhouse   11,050        17,242      9,402    11,597    13,816    16,035    16,035    16,035    16,035    16,035    16,035                *
Low Tunnels            5,991        8,374      5,135      6,071      7,009      7,788     7,788      7,788      7,788      7,788      7,788         *
Open Field Vege-
tables                5,473        7,023      2,875      3,890     5,218      6,531      6,531      6,531      6,531      6,531      6,531     55.9
/1  Full development is reached in year 4 for nurseries, between years 12
and 15 for the orchards and vineyards, and year 5 for vegetables.
Under the without-project situation, it is assumed that all nurseries
and fruit farms to be established presently grow cotton and wheat. It
is assumed that the greenhouses will be established on lands presently
cropping open-field vegetables.
/2  Farm income under US$770 equivalent is exempt from tax.  A portion of
the farm income in excess of this amount is subject to personal income
tax, the applicable portion being determined with reference to
principal crop or farm activity (Annex 2, C.8).
/3  Calculated on incremental farm income from all farming activities
before financing and taxes.
*   FRR is very high.



- 49 -
5.24     Monthly cash-flow models for agroprocessing facilities in the
project area were constructed to illustrate the seasonal need for working
capital and serve as a basis for costing short-term operating credit
requirements of the project for agroindustry (Annex 2, C.4). Because of
the great diversity of agroprocessing industries which might apply for
credit, different scale and various degrees of integration of their
procurement, storage, processing and trading activities, it is difficult to
determine which is "typical" and a complete financial analysis was not
attempted. Considering that most of the plants visited by the mission
presently operate at a fraction of capacity (16-30%) due mainly to
inadequate working capital, it is clear from reference to the monthly cash
flows that substantial increments would be generated by the credit
facility, thereby placing most subborrowers on a sounder financial footing.
5.25     The breakdown of the number of subborrowers and their income
levels with comparison to the poverty level is shown in Annex 2, C.14. It
is estimated that 28% of the subborrowers are expected to be at or below
the relative rural poverty level 1/ which includes all of the citrus and
non-citrus orchards with vegetables intercropping during the establishment
period. Of the total funds on-lent under the project from Bank sources for
on-farm investments and production credit amounting to about US$22.0
million, funds for such lending will amount to US$2.2 million, or about 10%
of total on-lending of Bank funds to all project farmers.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Economic Return
6.01     The principal benefits at full development (in year 18) will be
the incremental production of citrus, stone and pome fruits and grapes and
vegetables, principally tomatoes, cucumbers, bell peppers and eggplant. In
March/April 1980 prices, these will amount to an estimated US$55.2 million
equivalent for fruits and US$33.5 million equivalent for vegetables.
Approximately US$45.5 million in crop sales will be foregone each year as a
result of conversion from the existing cropping pattern to one of intensive
orchards and vegetables cultivation. 2/
6.02     The rate of return to the economy (ERR) has been calculated on the
basis of nine farm models assumed to be representative of different
subborrowers, and six models for supervised production credit on existing
horticultural farms (para. 5.01, Annex 2, C.2). No quantified benefits
1/ Estimated to be US$273/capita in March/April 1980 (Annex 2, c.14).
2/ Of which, US$3.7 million will be in the form of cotton, wheat and other
field crops, US$20.7 million will be additional open field vegetables,
and US$21.1 million will be production from older orchards.



- 50 -
have been estimated for the provision of working capital to agroindustries
nor for value added expected of the improved export marketing organiza-
tion. The following assumptions underlie the rate of return calculations:
(a) For economic analysis, border prices of traded outputs were
derived from recent EEC prices for low-quality and mainly
in-season produce and brought back to the farmgate. These were
held constant during the expected life of the program (see para.
6.02 (h)). EEC quotations were utilized due to the virtual
absence of reliable price statistics for project produce in Middle
Eastern markets and the unsuitability of prices received from
trade with Eastern European countries as indicators of future
price trends, in view of the price determination mecahnism in
these countries. Although the EEC in-season prices for some
higher quality product commodities, e.g. citrus, are expected to
decline gradually in the 1980's, the price forecasts used are
considered to provide the best estimte of expected economic
benefits.  Because of Turkey's climatic advantages, exporters can
and do exploit off-season markets to receive prices for lower
quality produce which are considerably higher than prices used in
the analysis. Moreover, as a result of introducing higher quality
cultivars than are generally utilized, with supervision of
planting, cultivation and harvesting by trained extension agents,
the quality of project commodities at the farmgate is expected to
improve considerably above levels on existing farms and will be
able to command higher prices than most current production,
whether exported or consumed domestically. The domestic prices of
traded inputs were applied. The domestic prices of non-traded
produce, goods, inputs and labor were adjusted, as appropriate, by
standard conversicn factors for capital, intermediate and
consumption goods (estimated at 0.75, 0.80 and 0.86, respectively)
to translate them into border prices. Benefits and costs of
tradeables were adjusted, where necessary, for all apparent
transfer payments such as taxes, duties, tariffs and subsidies.
(b) All incremental production and incremental inputs utilization were
phased in at the rate at which the individual farm enters the nine
and one-half year program (Table 3.1). Costs of training and
studies, establishment of field offices and laboratories,
procurement of vehicles and equipment were phased in according to
the implementation schedules and investment tables, as was done
for the marketing organization.
(c) The working capital requirement of agroindustry was excluded from
the analysis (see para. 5.24).
(d) Investment and operating costs were calculated using March/April
1980 prices, adjusted to represent costs at the farm level as
appropriate.



- 51 -
(e) It is assumed that periodic nominal devaluation of the Turkish
Lira will continue until domestic inflation has been brought under
control. 1/
(f) There is no apparent underemployment in the project area. Indeed,
farm operators complain of a shortage of all categories of farm
labor at existing wage rates, both of seasonal and permanent
workers. Thus, family labor was costed at the same value as that
of its nearest alternative, which is US$1,731 equivalent annually
for a skilled farm-hand in rural areas, equivalent to employment
of 300 days at the going daily wage of US$5.77. Wages of hired
common, skilled and specialist workers, managerial and
administrative personnel were costed at the market rate.
(g) A life of 25 years was assumed in the analysis of all components.
Replacement investments in equipment and farm implements were
pro-rated to be fully depreciated by the end of the component's
life. Foregone crop sales from the without supervised credit
situation were deducted throughout the expected life of the
program with allowance made for production increases in the early
years.
(h) The basic ERR has been calculated for the entire nine and one-half
year program, from its inception to completion, since the benefits
from most of the investments made during the project's four and
one-half year time slice are conditional on future investments
required during the last five years of the program's implementa-
tion period.
1/ Because non-tradeables weigh more heavily in the economics of the
project on the costs side than on the benefits side, the ERR would
increase if future devaluations are not sufficient to offset domestic
inflation (i.e., if the currency becomes overvalued). The ERR will
decrease if an over-adjustment occurs and the currency becomes
under-valued.



- 52 -
6.03     Based upon these criteria and on the data shown in Table 6.1, the
basic economic rate of return to the program is estimated to be 29.7%. 1/
The ERR of individual components and relevant switching values are listed
below and detailed in Annex 2, C13.
Switching Values /1
(Percent Change)
% of
Investment
ERR       Benefits         Costs          Cost    /2
Entire program /3        29.7         -43.1           75.7         100.0
Establishment /4         22.7         -33.1           49.4          78.7
Production credit /5   Very high   -65.7             191.9          21.3
/1  Percentage change required in benefits or costs to reduce the ERR of
the program to the opportunity cost of capital (assumed to be 12%).
/2  Financial (base) costs.
/3  Excluding agroindustry working capital component.  This component
accounts for about 6% of total program costs.
/4  Assumes entire investment costs are assigned to establishment component.
/5  If the investment costs are assigned to the production component, the
ERR falls to 15.1% and the relevant switching values for benefits and
costs to -15.4% and 18.3% respectively. In that case, the ERR for the
establishment component would be 92.9% and the relevant switching
values for benefits and costs -55.3% and 123.9%, respectively.
1/  The ERR for segments of the program to be initiated during the period
of the time slice only, and without a commensurate decrease in outlays
for the technical support services and training component to allow for
the lesser number of farm plans in the time slice than envisaged for
the complete program, is estimated to be 24.8%.



TURKEY
SECOND FRUIT I VEGETABLE PROJECT
TABLE 6.1    SUIJ1ARY ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
( US$ THOUSANDS )
YEAR       1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1980    1M       1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    197    1998    1999    2000    2001 002-2006   2007    2008    2009          2010
INCREMENTAL BENEFITS
FRUITS                     U   2001    4870    8542   12852   15060   15814   16848   19170   21198   25259   28703   31213   32731   33681   33979   34066   34110   34110   34110   34110   33941   29351   20127    10445
VEGETABLES                 0    1059    3027    6676    8617   10588   12001   12763   12763   12763   12763   12763   12763   12763   12763   12763   12763   12763   12763   12763   12763   12763   10876    7203          1375
TOTAL INCR BENEFITS          0   3060    7897   15218   21470   25656   27895   29611   31933   33961   38022   41466   43976   45494   46444   46742   46829   46873   46873   46873   46873   46704   40227   27330    11819
INCREMENTAL COSTS
INCR OPERATING COSTS
ESTABLISHMENT             13    1113    2501    3993    5257    5536    5433    5425    6078    6229    7324    8334    9148    9748   10129   10279   10347   10378   10387   10387   10387   10289    8461    5792          3061
SUPERVISED CREDIT          0    237      743    1500    2119    2596    3044    3432    3628    3740    3740    3740    3740    3740    3740    3740    3740    3740    3740    3740    3740    3740    3296    2396          1127
SUBTOTAL               13    1350    3244    5493    7377    8132    8477    8856    9706    9970   11065   12074   12888   13488   13069   14019   14087   14118   14127   14127   14127   14029   11757    8188          4188
INVESTMENT COSTS
ON-FARN I TSS           8559    7298    9093    9096    4857    3330        0       0       0       0       0        0       0       0       0      22      915    1518    2226      305       0       0        0       0        0
MKTG ORWG    ASTER PL    1699    2014    1880    1250    1433    1392       0       0       0       0       0        0       0       0       0        0       0       0        0       0       0        0       0       0        
SUBTOTAL            10258    9311   10973   11146    6290    4721        0       0       0       0       0        0       0       0       0      22      915    1518    2226      305       0       0        0       0        0
OTHER ECONOMIC COSTS
E              D      S       5       2       9       8    36    3          3       3       3       3 
FOREGONE FIELD CROT S     15     562    1439    2328    3466    3567    3641    3693    3716    3716    3716    3716    3716    3716    3716    3716    3716    3716    3716    3716    3716    3699    3089    2132          1191
_   _  _   _ - - - --_- - - --_- - - --_- - - --_- - - --_- - - --_- -- --_- - - --_- - - --_- - - --_- - - --_- - - --_- - - --_- - - --_- -- - -   - - - --_- - - ---- - - --_- - - ---- - - - -   - - - ---- - - - -_-- - - -   - - - - -
SUBTOTAL               15    562    1439    2328    3466    3567    3641    3693    3716    3716    3716    3716    3716    3716    3716    3716    3716    3716    3716    3716    3716    3699    3089    2132           1191
TOTAL INCR COSTS         10286   11223   15657   18967   17132   16420   12118   12550   13422   13686   14781   15790   16604   17204   17585   17758   18719   19352   20069   18149   17843   17728   14846   10320          5379
INCR NET BENEFITS
1NCR NET BENEFITS       -10286  -8163   -7760   -3749    4337    9236   15777   17062   18511   20276   23241   25675   27373   28290   28859   28985   28110   27521   26803   28724   29029   28976   25381   17010           6440
NET PRESENT VALUE AT 12.0% = 74304.
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN =   29.7%
TABLE CONTAINS ROUNDING ERRORS



- 54 -
6.04     The analysis of switching values shows that relatively large
variations in benefits and costs are required to reduce the program's ERR
to 12% and thereby imperil its viability. A decrease in real terms of
total benefits by 43.1% would be required to do so. Similarly, a
respective real increase of combined total investment and operating costs
of the order of 75.7% is required. Thus, even higher percentage overruns
on investment (about 195%) would have to occur in order to make the
analysis marginal. 1/
6.05     The program is more sensitive to declines in benefits than to
increase in costs, which is most likely to occur if the yield and product
price expectations are not met. Production data from the First Project and
the experience of leading farmers in the project area indicate the possi-
bility of obtaining higher than estimated fruit and vegetable yields.
Further, the probability of prices decreasing appreciably is very low in
view of: (i) the buoyant domestic demand for fresh fruits and vegetables
in spite of the economic uncertainty engendered by recent inflation and
balance of payments difficulties; (ii) the present pattern of Turkey's
horticultural exports, which are oriented more towards Eastern Europe and
the Middle East than toward Western Europe, and where good potential exists
to expand exports at higher prices provided minor but systematic attention
is devoted to product quality and packing; and (iii) the potential for
exporting larger quantities of off-season fruits and vegetables to Middle
Eastern and Western European countries at much higher prices, given
Turkey's climatic advantage which favors out-of-season production, and
Turkey's presently miniscule share of EEC markets.
6.06     An analysis of switching values for the establishment and
supervised production credit components indicates that these, when
estimated separately, also are fairly insensitive to risk. The analysis is
moderately sensitive to lags in implementing the establishment component,
which was the experience of the First Project. If a one-year lag in the
costs of establishing orchards and greenhouses occurs, accompanied by a
two-year lag in receiving benefits, the ERR of the establishment component
will decline to 18.0% and that of the entire program to 23.4% (Annex 2,
C.13). Since good supervision by trained extension agents is provided in
the program (this was notably missing during the early years of the First
Project), it is unlikely that such delays will be encountered.
B. Other Benefits
Benefits from Marketing Organization
6.07     Two major features of policy package for economic recovery
announced in January 1980 are rapid expansion of exports and emphasis on
quickly gestating projects. Perhaps the best opportunity within the
agricultural sector for intiating these inter-related measures can be found
1/  Plots of benefit and cost curves vis-a-vis the opportunity cost of
capital and loci of switching values are presented in Annex 2, C.13.



- 55 -
in the horticultural subsector. At present, only about 2% of the
production of fruits (project commodities) and 0.5% for fresh vegetables
are exported. 1/ By putting into place an institutional framework which
has been designed to rationalize the marketing of fresh fruits and
vegetables, that could at the same time provide technical assistance to
exporters in the areas of packaging, quality control and grading and other
needed services, the project is expected to facilitate a substantial and
rapid increase in exports from existing production. The marketing
organization also will facilitate the export of project production, which
will derive from the use of improved cultivars and/or good extension
supervision and therefore be of higher average quality at the farmgate than
current production. 2/ Although it is difficult to quantify increased net
foreign exchange earnings from current production, these are expected to be
substantial. Net incremental foreign exchange earnings from incremental
production could amount to US$19.4 million per year at full development, if
20% of the incremental project produce is exported.
Employment Benefits
6.08     The direct beneficiaries of the program are the approximately
7,082 families (about 49,500 persons) who increase their income from
farming, mostly from horticultural production. They will have not only a
higher income but a more even annual distribution of revenues. Employment
in farming activities will be provided for these families plus about 28,300
families providing labor, benefiting a population of some 198,000 persons.
More families which cannot be quantified will benefit directly from the
increased seasonal employment opportunities in cold stores, packing plants
and processing facilities. Better utilization will be made of the labor
directly involved. Indirect beneficiaries include the suppliers of goods
and services widely scattered throughout the project area, especially those
dealing with machinery services, inputs distribution, and downstream
packing and trading activities.
Other Benefits
6.09     The annual incremental sales of nearly 1 million improved budlings
per year by the citrus and deciduous fruit nurseries at full development
will alleviate the scarcity of high-quality planting material needed for
orchards development and rehabilitation throughout Turkey. The
establishment of a regionally-based marketing organization, if successful,
will greatly improve the coordination of production decisions with
procurement needs for export; provide Turkish exporters with marketing
information and systematic access to export markets; monitor and ultimately
enforce adherence to packing standards and product quality requirements;
1/ Value exported to value produced net of loss.
2/ And therefore more amenable to export.



- 56 -
and better coordinate transportation needs with available capacity thereby
improving the reliability of delivery. The studies and master plan will
enable the more efficient utilization of marketing organization services by
matching up export opportunities with Turkish production capabilities. It
will determine in a much more rigorous way than has been done to date, the
determinants of domestic demand for fresh fruits and vegetables, the
country's production capability, and the production likely to be available
for export after domestic wants have been satisfied. It will also provide
a basis for rationalizing future investments in storage, packing and
processing facilities, and rehabilitating or expanding the operations of
existing ones where warranted. Other significant benefits include the
following:
(a)  introduction of modern methods of production and horticultural
farm management resulting in better land utilization and overall
higher fruits and vegetables productivity;
(b)  establishment of infrastructure at the national level, providing
trained manpower and services directed towards development of the
project area;
(c)  upgrading facilities at horticultural research stations and the
extension of their activities into applied research,
multiplication and distribution of certified cultivars, and better
integration of applied research programs with extension agents'
activities;
(d)  transfer of lessons learned and experience gained by a specialized
implementing agency (MEYSEB) with the training and visit system to
operatives of national extension system (TZ), as a prelude to the
ultimate reintegration of the two;
(e)  specialist training in techniques of agroindustry project
evaluation for TCZB (modification of Loan No. 1248), increased
availability of working capital for processing plants which
currently are operating under capacity, thereby increasing their
efficiency of operation; and
(f)  preparation of an investment program and master plan for the
future development of the fruits and vegetables subsector, with
emphasis on low-cost processing for expott, coordinated siting of
processing facilities and production possibilities; identification
of managerial training needs for agroindustry management and
proposals for implementing this in Turkey. If adopted, better
trained production and marketing managers could further develop
avenues of foreign exchange earning in the fruit and vegetable
subsector.



- 57 -
C. Risks
6.10     Considering the traditional distrust of the private sector for
many initiatives of Government, there is a risk that timely private sector
participation in the RMCs may not be forthcoming, or to the extent required
for these to function effectively. In order to gain needed and widespread
recognition by Turkey's horticultural exporters, the marketing organization
will have to demonstrate simultaneously that it is indeed evolving quickly
towards independence from government, while at the same time securing
sufficient private capital participation to make this evolution possible,
through a demonstration of its value in providing timely services for
exporters and shareholders. Institution building is inherently a high risk
feature of most projects in Turkey--Lhis one no less than others. However,
it is believed that the following measures will help reduce risk associated
with the Marketing Organization component during its teething period. The
Government intends that initial promotion, establishment and capitalization
of the marketing organization should be done under the aegis of the SPO
where the idea was originally conceived. Second, the seed capital for the
RMCs which necessarily must come through Government channels, would not be
more than 30% of the shares and in foreign exchange, such stock to be
repurchased as soon as the RMC's are able to do so. Thirdly, specialist
consultants would be engaged through SPO to enable them to assist early on
with promotion and counsel on the managerial, administrative and technical
aspects of the CMO and RMCs. With these measures, the risk of direct
government control will be significantly reduced. Further, the probability
that it could become operational quickly and provide services of
demonstrable value would be enhanced.
6.11     Two risks which could affect project viability in all or part of
the project area are (i) inadequate local budgetary support for the
provision of technical support services, and (ii) delay in appointing
international production specialists, counterparts and extension staff and
envisaged training programs. The significance of the first risk cannot be
overstated in the present economic climate in Turkey. Setbacks have been
especially severe on the allocation of budget for fuels and lubricants,
spare parts and general maintenance of government vehicles. This has
impeded the mobility of the operating agencies, and its impact has been
severe on the implementation of projects wherein mobility is a paramount
requirement. To minimize this risk and guarantee the reliable operation of
the extension services, adequate provision by the Government to finance the
foreign exchange portion of vehicles O&M and local expenses would be made
and submitted for the Bank's review by March 1st of each year (paras. 3.09,
3.23 and 3.24). In regard to the second risk, the delay in appointing
international production specialists (consultants), counterparts and exten-
sion staff, would postpone the training of an efficient cadre of extension
workers, introduction of modern horticultural production techniques, and
resolution of feedback problems between applied research and extension.
MEYSEB recognizes the consultants' crucial role in project implementation
and has agreed to appoint the production consultants and staff no later
than January 1, 1982.



- 58 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01     Agreement having been reached on the principal issues referred to
in Chapters III and IV of this report, and subject to the condition of
effectiveness in para. 3.24, the project is suitable for a bank loan of the
equivalent of US$40.0 million to the Government of Turkey for a term of 17
years at 9.60% interest per annum with a grace period of 4 years.



T URICIy
ilen                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1982       IM )                    1984                       199                        io _                      90Fl                                       9,lAit 
L       F        S        4      C                 U       F        S         U       F        /        F              0         F.     F        S        U      F      7      -     v T          U           F                F       T       porige
Nurseries eusehiinteoene               ~~~   ~~~~~~61  8F  1418  146    i 34   280      19FF     1l1    3)1        29       17 ~   243       16l     25l  2             25             81A4S    43FF    F245                                                                            12
Otet   Avnyar    aalalFn                                             2,085 1,311  3,436   21,838    1,74    4,600    2.954   1,6    4,31          3,85   1,2    5,6         1261    471  1,13FF  i,A93    94,7 1,435   35)0  163  41   294  102   3l6  14,8664   7,40    21,06                 35
Vegtbl  tsr   stlish-et-                                                    ,42116 2,3               ,3       1,9   4,'16     3,2    2,6    664           -                                -7,49    9,32   13,38                                                                                     44
Orndnetin9 credit             -      -       -      1,093    l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ITT  1,204   2,841  126 4,367    4,257   2 ,3 35  6,592    3,616 2,465  6VAIN    I ,9A1    657  1,3l5i15           871,438   7 ,9 39   21,327                                                1
Retal  -(FetateCredit61                        87           _4  6 48_8 92 88 80 16   578ii14.  6_  2A2 78L 51 _40                          7,314 _,319  1,          2 4_2 1 1_34 ~3.55/    _64    t85 A330  308   163  4 71  294  192  89'  36.410 21~669  258~4  '
B."ildisga  onlle        qntpnent                  871 2,609  3,489          -      -                 - -      -            -                                                                       -.7/12                                                                                ,408       7 5
Runing tN-. 6  diilrtcc                          2,961    968  3,929    2,961    368  3,929   2,961           968  3,829    2 ,952       968   1,920    2,952    968  3,928    2,952    9,9   3 9,21.                                                                17,239  5,80    23,47           25
Tr-Iing~                                             82 1,140  1,222         464    249)    704       38i     -        381      -                                                                                                                                        9-7    :1,38    2,39        60
Conenltoccla                -      691     609       -      650     4~~~~ ~~~~~               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00  - 650(    800---                                                                                                                     1800    1,8 00        0
Tsem1 - TOS and Teeinig                          3.9_14 5_1 312 9.3i   3_4215 1,888  5_ 233   3_34 2  1_568  049130            .5         6   3_920    2 95 2    968  3,920    _,952   98  3 920            -       -             -                                   9 5/          7  31.134       317
nT-l - Ag-'ind-a trite Ors inCpita1 I                               -        941 720  -, 94            384       N        4                                                                 -                                                                        j_310              _62 .75
TV. Maratg  rasece
Puutos&snpne-c                               348    284     632       -        6        6       24       21      45      -          6       6         1      7        8                6       673                                                                         330     "753       47
lanai aularles, admin.     general          717     0        0        788     60     8nd      947       38 1,003    1 ,8076      211   1,286    1,211   205   1,lO        1,242    don   1,448-.,983                                                                      145    c80          1
CsSIt.st                                         -      303     303       -       58     258       -       243      243       -        60      60               0      123                506-                                                                               ,4       8,04        100
Ote zNine                                       106     69     1275       79    32    Ili          97       32     129      107       20     1 3 5     121     33     154'      124     0 7     131-t3'c    201                                                                        855       26
Ttl- M-rketing Otg-sle-incc                   7. 60       3              860 7 756  11 233  JA_0           3  _54  142     1 18 3I__04   1 480 1._335   _36 5  1,7000    I.36t    289  _.6 6 5-6 890  2~ 94_8430                                                                                 26
Nenanr Prntosngntl-                                                 -         28     32      -60                                                                                                                                                                           2        2        8f       5
C...ueni1a -55779    735                                            912      382    152      534                                                                                                                                                                           28             - - -77 F0 72 460 
Terel, NCtiec   prI-ing  4 pnblltacI_                 70     74      82       39    29        68                                                                                                                                                                          5    --/7 /      1306 
Teo      ..rnlaad Router plan           -- 192 7007     924    _448   21            662              --                         --                       -       -         -      -Ae                                                                                    3FFF
TOA    6AECS                                       ,343 6,9 33 12.276  10,461 7.459 17.920  138 92  9. 735 23.657  15,281  7.924 23,255   11.918 3,649 17,567   6.041 2,4A,1  9,142   1049    6895 0,330  SF70  IV)3  4/I   294  102  386   ,5.99Y 3F  Ft12  10',014                                  78
PRC C010c2                         ~191,4  273   --2Sa                            2032  5.717   5644  4,051  9695    1,017                bl11.008                                                                                MI0 __    0.4  .1    .  5    ,0  0    240  42  0  9    0  7 F'/  701   6 
C04~~g~y19) 1 34   2 038                      29 2 ________                         9          __ _4 4061                 7,175 3.48 0 ____    ______2 1,AOl 63 383  1 3-1 6    5819,                           2      O1,    ,      1,I~I_,~                 6
TOTAL PRDjEC  COSTr                                      8_3,451l5.~0l4  51,35469.991  142 ~b~ 1   554  73 8_06 3~3 3532   2,9           03,5 3,5        90_9 3 9 1836 2828 11 .453 4,2    441501   .3    ,9                      0    21 90 542)   82 j1                       1- 5,44               i
44Peced    p  h   pr-p-se   lea   will be otilieed  .ft.-iace  the f-rsgntnthangsteqnlr--et Cot the  tiret lent ond ma-half yeer  (Jely 1981  1-Fescb-r 1985) nO  the spnje-t.
Caie:Oun2, 0.7.2  - C.7.6.
JA....Oty 5. 1981



- 60 -                     ANNEX 2
TURKEY
SECOND FRUIT AND VEGETABLE PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Sector or Subsector
Al IBRD, Turkey Agricultural Sector Survey, Report No. 1684-TU,
June 23, 1978.
A2 IBRD, Agricultural Sector Memorandum and Identification of Invest-
ment Projects for Turkish Agriculture, Report No. 3178-TU, draft
yellow cover, October 27, 1980.
A3 Fourth Five-Year Development Plan: 1979-1983; Report of the Special
Experts Commission on Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Marketing and
Organization; SPO pub.
A4 EMENA Fruit and Vegetable Marketing Study, Landell Mills Associates
Limited, Final Report, December 1977.
A5 IBRD, Turkey: Policies and Prospects for Growth (in two volumes)
Report No. 2657a-TU, December 12, 1979.
A6 FAO 1976 Production Yearbook, Vol. 30, 1977.
A7 IBRD Staff Working Paper No 321, Fruit and Vegetable Exports from
the Mediterranean Area to the EEC, March 1979.
A8 USDA, A Global Review of Greenhouse Food Production, Economic
Research Service Report No. 89, October 1973.
A9 1978, The Summary of Agricultural Statistics, SSI, Turkey
AIO 1973-1976, Prices Received By Farmers, SSI, Turkey
All 1977, Prices Received By Farmers, SSI, Turkey
A12 1976-1978, Wholesale Price Statistics, Registered Commodities in
Commodity Exchanges, SSI, Turkey
A13 1979, Statistical Yearbook of Turkey, SSI, Turkey
A14 1973-1974, Income Distribution & Consumption Expenditures in Rural
Areas, SSI, Turkey
A15  1974 Nutrition in Turkey, Hacettepe University, 1977
A16 1976-1978, Agricultural Structure and Production, Turkey, SSI



- 61 -
B. Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
Bi IBRD, Turkey Appraisal of a Fruit and Vegetable Export Project,
Report No. PA-87a-TU, May 26, 1971
B2  IBRD, Turkey, Appraisal of an Agricultural Credit and Agroindustries
Project, Report No. 987-TU, April 12, 1976.
B3  General Directorate of Fruit and Vegetable Export iDevelopment
Projects (MEYSEB), MAF, Preparation Report Fruitiand Vegetable
Export Project II, May 1979
(a) Main Report
(b) Annex 1
- Appendix 1 Prospects for Exports
- Appendix 2 Price Data for Fruit and Vegetables at West
German Markets
- Appendix 3 Harvesting Periods for Fruits
- Appendix 4 Harvesting Periods for Vegetables
- Tables 1-89
- Charts 1-3
- Chapter A:  Fruit Growing Practices
- Chapter B:  Vegetable Growing Practices
- Chapter C:  Supporting Services
- Chapter D:  Marketing Aspects
(c)  Annex 2:  Project Area
(d)  Annex 3:  Farm Models
(e)  Annex 4:  Agroindustries Models
B4  TCZB, "The New Law Governing the Agricultural Bank of Turkey and
Recent Developments in Turkish Agriculture and the Credit System"
(Pamphlet - in Turkish), Ankara, 1979.
B5  TCZB, "Agricultural Credit Guidelines:  Annex to Circular No. 4770"
(translation) Ankara, 1979.
B6  Ian Matthews, Turkey:  Marketing of Fresh Fruits and Vegetables
(With Emphasis on the Institutional Framework to Promote Exports),
September 1980.
B7  R. Lacroix, Turkey:  The Fruit and Vegetable Processing Industry
(A qualitative Evaluation of its State of Development, Expectations
about its Prospects and Major Development Constraints), September 1980.



- 62 -
C.  Selected Working Papers
Cl   Terms of Reference for International Consultants
C2   Fruit and Vegetable Production Component
C3   Technical Support Services for the Production Component
C4   Agroindustries Working Capital Component
C5   Marketing Organization Component
C6   Studies and Master Plan Component
C7   Project Cost Estimates
C8   Price Escalation and Taxes
C9   The Agricultural Bank of Turkey (TCZB)
C10 Participating Agencies and Protocols Agreed Upon
Cll Procurement and Disbursement; On-lending and Repayment
C12 Implementation and Organization Charts
C13 Financial and Economic Analyses
C14 Relative Rural Poverty and Other Quality of Life Indicators
C15 Miscellaneous



TURKEY
SECOND FRUIT AND VEGETABLE PROJECT
Oganization Chart
|   Bo,rrowe,
|  (Government)
rCentral Marketing                                             State Planning             F       MAncu; rV of                     Cukurova                   Agricultural Bank                  Ministry of
Organization (Instanbul)  ...   Ministry of Commerce              Organization            _         9                                University                     of Turkey                     Village Affairs
(CMO)                                                        (SPO                              Fo    )                        (Adana)                         (TCZB)                          (MVA)
-    ---        ---  - -   -.    -   -  -                *-  --------------
General Dire torate _                                                  I      I
I . _                     al    Vagetate                                                                        General Directorate of
L                                                   for Fruit and Vegetable                      j  L      _    Soil Conservation and
Export Development                                                                         Farm 1,rigati- (Topraksul
(MYSEB)                                                                              Fa-   rigton(Tp-ku
Regional Marketing                                          Master Plan Study of              General Directorate of
Cororationau                                              Fruit and Vegetable               Agricultural Affairs
:  ( Bursa/Istanbu l )Susco(GDA)
(RMC)                                                       Subsector(GAA
Regional Marketing                                                                           General Directorate of                                           Agency Responsible for Overall Coordination
Corporation (lzmir)                                                                           Agricultural Research                                           Administrative Control
(RMC)                                                                                         (GDAR)                                    .                Coordination
SPO would supervise the establishment of the
Marketing Corporation which would be independent.
Regional Marketing                                                                            General Directorate of
Corproation (Antalya)                                                                           Plant Protection and
(RMC)                                                                                    Quarantine IGDPPQI
Regional Marketing                                                                            General Directorate of
Corporation                                                                               Planning, Research and
(Adana/Mersin)                                                                                  Coordination
(RMC)                                                                                         (GDPRC)
World Bank -22148
n-



TURKEY
SECOND FRUIT AND VEGETABLE PROJECT
Applied Agricultural Research and Extension
Organization Chart
Ministry of
Agriculture and
Forestry
IMAFI
Gen eral Directorate of                           General Directorate of                                                                                   Ptant Directorate  General Directorate      Geera   rectot
Agriculttrat  Affairs                           Planning, Research and                                                         ............ Egetale...  o   lantP        n                         of Agricultural Research 
/GDAAI                                    Coordination (GDPRC)                                 E       DEp vElt upQu ni                                                                                GAR)   arc
(M =SEB)I(DPQ
:::............................................... ........ ....... _ _.....__ .                     ..........................................
Division of Agrclt*ura                                                          Ag*;cu trie                                            Prodctio
Extension /Teknik Ziraati                                                 Assistant Director General                            Assistant Director General
F         -                            F                                  I                                   I1                               I                          I 
Kayseri _    ..           Izmir                               M aAntalya                                                             e                       Adana                         Hlatay
Provincial    ~zmr                                                  u~                                 ntlv                            egional                   Regional                      Regional
Regional Directorate                Regional Dire                        egional Directorate                   Rectore                  D                            D
Tokat        |         MaAegean                                                               Antalya                           Alata
Provincial                             Regiunal                                                               Vegetable                       Agricultrral ReCukuhrova
Office                 ~~~~Research Institute                                                   Research Institute               Research Institute             Uiest
Manisa                                                                Antalva
Amasya   ~          -         Viticulture                                                ..        Citrus Retearch
Provincial Office                    Research Institute                                                          Institute
Bursa                                                                                                                                I                      A Agency Responsible for Overall Coordination
|PBurovincial OffI                                                                                                                                                          Admi nis      trative Control
.rnle.... .Coordination
Yalova
Horticulture
Research Institute
World Bank - 22149



C. 3
TURKEY
SECOND FRUIT AND VEGETABLE PROJECT
Crop Production Calendar in the Project ArealI
Jaruary   February    March       Aprl        Mnav       June        July      Auqust  September  October  November December
FRUIT NURSERIES2/
Year I                                                 _                     .          .,                                ''_                .     . 
Yea, 2'           !                                                   _          ___                                      ||||            +_
Year 3                                                                -     _               -     I    -           -_m
Year 4
FRUITS                                                   K
Oranges
Navels                                                                        ____    ______ l>F                                                       @Z1-s
SNamo-ti                                                                                                                                         .....  ..
Valencia ...                                                      ...                  I -   -
Lemons                               .. 019 -00                 *                                               !-l_    -               *****  4***0 1****6
Mandarines                              ' . . . . '  |                                  ' T                                                             00.009-4
Grapefrurts                         .* . .*.**.*.              .             |           I                                                 - . . .  -
Apples                                                    _                                                     --e****1*--+v*'' 
Pears                                                       m     i          i                          1 |   -4i|i        
Peaches                                                     mI                              .     .   O..*.*    I . * .       *.*
SoarCherries                                                                               *           . ... .'   . 00tr'                                 '     '
Sweet Cherries                                                                           I m  -I I .....  , .. . -.  
Grapes                               m .                                                                  |''       *4**  I*X*v!*  464   **  .......@*
VEGETABLES
GreenhouseseO|
Tomatoes(F1 Hybrdl               *@Wtj  Ifl                                                                                              -        -   * |  - **   4*
Cucumbers (Ft Hybrid)                                                              I   .    .  ...-  ....
Low Plastic Tunnels
Tormatoes _JzF|l 1@  *@-  
Peppers                              -      r            m |  '|4**;*
Aubergines                           _60-*   |                _* _                    t          1                                  1                     I
Open Field (Present)
Tomnatoes (Staked)                                                                                   .             . . . .  . . . .            I                      I
Cscurmbrs (Monoeci-vs)                                                                 |    m          *   *  *      
Peppers                                           - r                                 i   n i                t
Eggplants                                                                                        . -.-.. . .          . ' . I
Open Field (Recommended)                   ||
Tomatoes                                             |                                                                   I           i           .          ...
Cucu mbers                                  m_       |             i n   | .  *        .                                          
Peppers                                                                                                                    i          i          i n
Eggplants                             -.0 -.         | *  init                                                |.I                   |
FiELD CROPS
Wheat                              m          m                 |            ....|                                                            _
CoTton I~~- I __n I 1 in m-' I in..  1.
Cotton
Soybeans                                             ,                                 .n |i                         n      m       *e*...
LEGEND
- - - -   Lard Preparation and Seeding
_  A  F_  Transplanting
Growing
_           Diyging of BSdfings and TrTnspl-nvlng ,n    orchards
. . * * * * Harsesting (Main Season)
Ha-vesting IEarly and Late Cultivarsl
IUEEIEuEEI Budding (for Nurseries Onily)
1/ Dates of fanning operations vary with location, cultivars, crop pattern, rotation and apphcative of research and extension rec-rmendations
2 Seeding of rootstock in Spring. In cave of name and stroe fruits, after ripening treatment isoaking seeds ,n beat moss medium at 40F for
about 70-120 days depending on crop) seeding is carriad in controlled rooms du,ang Wnter,; transplanting of rootstock seedling in t&  Spring
and budding in the Fall Digging of budhngs and transplantIng is done In orchards dcting the Spting and in some locations during the Fall.
V Predominant rotation for coastal areas. Prices and location determine whether other crops e.g., beans, peppers or eggplants could be planted.
World Bank - 221 50



TURKEY
SECONR FRUIT ARD VEGETABLE PROJECT
INPxetRReAntiOC Schrdule                                                                                                                                 C.4
Calen lal YEAI   Isa7   =     4                         100                        1lRI                            1441                         1004                         IRON                             19R0
4 1s Eb i1 44 11                                                                            |N -  X_ _2                                                              1   2 T    4                     _____           4        1_ 2            3    4_              _                 4           73 _
2vo -0,114  (14 5.)                           -         (i                                       -      - i         i 
12,1124 O4541,1812.12h41 ~ ~ ~   ~            ~           ~          ~          ~ ~ ~ W.
11750' 12811s O08h)4d4 0018  (31                                                       10              1      | )0)         1          =        ZIO                             2
Wiead   (2                                                                                   - 7        -77l| l |  5) l                t}     
Il.CNlNNll 7,4,4,10~~I                                                                 7-
SIOi .4, .....R.. 100
VoPR,41,l 12,1110 41ah JN1IRI.ln,                                                                                r11
TRNmiSNII 114. ......
O4NIl4roNhl     ss{Sa 14 _2 180 II N 41 44)                                                                                           _         )2
NI0IIpSIIINI CNNl I,I,4  1  ,_ 
110.. 1l8INN1 SIl,0-     -    -                           -       -      -      -       -      - -                                                           L
11818148041414  ORh  d 2S IAJI_ ZO,))k 3 0I   _1G3
PNoIN      041141 ROIIOId N0N182s 4.Nl8_il84_                                                                                                   )3G)         =                )G9 
01141RIII 5,4114,141 Rollttll                                                                   l                                                  5        =       =          ,s       
0,p8,,IR.,lotd0 G      88lnh f  014,4112l                                                                           )5       l          _=                                      50 
01444  :S18l   SL r I 8 
P1 tN4411N1.41M 41h0d  1 joNSM  ,0j8l                                                                         1       r      ll                           l                           
48,11412s fo SMSs140.8  _ NI  I I I I 11,44I I
5114.1n3 4.11411. & d t 1401411                  _ 1
1l0p8l141ll011lO1l110 10G   CEDT8                                                       2)11 
0111114  N1O1184(lNIZTG                                                                          I       T      T              II                           II                                                 
1214n2441V51     8 1 ,4lNprjl)II               _
01 41 4  G nR.R411   c M     A    D  i         ~      -                                                              l      ll                           lll                                                                                    
4 1 ,1 ,, C o s u x a t 1 1I,                                                            I      I       I             I       I                     I      I                     I                                                   I              I                             I              I      I              I
C444,1  an N oRI, S nR- & - R R''J544                                                   |     _        |       -



IBRD  15242R
250                                                       30.                                                       35                                                        40                                                     DECEMBER 19a0
B U L GAR I A       -r 
_;1  Edirn    Kerkrr
j.9Edirne( 4re/i                                                                        Inebnlu         Sinop                                                                                   U.      S.     S.      R
aths.J                              t YCsyurnsuldak0>- 5 A .   J       P NOP                                                                    Hopee _,f
k'rdsB                                            /Ksbt    -. -X z.,t                                                                                                          N
T. ~~~~~~~~~~~~,t                                                               AMSIJN 
1  *t.rbu    Tlik                                                                                                                   Io-u 9t   n 9T    
o                         Reisv      "'9< ~~~~~~~~~~~~_Adeor.p  BAo-                    -                              '                                                 Rt
Bend/two                   I -tIN       -O               4>A KRI(h                                         ORDU    G            Ak'                                                                            35Ao
40          j %~e-kk.le           c'                                                                 -4                                                           \ Conuhn 
.4- .,/I  Serum s- P tERZUM                                                                                                                                                                    40 -'g
N.-t,-,~~~~~~~~~~B* k                                                                                    &O.A
144   -e,nik                                                                                               'NNNot  .ffices  ,, |                                                                              -OLAN
Rd.ee,t   -<s II,-~~~~~~4A>   wt~~ct>  ~~sDe~~nir   t!NKAR                                                                                                                                     Dogg KA ~ no~-J EerunAI
R  Centro  Morkehg OrgOnzotlon   Propose  PoCtolotliCE
C,   A                                                                                                                             SIVAS              J
A~~~~~~~~~AKR
--)             - Mci y   o. 8        r. rv'o                                                                                         -               -OAI     
+Ni?' < aitWSy4Y                                                                   6o!t                  \.1 U NU                                                C E LI  BING  L
MeVlc -onore -St.               ,' eOfyn                                                                                                                 9         ,>-   -  Brq2     MU
4>'>"  Usok                                         'AC'N                                                                  v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A 
( ~    ~      Rvr                                                                                                            od2l*s te xlsvi o             lr>~L  r,>'  J0'-  Ara  N   M    aoB                     VA -
0                  110   k
'~~~~~~ 4>    Apdin                                                          NY                 - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Moden  DIYARAR  0Bah  BCu
NY~~~~~~~~~~~KOY                                                                                                    ..y
KILMETES-       ,      I)     ,3   Ii                                            -                           Qu    .: VdMorsho,erkCir mo                                                             H-At/R _=. :,k,r,K_
MILESteI1,en                                                K             tN       N                           GorhsalE rozionrep .rt  A                                                              x.'i   LT
B U                 I                                                 .                                              
TURKE
lst Protect Area                                                                                         40'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ RA 
*  Teknik Ziroat Offices                                                                                       j                   POLAND~~A--           URKE
35'                                                                                       <                                                                                                             35'-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t   
A A  Main, Others ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~Poec Ae
I st Project Area                                                                                                           40,~~~~~~~ft<RO AN   I
-    -    InErnaona Begoundarfies                                                                                                                     C?UAA-N
Provekinc  Boundarfies                                                                                                                       POLN           A"~
Riversnal, naprketaiegnCorporations                                                                                                                             U          S A         S'R
Central Ma,keting Organization (PrOP05ed Location);z>z'                                                                                        AnIo
Mi, O An noonip/fOnheiepaRoMtheIA
Railways20Wo h,,sctts,/sessa5-                                                                                                                                                            tIA
International Boundaries                                                                                              'IIJLGARIA~~/ov,snvttna/ea/sttuso~SYIA             ev
Provnce  oundrie                                                                A/ >>Z ;%tg:tCEE                                                               CRi



