LOAN NUMBER 1967 TU
Project Agreement
(Second Fruit and Vegetable Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
TURKIYE CUMHURIYETI ZIRAAT BANKASI
Dated                        4      , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1967 TU
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated         *     , 1981, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION    DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and TURKIYE CUMHURIYETI ZIRAAT BANKASI (hereinafter called
TCZB).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Turkey (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to forty million dollars
($40,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that TCZB agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Bank as are hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and TCZB, part of the proceeds of the loan
provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to
TCZB on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS TCZB, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so deiined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) TCZB shall (i) carry out Part A of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and agricultural practices,
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed,


﻿-2-
the funds, currently estimated at not less than $25,000,000
equivalent in addition to the amount of the Subsidiary Loan,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose;
and (ii) acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privi-
leges and franchises as shall be, from time to time, necessary or
useful in the conduct of its business and the carrying out of the
Project.
(b) In the carrying out of Part A of the Project, TCZB
undertakes that, unless the Bank, the Borrower and TCZB shall
otherwise agree, it shall at all times follow lending and oper-
ating procedures satisfactory to the Bank and including those set
forth in the Schedule to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be
modified from time to time by agreement among the Bank, the
Borrower and TCZB.
(c) TCZB shall enter into arrangements, satisfactory to
the Bank, with the Borrower, Lhrough MEYSEB and TOPRAKSU, to
define in detail the responsibilities, functions and administra-
tive procedures of TCZB and MEYSEB and TOPRAKSU for the carrying
out of Part A.1 and 2 of the Project.
Section 2.02. TCZB shall review with the Borrower and the
Bank, in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.04 of the
Loan Agreement, the interest rates to be applied by TCZB to its
lending operations.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
TCZB shall ensure that Sub-loans will be used exclusively in
carrying out the Farm Development or Financing Plans for which
such Sub-loans were made.
Section 2.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
TCZB shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of any Sub-loan to be used exclusively in carrying out
the Farm Development or Financing Plan for which such Sub-loan was
made.
Section 2.05. TCZB undertakes to insure or cause to be
insured the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
any Sub-loan against marine, transit and other hazards incident to
the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place
of use or installation.


﻿-3-
Section 2.06. (a) TCZB: (i) shall, in cooperation with the
Borrower, maintain, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, records
and procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress
of Part A of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to
be derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower and
to disclose their use in Part A of the Project; (ii) shall enable
the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in Part A of the Project and to see
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by
the Borrower and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall, in cooperation with the Borrower, furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning Part A of the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower and, the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(b) TCZB shall take all action required on its part, in
connection with Part A of the Project, in order to ensure the
timely preparation and furnishing to the Bank of the Project
completion report referred to in Section 3.11 (e) of the Loan
Agreement.
Section 2.07. TCZB shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, TCZB shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.08. (a) TCZB shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of
Part A of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) TCZB shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan,
or the performance by TCZB of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of TCZB
Section 3.01. TCZB shall at all times manage its affairs,
maintain its financial position, plan its future expansion and
carry on its operations, all in accordance with appropriate
financial and agricultural practices and under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by qualified and
experienced staff in adequate numbers.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. TCZB shall through EDLD:
(a) establish and maintain, in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank, separate accounts on its records to be used exclusively for
Part A of the Project;
(b) register in such accounts all its receipts and payments
for or in connection with its lending operations under Part A
of the Project, in accordance with appropriate accounting princi-
ples consistently applied, including the following: (i) amounts
received from and payments made to the Borrower under the Subsid-
iary Loan; (ii) amounts disbursed to and received from each
Beneficiary under a Sub-loan; and (iii) amounts provided by the
Borrower or TCZB from their own resources to finance Sub-loans;
(c) retain, until one year after the Closing Date, all
records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing the expenditures on account of which withdrawals
are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of certificates
of expenditure, and enable the Bank's accredited representatives
to see such records;
(d) submit to the Bank, on a semestral basis, a summary
of such accounts, such summary to be submitted to the Bank within
a two-month period after the end of the semester concerned;
and
(e) (i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a)
hereof and related statements and its records supporting cer-
tificates of expenditures referred t) in paragraph (c) hereof


﻿- 5 -
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, (ii) furnish to the Bank, in the English
language, as soon as available, but in any case not later than
seven months after the end of TCZB's fiscal year, (A) certified
copies of such related statements for such year as so audited,
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested
including a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of such
certificates of expenditure showing whether the proceeds of the
Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account on the basis of certificates
of expenditure have been used for the purpose for which they
were provided, and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other informa-
tion concerning such accounts and related statements of TCZB and
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.02. TCZB shall deposit on behalf of the Borrower
out of the amount of interest due to the Borrower on account of
the Subsidiary Loan into the Special Operational Fund an annual
amount equivalent to 1% of the total outstanding amount of Sub-
loans under Part A.1 and 2 of the Project. Amounts so deposited
shall be utilized by MEYSEB for financing expenditures on account
of technical services to farmers under the Project.
Section 4.03. TCZB shall deposit in a revolving fund all
amounts received by TCZB on account of repayment of Sub-loans
under Part A of the Project, except for amounts required by
TCZB for the purpose of servicing the Subsidiary Loan, and shall
use the amounts so deposited for the provision of Sub-loans under
said Part A of the Project.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effec-
tive.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of TCZB thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms.


﻿- 6 -
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions or the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For TCZB:
T. C. Ziraat Bankasi
Genel Mudurlugu
Bankalar Caddesi
Ankara, Turkey
Cable address:                     Telex:
ZERBANK                               42 333 ZBA TR
Ankara


﻿-7-
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of TCZB or by TCZB on behalf of the
Borrower under Section 2.09 of the Loan Agreement, may be taken or
executed by the Director General or such other person or persons
as he shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. TCZB shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of the person or persons who will, on behalf of TCZB, take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken
or executed by TCZB pursuant to any of the provisions of this
Agreement or Section 2.09 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all col-
lectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
B           // fRegional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
TURRIYE CUMHURIYETI ZIRAAT BANKASI
By  /T      VA
I/    C/      Authorized Representative


﻿- 8 -
SCHEDULE
Lending and Operating Policies and Procedures
for Part A of the Project
Request for and Approvals of Sub-loans
1.1 TCZB will make Sub-loans only to Beneficiaries meeting
the eligibility tests specified hereunder and only following the
procedures and approvals stipulated below.
1.2 Sub-loan applications will be submitted to the nearest
branch of TCZB or MEYSEB, after which an initial credit evaluation
of the applicant will be made by TCZB.
1.3 With respect to applications for Sub-loans under Part A.1 and
2 of the Project, If the applicant's creditworthiness is found to
be satisfactory by TCZB, the local technician of MEYSEB or the
designated technician of GDAA will prepare a Farm Development Plan
with the applicant, which plan will include detailed technical and
financial projections and the proposed amount of a Sub-loan. The
Farm Development Plan will be prepared in such format and include
such information as may be required by TCZB.
1.4 A Sub-loan application with respect to Part A.3 of the
Project shall inter alia include a Financing Plan demonstrating in
detail the working capital requirements, cumulative monthly debt
projections, utilization of funds and a draft schedule for repay-
ment.
1.5 TCZB shall provide the Bank for its approval with the first
Financing Plan approved by TCZB and proposed for its financing
under Part A.3 of the Project.
1.6 Copies of the approved Farm Development Plan as approved by
MEYSEB, will be submitted to the local TCZB branch.
1.7 Final approval of Sub-loans will be in accordance with the
normal procedures of TCZB, and will be based on the creditworthi-
ness of the applicant and the probability of success of the Farm
Development Plan or Financing Plan.


﻿-9-
Eligibility Criteria and Sub-Loans Procedures
2.1 In order to qualify for the granting of a Sub-loan under Part
A.1 and 2 of the Project, each applicant will:
(a) have proven competence in general farming practice;
(b) have use of properly irrigated, leveled and drained
land, with soil suitable for orchard and vineyard development;
(c) meet all creditworthiness criteria as will be reasonably
established from time to time by TCZB; and
(d) be known to staff of TCZB, MEYSEB or TZ of GDAA as
bona fide farmers of good character and of recognized farming
competence.
2.2 TCZB will accept security in accordance with the Agricultural
Credit Guidelines. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, TCZB
shall not change, amend or waive such Guidelines with respect to
the provision and administration of Sub-loans under the Project.
2.3 TCZB will not make a Sub-loan under Part A.1 and 2 to any
single Beneficiary for development of nurseries or establishment
of greenhouses over an area exceeding half a hectare unless the
Bank has approved the provision of such Sub-loan after review of
the application and evaluation relating thereto.
Terms and Conditions to be included in Sub-loan Contracts
3.1 Sub-loan contracts will include, inter alia, the following
terms and conditions:
(a) Sub-loans will be made and be repayable in liras;
(b) Except as the Borrower, the Bank and TCZB may otherwise
agree and without restriction on the provisions of Section 4.04 of
the Loan Agreement, TCZB will charge Beneficiaries, in addition to
applicable taxes and charges, interest on the principal amount of
Sub-loans withdrawn and outstanding at the annual rate of not less
than 22% for short-term Sub-loans under Part A.2 of the Project,
not less than 31% for short-term Sub-loans under Part A.3 of the
Project and not less than 24% for medium- and long-term Sub-loans
under Part A.1 of the Project.


﻿- 10 -
(c) the repayment periods and repayment schedules will
reflect the capacity of the Beneficiary to repay and the cash flow
position described in the Farm Development Plan and will be
between six and twelve years, including one to five years of
grace for Sub-loans under Part A.1 of the Project and not more
than one year for Sub-loans under Part A.2 and 3 of the Project.
(d) the amount of an individual Sub-loan will not exceed
the equivalent of approximately the percentage of the estimated
total cost of the Farm Development Plan as set forth in the
Agricultural Credit Guidelines, provided, however, that except as
the Bank may otherwise agree, TCZB shall not change, amend or
waive such Guidelines relative to the limits of individual Sub-
loans under the Project;
(e) the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Sub-loan will be used exclusively for the purposes approved
by TCZB;
(f) the Bank and TCZB will have the right to see the prem-
ises, the improvement of which is financed by the Sub-loan, any
equipment, materials or inputs financed by the Sub-loan, the
business of the Beneficiary, the operation thereof, and any
relevant records and documents;
(g) the Bank and TCZB will have the right to obtain all
such information as they may reasonably request relating to the
foregoing and to the operations and financial condition of the
Beneficiary;
(h) TCZB will have the right to deny the use of the proceeds
of the Sub-loan for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than Switzer-
land);
(i) TCZB shall require the Beneficiary to procure the goods
to be financed from the proceeds of Sub-loans in accordance with
the following procedures:
(1) greenhouses and ancillary equipment under Part A.1
of the Project shall be procured pursuant to
standard design and specifications satisfactory to
the Bank through international shopping on the
basis of at least three price quotations obtained
from suppliers from member countries of the Bank
(and Switzerland); and


﻿- 11 -
(2) vehicles under Part A.1 of the Project, materials
and equipment and civil works under Part A.1 and 2
and materials under Part A.3 shall be procured
through normal commercial channels.
(j) the Beneficiary will carry out his Farm Development
Plan, as approved, and will carry on his business, with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate
technical, agricultural, commercial and financial practices and
standards, and will maintain adequate records; and
(k) TCZB will have the right to suspend or terminate the
right of the Beneficiary to disburse the proceeds of the Sub-loan
or, in appropriate cases, to declare the amount disbursed due and
payable, upon failure by him to perform his obligations under the
Sub-loan contract.
Disbursements and Records
4.1 TCZB will promptly inform the Beneficiaries of the amounts
charged to their respective Sub-loan accounts on account of goods
and services procured and financed under Sub-loans, such informa-
tion to be supported with copies of the receipts for such goods
and services in the amounts so charged.
4.2  TCZB will furnish semiannual statements to each Beneficiary
showing the amounts drawn on the Beneficiary's Sub-loan account,
including interest, payments made and the outstanding balance of
the respective Sub-loan.
Supervision
5.1 TCZB will ensure that amounts drawn on Sub-loan accounts
are applied exclusively to expenditures on the Farm Development
Plan or the Financing Plan for the carrying out of which such
Sub-loan was granted.
5.2 The staff of MEYSEB and TCZB will regularly visit the
farm and agro-industry Sites where Farm Development or Financing
Plans financed with Sub-loans are being carried out, to ensure
that Beneficiaries are effectively and punctually carrying out
such plans and complying with the provisions of their respective
Sub-loan contracts with TCZB.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this   4      day of         198   .
FOR SECRETARY


