                   Document of
                 The World Bank




                                                        Report No: 29186

  IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
   (IDA-34420 TF-24886 FSLT-70410 TF-52698)

                        ON A

                       LOAN

       IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 30,310,000

                   AND CREDIT

      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 15,200,000

                      TO THE

FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA

                      FOR A

Second Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan




                   May 28, 2004

      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

  (Exchange Rate Effective May 28, 2004)

        Currency Unit = Denar
             1 Denar = US$ 0.019
               US$ 1 = 51.54

             FISCAL YEAR
        January 1     December 31

  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



  AMA   -  Asset Management Agency
   BIS  -  Bank for International Settlements
   BRA-    Bank Rehabilitation Agency
   BSD-    Banking Supervision Department (of the National Bank of Macedonia)
     CA    Corrective Action (Program)
CAMEL      Capital/Asset quality/Management/Earnings/Liquidity
   CAS-    Country Assistance Strategy
   CRO-    Central Register Organization
CSD/CSR    Central Securities Depository/Central Share Registry
  DEM-     Deutsche Mark
   DVP-    Delivery-versus-Payment
   EBO     Employee Buyout
  EBRD-    European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
   ECA-    Europe and Central Asia
    EFF    Extended Fund Facility
     ES    Elektro Stopanstvo (state-owned energy utility)
  ESAF-    Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
     EU-   European Union
    FDI-   Foreign Direct Investment
 FESAC-    Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit (First)
 FESAL     Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan (Second)
  FSAP-    Financial Sector Assessment Program
  FIAS-    Foreign Investment Advisory Service
     FR-   Federal Republic (Yugoslavia)
    FSD-   Financial Sector Development
  FSVC-    Financial Services Volunteer Corps
   FYR-    Former Yugoslav Republic (Macedonia)
   GDP-    Gross Domestic Product
    IAS-   International Accounting Standards
  IBRD-    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
    ICR-   Implementation Completion Report
    IDA-   International Development Association
    IFC-   International Finance Corporation
    IMF-   International Monetary Fund
  MBO      Management Buyout
  MIGA-    Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency

MKD-   Macedonian Denar
 MOF-  Ministry of Finance
 MSE-  Macedonian Stock Exchange
NBRM-  National Bank of Republic of Macedonia (Central Bank)
 NBG-  National Bank of Greece
 OCC   Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
 OTC   Over-the-Counter (market)
PRGF-  Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
 PSD-  Private Sector Development
RTGS-  Real-Time Gross Settlement
ROSC   Report on Observance of Standards and Codes
 SEC-  Securities and Exchange Commission
 SME-  Small and Medium-Size Enterprise
 SRO-  Self Regulatory Organization
 SRP-  Special Restructuring Program
  TA-  Technical Assistance
TORs-  Terms of Reference
ZPP  - Bureau of Payment Operations

                 Vice President:  Shigeo Katsu
              Country Director    Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
               Sector Manager     Gerardo Corrochano
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Jasminka Varnalieva

                  MACEDONIA, FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF
                  Second Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data
2. Principal Performance Ratings
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
6. Sustainability
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
8. Lessons Learned
9. Partner Comments
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project ID: P042400                                                  Project Name: Second Financial and Enterprise Sector
                                                                     Adjustment Loan
Team Leader: Jasminka Varnalieva                                     TL Unit: ECSPF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 21, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Second Financial and Enterprise Sector                   L/C/TF Number: IDA-34420; TF-24886;
                            Adjustment Loan                                                          FSLT-70410; TF-52698
   Country/Department: FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF                                        Region: Europe and Central Asia
                            MACEDONIA                                                                Region

        Sector/subsector: Banking (47%); General industry and trade sector (20%); Payment
                            systems, securities clearance and settlement (13%); Central
                            government administration (13%); Law and justice (7%)
                  Theme: State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P); Regulation
                            and competition policy (P); Standards and financial reporting (S);
                            Administrative and civil service reform (S); Legal institutions for a
                            market economy (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/14/1999                                     Effective: 12/20/2000                12/20/2000
     Appraisal: 06/02/2000                                         MTR:
      Approval: 12/14/2000                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia/MOF (Ministry of Finance)
                      Other Partners:      MOE(Ministry of Economy), NBRM (National Bank of Republic of Macedonia)

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                         Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Manager:                 Gerardo M. Corrochano                          Ilham Zurayk
Team Leader at ICR:             Jasminka Varnalieva                            Marie-Renee Bakker
ICR Primary Author:             Jasminka Varnalieva


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       H
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: HS                               S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The main objective of the Loan/Credit was to support the Government's financial and enterprise sector
reform program, which sought to significantly accelerate private sector growth through: (i) strengthening
the health of the banking system and improving the quality of bank intermediation; (ii) improving the
private sector business enabling environment; and (iii) resolving, through privatization/financial
restructuring or closure, the universe of large loss making enterprises that crowd out private sector growth.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not changed during implementation.

3.3 Original Components:
FESAL II supported a comprehensive reform program in the following four areas:

A.      Financial Sector Regulatory and Supervisory Framework component supported the reforms
aimed at upgrading the legal framework, including: (i) modernizing banking legislation, (ii) reforming
bank-owned, weakly funded Deposit Insurance Scheme, (iii) strengthening NBRM regulations, (iv)
strengthening NBRM enforcement actions, and (v) supporting proactive problem bank/bank failure
resolution.

B.      Financial System Infrastructure Development component focused on creating a properly
regulated and smoothly functioning banking system, including: (i) the reform of Payment Operations
Bureau (ZPP); (ii) creation of effective pledge registration mechanisms; and (iii) creation of a Central
Securities Depository/Central Share Registry (CSD/CSR) and a Delivery-versus Payment (DVP)-based
securities clearing and settlement system.

C.      Business Environment Reform component supported reform efforts aimed at: (i) streamlining
private enterprise entry and the FDI regime; (ii) strengthening the legal framework for enforcement of
creditors' and shareholder' rights; and (iii) building institutions to support an effective accounting and
auditing profession.

D.      Enterprise Sector Reform component supported (i) the resolution of approximately 30 large
loss-making enterprises that were partially or fully socially or state-owned, or for which the Government
was a large creditor on account of overdue claims, through either sale/financial restructuring or closure,
using transparent and internationally-accepted procedures, and (ii) the rationalization of government
support policy for the enterprise sector by creating a declining fiscal cap mechanism, and (iii) the resolution
of the assets of the BRA.


3.4 Revised Components:
N/A

3.5 Quality at Entry:
FESAL II was rated as "highly satisfactory" for its quality of entry by the Bank's Quality Assurance
Group. Its design was fully consistent with the Bank's lending program for FYR Macedonia as laid out in
the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of the World Bank Group for FYR Macedonia (No. 18162-MK,
dated July 14, 1998), updated by a CAS Progress Report dated May 17, 2000. The CAS key priorities
were resumption of growth, reduction in unemployment, and a reversion of a rising poverty. Support for
these objectives has been provided through a Structural Adjustment Loan/Credit, Social Sector Adjustment


                                                     - 2 -

Credit, several investment operations for private sector development, energy, agriculture, health and
education. The FESAL II was one of the key operations in support of the CAS objectives and one of the
triggers for continuation of a high case lending scenario.

The risks to the implementation of the FESAL II were carefully evaluated. The main risk to the FESAL II
was identified as lack of political commitment to resolve large loss making enterprises, many of which were
politically/socially sensitive because of their importance to employment. This risk was partly addressed by
the Bank's Social Support Project, approved by the Board in the summer of 1999, to mitigate the expected
negative short term impact on the labor force of the large loss making enterprise resolution efforts under the
FESAL II reform agenda, as well as the macroeconomic and trade disruption caused by the Kosovo
conflict. This program financed severance pay for redundant workers and labor redeployment and
retraining services. Weak institutional capacity was another risk that could have undermined
implementation of the reform program. This risk was mitigated by several accompanying donor funded
technical assistance projects (USAID, EU PHARE, Norwegian Government, Dutch Government, etc).
Additional risks were associated with the lingering instability in the region.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The FESAL II largely achieved its main objectives and provided the framework for faster private sector
growth and job creation, supported by a healthier and more developed financial system. Macedonia has
made substantial progress in enhancing the overall soundness of the financial system, particularly, the
banking sector. The supervisory and legal framework for the banking system has been substantially
improved. Prudential banking regulations have been refined, supervisory practices have improved, and the
legal framework for effective bank supervision has been strengthened, especially through the new Banking
Law. The program contributed significantly to the recent decline in the stubbornly high levels of nominal
and real interest rates and to a concomitant increase in domestic savings and financial sector
intermediation, generating the working capital and investment finance essential for the private businesses to
upgrade and expand their operations. It is expected that the recent entry of more sophisticated foreign
banks will lead to provisioning more diversified financial products and services. The largest of the
loss-making enterprises in the system that crowded out new private sector growth have been resolved,
leaving the enterprise sector relatively clean and free of the big value subtracters. Changes in the business
environment have removed major obstacles for private sector entry and have contributed to strengthening of
the creditors' and shareholders' rights. Many new institutions have been established, creating the financial
infrastructure for a functioning market economy.

Although all specific conditions set forth in the FESAL II policy agenda have been successfully met, the
impact of the reforms has not yet materialized to its full potential. A number of deficiencies and deep
systemic problems in the judicial sector have undermined the success of the reforms in the financial and the
enterprise sectors. In order to achieve long-term dynamic private sector-led growth, a number of
comprehensive reforms in the judicial sector, as well as more sophisticated reforms related to the
investment climate, rule of law, and governance will be essential.

The FESAL II original closing date was December 31, 2002. However, as the reforms were interrupted
during the military conflict in 2001, closing date was extended by one year to December 31, 2003.

4.2 Outputs by components:
The principal outputs of the project are as following:



                                                     - 3 -

A. Financial Sector Regulatory and Supervisory Framework

Overhaul of the Legal Framework for Banking Activity. With the help of the Bank, the Government
prepared a new banking law that Parliament adopted in July 2000. The new law: (i) introduced definitions,
allowable activities and prudential regulations for banks that are more in line with EU Banking Sector
directives, IAS and Basle capital rules; (ii) strengthened bank corporate governance; and (iii) introduced
efficient problem bank and bank failure resolution mechanisms.

The Banking Law provides detailed rules relating to the structure and governance of banks, licensing,
conflicts of interests and bank secrecy. The law also provides for the management of banks including the
assembly, the managing board, the executive board, the risk management committee, the auditing
committee and other bodies specified by law. The provisions in this regard are quite detailed. There are
provisions for auditing supervision and surveillance. The law provides appropriate enforcement measures
to improve the financial condition of banks including the provision of written warnings, orders, prohibitions
on the payment of dividends, appointment of conservator or receiver and, ultimately, revocation of the
license. It also provides for prompt corrective actions. Bankruptcy may be initiated when the Governor
determines that rehabilitation is not viable.
The Banking Law was assessed as satisfactory by the 2003 FSAP (Financial Sector Assessment Program)
assessment. In addition, based on the FSAP recommendations and the practical experience gained during
the first years of enforcement, the Macedonian authorities proposed and incorporated amendments into the
law to further strengthen the legal foundation for regulation and supervision of banks.

New Deposit Insurance Scheme. Parliament adopted a new deposit insurance law in July 2000, that
replaced the previous bank-owned and operated deposit insurance system. The DIF (Deposit Insurance
Fund) insures deposits of natural persons, including foreign currency denominated deposits held in
commercial banks and savings houses. It covers 100 percent of deposits up to EUR 10,000 equivalent and
90 percent of the next EUR 10,000 equivalent, per depositor per institution. According to international
practice, the combination of these provisions is considered very generous. The fund is being built up
through an initial capital contribution of the Government, premium contributions from member banks, and
investment returns. A flat premium of one percent is charged on all household deposits. As of March 2004,
the reserve fund of the DIF amounted to 3.20 percent of the deposit base. The reserve fund aims to reach 4
percent of the deposit base. The DIF is allowed to borrow from the government and foreign sources, as well
as receive payments from member banks up to a pre-specified limit.

The DIF is considered to be transparent in its policies related to insurance coverage and operations.
According to the FSAP 2003 assessment, many of the principles in the Transparency Code for Financial
Policies are fully observed.

Further upgrading of NBRM (National Bank of Republic of Macedonia) prudential regulations and
strengthening of enforcement. Based on the findings of the joint IMF/ Bank Basle Core Principles of Bank
Supervision Review of October 1999, the NBRM developed an action plan for implementation of necessary
amendments to both the existing Banking Law (to the extent prudential rules are embedded in the law itself)
and the existing NBRM prudential regulations for banks to bring all the regulations in line with
international best practices. The process continued with the issuance of upgraded versions of the remaining
prudential regulations for asset classification and provisioning, large/connected/insider lending, foreign
exchange exposure, interest rate risk management, and capital adequacy. Much emphasis has been put on
further improving in the practice of on-site inspections and off-site monitoring and the system and practice


                                                     - 4 -

of loan loss provisioning by the banks.

The NBRM recognizes that even a regulatory regime based on international best practices will not change
the behavior of the banks without proactive enforcement. While much progress has been made in modifying
the legislation, the practice of prudential implementation still needs to be thoroughly established. Gradually
the system of laws, decisions and instruction for the banks, as well as internal manuals for the Banking
Supervision Department will become a coherent, stabilized system, and establish the required legal and
procedural framework for banking supervision.

Within this context, the NBRM started to prepare a banking system-wide Compliance Report, analyzing
the extent of noncompliance by the banks in the system with its existing prudential regulations. Also taking
into account the findings of the previously completed diagnostic studies of the four large banks, the NBRM
has developed a time-bound enforcement action plan for all noncompliant banks. The NBRM started to
monitor progress made by individual banks in this respect against established benchmarks on a quarterly
basis, and regularly prepares updated banking system wide Compliance Reports that are expected to
indicate a sizeable drop in noncompliance. The NBRM has provided its latest reports on prudential
compliance for all twenty-one commercial banks in the country, and the reports demonstrate an improving
pattern of prudential compliance and/or corrective action. The report features the respective banks'
compliance with nine key prudential requirements and NBRM's corrective measures in place at eleven
banks. It is expected that more experience will enable the NBRM to move toward a more risk-based
supervisory system, from one that is now largely compliance focused.

Problem Bank/Bank Failure Resolution. In order to address issues related to the problem banks in the
system, the Government and the NBRM have implemented a number of reform actions. The
recapitalization and sale of the Government's remaining ownership stake in the dominant Stopanska Banka
has been completed. The NBRM has closed several insolvent but systemically unimportant banks,
including Almako Bank, Export-Import Bank, and others. Furthermore, the NBRM has created and
operationalized an enhanced monitoring (problem bank) unit to handle, through Corrective Action (CA)
programs, problem banks that have been transferred to it by the Banking Supervision Department (BSD).

A detailed manual of rules and criteria has been developed to trigger the transfer of the banks into the
problem bank unit, including "prompt corrective action", as defined in the new banking law, as well as
receivership for the insolvent banks.

For the initial group of eight problem banks NBRM enforcement was aimed to bringing about corrective
action to either upgrade the banks back into the mainstream BSD, or apply more stringent enforcement
actions including the removal of managers.

During the lifetime of the project, the central bank has demonstrated its commitment to improving
prudential compliance through a more systematic approach to addressing institutions with recognized
weaknesses. Thus, as of end-2003, four banks (which together account for less than 7 percent of total
banking assets) have been subject to enhanced monitoring. Two of the banks are in fact high risk banks,
while the NBRM expects to move the other two to regular supervision after the next full scope on-site
supervision confirms progress in improved prudential compliance.

With the help of the Bank and donor funding from the Netherlands, in June 2000 one of the big five
accounting firms completed comprehensive diagnostic studies of four large banks. The banks concerned
were Komercijalna Banka, Makedonska Banka, Stopanska Banka Bitola, and Tutunska Banka. The
diagnostic studies have helped the NBRM to determine the actual financial condition and solvency of these


                                                     - 5 -

banks, as well as their compliance track record vis-à-vis its existing prudential regulations. Based on the
conclusions of the studies, the NBRM developed tailor made CA (Corrective Action) programs for all four
banks. As one of the four banks has been identified as a problem bank, the Letter Agreement for this bank
has been designed within the parameters for resolving banks in the enhanced monitoring unit. Corrective
action programs have been signed as parts of Protocols between NBRM and each of the banks. All
agreements set forth in the programs have been implemented by the original deadline of June 2002, as
confirmed through NBRM on-site examinations except for Makedonska Banka, which has had a
long-standing pattern of supervisory concerns. Makedonska Banka managed to reach satisfactory
compliance with the action plan by end-2003 through the bank's sale of 68 percent of existing shares,
which clarified the bank's ownership structure, strengthened its governance and improved overall
performance of the bank. Thus, the core aims of the Makedonska Banka's corrective action plan --
resolution of numerous governance and regulatory concerns -- have been met.


B. Financial System Infrastructure Development

Financial System Infrastructure Development. The Government's objective to create a properly regulated
and smoothly functioning banking system, as well as to lay the foundations for further development of the
capital market is conditioned on the presence of well-developed and modern financial system infrastructure.
Therefore, the Government, jointly with the NBRM, ZPP (Zavod za Platen Promet, Payment Operations
Bureau) and the MSE (Macedonian Stock Exchange), has developed and initiated implementation of a
financial system infrastructure development program with the following objectives: (i) reform of ZPP; (ii)
development of effective movable and immovable collateral registration systems; and (iii) creation of a
Central Securities Depository/Central Share Registry (CSD) and a Delivery versus Payment (DVP)-based
securities clearing and settlement system.

Reform of Payment Operations Bureau (ZPP). As of January 1, 2002 a new two-tier payment system
became fully operational, and all unblocked corporate accounts -- with the exception of accounts where
there are internal disputes within the companies -- have been transferred to private banks. Thus, ZPP
ceased to exist after that date. The major components of the new payment systems are the Macedonian
Interbank Payments System (MIPS) and the Clearing Interbank System (KIBS) the clearinghouse for
low-value payments. The MIPS is an RTGS system owned and operated by the NBRM that is used for all
large-value (more than 3 million denar) payments and for any urgent or priority payments. There are 27
participants in the MIPS including all banks, the clearinghouses, the MOF and the NBRM. In addition to
payments arising directly from financial market transactions, the MIPS has a connection to Macedonia's
Central Securities Registry (CSD) and provides the platform for securities settlement on a DVP basis.

The recent assessment of the payment system undertaken by the joint WB/IMF team against the Core
Principles for Systemically Important Payment Systems (CPSIPS) revealed that the system is in close
observance of most principles. Two areas identified for future attention are the need for clarification and
strengthening of the NBRM's oversight role and the need to establish a remote back-up facility.

Creation of effective pledge registration mechanism. With the help of Norwegian Government financed
consultants, a new modern, electronic, movable pledge register has been developed and fully
operationalized. Central register for imovable pledges is also being developed. These mechanisms, along
with the changes in the legislation --new, integrated law on contractual pledge-- provide institutional
framework for better protection of creditor's rights.




                                                     - 6 -

Creation of Central Securities Depository (CSD) and DVP-based Security Clearance and Settlement
System.    The Norwegian Government has also financed a feasibility study and assisted with the
establishment of a new CSD, linked into a DVP-based securities clearing and settlement system that is in
compliance with applicable G30 recommendations and is using dematerialized share ownership records. In
view of this development, Parliament has adopted amendments to the securities law that mandate the
transfer of share registers from companies to the new CSD and create the legal basis for the development of
the new DVP-based securities clearing and settlement system. All joint stock companies have transferred
their share registers into the new CSD.


C. Business Environment Reform

Private Enterprise Entry and the FDI Regime. To facilitate new enterprise formation, the Government has
taken several important steps towards its goal of streamlining registration for all business enterprises.
Parliament has adopted the necessary changes to legislation aimed at simplified company formation and
registration. This includes reduction and simplification of the attachments to the registration form for
establishing a company with limited liability. The amendments reduced requirements to only one
organizational document (i.e. charter) for incorporation and registration of businesses instead of various
articles of incorporation, charter, assembly of subscribers, company registration, and entrance
requirements. The amendments require a maximum of eight days for approval or rejection of applications
for entry into the company registry and eliminate investigations and subjective decision making by judges
as to the merit of the registered enterprise. Nevertheless, the Government realized that substantial reforms
in this area are still not fully completed, leaving additional actions to be undertaken in order to create an
integrated registration system that will be moved out of courts allowing for very easy and quick entry of
new businesses. Therefore, using the assistance of foreign consultants, it drafted a new company law,
approved by the Parliament in April 2004, incorporating a number of much needed corporate governance
improvements.

Creditors' and Shareholders' Rights. To strengthen the legal rights of creditors to take action against
defaulting debtors, in July 2000 Parliament adopted amendments to the Bankruptcy Law and the existing
Law on Pledges (security interests in movable property). These laws have: (i) simplified and accelerated
bankruptcy and collateral foreclosure proceedings; and (ii) closed loopholes currently open to debtors to
delay creditor actions. Additionally, a new mortgage law (for security interests in immovable property)
was also enacted by Parliament. As outlined above, the new movable pledge register operated and
maintained by the CRO is already operational, and a new immovable pledge register is being established.
To complete the reform agenda in this area, in January 2003 the Parliament adopted a new integrated law
for both movable and immovable collateral that replaced the two separate laws for movable and immovable
security interests. The new law provides workable and sufficiently clear rules for the creation and
termination of pledges and pledge priority over movable and immovable assets. Furthermore, it provides a
mechanism whereby notaries are able to initiate debt recovery cases without referral to the courts. The
experience to date indicates that procedures are sound and that debt recoveries can be initiated relatively
quickly and inexpensively. However, in cases where debtors prefer to delay the foreclosures, they could still
go to the courts and drag the process out by abusing the opportunities for appeals.

Supporting an effective Auditing and Accounting Profession. To support the above mentioned legal
changes and strengthen creditor and shareholder rights, the Government also committed itself to carry-out
reforms aimed at improving the quality of debtor and issuer financial statements and information, including
establishment of a Self Regulatory Organisation (SRO) for chartered accountants and auditors, that would



                                                     - 7 -

have the responibility for: (i) determining minimum professional education standards; (ii) organizing and
administering professional training; (iii) determining minimum ethical standards; (iv) disciplinary
proceedings including revocation of SRO membership. As part of the Bank's assessment of the accounting
and auditing module within the Reports on the Observance of Standards and Codes (ROSC) in Macedonia,
progress in this reform area has been reviewed. Although the Government had in principle met the program
requirement, it has been faced with implementation problems which could have undermined the functioning
of the SRO in the long run. To remedy the future implementation problems, the Ministry of Finance (MoF)
has prepared a new draft audit law. Moreover, the Bank provided technical assistance in reviewing and
modifying the draft law to incorporate the findings of the ROSC and comply with the European Union
Eighth Directive and subsequent European Commission recommendations. It is expected that after the law
is adopted, additional technical assistance will be required to implement the new legislation, upgrade the
accounting and auditing profession, and enhance the reliability of financial reporting.


D. Enterprise Sector Reform

Large Loss Making Enterprise Resolution. To substantially reduce losses, the Government committed
itself to resolve, through either sale/financial restructuring or closure, 30 out of approximately 40 large loss
making enterprises that were partially or fully socially or state-owned, or for which the Government was a
large creditor on account of overdue claims.

In order to guarantee transparency in the decision process to sell, financially restructure, or close individual
large loss making enterprises, all related Government decisions have been taken based on additional binding
guidelines, formalized through two Government decrees that were issued in August 2000. (These were the
`Action Plan for Resolution of Loss Makers' and `Method of Sale of State/Social Shares').

The Government has formally resolved all 24 enterprises that were identified in the Minutes of
Negotiations, as well as eight additional enterprises of its own choice. The 1999 total losses of these 32
enterprises were equivalent to 2.04 percent of 1999 GDP.

The Government has gone beyond the formal conditions required by the Loan/Credit, which requires only
that the creditors of bankrupt state-owned enterprises take the decision to liquidate the assets and to
terminate the employees. Using funding from the Dutch Government to engage international sales
consultants, it has embarked on an extensive program to sell the assets of the FESAL II designated
enterprises through a transparent process. In total, four enterprises have been sold, 26 have been liquidated
through bankruptcy, and two have been resolved through foreclosure actions by secured creditors. Of the
bankrupt enterprises, the sales consultants have successfully sold 16, and are in the process of selling an
additional five enterprises. The sale of the assets of liquidated enterprises produced revenue for the state
budget in the amount of EUR 10.5 million. Total revenues from the FESAL loss making enterprises by
December 2003, including the privatization proceeds, reached EUR 14 m. Within the process of resolving
the loss-making enterprises 15,000 workers have been laid off, nevertheless, after the successful sale of
assets of the liquidated enterprises, 5,200 workers have been re-hired by the new owners. Additional 2,200
workers are expected to be re-hired when the ongoing sale of assets will be completed.

To mitigate the negative impact on the labor force of the large loss making enterprise resolution efforts
under the FESAL II reform agenda, the Bank approved Social Support Project in the summer of 1999. This
program financed severance pay for 4,483 redundant workers of five FESAL enterprises in the amount of
US$ 4.7 million. It also financed 593 active labour projects including labor redeployment, and retraining
services.


                                                       - 8 -

After official closing of the FESAL II, the Government continued its efforts in the same direction and
resolved the remaining 11 loss-making enterprises of the original list, using the same decision making
methodology for either sale or closure of the loss-makers, as well as the same procedures for transparent
sale of assets of the bankrupt enterprises.

Rationalization of government support policy for the enterprise sector. Additionally, the Government has
adopted a declining cap on public support for enterprises.         The declining fiscal cap (or ceiling on
expenditures) has been established as a top-down policy approach intended to rationalize and make
transparent government support for the enterprise sector. The objectives of this instrument were to limit and
rationalize the provision of support to politically or socially sensitive enterprises. The cap encompassed a
broad spectrum of parameters representing direct and indirect forms of Government support, including
energy subsidies, forgiveness of overdue energy, tax and social security arrears, and forgiveness of overdue
government guaranteed corporate debt, tax holidays and pay-outs on contingent liabilities assumed by the
government as part of enterprise sales. A review of the accounting for spending of the fiscal cap allowance
in the period ending June 2003 indicates that the Government has met the targets for the reduction in the
fiscal cap (FESAL II targeted a reduction of 50 percent of 1999 levels of defined direct and indirect
subsidies, expressed as a percentage of GDP.) Starting from a base of 1999, the reduction in spending was
67 percent by end-June of the discretionary component of the agreed fiscal cap expenditure categories.

The main factors in the successful performance of the fiscal cap include: (i) the decision to liquidate, rather
than sell, most of the FESAL II enterprises; (ii) the abolition of the discretionary right of the Minister of
Economy to selectively grant exemptions from the customs duties and excise tax obligations; and (iii) a
renewed focus on the collection of various tax, pension and health arrears, coupled with improved
collection of electricity arrears; and (iv) the Government's new diligence in pursuing recovery from
defaulters on Government-guaranteed loans and not allowing this deficit to increase.

The experience to date indicates that fiscal cap proved to be a very efficient instrument not only in
monitoring, but also in substantially reducing the support for the enterprise sector. As a result, the
Government continues to use this mechanism after the closing date of the FESAL II.

Resolution of the Assets of BRA. The Parliament also adopted amendments in order to speed up asset
recovery and to ensure the BRA acts as a positive and supportive force for meaningful loss making
enterprise resolution. Specifically, the Parliament: (i) renamed the BRA as the Asset Management Agency
(AMA) to indicate clearly that the BRA is in fact an asset management agency and has no role in problem
bank or bank failure resolution; and (ii) created a three-year sunset provision for AMA implying that the
AMA should either have resolved its total existing asset portfolio by end-March 2004. After that time
AMA will cease to exist and its employees, assets, and outstanding portfolio will be transferred to the MoF.


Additionally, the Government has adopted a time bound plan to substantially reduce the BRA portfolio.
According to this plan the BRA portfolio has been segregated to three parts consisting of: (i) amounts due
from Government agencies and state-owned utilities, such as the Public Highways Fund and ESM, which
will be transferred to the MOF; (ii) amounts due from the large loss making enterprises whose resolution is
sought under the proposed FESAL II; and (iii) the residual portfolio, for which the BRA will continue to
pursue collection using existing collection and sales techniques (e.g. sales of claims at discounts of 65-85
percent to originating debtors failure resolution).      The amounts due from government agencies and
state-owned enterprises have been transferred to the Ministry of Finance. The AMA has achieved a
reduction in the value and number of borrowers of its portfolio as required in the project documents, which


                                                      - 9 -

was verified and confirmed by an independent auditor. As of March 31, 2004, AMA ceased to exist.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The Project's institutional impact is assessed as high. The project assisted in capacity building in all
institutions involved in the preparation and implementation of the program, thus creating a modern
regulatory and institutional framework for sustainable economic growth. One of the main counterparts in
creating the legal and regulatory framework for the banking sector, the NBRM, has embarked on all the
suggested reforms, particularly with respect to the supervision functions with energy and enthusiasm. At
the end of the FESAL II program, NBRM came out stronger, more capable and more independent. The
continuous improvement of this institution has not ended with the FESAL II, as it is an ongoing process.

Under the auspices of the FESAL II program, the deposit insurance fund also has been restructured and
further developed. Many other institutions have been created building up the infrastructure of the financial
system, such as a modern, two tier payment system, electronic central pledge registry, electronic central
securities depository and registry, allowing the Macedonian Stock Exchange to completely dematerialize.
Moreover, in addition to the new or strengthened institutions, a new legal and regulatory framework for
sustainable economic growth has been put in place. This includes new banking and supervisory legislation,
a new company law, a new integrated collateral and mortgage law, an amended securities law, and an
amended bankruptcy framework.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The project was designed and implemented in an environment of political turmoil and economic disruption
caused by Kosovo crisis. Furthermore, the implementation has been adversely affected by the internal
military conflict in 2001. Both Kosovo crisis and internal conflict have had a destabilizing effect on the
political and economic situation in the country, further aggravating social problems, and making the pursuit
of an ambitious reform agenda extremely difficult, if not impossible.

The 2001 military conflict brought to an abrupt end the positive economic developments that began in the
mid-1990s. Output contracted by 4.5 percent and the fiscal deficit and balance of payments severely
deteriorated. The extended effects of the 2001 crisis as well as unsound economic policies and deterioration
in the business climate leading to the 2002 Parliamentary elections resulted in a modest 0.7 percent growth
in GDP and widening deficits which, if continued, might have threatened macroeconomic stability.

After the disturbances subsided, the Government renewed its efforts to achieve the program objectives, and
at its request, the closing date was extended to end-2003. The new Government, which took office in
November 2002, has reconfirmed its commitment to the program and has pushed ahead with the remaining
agenda.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:



                                                     - 10 -

During the preparation and the initial phase of implementation of the program, government commitment to
the reforms was very strong. Being engaged in the second wave of reforms in the private and financial
sectors, Macedonian authorities expected to achieve substantial improvements in both sectors and boost
investment and growth. During the military conflict and security crisis however, the commitment to the
reforms weakened. This was coupled with an extremely high level of corruption leading up to the 2002
Parliamentary elections, and caused huge damage to the overall political, macroeconomic and economic
situation. It also resulted in the break off of the program with the IMF.

Nonetheless, 2002 Parliamentary elections brought a change in government and a strong shift in
government policies. The main goals of the new government, in addition to securing political stability,
were to restart growth, reduce unemployment, and overcome corruption. In early 2003, policy discussions
were held within the IMF's Article IV framework, focusing on creating a sustainable fiscal and external
position and generating conditions for growth. Drawing on the discussions, the Government agreed upon an
IMF Stand-by Arrangement covering the period from April 2003 to June 2004. One year after taking the
office, the Government has demonstrated success in stabilizing the economic flows. In the first part of
2003, output increased by 2.6 percent driven by strong performance in a few manufacturing sectors
(primarily in metal industries) and a solid performance in services, which has further spread to a broader
base including food processing, construction, and textiles. Thus, output increased by 7 percent compared to
its level a year earlier, and GDP growth for the year was 3.1 percent.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The Government was responsible for monitoring overall commitment to the reform program. They did so
throughout the implementation process. NBRM had the primary responsibility for the reforms related to the
financial sector development, while main counterparts for the enterprise sector reforms were the Ministry of
Economy and Ministry of Finance. At one point, the Government created a special "Body for Structural
Reforms" that included half of the cabinet ministers. Its goal was to keep the momentum going for the
reforms and alleviate the negative consequences of the resolution of the largest loss-making enterprises by
having a broad consensus on the politically sensitive and socially costly reforms.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The credit was for SDR 15,200,000 and the Loan was for US$ 30,310,000. There were no changes in
financing during project implementation, and disbursements were handled as soon as the tranche release
conditions were met. In addition to these amounts, the Government of Netherlands supported the FESAL II
reforms with two trust funds co-financing in the amounts of US$ 15 million and EUR 17 million. The
funds were provided as direct budget support financing.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The reforms supported by the FESAL II program have been far reaching and very comprehensive. Changes
brought about with the successful completion of the reforms have had significant impact on the overall
financial and enterprise sectors. The legal framework for the financial sector not only provides the sound
foundation for viable and healthy financial system, but it is also expected to contribute to a large extent to
private sector development. The renewed regulatory framework and strengthened supervision enforcement
provides the most important building block for creating the appropriate financial infrastructure. Moreover,
the new payment system -- established and operationalized in a record period of time -- and other elements
of a modern financial infrastructure including the restructured deposit insurance fund, central pledge
registry, central securities depository, and central registry of legal entities, provide an effective system that
will allow the government to build upon in the future. In the same context, policy measures aimed at
facilitating enterprise entry and exit, strengthening creditors and shareholders rights, and restructuring the


                                                       - 11 -

enterprises sector to reduce the large loss makers will allow the Government to build upon these
achievements and take further actions to bring long awaited increased investments, employment, and
growth.

In summary, the reforms supported by the FESAL II program have had a significant overall impact on the
private and financial sectors and are highly likely (HL) to be sustainable.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The reforms outlined in the FESAL II program have already been completed. Nevertheless, to build upon
these achievements, the Government is considering development of next generation reforms aimed at further
improving the business enabling environment, enhancing competitiveness of Macedonian enterprises,
enabling healthy competition, and improving access to accurate financial information. In order for these
reforms to achieve substantial impact, comprehensive and in-depth reforms of the judiciary will be crucial.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The FESAL II program was fully consistent with and a core component of the Bank Country Assistance
Strategy. The reform agenda supported by this program has been the central element of the Government's
enterprise and financial sector development program. Key areas of policy development including
strengthening the legal framework, institutional capacity building, and modernizing infrastructure have
been properly identified. The Bank staff involved in the project preparation incorporated the lessons learned
from the previous adjustment operations in the same sectors, and appropriately assessed the potential risks.
During a very difficult period for Macedonian authorities, project objectives were consistent with the
Government's overall economic policies. Government ownership and commitment was critical for the
success of the reforms, and the authorities used the preparation of the FESAL II program to focus on its
own sectoral reform agenda.

7.2 Supervision:
FESAL II was designed as a three tranche operation, with a very detailed, specific and measurable
conditions required to be met prior to each tranche release. Multiple Bank missions have conducted regular
reviews of progress in achieving benchmarks defined as triggers for second and third tranche release.
Nevertheless, a continuous and open dialogue conducted with the authorities on almost daily basis has been
a critical factor of success in meeting the objectives of each of the components set forth in the program.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
In view of highly satisfactory rating of the quality at entry, lending, and supervision, the Bank's overall
performance is rated as satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance in the project preparation was satisfactory. The Government discussed priorities in
the context of CAS leading up to the FESAL II program, and the core of the Government's reform agenda
in the enterprise and financial sectors became key components of FESAL II program. The main
counterparts from the MoF, NBRM, MoE, BRA, and the PA were closely involved in the discussions and
identification of the components of the reform program.

7.5 Government implementation performance:




                                                     - 12 -

In spite of the difficult environment particularly in 2001 when it became practically impossible to pursue
the ambitious reforms in the enterprise and financial sectors, the Government remained committed to
implementing all components and accomplishing project objectives. With the change in the Government
following the 2002 general elections, the commitment to the FESAL II program objectives was reaffirmed.
In general, government performance justifies a rating of satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
All agencies and institutions involved in the FESAL II implementation including the NBRM, MoF, MoE,
BRA, PA and others had a critical role in successful implementation of the reforms supported by the
FESAL II. As mentioned earlier, the Government created a special "Structural Reforms Body" involving
various ministers to take active role in and provide support to the ongoing reform efforts.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
In view of the Borrower's satisfactory performance during preparation and implementation, the overall
Borrower performance merits a rating of satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Following are the major lessons to emerge from the project that are relevant to other adjustment operatons:

Importance of clear project design and quality at entry. The quality of the project at entry, including
project design, policy objectives, and specific performance targets to meet these objectives, has critical role
in the project outcomes in the medium to long run. In the case of a multi-tranche adjustment operation, well
determined, specific and measurable triggers for tranche release that leave little room for various
interpretations and misunderstandings are crucial to allow close monitoring and effective implementation of
the program. In addition, appropriate sequencing of reform measures within a defined timeframe is highly
relevant to the success of the program.

Significance of incorporating lessons from previous reform efforts. Drawing on the lessons from the past,
assessment of potential risks, and suggesting appropriate ways to address them is very important. In the
case of Macedonia, first wave of reforms in the financial and enterprise sectors did not fully create
expected results, and left the country in the midway of transition to the market economy. Therefore, the
residual issues had to be picked up and dealt with in the second wave of reforms (covered by the FESAL II
program). FESAL II took into account previous reform efforts and lessons from the FESAC
implementation. As a result, the FESAL II was better targeted and more clearly defined.

Government commitment is a key success factor. Obtaining real commitment and ownership for the
substance of the reforms is key to the success of the reform program. In the view of this, even in a hostile
environment of permanent political and security turmoil, coupled with record high levels of unemployment,
implementation of the ambitious and thorny reforms is possible, and is heavily dependent on effective
champions. Moreover, open and frank dialogue on the daily basis allows the counterparts to better
understand the reform objectives and the specific requirements of each of the components.

Appropriate TA can greatly enhance the reform process. Providing appropriate technical assistance in a
timely fashion, coupled with adequate level of economic and sector work is important for reaching the
objectives of the reforms. In the light of this, providing guidance and coordinating effectively with donors
active in the financial and enterprise sectors reinforced the significance of the reforms and made it easier
for the authorities to implement the specified policy measures. In the case of Macedonia, almost all donors



                                                     - 13 -

provided technical assistance in support of the financial and enterprise sector reforms, and the Government
of Netherlands provided additional direct budget support for the reforms.

Certain reforms require appropriate social mitigation measures. When dealing with enterprise
restructuring, associated with liquidations and shedding of labor, it is very important to provide appropriate
social support programs. Thus, alongside with the FESAL II reforms, Bank helped the Government to
design and implement the Social Support Project, aimed at facilitating the labor restructuring, providing
severance payment for redundant workers, carrying out active labor programs for 35,000 unemployed and
creating 14,000 new jobs.

Success of the reforms in financial and enterprise sectors is closely related to functioning of the judiciary
. Although all specific conditions set forth in the policy agenda have been successfully met, the outcome of
the FESAL II reforms has still not materialized to its full potential. During the lifetime of the project, the
urgent need for reforms in the judiciary became apparent, as the deficiencies and deep systemic problems in
the judicial sector undermined the success of the reforms in the financial and enterprise sectors. In addition,
after the completion of the FESAL II reforms, the need for further, third wave reforms aimed at improving
the overall investment climate, rule of law and governance, became obvious.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
On December 14, 2000 the Board of World Bank Executive Directors approved the FESAL II program for
the Republic of Macedonia in the amount of US$ 50.3 million. The objective of this program was to
support the Government efforts in the process of accelerating the private sector growth via the following: a)
strengthening the soundness of the banking system and improving the quality of bank intermediation; b)
improving the private sector business-friendly environment and c) resolving, through privatization/financial
restructuring or closure, the universe of large loss-making enterprises crowding out private sector growth.

During the three-year period of implementation of this reform program, the Government of the Republic of
Macedonia successfully implemented the objectives envisaged with the FESAL II program, thus creating
framework for faster private sector growth and job creation, supported by strengthened and more developed
financial system. With FESAL II reforms and performance, substantial progress was made in the
supervisory and legal framework for the financial system, particularly the banking sector.

In accordance with the commitments made by the Government of the Republic of Macedonia to the
World Bank and the International Monetary Fund regarding the conclusion and implementation of
the FESAL 2 Arrangement and the PRGF/EFF Arrangement, the National Bank of the Republic of
Macedonia was required to carry out certain activities and tasks, within deadlines set in advance.
These activities were primarily directed towards strengthening the NBRM supervisory function
through the following:

1.      Strengthening of the prudent legal framework and its revision in line with the Basle standards and
the European directives in the banking area.

2.      Improvement of the compliance of the banks' operations with the regulations;

3.      Implementation of the Corrective Actions Program by signing Protocols with the four largest banks
(except for Stopanska Banka a.d. Skopje); and




                                                     - 14 -

4.       Undertaking corrective actions against the banks under enhanced monitoring for improvement of
their operations and their transfer to the division that conduct regular supervision, as well as undertaking
more stringent measures in the case the bank is irresponsive and shows no improvement in its operations.

                                                                             *
                                                    *       *

1.       The basic regulation framework which defines the scope of the banking operations and the banking
supervision in the Republic of Macedonia was established by the adoption of the Banking Law in July
2000. The Law was adopted following long and intensive preparatory activities, in consultation with the
World Bank and includes solutions directed towards closer approximation to the European legislation and
the European directives in the banking area, as well as larger compliance with the so-called Core Basle
Principles for Effective Banking Supervision. The Banking Law creates solid ground for improving the
situation in the banking and the overall financial system of the Republic of Macedonia and increasing the
confidence of the citizens in the domestic savings.

Also, one should take into account that the Banking Law was revised several times in order to be further
improved. The amendments to this Law arose from the need for further compliance with the Core Basle
Principles for Effective Banking Supervision and the European directives in the banking area, acceptance
of the recommendations of the FSAP Mission, as well as from the practical experience in the application of
the Law. Thus the Law was amended in 2002 and 2003.

Furthermore, at the beginning of 2002, a new Law on the National Bank of the Republic of Macedonia was
adopted. Its adoption created a ground for setting the functions and the organization of the central bank, in
line with the legal solutions of the European Union member states. One of the most relevant innovations in
this Law is the strengthening of the supervisory role of the National Bank of the Republic of Macedonia,
through the expansion of the variety of corrective measures which may be undertaken against the banks or
the savings houses in the Republic of Macedonia. Taking into consideration the recommendations of the
FSAP Mission, amendments to this Law were made in 2003. The most significant amendment, regarding
the implementation of the supervisory function of the National Bank of the Republic of Macedonia, is the
creation of a legal ground for cooperation of the National Bank with other domestic supervisory bodies.
The existing Law on the National Bank of the Republic of Macedonia allowed cooperation of the National
Bank with the supervisory bodies of other counties for supervision of the internationally active banks, but
not with the domestic supervisory bodies.


In the 2000 ­ 2003 period, intensive activities for revision of the supervisory by-laws were performed on
the basis of the Banking Law and the Law on the National Bank of the Republic of Macedonia, aimed at
their compliance with the provisions included in these laws and acceptance of the Basle supervisory
standards. Thus a set of new supervisory standards was finalized in this period, which replaced the existing
decisions adopted in 1995 and 1996. The new supervisory decisions incorporate the modern Basle
principles and practices for prudent operations of the banks and regulate the basic supervisory standards,
such as the calculation of the banks' capital adequacy, credit risk assessment by establishing a
methodology for classification of the banks' assets risk, identification, measurement and monitoring of the
country risk; identification, measurement and monitoring of the credit concentration limits, etc.

A list of all by-laws adopted or revised in the 2000 ­ 2003 period, follows:

1)       Decision on the methodology for determining the banks' guarantee capital ("Official Gazette of the



                                                      - 15 -

Republic of Macedonia" no77/2000);

2)      Decision on the manner of conducting supervision of banks and the procedure for undertaking
measures for eliminating the identified irregularities ("Official Gazette of the Republic of Macedonia"
111/2000)

3)      Decision on defining and the method of identifying affiliated entities in accordance with the
Banking Law ("Official Gazette of the Republic of Macedonia" no. 28/2001);

4)      Decision on the methodology for determining the banks' net debtors ("Official Gazette of the
Republic of Macedonia" no. 28/2001);

5)      Decision on the methodology for determining the banks' risk weighted assets ("Official Gazette of
the Republic of Macedonia" no. 50/2001);

6)      Decision on the amount and the manner of establishing a special reserve for loan loss provisions of
the banks ("Official Gazette of the Republic of Macedonia" no. 50/2001);

7)      Decision on determining and calculating open foreign exchange positions of the banks ("Official
Gazette of the Republic of Macedonia" no. 103/2001 ­ revised text);

8)      Decision on determining the methodology for classification of on-balance sheet and off-balance
sheet asset items of the banks according to their risk degree ("Official Gazette of the Republic of
Macedonia" no. 21/2002 ­ revised text);

9)      Decision on determining the volume and the manner of operating the savings houses ("Official
Gazette of the Republic of Macedonia" no. 111/2000 and 80/2002);

10)     Decision on the necessary documentation for issuing licenses according to the provisions of the
Banking Law, the Law on Securities and the Law on Banks for Microfinancing ("Official Gazette of the
Republic of Macedonia" no. 81/2002 - revised text);

11)     Decision on the necessary documentation for issuing approvals, the documentation enclosed for
each payment of capital and each change in the ownership structure of the bank's shares and criteria for
assessing the source of funds ("Official Gazette of the Republic of Macedonia" no. 81/2002 - revised text);

12)     Decision on the supervisory standards for regulating the past due claims of the banks and the
savings houses ("Official Gazette of the Republic of Macedonia" no. 19/2003);

13)     Decision on the methodology for determining the banks' capital ("Official Gazette of the Republic
of Macedonia" no. 66/2003);

14)     Decision on the terms and conditions and the manner of concluding foreign exchange credit
operations between residents ("Official Gazette of the Republic of Macedonia" no. 66/2003);

15)     Decision on defining the standards for ensuring the banks' IT system security ("Official Gazette of
the Republic of Macedonia" no. 77/2003);

16)     Decision on consolidated supervision of banks ("Official Gazette of the Republic of Macedonia"


                                                     - 16 -

no. 84/2003);

17)     Decision on determining, assessing and managing the banks' liquidity risk ("Official Gazette of the
Republic of Macedonia" no. 84/2003);

18)     Decision on the banks' credit exposure limits ("Official Gazette of the Republic of Macedonia" no.
1/2004 ­ revised text).

For the purposes of completing the legal framework, the National Bank of the Republic of Macedonia also
prepared manuals for uniformed implementation of the provisions contained in the laws and the by-laws.

The National Bank of the Republic of Macedonia continued its practice of preparing supervisory circulars
which represent an adequate mean for giving directions and instructions for more efficient implementation
of certain legal obligations and banking activities and monitoring of the international supervisory standards
and practices. Thus the following supervisory circulars were adopted during this period:

-       Supervisory Circular no. 3 - Purchase of Own Shares;
-       Supervisory Circular no. 4 - Systems of Corporate Operations with Banks;
-       Supervisory Circular no. 5 - Identification, Measurement, Monitoring and Control on the Country
Risk;
-       Supervisory Circular no. 6 - Liquidity Risk Management.

In this manner, the implementation of the Banking Law and the appropriate by-laws enabled strengthening
of the criteria for licensing, strengthening of the prudent standards and practices in the banks' operations,
strengthening of the corporate management in the banks, increased efficiency in the banking operations and
strengthening of the banking supervision, especially in the area of corrective activities undertaken against
banks with stated problems in their operations, which jeopardize their stability and safety.

2.      For the needs of FESAL 2 Arrangement, as of June 30, 2000 the preparation of the Compliance
Report of the Banks' Operations with the Legal Framework started for the first time. Since then, during the
Arrangement, this Compliance Report was regularly prepared on a quarterly basis and it was submitted to
the World Bank. This Compliance report enabled monitoring of the improvement or worsening of the
banks' operations, i.e. condition for fulfilling the third tranche was to have improved operations of the
banks from the aspect of the compliance with the legal framework. That is why a comparative analysis of
the compliance of the operations of the banks with the legal framework as of June 30, 2000 and June 30,
2003 was made, in order to evaluate whether there is any improvement, i.e. whether the term for receiving
the third tranche of the FESAL 2 Arrangement is fulfilled.

The harmonization of the banks' operations with the legal framework was monitored through 10 limits and
indicators such as: Minimum capital requirement (EUR 3.5 million / EUR 9 million), Capital adequacy
(8%), Open foreign exchange position (20%, 30% - EUR, 50%), Large credit exposure to one debtor
(25%, 10%, 3%), Aggregated large credit exposures / guarantee capital (800%), Aggregated exposure to
insiders / guarantee capital (100%), Fixed assets+capital investments / guarantee capital (60%), Capital
investments in legal entities / guarantee capital 930%) and Non-allocated loan loss provision.

Generally, it can be concluded that there is an improvement in the banks' operations from the aspect of the
compliance with the legal framework. The largest improvement was registered in the compliance with the
limits pertaining to the Open foreign exchange position, as well as relative to the reduced exposure to the
shareholders in the banks the participation of which in the shareholders structure exceeds 5%. Relative to


                                                       - 17 -

other indicators and limits, the banks are almost completely harmonized, except one or two banks. The
largest indicator for the improved operations of the banks is also the fact of reduced number of banks under
enhanced surveillance, i.e. only two banks face with more serious problems in their operations.

3.        According to the responsibilities undertaken to the World Bank for realization of the FESAL 2
Arrangement, on April 26, 2001, the National Bank of the Republic of Macedonia concluded Protocols for
the Implementation of the Recommendations given by the audit house Arthur Andersen pursuant to the
diagnostic studies and agreed procedures, with Komercijalna Banka a.d. Skopje, Tutunska Banka a.d.
Skopje and Stopanska Banka a.d. Bitola. The Protocol with Makedonska Banka a.d. Skopje was concluded
later, in order to resolve the non-transparent shareholders structure and weaknesses identified in the
corporate management structure, taking into consideration the changes in the legal framework pertaining to
the ban on the political parties to possess capital parts and shares with business legal entities.

After the conclusion of the Protocols, the National Bank of the Republic of Macedonia monitored the
implementation of the recommendations in accordance with the stated dynamics, through its instruments of
the off-site and on-site supervision.

As of June 30, 2002, Komercijalna Banka a.d. Skopje, Tutunska Banka a.d. Skopje and Stopanska Banka
a.d. Bitola implemented all the recommendations compliant to the stated dynamics in the Protocol signed
with the National Bank of the Republic of Macedonia, while Makedonska Banka a.d. Skopje attained its
objective at the end of 2003, through sale of 68% of the shares, thus enabling clearance of the shareholders
structure, strengthening of management and handling process, having the performances of the Bank as a
whole also improved.

4.        On the basis of the recommendations of the missions responsible for monitoring the FESAL 2
Arrangement, a new organizational unit - Banks under Enhanced Surveillance Section within the
Supervision Department was established. In time, the operations in this Section was improving through
revision and upgrading of internal manual for the operation of the Section through setting a variety of
suitable criteria for transferring a bank from regular supervision to enhanced surveillance, and vice versa.
Meanwhile, the CAMEL rating system was upgraded with preparation of quantitative criteria for
estimation of the individual composite parts pertaining to the equity, the assets quality and the profitability.
Within this Section, the banks facing with larger problems in operations were subjected to a permanent
monitoring through the application of enhanced reporting regime and tighten corrective actions. Such a
treatment gave positive results.

 Namely, since the beginning of the analyzed period, this Section covered eight banks under enhanced
surveillance, but in time their number reduced to four banks (without Export Import Banka a.d. Skopje).
Two out of these four banks are expected to be transferred to regular supervision very soon, due to the
improvement in their financial situation and performance indicators, which should be verified also through
execution of full-scope on-site controls (in accordance with the plan on on-site examination). Hence, it can
be stated that only two banks on the level of the banking system face with more serious problems in their
operations, although there are real chances for overcoming the bad financial situation, but on a longer-term
basis.

As an conclusion, it can be stated that the implementation of the recommendations given in the FESAL 2
Arrangement produced positive effects, i.e. the projected objectives for strengthening of the supervisory
function of the NBRM were met, as well as the stabilization of the banking system through improving the
banks' operations in accordance with the prudent legal framework and through timely application of
appropriate corrective activities.


                                                     - 18 -

After the adoption of the new Deposit Insurance Law (July 2000) by the Macedonian Parliament, new
deposit insurance scheme was created. The newly established Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF) insures
deposits of physical persons, including foreign currency denominated deposits held in commercials banks
and saving houses. It covers 100% of deposits up to EUR 10,000 equivalent and 90% up to EUR 20,000
equivalent per depositor and per institution. DIF has been established with initial Government contribution,
premium contribution from member banks and investment returns.

Financial system infrastructure development was one of the Government top priorities as a condition
for further development of the capital market. This reform covered:

-       Reform of Payment Operation Bureau (ZPP);
-       Creation of effective pledge registration mechanism;
-       Creation of Central Securities Depositary (CSD) and DVP-based Security Clearance system.

As of January 1, 2002, the new two-tier payment system became fully operational and all blocked
corporate accounts - except accounts subject to internal company disputes were transferred to the private
commercial banks. As a result of this reform, ZPP (former Payment Operations Bureau) ceased to exist as
of this date. The major components of the new payment system are the Macedonian Interbank Payment
System (MIPS) and the Clearing Interbank System (KIBS)- the Clearing House for low-value payments.
The MIPS is an RTGS System owned and fully operated by the NBRM, used for all large-value payments
(over Denar 3 million) and for any urgent or priority payments.

A new modern, electronic, movable pledge register has been developed and is fully operational and
Central Registry for immovable pledge is also being developed.

We have also created Central Securities Depositary (CSD) and DVP-based Security Clearance and
Settlement System. The Macedonian Parliament adopted amendments to the Securities Law mandating the
transfer of share registries from the companies to the new CSD/CSR and creating legal basis for
development of new DVP-based securities clearing and settlement system. As a result of this reform, all
Macedonian joint-stock companies transferred their share registries into the new CSD/CSR.

In order to create positive business environment, in the past period, the Government undertook several
reforms in the field of streamlining the registration for all business enterprises. The Parliament adopted the
necessary changes in the legislation aimed at simplifying company establishment and registration. In
addition to this, we would like to mention that in April 2004, new Company Law was enacted.

To strengthen the legal rights of creditors, in July 2000, the Parliament adopted amendments to the
Bankruptcy Law and the Law on Pledge. Additionally, a new Mortgage Law (for security interests on
immovable property) was also enacted by the Parliament. In order to complete the reform agenda, in
January 2003 new integrated law on both movable and immovable collateral, replacing the two separate
laws on movables and immovables was enacted.

In order to create effective auditing and accounting profession, we have prepared, with World Bank
assistance, new draft Audit Law in compliance with the EU Eighth Directive and EC recommendations.
We are expecting this Law to pass the Government and Parliamentary procedure in the coming
months.




                                                     - 19 -

One of the conditions for successful realization of the FESAL 2 arrangement was also achieving
harmonization with the declining cap of government support for the enterprise sector.

The review of the accounting for spending the allowed fiscal cap/limit for the period until June 2003
inclusive showed that the Government has fulfilled the targets for reduction of the fiscal cap, meaning 50%
target reduction in relation to 1999 levels of defined direct and indirect subsidies, expressed as a percentage
of GDP.

Starting from the base in 1999, reductions in spending the discretionary component of expenditure
categories of the agreed fiscal cap was 67% by the end of June 2003. This means that the Government of
the Republic of Macedonia has not only achieved the agreed target, but has also significantly exceeded it.

The main factors for fulfillment of this condition were the following: (i) the decision to liquidate, rather
than sell most of the enterprises under FESAL 2; (ii) abolishment of the discretion right of the Minister of
Economy to selectively grant customs and excise exemptions; (iii) renewed concentration on collection of
tax, pension and health insurance arrears, together with the improved collection of outstanding liabilities for
electricity; and (iv) Government wariness in monitoring the collection from those who failed to repay the
loans under sovereign guarantee and its decision not to allow for this deficit to increase.

With regard to the condition set during the negotiations for FESAL 2 arrangement, referring to the
commitment of the Government of the Republic of Macedonia to privatize, or if feasible, to financially
restructure or close the loss-making enterprises covered with FESAL 2 program, the 1999 losses of
which, coupled with the losses of Feni and the ones of the enterprises identified for the fiscal year 1999,
constitute at least 2% of the 1999 GDP of the Republic of Macedonia, we should point out that the
Government overcame the formal conditions required by and agreed with the World Bank, and accordingly,
it was required only by creditors of the state enterprises under bankruptcy to reach a decision on property
liquidation and employee lay-off. The Government formally resolved the 24 enterprises, the resolution
of which was specifically required in the Minutes of the Negotiations, as well as eight (8) additional
enterprises by its choice. The 1999 losses of these 22 enterprises equal to 2.04% of 1999 GDP.

The Government managed to provide funds in the amount of EUR 800,000, a donation from the Dutch
Government, thus covering the expenditures of the operations of an international consultant house which
was entrusted with the task of assisting the Government and the trustees in the privatization process and/or
sale of assets from the bankruptcy estate of the loss-making enterprises covered with the FESAL 2
program. The process of selling the property of these enterprises was carried out transparently, via an
international tender.

As of May 2004 the total inflow from the sale of the liquidated enterprises was EUR 10.5 million, and in
the following period, after the completion of the tenders currently underway, possible inflow in the amount
of EUR 16.5 million is expected According the final report prepared by the independent consultant house Lion's
Bridge engaged in the process of privatization/sale of assets of the loss-making enterprises from the FESAL 2 list.

In the context of the reforms envisaged with the FESAL 2 arrangement, we managed to resolve
significant part of the portfolio of the Asset Management Agency (AMA) and to transfer the
remaining in the Ministry of Finance, after March 31, 2004, when the AMA ceased operating.

However, the reforms do not end here. The Government of the Republic of Macedonia is committed to
change the present condition of low economic development, as well as to undertake measures and activities
in the fight against corruption and organized crime, as well as approximation to the Euro-Atlantic


                                                       - 20 -

integrations.

Thereby, in the future, the main focus of the Government of the Republic of Macedonia will be placed on
reviving the economic growth and unemployment and poverty reduction.

To that end, in 2003 we managed to stabilize the fiscal position and to reduce the deficit to a low,
sustainable level (central budget deficit of 1.6% of GDP in 2003, in relation to the level of 5.6% of GDP in
2002), which is rare example of successful fiscal adjustment, as well as maintenance of low inflation and
price stability. The Republic of Macedonia is the most successful among the countries in transition
according to the price stability. The consolidation of the fiscal position created conditions for more
moderate course of the monetary policy and for interest rates reduction.

Sound fiscal and monetary policy will continue to be an objective of the Government of the Republic of
Macedonia. We expect the macroeconomic stability and the structural reforms to enable more dynamic
economic growth and unemployment reduction. The Republic of Macedonia has successfully implemented
the agreed activities in accordance with the concluded Stand-By arrangement with the IMF in April 2003,
thus continuously sending signals to the broader international and donor community about the commitment
of the Government of the Republic of Macedonia to its reform course of conducting economic policy and
fulfilling the projected activities on the basis of stable macroeconomic program.

The reforms which would be further implemented in the Republic of Macedonia under the next arrangement
with the IMF should be directed towards strengthening the institutions and continuation of the already
initiated reforms. This could be done by implementing an ambitious structural program within an
arrangement with the Fund, the implementation of which would require great efforts. Whatever is decided
to be undertaken as a reform activity regarding the arrangement, will be part of the policies to which the
Government is strongly committed and intended to implement. Those activities are to the end of continuing
the reforms with accelerated dynamics, thus enabling more dynamic growth of the economy and job
creation.

Maintenance of economic and political stability and valuation of the effects from the painful reform moves
requires strong support in the area of economic growth and employment by the World Bank and the IMF.
The success of the reforms and the programs is not only to the end of maintaining low inflation rate, stable
Denar exchange rate and closure of the unprofitable economic entities, but rather attracting new
investments, creating jobs and improving the standard of living. This means designing adequate social
support for the most vulnerable groups of the population and the persons who lost their jobs in the reform
implementation process. Not only strong commitment, but also general consensus is required for successful
implementation of the reforms, and that requires social protection measures for those affected by the
short-term adverse effects from the reform implementation.
Given the scope of the Government medium-term institutional reform strategy, the reform strategy
objectives have been achieved with additional support and well-coordinated technical assistance programs.
We would also like to express our gratitude towards the Government of the Netherlands for the extensive
support received during the FESAL 2 arrangement for the two trust-fund co-financing in the amounts of
US$ 15 million and EUR 17 million released with the disbursement of the first and second tranche of the
FESAL 2 arrangement respectively. Those funds were provided as a direct budget support.

In brief, we are pleased to note that the reforms supported by the FESAL II program have had significant
overall impact on the private and financial sectors for their further development.

It is our pleasure to say that we appreciate the strong support and efforts the World Bank extends to the


                                                       - 21 -

         Government of the Republic of Macedonia. We are convinced the World Bank will continue to be a reliable
         partner on a long-term base and will support the forthcoming reforms in the private and financial sector.

         (b) Cofinanciers:


         (c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


         10. Additional Information


Tables 1-4 provide more detailed information on the banking system in Macedonia. In order to better demonstrate
the impact of the FESAL II on the financial sector, it is worth noting the gradual improvements of the viability and
stability of the system. These developments resulted in increased public confidence in the financial sector, translated
into growing deposit base, and declining trend of the very high interest rates. At the same time, there is a positive
trend of improving intermediation, through increased lending to enterprises and particularly households, although
the lending is still not growing at the same rate as assets increase.


         Table 1.      Aggregate balance sheet of the banking system (in million denars)
                                                         1998      1999        2000      2001        2002          2003

Assets

Cash and balance with the NBRM                             4,698      5,730       6,712    26,471        6,079       5,625
Securities rediscounted by the NBRM                          410      1,718       1,711     1,932        1,968       3,975
Debt securities                                            1,491      8,292      10,337     7,647          865         995
Placements to other banks, out of which                   15,760     22,364      27,285    29,576      33,803       37,301
   Accounts with foreign banks                            14,293     19,284      24,154   20,424       29,338       30,994
Placements to clients                                     26,141     25,426      27,725    30,642      32,070       37,111
Accrued interest and other assets                          5,894      4,271       2,779     2,554        4504        6,061
Securities investments, out of which                         765      1,400       1,093     1,248        7,734       7,355
   Securities in foreign currency held until maturity     -          -           -         -            6,290        5,889
Fixed assets                                               3,891      4,147       4,669     5,661        6,211       6,453
TOTAL ASSETS                                              59,051     72,250      81,998   105,633      93,213      104,875


Liabilities

Deposits of banks                                          2,669      3,061       4,954     2,379        2,924       2,195
Sight deposits, out of which                              19,421     27,722      32,686    45,879      36,347       42,947
Foreign exchange deposits of enterprises                   6,024     10,001       8,904     7,059       4,580        7,019
Foreign exchange deposits of natural persons               2,742      3,125       4,971   21,982       14,213       16,119
Short term deposits up to 1 year                           6,444      8,279      10,892    19,734      18,076       23,836
Short term borrowing up to 1 year and issued debt          4,680      4,973       2,347     4,717        2,917       1,872
securities
Other liabilities                                          1,689      2,698       2,544     2,975        2,296       3,083
Long term deposits over 1 year                             2,858      3,713       3,066     4,383        3,482       3,405
Long term borrowing over 1 year                            5,464      5,758       5,474     5,561        7,402       6,920
Provisions for off-balance sheet liabilities               1,019      1,110         934       847          490         542
Owned funds                                               14,808     14,936      19,102    19,158      19,279       20,075
TOTAL LIABILITIES                                         59,051     72,250      81,998   105,633      93,213      104,875
Source: NBRM data




                                                               - 22 -

         Table 2.      Data on the Macedonia banking system (in percent)
                                                              1998          1999     2000     2001        2002      2003
Depth of the banking system
  Total banking assets/GDP                                          30           35       35       45          39        41
  Lending/GDP                                                       13           12       12       13          13        15
  Deposits/GDP                                                      15           19       20       30          24        28
Concentration
  Assets of the three largest banks/banking system                58.9         61.9       64     63.3          64      66.9
  Equity capital of the three largest banks/banking               27.3         30.9     39.7     35.4        34.5      44.3
  Lending of the three largest banks/banking system               68.9         58.2     61.5     58.4        46.9      66.2
  Deposits in the three largest banks/banking system              69.8         72.8     77.3     73.6        64.8      75.5
Ownership as a ratio of assets
  State ownership (excl. ownership of a foreign state)            22.8         23.2     16.5     15.7        14.1        1.8
  Private ownership                                               77.2         76.8     83.5     84.3       85.91      51.3
  Majority foreign owned, out of which                                         11.5     53.4     51.1          44      46.9
  Owned by a foreign stat-owned bank                                                                         26.5      40.3
Capital adequacy ratio                                            25.9         28.8     36.7     34.3        28.1      25.8
Source: NBRM data



         Table 3.      Interest rate margins, returns on assets and returns on equity (in percent, unless otherwise
         indicated, 1998-2003)
                                                              1998          1999     2000     2001        2002      2003

Interest rate margins                                               8.5            9      7.7      9.5         8.8         8
          Average weighted nominal lending rates                     21         20.5     18.9     19.4        18.4       16
          Average weighted nominal deposit rates                   12.5         11.5     11.2      9.9         9.6         8
Return on assets (ROAA)                                               2          0.8      0.8     -0.7         0.4       0.5
Return on equity (ROEA)                                             8.2          3.5      3.8     -3.2         2.1       2.3
Cost-to-income ratio1/                                              0.7          0.8      0.8      1.1         0.9       0.9
Total number of employees                                                               3,918    4,332       4,676     4,595
Total net assets/total number of employees (in million
                                                                                         21.5     24.9        23.4      22.8
denars)
Source: NBRM data



         Table 4. Lending to households and corporate sector 1995-2003, in million Denars
    Year           Lending to households         Lending to corporate sector
         1995               1,838                         16,260
         1996               1,765                         22,626
         1997               2,513                         23,499
         1998               2,320                         28,894
         1999               2,638                         29,075
         2000               3,826                         33,640
         2001               4,001                         33,414
         2002               5,898                         33,461
         2003               9,405                         36,173
Source: NBRM data




                                                                       - 23 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                        1
           Indicator/Matrix         Projected in last PSR    Actual/Latest Estimate




Output Indicators:
                                                        1
           Indicator/Matrix         Projected in last PSR    Actual/Latest Estimate




1End of project




                                          - 24 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                     Component                            US$ million   US$ million




Total Baseline Cost                                          0.00             0.00
                        Total Project Costs                  0.00
                  Total Financing Required                   0.00             0.00


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                          0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                       0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
                                                - 25 -

      Total                                0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.




                                                          - 26 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable




                                      - 27 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)     Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                    Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               01/25/1999             11     SECTOR LEADER (1)
                                             PROGRAM TEAM LEADER
                                             (1); FIN SCT SPEC (1);
                                             PRINCIPAL PRIV SCT DVLP
                                             SPEC (1); PRIV SCT DVLP
                                             SPEC (1);
                                             MACROECONOMIST (1)
                                             CONSULTANT (5);
              06/21/1999                3    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER
                                             (1);
                                             SR. FIN SCT SPEC (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
              10/18/1999                5
                                             PROGRAM TEAM LEADER
                                             (1);
                                             PRINCIPAL FIN SCT SPEC (1);
                                             SR. FIN SCT SPEC (1); SR. PSD
                                             SPECIALIST (1),
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              06/08/2000,             12     PROGRAM TEAM
                                             LEADER (1); SR.
                                             COUNSEL (1) SR. FIN
                                             SCT SPEC (1); SR. PSD
                                             SPECIALIST (1), ADVISER
                                             (2) OPERATIONS
                                             OFFICER (1); FMS (1)
                                             MACROECONOMIST (1)
                                             CONSULTANT (3)
              08/28/2000              12     PROGRAM TEAM LEADER
                                             (1); SR. COUNSEL (1);
                                             COUNSEL (1) LEAD FIN SCT
                                             SPEC (1); SR. PSD
                                             SPECIALIST (1); SR. DISB.
                                             OFFICER (1); OPERATIONS
                                             ANALYST (1); FMS (1)
                                             CONSULTANT (3); TEAM
                                             ASSISTANT (1)

 Supervision

              01/26/2001                6    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER               S               S
                                             (1); LEAD FIN SCT SPEC (1);
                                             SNR PRIV SCT DVLP SPEC
                                             (1); CONSULTANT (2);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
              12/13/2002                6    SR. PVT.SCTR.DEV.SPEC. (1);       S               S
                                             PRIVATE SCTR.DEV.SPEC.
                                             (1); CONSULTANT (4)
                                              - 28 -

               06/27/2003              3   SR. PSD SPECIALIST (1); PSD        S    S
                                           SPECIALIST (1);
                                           CONSULTANT (1)
               11/06/2003              4   PRINCIPAL FIN. ADVISOR (1);        S    S
                                           SR. FSD SPECIALIST (1); SR.
                                           PSD SPECIALIST (1); PSD
                                           SPECIALIST (1)


 ICR
               04/2004                1     PSD SPECIALIST (1)                S    S



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation             NA                      492,185.25
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                            NA                      524,769.84
  ICR
  Total                                                        1,016,955.09




                                            - 29 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project ducuments: Loan Agreement, Credit Agreement, Presidents report, Aide Memoires, PSRs, Tranche
release documents
FSAP (IMF/World Bank Financial Sector Assessment Program Report, 2003 )
ROSC on Accounting and Auditing, 2003
NBRM Reports and Data




                                               - 32 -

- 33 -

