Report No. PID8057
Project Name                     Macedonia, former Yugoslav Republic of-(@)
Second Financial and Enterprise
Sector Adjustment Loan/Credit
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Financial and Enterprise Sectors
Project ID                       MKPE42400
Borrower(s)                      Ministry of Finance
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance
Dame Gruev, 14, 91000 Skopje
Tel:    389-91-117-288
Fax:    389-91-117-280
Environment Category             F
Date This PID Prepared           May 16, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         June 10, 2000
Projected Board Date             September 12, 2000
Country and Sector Background
1.      In 1994, the authorities of the Former Yugoslav
Republic (FYR) Macedonia launched a program of
stabilization and structural reform with support from
international financial institutions and donors. The
budget deficit was reduced from 13 percent of gross
domestic product (GDP) in 1993 to less than 1.5
percent in 1996 and 1997, consumer price inflation was
brought down from over 240 percent to less than 3
percent per year during the same period, and relations
with Paris and London Club creditors were normalized.
Along with the implementation of a macroeconomic
stabilization program, the authorities have shown a
strong commitment to structural transformation and
have implemented, since 1994, an extensive reform
agenda. By mid-1998, over 90 percent of industrial,
commercial, and mining enterprises (in terms of the
number of enterprises) had either been privatized or
were in the process of being privatized. Twenty-five
of the largest loss-making enterprises in the economy
were downsized and divided into more than 140 separate
business units. Initial reforms have been undertaken
to strengthen the financial system, and included a
first round of financial restructuring of Stopanska
Banka (the country's largest bank) and creation of the
Macedonian stock exchange. A basic legal and
supervisory framework for the financial sector was
also put in place. Furthermore, changes to the
legislative system for private sector development were
initiated to allow company formation, bankruptcy



proceedings, establishment of national property
registries, and prohibition of monopolies.
2.      Despite these initial reforms, the recovery of
output and employment has been slow to materialize.
Output declined in 1994-1995, leaving FYR Macedonia
the second poorest country in Eastern and Central
Europe. Unemployment remains exceptionally high at
over 35 percent, and is a key factor in rising
poverty. Due to the predominance of manager and
worker buyouts in privatization, the enterprise sector
today remains characterized by highly fragmented
ownership -- often more intent on protecting
employment than on improving enterprise performance --
as well as insufficient inflow of new management
skills and fresh capital. Opportunities for strategic
investment have been limited, with foreign direct
investment accounting for as little as 4.9 percent in
1998, and 1.07 percent in 1999 (preliminary data).
3.      Lack of financial discipline and adequate
corporate governance arrangements have resulted in
continuing enterprise losses, the build-up of inter-
enterprise arrears, and non-performing loans in the
banking system. Many enterprises, including several
large state and socially owned enterprises, are
unwilling or unable to pay their debts to banks and
suppliers, but are in a position to delay or frustrate
creditors' efforts to collect payments, seize
collateral or initiate bankruptcy. In the banking
system, the functioning of most banks is undermined by
poor governance and ownership structures, inadequate
management and controls, weak capital and liquidity,
deficiencies in the payments system, and inadequate
use and enforcement of accounting and auditing
standards. Of the total credit exposure of the
banking system, as of year-end 1999 nearly 40 percent
was rated substandard, doubtful, or loss. A lack of
competition has allowed a few large banks to impose a
high nominal lending interest rate spread to cover
non-performing loans, resulting in very high real
interest rates for the banks' clients (around 20
percent per annum for short term loans). Reform of
the legal system remains incomplete, and NBM
enforcement is still weak.
4.      The 1999 conflict in Kosovo posed a threat to the
country's hard-won macroeconomic stability. The
massive inflow of Kosovo refugees to FYR Macedonia
inflicted a heavy financial burden on the country and
undermined its short term prospects for external
financing and investment inflows, while increasing
demands on the budget. According to July 1999 data,
the gap in the balance of payment was US$430 million,
and the budget deficit increased by US$180 million. In
-2 -



the first five months of 1999, the export of FYR
Macedonian goods to the Federal Republic (FR) of
Yugoslavia declined by 64 percent compared with the
same period of 1998. The trade losses have hit
overall industrial production, with a 12.5 percent
fall in production in the first five months of 1999,
compared to the same period last year.
Despite the regional destabilization in the first half
of 1999, economic activity in FYR Macedonia recovered
in the second half, boosted by reconstruction efforts
of the international community in Kosovo. FYR
Macedonian GDP was expected to contract by nearly 4
percent, compared to an anticipated 5 percent growth
prior to the outbreak of the conflict. Contrary to
these expectations, preliminary figures for 1999
indicate GDP growth of around 2 percent. Private
investment has contracted, however, as the economic
uncertainty caused by the influx of refugees and the
regional instability eroded domestic and foreign
investors' confidence. As a consequence, workers'
incomes were likely to drop, as more were laid off as
wage arrears accumulated, and as more were put on
forced vacation -- since mid-March 1999, another 10
percent of employees had been sent on unpaid leave.
The share of the population living below the poverty
line is expected to have risen by 3-4 percent in 1999
simply as a result of the overall fall in incomes,
without considering the additional negative impact of
the likely worsening of income distribution.
Although official statistics are not yet available,
the impact on the balance of payments is expected to
be much less severe than originally thought. Diversion
of exports to alternate markets was thought to be
difficult due to many products being oriented to the
FR Yugoslav market and requiring specialized imported
inputs from FR Yugoslav suppliers. However, the
picture has changed dramatically in the second half of
1999. Exports, especially of services, rose sharply
due to demand driven by reconstruction efforts by the
international community in Kosovo, while imports
decreased. Preliminary figures indicate a current
account deficit in 1999 of only 44 percent of the 1998
level, or around 4 percent of GDP in 1999, with the
overall positive balance of current and capital
accounts combined more than doubling from 1998 to
1999.
Anticipated costs of refugees not expected to be
reimbursed by humanitarian aid were projected to
require an additional US$50 million in expenditures,
consisting mostly of security and police costs, non-
primary health care, and utility expenses such as
electricity, water, and waste. The general Government
- 3 -



budget deficit for 1999 was thought to swell towards 5
percent of GDP, even with generous humanitarian relief
efforts providing for much of the direct needs of
refugees. Breaking these pessimistic expectations,
the general government balance (accrual basis)
improved in 1999 and recorded a positive balance of
0.2 percent of GDP.
The Country's Adjustment Program
During the first half of 1999, the attention of the
authorities was mainly focused on dealing with the
impact of the Kosovo crisis.    However, with the
crisis now firmly behind them, and to ensure the
sustainability of the potentially short-lived post
Kosovo economic upturn, the authorities have
reaffirmed their intention to accelerate delayed
structural reforms, particularly in the critical
financial and enterprise sectors. Discussions with
the IMF on a new Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
have also been initiated, and are intended to result
in the signing of a new multi-year program in support
of continued macroeconomic stabilization and
structural reform efforts in multiple sectors. The
Government also has indicated its willingness to
engage in a dialogue with the Bank on possible reform
of its inefficient public sector management system,
and recently also has undertaken key social sector
reforms, including initial steps to allow the creation
of a mandatory private pension pillar. This pillar
seeks to reduce the underfunding of the public pay-as-
you-go pension system.
The Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for
FYR Macedonia (July 14, 1998), designed to support the
Government's National Development Strategy,
prioritizes resumption of growth, and reduction in
unemployment and poverty. Specifically, the CAS
outlines a program of promoting private sector growth
and job creation, which will focus on improving post-
privatization corporate governance, improving the
business enabling environment, strengthening judicial
and regulatory systems, attracting foreign investment
and increasing financial sector discipline and
competitiveness.
The Proposed Loan/Credit
The proposed Second Financial and Enterprise Sector
Adjustment Loan (FESAL II) would be a three tranche
adjustment operation of US$50 million (US$10 million
to be released following Board presentation, and US$20
million upon the fulfillment of specific second and
third tranche release conditions). The main objective
of the loan/credit is to support the Government's
- 4 -



financial and enterprise sector reform program, which
seeks to significantly accelerate private sector
growth through: (i) strengthening the health of the
banking system and improving the quality of bank
intermediation; (ii) improving the private sector
business enabling environment; and (iii) resolving the
universe of approximately 40 remaining large loss
making, still fully or partially state-owned
enterprises that crowd out private sector growth.
Specific reform efforts in the financial sector
include:
overhaul of the existing legal framework for banking
activity;
further upgrading of NBM prudential regulations for
banks and strengthening of NBM enforcement;
adoption and implementation of a problem bank/bank
failure resolution strategy; and
a multi-pronged action plan for financial system
infrastructure development;
In the enterprise sector, the Government's reform
actions focus on:
streamlining private enterprise entry and the FDI
regime;
strengthening creditor and shareholder rights; and
state enterprise privatization/exit.
Implementation Arrangements
The Minister of Finance has appointed a dedicated
Ministry of Finance official as FESAL II Program
Manager who will ensure overall project coordination
among several other agencies also involved in the
reform program: the National Bank of Macedonia (NBM),
the Macedonian Privatization Agency, the Ministries of
Finance, Economy, Justice and Development, the Bureau
of Payments Operations (ZPP) and the Macedonian Stock
Exchange. Adequate reporting will be provided by the
Program Manager on a bi-weekly basis until Board
presentation, and on a quarterly basis during the
project implementation period.
Rationale for IDA Involvement
Responding to the 1999 crisis in Kosovo, the Bank
Group implemented an emergency assistance program for
FYR Macedonia, which was triggered by the three
criteria defined in the CAS: massive inflow of Kosovo
refugees; large-scale military mobilization with
impacts on the budget and the foreign investment
climate; and impeded export channels through Federal
Yugoslavia. The emergency and post-emergency lending
- 5 -



program for the FYR of Macedonia has increased the
overall lending envelope to the country, and allowed
for an increased access to IDA resources. Therefore,
IDA funds totaling US$20 million would be used to
finance the proposed FESAL II.
Environmental Category
Financial Intermediary Category (FI)
Poverty Category
Not applicable. This operation is expected to have
positive implications for poverty reduction through
the impact of the financial and enterprise sector
reform measures on increased private sector growth and
employment creation. Nevertheless, in the short run,
privatization and closure of loss making enterprises
may result in labor redundancies. The Bank's Social
Support Project, approved by the Board in the summer
of 1999, is designed to mitigate the impact of such
redundancies, through the provision of financing for
severance payments and labor retraining and
redeployment programs.
Benefits and Risks
The main benefit of the reform actions sought under
the FESAL II would be faster private sector growth and
job creation, supported by a healthier and more
developed financial system. The program is expected to
lead to a decline in the current very high levels of
nominal and real interest rates and to a concomitant
increase in domestic savings and financial sector
intermediation, generating the much needed working
capital and investment finance needed by the private
sector to upgrade and expand their businesses. The
efficiency of private sector investment is also
expected to increase.
The main risk to the proposed FESAL II is a lack of
political commitment to privatize or close large loss
making enterprises, many of which are
politically/socially sensitive because of their
importance to employment. This risk is partially
mitigated by the Bank's Social Support Project. Weak
institutional capacity could also undermine
implementation of the reform program. This risk is
mitigated by several accompanying donor funded
technical assistance projects. Additional risks arise
from the remaining instability in the region.
Contact Points:
Mr. Nikola Gruevski
Minister of Finance
- 6 -



Ministry of Finance
Republic of Macedonia
Dame Gruev, 14
91000 Skopje
Macedonia
Telephone: 389-91-117-288
Fax:        389-91-117-280
Ms. Marie-Renee Bakker
FSD/PSD Program Team Leader,
the FYR of Macedonia
ECSPF
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-9285
Fax:        (202) 522-0005
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an involving project.
Certain components may not be necessarily included in
the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending May 12, 2000.
- 7 -



