Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P 7395 MK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
SECOND FINANCIAL AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT
LOAN IN THE AMOUNT OF US$30,310,000 EQUIVALENT
AND
CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 15,200,000 (US$20,000,000 EQUIVALENT)
TO
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
November 17,2000
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
Second Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan/Credit
Currency Equivalents
(Exchange Rate Effective November 4, 2000)
Currency Unit =Macedonian Denar (MKD)
I MKD =US$ 0.01437
1 US$ = MKD 69.59
Government Fiscal Year
January I - December 31
Weights and Measures
Metric System
Vice President: Johannes F. Linn
Country Director: Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Director: Paul Siegelbaum
Team Leader: Marie-Renee Bakker



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMC  -  Asset Management Company
BIS  -   Bank for Intemational Settlements
BRA   -   Bank Rehabilitation Agency
BSD   -   Banking Supervision Department (of the National Bank of Macedonia)
CA       Corrective Action (Program)
CAMEL         Capital/Asset quality/Management/Earnings/Liquidity
CAS  -  Country Assistance Strategy
CRO   -   Central Register Organization
CSD/CSR        Central Securities Depository/Central Share Registry
DEM   -   Deutsche Mark
DVP  -   Delivery-versus-Payment
EBO       Employee Buyout
EBRD   -  European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ECA   -  Europe and Central Asia
EFF       Extended Fund Facility
ES      Elektrostopanstvo (state-owned energy utility)
ESAF  -   Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
EU   -   European Union
FDI  -   Foreign Direct Investment
FESAC   -   Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit (First)
FESAL  -   Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan/Credit (Second)
FIAS  -   Foreign Investment Advisory Service
FR  -   Federal Republic (Yugoslavia)
FSD   -   Financial Sector Development
FSL       Fixed Spread Loan
FSVC   -   Financial Services Volunteer Corps
FYR  -   Former Yugoslav Republic (Macedonia)
GDP  -  Gross Domestic Product
IAS  -   International Accounting Standards
IBRD   -   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR  -   Implementation Completion Report
IDA   -   International Development Association
IFC  -   International Finance Corporation
IMF  -   International Monetary Fund
MBO        Management Buyout
MIGA   -   Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MKD   -   Macedonian Denar
MOF  -  Ministrv of Finance
MSE  -   Macedonian Stock Exchange
NBM   -  National Bank of Macedonia (Central Bank)
NBG   -  National Bank of Greece
OCC       Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
OTC       Over-the-Counter (market)
PRGF  -   Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PSD   -   Private Sector Development
RTGS  -   Real-Time Gross Settlement
SEC   -   Securities and Exchange Commission
SRO   -  Self Regulatory Organization
SRP  -   Special Restructuring Program
TA   -   Technical Assistance
TORs  -  Terms of Reference
ZPP  -   Bureau of Payment Operations
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



- iv -
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
Second Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan/Credit
LOAN/CREDIT SUMMARY
Borrower:                    Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
Amount:                      Bank  Loan  US$30,310,000;  IDA   Credit  SDR   15,200,000
(US$20,000,000 Equivalent)
Terms:                       For the Bank Loan, commitment-linked Fixed Spread Loan (FSL)
payable in 17 years, including eight years of grace at six months
LIBOR plus the fixed spread, denominated in US Dollars. For the
IDA Credit, standard IDA terms with 35 years maturity including a 10-
year grace period.
Commitment Fee:              For the Bank FSL, 0.85 percent of undisbursed balances for the first
four years, and 0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances thereafter,
beginning 60 days after Loan signing, less any waiver; for the IDA
Credit, standard.
Objectives and Description:  The main objective of the Loan/Credit is to support the Govemment's
financial and enterprise sector reform program, which seeks to
significantly  accelerate  private  sector  growth  through:  (i)
strengthening the health of the banking system and improving the
quality of bank intermediation; (ii) improving the private sector
business enabling environment; and (iii) resolving, through
privatization/financial restructuring or closure, the universe of large
loss making enterprises that crowd out private sector growth.
Benefits:                    The main benefit of the proposed Loan/Credit would be faster private
sector growth and job creation, supported by a healthier and more
developed financial system. Overall enterprise sector performance is
expected to improve significantly. This improvement may come partly
through sales of large firms to strategic investors with strong
management and investment capacity, and partly through improved
financial discipline and more productive use of assets as a result of
more proactive creditor action. Additionally, formation of new private
sector firms is expected to accelerate in response to an improved
business enabling environment and an increased supply of productive
assets expected to be released from loss making firms as part of
enterprise restructuring efforts. The program is expected to lead to a
decline in the current very high levels of nominal and real interest
rates and to a concomitant increase in domestic savings and financial
sector intermediation, generating the much needed working capital and
investment finance needed by the private sector to modernize and
expand their businesses.  The enhanced quality of non-lending
financial services that is likely to result from the entry into the banking
sector of more sophisticated foreign banks is also expected to benefit
the corporate sector through improved financial management and



- v -
easier access to modem financial restructuring techniques and merger
& acquisition expertise.
Risks:                       The main risk to the proposed FESAL I1 is an eventual weakening of
political commitment to resolve large loss making enterprises, many of
which are politically/socially sensitive because of their importance to
employment. This risk is partially mitigated by the Bank's Social
Support Project, which was approved by the Board in the summer of
1999. The Social Support Project will finance severance payments for
redundant workers laid off from loss making enterprises that are being
restructured, as well as labor redeployment and retraining schemes.
Weak institutional capacity could also undermine implementation of
the reform program. This risk is mitigated by several accompanying
donor funded technical assistance projects. Additional risk could arise
from renewed instability in the region, although this risk has been
reduced significantly as a result of recent political events in FR
Yugoslavia, and is also mitigated by the regional development efforts
under the various South Eastem Europe initiatives.
Schedule of Disbursements:   Three tranche disbursement, the first immediately  after loan
effectiveness; the second and the third - when the policy actions
specified in this document have been implemented.
Poverty Category:            Not applicable
Environmental Category:      Financial Intermediary (Fl)
Project ID Number:           MK-PE-42400
This operation was prepared by a Team comprising Marie-Renee Bakker (Program Team Leader/Lead
Financial Sector Specialist), Lalit Raina (Lead Financial Sector Specialist), Walter Zunic (Lead Financial
Sector Specialist), Vincent Polizatto (Chief Credit Officer), Robert Gourley (Senior Private Sector
Development Specialist), Cally Jordan (Senior Counsel), Michael Gascoyne (Financial Sector
Specialist/Financial Management Specialist), Jasminka Vamalieva-Bidzovska (Operations Analyst),
Slobodanka Matakova (Program Officer), Henry Schiffman (Legal Consultant), Marius Vismantas
(Consultant) and Natalia Zakharina (Consultant). Legal and Disbursement support were provided by
Alessandra Iorio (Senior Counsel) and Rohit Mehta (Senior Disbursement Officer). Steve Dimitriyev
(Privatization Adviser to the FYR Macedonian authorities) also provided key input into the operation's
design. Preparation activity was closely coordinated with the IMF, including through a joint IMF/World
Bank Basle Core Principles of Bank Supervision Review.



- vi -
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED SECOND FINANCIAL AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT
LOAN/CREDIT
TO THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I. INTRODUCTION ......................................................I
A. Macroeconomic Situation ......................................................              1
B. The Government's Reform Program ...............             .......................................3
C. The IMF's PRGF/EFF Program ......................................................4
D. The Bank's Strategy ......................................................4
H.            FYR MACEDONIA'S FINANCIAL AND ENTERPRISE
SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM                                            .6
A. The Financial Sector                                     .6
B. The Enterprise Sector                                    .9
C. The Government's Financial and Enterprise Sector Reform Program .13
III.          THE PROPOSED SECOND FINANCIAL AND ENTERPRISE
SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN/CREDIT .................................................               21
A. The Bank's Financial and Enterprise Sector Assistance Strategy .................. .............. 21
B. FESAL II Objectives, Board Conditions and Tranche Triggers ................................... 21
C. Project Implementation .................................................. 25
D   Financial Management and Reporting ...............          ................................... 26
E. Poverty Implications .................................................                    26
F. Environmental Impact .................................................                     27
IV.            BENEFITS AND RISKS ..................................................                         28
A. Benefits .................................................                                 28
B. Risks ................................................. 28
C. Lessons Learnt from Past Adjustment Operations .................................................     28
V.             RECOMMENDATION .................................................                              30
ANNEXES:
Annex 1       Key Economic Indicators
Annex 2       Status of Bank Group Operations and Status of IFC Operations
Annex 3       Timetable of Key Processing Events



- vII -
Annex 4         Letter of Development Policy
Annex 5         Policy Matrix
Annex 6   Country at a Glance
Annex 7         Technical Assistance Matrix
Annex 8    Environmental Data Sheet
Annex 9    The Bank Rehabilitation Agency
Annex 10    Enterprise Privatization in FYR Macedonia
BOXES:           Box 1             Sale of Stopanska Banka ....................................9
Box 2            The Universe of Large Loss-making Enterprises ....................................              11
Box 3            The Macedonian Stock Exchange ....................................                          12
Box 4            Simplification of Enterprise Registration Process ...................................  13
TABLES:
Table 1          Key Macroeconomic Indicators, 1992-1999 ....................................1
Table 2          Structure of the Banking System  ...................................7
Table 3          Enterprise Net Profits by Sector ................................... 10






REPORT AND RECOMMEDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED SECOND FINANCIAL AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT
LOAN/CREDIT TO THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
1.      I submit for your approval the following Report and Recommendation on a proposed Second
Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan/Credit (FESAL II) to FYR Macedonia for
US$50,310,000 equivalent to support the Government's financial and enterprise sector reforn program.
The total amount of financing consists of US$30,310,000 IBRD loan (including front end fee) and
US$20,000,000 equivalent IDA credit. The IBRD loan is a commitment-linked Fixed Spread Loan (FSL)
payable in 17 years, including eight years of grace, at six months LIBOR plus a fixed spread, denominated
in US Dollars. The credit has standard IDA credit terms, with 10-year grace period and 35-year maturity.
The total amount will be disbursed in three tranches:
*    US$10,006,900 equivalent following Board presentation (US$6,006,900 IBRD  and
US$4,000,000 equivalent IDA),
*    US$20,000,000 equivalent upon fulfillment of specific second tranche release conditions
(US$12,000,000 IBRD and US$8,000,000 equivalent IDA), and
v   the remaining US$20,000,000 equivalent upon fulfillment of specific third tranche release
conditions (US$12,000,000 IBRD and US$8,000,000 equivalent IDA).
1. INTRODUCTION
A. Macroeconomic Situation
2.      FYR Macedonia has encountered daunting challenges over the last decade.  Faced with a
precipitous drop in GDP from its independence from the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
in 1991 through 1995, policymakers have mounted sustained efforts to establish and maintain general
macroeconomic stability. Inflation, which averaged 664 percent over the 1992-94 period, has been held to
a 4.2 percent average over the 1995-99 period. The fiscal deficit, which averaged 7.6 percent over the
1992-94 period, was held to less than I percent of GDP during 1995-99. The disciplined turnaround in
fiscal policies, coupled with a series of initial structural reforms and price and trade liberalization, appears
to have contributed to a turnaround in GDP growth, which averaged a negative 3.7 percent per annum over
the 1992-94 period, but a positive 1.4 percent over the 1995-99 period.
Table 1: Ke Macroeconomic Indicators, 1992-1999
1992   1993    1994    1995    1996   1997    1998         1999
(% change)
Gross domestic product     -8.2    -1.2    -1.8    -1.1       1.2    1.4       2.9       2.7
Inflation (1)             1500      363     128      15.7    2.3     2.6      -0.1       0.7
(in % of GDP)
Current account balance     --      0.6    -5.7    -5.0   -6.5   -7.4         -8.8      -4.0
Fiscal deficit (2)         -8.7   -11.4    -2.7    -1.1   -1.4   -0.4         -1.8       0.0
Revenue (3)               35.0    36.3    43.1    37.9   35.7   34.9          34.0      37.7
Expenditure               43.7    47.7    45.8    39.0   37.1   35.3          35.8      37.7
(1) Inflation is average changes in consumer prices; (2) Fiscal deficit is of general Government; (3) Revenue and grants.
Source: IMF.



-2 -
3.      These gains brought with them some significant costs. When stabilization was undertaken in
1994, expenditure cuts bore the brunt of fiscal adjustment. Tax reforms did dramatically augment fiscal
revenues in 1994, when they rose to over 43 percent of GDP. This increase proved to be temporary,
however, and subsequently revenues fell (both in real terms and as a share of GDP) towards a more
sustainable long-term level of about one-third of GDP. As a result, deep cuts were necessary on a number
of expenditure fronts, totaling 12 percent of GDP between 1993 and 1997. It should also be pointed out
that while the fiscal adjustment was an essential part of the exchange rate-based stabilization program, the
quality of the adjustment was poor. Cash deficits were kept low for much of this time by accumulating
arrears to suppliers, now reduced. The budget structure has become highly inflexible and concentrated in
wages and entitlements. Most importantly, expenditures that until 1995 were budgeted for loss making
enterprises have been largely replaced with off-budget and sometimes ill-defined commitments.
Furthermore, the growth record so far achieved is clearly insufficient, allowing the country to recover its
1990 level of income only in 2003, and leaving it barely 10 percent better off in 2010 than 20 years earlier.
To achieve a higher growth path, the structural reform agenda must be completed, particularly
strengthening of corporate governance and further rationalization of the Government's role in the economy.
As set out in the Bank's 1998 economic report on FYR Macedonia', the key structural issues are: sustained
and improved macroeconomic management, and especially higher quality fiscal adjustment; strengthened
ownership and property rights, and a legislative framework and regulatory environment supportive of
private investment and growth. Further reform of the financial and enterprise sectors contributes to all of
these, particularly strengthening of the banking system, improvement of the enabling environment for the
private sector, and resolution through privatization and if applicable financial restructuring, or closure, of
large loss making enterprises.
4.      The 1999 conflict in Kosovo imposed financial and economic costs on FYR Macedonia, limited
in size by the relatively quick resolution of the Kosovar refugee situation, but also political and social
burdens that threatened stability. The massive inflow of Kosovo refugees to FYR Macedonia inflicted a
heavy administrative burden on the country, and the uncertain duration of the conflict undermined its short
term prospects for foreign investment inflows, while increasing demands on the budget. The cessation of
all economic relations with and through FR Yugoslavia dealt a sharp blow to an already ailing economy.
With 70 percent of FYR Macedonian exports sold to or transported through FR Yugoslavia, the country's
exports fell by nearly one third in US Dollar terms during March through July, 1999 compared to the same
period a year earlier. The external current account deficit for 1999 was projected by the IMF during the
crisis at almost US$500 million (14.5 percent of GDP). The downturn in economic activity and a lapse in
expenditure management and control by the Government during the crisis created pressures on the
Government budget that seemed likely to swell the full-year budget deficit significantly. The contraction in
GDP was expected to undercut tax revenues by about 2.5 percent of GDP, as falling incomes and rising
unemployment depressed personal income taxes and import duties. At the same time, crisis-related budget
expenditures were estimated by the Government to be almost 3 percent of GDP higher for 1999, consisting
to a great extent of security and police costs. The general Government budget deficit for 1999 was
projected during the second quarter at almost 8 percent of GDP, compared with 1.7 percent of GDP in
1998.
5.     In the event, the refugee crisis ended sooner than feared, and exports recovered more quickly than
projected. A surge of exports to Kosovo and import compression during the crisis have corrected the
projected trade deficit. The recovery in export performance, despite transport problems and depressed
demand in FR Yugoslavia, was driven by reconstruction demand in Kosovo itself. As a result, GDP growth
for 1999 was around 2.7 percent, rather than contracting by nearly 4 percent as projected during the crisis
1 "FYR Macedonia Country Economic Memorandum: Enhancing Growth", Report No. 18537-MK, November 30,
1998.



- 3 -
(although still well below the anticipated 5 percent growth expected prior to the outbreak of the conflict).
Nevertheless, the unemployment rate has risen to likely above 36 percent. Industrial activity was greatly
affected, given FYR Macedonia's open economy and the closing of its market and transport links with FR
Yugoslavia, with a 12.5 percent fall in production in the first five months of 1999, compared to the same
period a year earlier.
6.      The impact on the balance of payments also was much less severe than originally expected.
Diversion of exports to alternate markets was thought to be difficult due to many products being oriented to
the FR Yugoslav market and requiring specialized imported inputs from FR Yugoslav suppliers. However,
the picture changed dramatically in the second half of 1999. Exports, especially of services, rose sharply
due to demand driven by reconstruction efforts by the international community in Kosovo, while imports
decreased. The current account deficit in 1999 as a result was less than half the size in 1998, or around 4
percent of GDP. At the same time, on the fiscal side, despite additional expenditures related to refugees,
the general Government budget deficit for 1999 finished the year balanced because of a strong revenue
effort by the authorities. The first half of 2000 has seen favorable economic developments. The trade and
services sectors have performed well; and the financial position of enterprises has improved. Overall GDP
growth for the year is projected at about 6 percent. Inflation moved temporarily upwards in April, as a
value-added tax (VAT) was implemented, but is expected to finish the year at an average 4.9 percent.
However, the trade deficit has widened, partly as a result of imports ahead of the imposition of the VAT.
Gross official reserves have continued to rise, to a level equivalent to more than three months of imports.
Most importantly, fiscal performance has been strong, with a general Government surplus of 2.7 percent of
annual GDP at mid-year, mostly due to buoyant tax collections. The outlook for the medium term - while
significantly improved by the recent opening up of FR Yugoslavia's economy - will nevertheless depend
heavily on the success of the Government's intended reforms to position the private sector to capitalize on
the opportunities for renewed growth and job creation. Improved performance of the enterprise sector will
be the key, supporting overall economic growth. This improvement may come partly through sales of large
firms to strategic investors with strong management and investment capacity, and partly through improved
financial discipline and more productive use of assets as a result of more proactive creditor action. Better
financial management will also be spurred by a more efficient and competitive banking sector, capable of
providing credit at reasonable rates to creditworthy borrowers.
B.      The Government's Reform Program
7.      During much of the first half of 1999 the Government was predominantly focused on dealing with
the impact of the Kosovo crisis, and attention for reform efforts, as laid out in its previously adopted
National Development Strategy, slipped. As a result, the policy dialogue with the Bank and the IMF was
temporarily interrupted and the preparation of new lending programs put on hold. During the latter part of
1999, however, the Government indicated its readiness to undertake comprehensive macroeconomic and
structural reform efforts in multiple sectors/areas, with a view to ensure the longer term sustainability of
GDP growth beyond the potentially short-lived post-Kosovo upturn.
8.      The Government has reconfirmed its commitment to the pursuit of macroeconomic stability
through the continuation of existing monetary and exchange rate policies, aimed at price stability,
preservation of foreign currency reserves and maintenance of domestic and international confidence in the
FYR Macedonian Denar. In the fiscal area, in addition to having adopted a conservative 2000 budget, the
Government has initiated an in-depth review of public sector management capacity and effectiveness, to
identify actions that can form the basis for a comprehensive future public sector reform program aimed at
improving the quality of fiscal adjustment. The Bank is currently preparing a Public Sector Management
Adjustment Loan to support the Government's efforts in this area. The Government's and the National
Bank of Macedonia's (NBM's) commitment to reforms in the critical financial and enterprise sectors - as
evidenced by significant up-front policy action in both sectors -- have allowed the Bank to proceed with the



- 4 -
preparation of the proposed FESAL II. The reform efforts in these two sectors are described in detail in
Chapter 11 of this report. In the social sphere, the Government is further streamlining social safety net
programs and reforming the underfunded pay-as-you go public pension system, including through the
development of a mandatory private pension pillar.
C.      The IMF's PRGF/EFF Program
9.      The Government's renewed commitment to macroeconomic and structural reform has culminated
in agreement with the IMF on a new multi-year Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility/Extended Fund
Facility (PRGF/EFF) program (using a blend of two types of IMF resources equivalent to the IBRD/IDA
blend proposed for the FESAL II). The new PRGF/EFF program is the successor to the previous Enhanced
Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) 2 program, meant to support reform policies during the period April
1998-March 1999. The ESAF program went off track in mid-1998 due to lack of progress in enterprise
sector reform, and the arrangement formally expired in April 2000.
10.     The new multi-year PRGF/EFF program  scheduled for approval by the IMF Board in late
November 2000 is designed in support of monetary, fiscal and exchange rate policies that will provide a
stable financial environment for enterprise adjustment, reduce interest rates, and promote investment and
job creation by consolidating private ownership and strengthening market-based institutions. The structural
policies supported under the PRGF/EFF program are similar and complementary to the financial and
enterprise sector reform efforts supported under the Bank's proposed FESAL II, and the two institutions
have worked closely together in the design of their respective programs. Specifically, to coordinate efforts
in the financial sector, the IMF and the Bank jointly undertook a Basle Core Principles of Bank Supervision
Review in October 1999, and the findings of this review have served as inputs into the design of the
Government's and the NBM's banking sector reform efforts supported by both the IMF's PRGF/EFF
program and the Bank's proposed FESAL TI. More recently the two institutions have also closely worked
together and with the Government on the preparation of the Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper that
is presented to the Board simultaneously with the proposed FESAL II.
D.      The Bank's Strategy
I1.     The Bank's strategy for FYR Macedonia is laid out in the Joint Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) of the World Bank Group for FYR Macedonia (No. 18162-MK, dated July 14, 1998), updated by a
CAS Progress Report discussion on June 13, 2000 (R2000-80 "IFC/R2000-79"). The CAS prioritizes
resumption of growth, reduction in unemployment and a reversion of rising poverty. To date, support for
these objectives has taken the form of a Structural Adjustment Loan/Credit and a Social Sector Adjustment
Credit, and several investment operations for private sector development, energy, agriculture, health and
education. The proposed FESAL II together with a planned Public Sector Management Adjustment
Loan/Credit in support of improvements in the quality of fiscal adjustment are the linchpin adjustment
operations in support of the CAS objectives. Board approval of the FESAL II will be one of the triggers for
continuation of a high case lending scenario, as outlined in the CAS Progress Report.
12.     The Bank has also implemented a special emergency lending program, triggered by the three
criteria for such a program defined in the CAS: (i) a massive inflow of Kosovo refugees in FYR
Macedonia; (ii) large-scale military mobilization in the region with impacts on the budget and climate for
2 The ESAF (Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility) is a concessional IMF facility for assisting eligible members
that are undertaking economic reform programs to strengthen their balance of payments and improve their growth
prospects. ESAF loans carry an interest rate of 0.5 percent a year and are repayable over 10 years, with a 5v,4-year
grace period. ESAF has been succeeded by PRGF (Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility).



- 5 -
foreign investment; and (iii) a significant trade disruption due to the closure of the FR Yugoslavian market.
Under this emergency lending program, the Bank has approved an Emergency Recovery Credit, aimed at
assisting the Govemment to maintain macroeconomic stability despite severe trade disruptions and large
inflows of refugees through financing of imports and Government budget support. Additionally, the Bank
has approved a Social Support Project to partially mitigate the negative impact on the labor force of the
macroeconomic and trade disruption caused by the Kosovo conflict, as well as to partially offset the
expected negative short term impact of the large loss making enterprise resolution efforts sought under the
proposed FESAL II. The Social Support Project will finance severance pay for redundant workers laid off
from loss making enterprises that are being restructured, and labor redeployment and re-training services.
A planned participatory Poverty Assessment encompassing an improved household survey in August 2001
will further deepen the Government's as well as the Bank' s understanding of the underlying causes of
poverty in FYR Macedonia, and help shape the Bank's response for the provision of targeted poverty
reduction lending and non-lending activity going forward. In its Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
that is presented to the Board together with the proposed FESAL 11, the Government has committed to
complete a full poverty reduction strategy by October 2001.



-6-
II.    FYR MACEDONIA'S
FINANCIAL AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
A.    The Financial Sector
13.     The FYR Macedonian banking system comprises 19 domestic banks, two foreign banks and one
foreign bank branch, and 18 saving houses (small credit union-style institutions whose lending activities
are restricted to consumer and small business finance in local currency, and whose total deposits represent
around 3 percent of the overall banking system deposit base). The non-bank financial institutions sector is
still in its infancy. There are currently only five insurance companies, one of which is majority foreign
owned. The latter dominates the market with a market share of close to 90 percent. There is a Macedonian
Stock Exchange (MSE) and there are licensed brokers trading on the exchange (mainly individuals), but
both market capitalization and trading volumes are very low and as of yet there are no private pension
funds, mutual funds, leasing, finance or factoring companies.
14.     Banking system development in FYR Macedonia started in 1993 with the adoption by Parliament
of the Law on Banks and Saving Houses. This law introduced basic bank governance structures, licensing
procedures and minimum capital requirements for banks (DEM 9 million equivalent for a full banking
license and DEM 150,000 equivalent for saving houses). The law also opened the way for the issuance of
an initial set of NBM prudential regulations covering asset classification and provisioning and Basle-like
capital adequacy computations.
15.    In 1994, the former all-Yugoslav monobank (an integrated central and commercial banking
institution) was broken up in several large and medium-sized banks. In the spirit of a strong tradition of
social ownership, these banks remained in the hands of state-and/or socially owned enterprises and bank
managers/employees. With many firms themselves rapidly being privatized, however (see paragraph 23
below), these banks were subject to an indirect form  of ownership transformation.  In 1995, the
Government recapitalized the largest bank (Stopanska Banka) through the transfer of a large portion of its
non-performing loans to Yugoslav era enterprises to the newly created Bank Rehabilitation Agency (BRA),
an asset management company. Negotiable long term Government bonds were issued to the bank in
exchange.
16.    In 1996, the Law on Banks and Saving Houses was amended to introduce a bank-owned and
operated system of deposit insurance, a unified Board of Directors system replacing the previous dual board
system, and a higher minimum capital requirement for banks (DEM 21 million for a full banking license,
which the banks are required to meet in steps over a period of five years ending in 2001, and DEM 500,000
for saving houses, which the saving houses are required to meet in steps over a 10-year period ending in
2006). The NBM's regulatory powers were also further expanded, and several new prudential standards
were introduced. The NBM mandated the use of International Accounting Standards (IAS) for all banks in
1997.
17.     Despite these initial reform efforts, FYR Macedonia's banking system today remains subject to
many structural weaknesses. The banking system is still relatively shallow, with total system assets as of
end 1999 only around 30 percent of GDP and broad money only around 19 percent of GDP (by comparison,
the banking system of Slovenia - a country comparable to FYR Macedonia in terms of population and
geographical size, represented 105 percent of GDP, and Slovenia's broad money supply stood at
approximately 55 percent of GDP as of that same date).
18.     The break-up of the monobank and the appearance since 1993 of many new private banks -
operating at a competitive advantage vis-a-vis the former Yugoslav banks due to their access to the Bureau



- 7 -
of Payment Operations (ZPP's3) centralized payments system services - did little to reduce the dominance
of Stopanska Banka, the largest bank carved out of the former all-Yugoslav monobank. As of end 1999,
Stopanska Banka still accounted for 35 percent of banking assets and 40 percent of banking deposits. The
two largest banks (Stopanska Banka and Komercijalna Banka, another former Yugoslav bank) together still
controlled 57 percent of total banking assets and 64 percent of total deposits as of that same date, showing
only a marginal decline in their market share since 1995 (see Table 2). Due to the continued instability in
the region, foreign banks - usually an important source of competition - to date have been largely absent in
FYR Macedonia, with only one Bulgarian, one Russian and one Turkish bank branch operating in the
country4. As a result, banking competition leaves much to be desired, as evidenced by very little banking
innovation and the banking product mix remaining the same for over half a decade.
Table 2: Structure of the Banking System (as % of Total System Assets and Deposits)
I   Total      Total       Total        Total     Deposits    Deposits    Deposits
assets      assets      assets      assets      1997         1998        1999
1995        1997        1998        1999
Stopanska                65          36          34          35          42          42          40
Banka
Foreign  Trade           15  Liquidated           -            -           -           -
Bank
Komercijalna             12          20          19          22          22          22          27
Banka
Makedonska                5           6           5           5           5           4           4
Banka
Stopanska            former           5           4           4           5           4           3
Banka Bitola      branch of
Stopanska
l ______________      Banka
Other banks               3          33          38          34          26          28          26
Total          1[ OO |              1oo         ioo         100         1001        100         100
Source: NBM
19.     The 1995 balance sheet clean-up of the country's largest bank (Stopanska Banka) also did little to
fundamentally improve the health of the banking system. The banking system today remains burdened with
bad loans. Around 40 percent of total loans were classified substandard, doubtful or loss as of year end
1999, even after taking into account the recent second round removal of several large problem loans from
3ZZP, a centrally planned economy structure inherited from the former FR Yugoslavia, performs payment and client
Denar account maintenance services for all banks at the same price. As a result, small banks that would normally not
be able to afford the cost of setting up and maintaining a country-wide branch network can compete on an equal footing
with larger banks, most of whom inherited branch networks from the former all-Yugoslav monobank, which they must
maintain at their own expense.
4 More recently, however, and especially since the end of the Kosovo crisis, Greek banks have shown an interest in
entering the FYR Macedonian banking market, as evidenced inter alia by the recent purchase of Stopanska Banka by
the National Bank of Greece (see Box 1). A medium-sized private FYR Macedonian bank (Kreditna Banka) was also
recently acquired by a Greek bank (Alpha Bank, which bought a 65 percent stake in Kreditna). Additionally, a
Slovenian bank has recently acquired a significant stake in another private FYR Macedonian bank (Tutunska Banka)
and commitments for additional investments bringing the foreign ownership stake in this bank above 50 percent by year
end have already been made.



- 8 -
the books of Stopanska Banka - see Box 1. This percentage is up from around 25 percent a year earlier in
large part due to the impact of the Kosovo crisis, but even before the crisis has been consistently very high
(around 25 percent) since 1994. Banks have been largely passive towards their non-performing loan
customers and have undertaken little meaningful collection efforts. This passive attitude is attributable to
several factors, some of which are political (i.e., many financially troubled large firms are important to
employment), and some of which are structural (weaknesses in bankruptcy and collateral legislation and
registration systems, and the continued maintenance by ZPP of banking system Denar client accounts,
which is depriving the banks of critical access to information on their clients' liquidity situation and client
liquidity as security for their lending).
20.     As a result, not only are many banks undercapitalized or potentially insolvent, but interest rates
have persistently remained very high, despite low inflation, as banks are forced to overcharge their
performing loan customers to compensate for their large portfolio of non-performing loans. Smaller and
new private firms that have no other source of credit than the local banking system are hit hardest by this
phenomenon.
21.     Despite the presence of a formal deposit insurance scheme, public confidence in the banking
system also has remained very low. This is especially true after the recent failure of several saving houses
and a medium-sized private bank (Almako), which focused attention on structural weaknesses in the
scheme. In particular, there is an inherent conflict between the scheme's "private" ownership structure --
which introduces a bias towards minimizing depositor pay-offs -- and its quasi-public responsibility to
maintain depositor confidence. If larger banks would fail, the weakly funded nature of the scheme would
also inevitably become exposed.  Deposit mobilization has consequently remained limited, with a
reportedly large amount of mattress money being kept by the population in foreign currency.
22.     Ineffective corporate governance - atomized shareholder structures arising from the previous
system of mandatory borrower ownership of banks and lack of a tradition of strong fiduciary roles for
Board members - have resulted in a high incidence of insider lending. The local accounting and auditing
profession has been unable to effectively apply the new IAS standards for banks, and both internal and
external audit control remains weak.  Further revision of NBM  prudential regulations for asset
classification and provisioning, large/connected/insider lending, foreign exchange exposure, interest rate
risk management and capital adequacy are necessary to bring them in line with international best practice
standards and applicable European Union (EU) banking sector directives, IAS and Bank for International
Settlements (BIS) standards. But even more importantly, NBM's enforcement of existing prudential rules
has been weak, especially vis-a-vis Stopanska Banka, which until recently was still partially state-owned
and controlled, and allowed to continue imprudent new lending to large loss making enterprises for political
and social reasons.



-9-
Box 1.   Sale of Stopanska Banka
Stopanska Banka was, and still remains, the largest bank in the country, with about one third of banking system
assets and 40 percent of deposits. After its recapitalization in 1995, the bank remained under the state's control
and continued politically inspired lending policies, resulting in very poor asset quality. Its purchase in April 2000
by the National Bank of Greece (NBG - 68.4 per cent of equity), together with IFC (IFC/R99-202 dated December
6, 1999) and EBRD (10.5 percent of equity each) concluded four years of attempts to privatize the bank.
Just prior to its privatization, the Goverunent cleaned up Stopanska Banka's loan portfolio by transferring its
exposures to four major delinquent borrowers (Jugohrom, Maktabak, Fenimak and Goce Delcev) to the Bank
Rehabilitation Agency (BRA) specifically created for this purpose (see paragraph 26 below). In return, the
Government issued bonds in the amount of DEM 235 million which have a maturity of 15 years, pay interest of
Euribor plus I percent, and will be repaid in equal annual installments starting one year after their issuance.
The actual purchase by the new owners of the Government's shares, which were held by the BRA, occurred on
April 4, 2000. On April 5, a shareholders' meeting was held and a new management board for the bank was
elected, with six out of nine members being representatives of NBG. The transaction involved an agreement with
the BRA for a price adjustment on the basis of a post-sale due diligence performed by independent auditors on
Stopanska Banka's loan portfolio. The new owners also have increased Stopanska Banka's capital by another
DEM 50 million, fully paid in during August 2000. The capital increase will be used for modernization of
Stopanska Banka's information and treasury systems, staff training, and liquidity improvement. Representatives
from NBG are stationed full time in Skopje and are preparing Stopanska Banka for future reorganization. In July
2000 the former General Manager of the bank resigned and a new General Manager (an ex deputy Governor of the
NBM) was appointed.
B.     The Enterprise Sector
23.      FYR  Macedonia's formal enterprise sector currently comprises approximately  1,700 large
enterprises and 30,000 small and medium sized enterprises. Due to an extensive early privatization process
that started in 1994, as of year-end 1999 1,488 of the 1,726 socially owned enterprises registered at
independence had been privatized, and another 181 enterprises were in the process of privatization (for
further detail on the relevant importance of these groups of enterprises as part of the total universe, see
Annex 10). To allow the transformation of the former Yugoslav social ownership structure and the
formation of new private companies, the Government also adopted a new company law, as well as
supporting legislation including a bankruptcy law, a Law on Issuance and Trading of Securities (securities
law) and a law on foreign direct investment.
24.      As part of its privatization efforts, in 1995 the Government engaged in a Special Restructuring
Program (SRP) for 25 large loss making enterprises. Under this program, these enterprises were broken up
in smaller parts, their debts swapped into equity, and the firms' social assets (hospitals, schools, etc.) were
transferred to municipal ownership. Many (but not all) of the smaller units were subsequently corporatized
and sold or liquidated. In 1997, the Ministry of Finance (MOF) mandated the use of IAS for the enterprise
sector and compulsory audits for all companies meeting minimum size criteria established in the company
law.
25.      Notwithstanding these early reform efforts, the enterprise sector today, along the same lines as the
financial sector, still suffers from many structural weaknesses. These weaknesses are partially attributable
to a series of severe external shocks FYR Macedonia experienced during the last decade, including the
trade embargo on FR Yugoslavia, the temporary closure of FYR Macedonia's border with Greece, and
more recently the Kosovo crisis. At the same time, the sector's weaknesses are also to a significant extent



- 10-
caused by the predominance to date of the manager/worker buyout method of privatization, and a lack of
focus on the part of the Government on a large unfinished legal and institutional reform agenda.
26.     As shown in Table 3 below, during the last five years the aggregate financial performance of the
enterprise sector has continued to be quite weak, with nine out of ten sub-sectors recording net losses in
1995 and 1996, and still six out of ten sub-sectors recording net losses in 1999. This continuous flow of
losses has led to the build-up of a large stock of non-performing loans and arrears on the books of the
banking system, the Bank Rehabilitation Agency (BRA) and the state-owned electric utility company
Elektrostopanstvo (ES). The BRA was intended to be a temporary arrangement established to deal with the
debts carved out of Stopanska Banka in 1995, but has become a permanent fixture with its total assets
increasing annually, as interest keeps accruing on its non-performing loans. The BRA has failed to recover
a significant amount of debts during the six years of its operation. The debts that have been resolved are
largely those that have been repurchased by the original debtors at deep discounts or swapped into equity,
de facto re-nationalizing the debtor enterprises concerned (for a more detailed account on the BRA, see
Annex 9).
27.     Wage arrears to workers and tax/social contribution arrears to the Government - although not
totally absent -- have been limited due to the ability of ZPP to take funds out of enterprises' Denar current
accounts to pay workers and tax/social contributions on a priority basis. A small number of approximately
40 large, still fully or partially state- and/or socially owned enterprises, or for which the Government is a
major creditor on account of overdue claims, account for the bulk of the flow of losses and the stock of
non-performing assets held by creditors (see Box 2).
28.     Because of the prevalence of the management/employee buyout method in past privatization
efforts, the enterprise sector today remains characterized by highly fragmented ownership, which is often
more intent on protecting employment than on improving enterprise performance, as well as insufficient
inflow of new management skills and fresh capital (for a more detailed account of privatization history in
FYR Macedonia, see Annex 10). Consolidation of ownership is challenging, and is hampered by
restrictions on secondary share trading, a five-year installment plan to complete privatization, a lack of
investment funds and other mechanisms to consolidate blocks of shares into the hands of strategic
investors, continued operation of share registers by company managers, and a weak legal framework for the
enforcement of minority shareholder rights.
Table 3: Enterprise Net Profits by Sector (Percent of GDP)
Sector            1995     1996      1997      1998       1999
Industry                   (2.68)   (3.67)    (2.16)    (1.28)      (1.82)
Agriculture               (0.84)   (1.25)    (0.66)    (0.52)       (0.94)
Forestry                  (0.06)   (0.08)      0.00    (0.05)    (0.008)
Water                     (0.13)   (0.11)    (0.12)    (0.14)      (0.14)
Construction              (0.10)   (0.15)    (0.26)      0.01        0.30
Transport                 (0.60)   (0.91)    (0.80)      0.91        1.60
Trade                     (0.14)   (0.88)    (0.39)    (0.06)        0.19
Catering and Tourism      (0.07)   (0.12)    (0.12)    (0.06)      (0.17)
Crafts                    (0.05)   (0.09)    (0.04)    (0.03)    (0.004)
Apartment                   0.01     0.03      0.24      0.08        0.11
Construction
Total                     (4.68)   (7.23)    (4.31)    (1.14)      (0.54)
Source: ZPP



- Il  -
Box 2.   The Universe of Large Loss-Making Enterprises
As of end 1999, out of a total universe of 31,795 registered enterprises, 14.839 enterprises were reporting losses.
The great majority of these (13,799) were unsuccessful new private businesses and a small number (517) were
privatized former and still partially or fully state- and/or socially owned firms. Among the 517 loss making
enterprises, 40 enterprises that are still fully or partially state- and/or socially owned, or for which the Government is
a large creditor on account of overdue claims, have been identified as the largest loss makers. Around one third of
this group of enterprises operated in the metallurgy and mining industries, 20 percent in other heavy industries such
as chemicals and car manufacturing, 25 percent in agriculture and agro-processing, and the remaining 25 percent in
trade, textiles, transportation, and construction.
The group of 40 large loss making enterprises as of end 1999 employed 30,588 workers, representing 10.4 percent
of total enterprise sector employment. In 1999 alone, the group incurred losses of roughly US$95 million, or about
43 percent of the combined losses of all FYR Macedonian enterprises - private, privatized, and state-owned
combined. Total banking system exposure to the group of 40 was some US$110 million (representing approximately
27 percent of the banking system's total loan portfolio).
To date, several of these enterprises have been put into liquidation or sold, including Okta, a large oil refinery, and
Feni, a nickel smelter and the largest loss maker. Jugohrom, a ferro-silicium producer and the second largest loss
maker, and another 24 companies are yet to be resolved.
29.      As in the banking sector, the introduction of IAS standards has done little to improve the quality
of financial information, due to the lack of a properly licensed and trained profession of qualified
accountants and auditors that understand and can apply IAS. Many enterprises in fact continue to produce
financial statements based on the previously applicable accounting rules. As a result, neither company
managers nor outside investors can adequately judge enterprise performance, which is also one of the
reasons why the newly created Macedonian Stock Exchange (MSE) has remained largely dormant and is
currently not performing a meaningful intermediation function (see Box 3).



- 12 -
Box 3.    The Macedonian Stock Exchange
The Macedonian Stock Exchange (MSE) was founded as a joint-stock company in September 1995 and commenced trading on
March 28 1996, as a central marketplace for securities trading and the first organized stock exchange in the history of FYR
Macedonia. In February 1997, a Law on Issuance and Trading of Securities (securities law) was adopted by Parliament. This
law laid down the basis for the securities market regulatory framework, and the regulatory body - the Securities & Exchange
Commission (SEC) - was given broad responsibility and authority to regulate and supcrvise thc securities market. The SEC
was actually set up in 1993 following a decision by the Government, but the new law formalized and detailed its powers.
In order to be listed on the exchange, an issuer has to: (i) be incorporated in FYR Macedonia; (ii) issue a prospectus; (iii) in the
opinion of the MSE, be suitable for listing; (iv) generate, to the satisfaction of the MSE, a sufficient public interest in its
business and in the securities for which listing is sought; (v) transfer its shareholding record to the share register currently
maintained by ZPP (in the near future, all shareholder books will be transferred to a new Central Securities Depository/Central
Share Registry (CSD/CSR), as part of the reform effort in this field); (vi) have its annual accounts audited and prepared in
accordance with national law and IAS; (vii) submit unaudited semi-annual income statements to the MSE; and (viii) disclose,
as part of a general obligation, relevant information about its business and financial condition and ownership structure.
Trading on the exchange is done in three markets. The first two are so-called official markets, while the third market is an
unofficial, over-the counter (OTC) trading space. The MSE is obliged to publish all transactions executed on the first, second
and third market. To be listed in the first market, a company is required to have a minimum of 25 percent of its shares in public
hands, and a minimum of 200 shareholders (15 percent and 25 shareholders for the second market). The initial market
capitalization of all securities to be listed should be at least DEM 15 million and the issuer must submit its audited financial
statements for the last 3 years (DEM I million and 2 years for the second market). There can be no limitations on transfer of
securities. The issuer in its prospectus has to prove that there is public interest in its activity and in the security to be listed.
For participation in the third market, the only requirement is the submission of the last annual financial statement of the issuer.
The MSE is small by all standards. Based on the latest available information, there are only two companies listed in the official
markets (both in the second market), with total official market capitalization around US$8-9 million. The total annual turnover
of the MSE has varied in the range of 0.5-0.8 per cent of GDP in the 1996-99 period, with 1998 registering a 2.5 percent of
GDP tumover. The factual market is the OTC market. A majority of trades in this market are based on directly negotiated off-
market deals among brokers, and are transferred to the main market to fulfill legal requirements and to be reflected in official
statistics. Yet there is only one provision in the securities law that deals with OTC trading, which states that OTC trading will
be carried out under the rules set by the SEC. The OTC market, given its importance to MSE activity, needs more attention
and a better-defined regulatory framework.
30.       Although many new  enterprises were registered since independence, new  enterprise formation
and  registration  procedures remain  cumbersome  and  slow  (see Box  4).   Similarly, Foreign  Direct
Investment (FDI) inflows into FYR Macedonia have been very low - only 4.9 percent of GDP in 1998 and
1.07 percent of GDP in 1999 - due to a number of obstacles affecting the overall business environment,
such as the small size of the domestic market and national resource base, unfinished legal reform agenda,
weak judicial infrastructure, cumbersome administrative and regulatory procedures, including enterprise
registration, and a poorly functioning financial sector. Furthermore, foreign investments are also subject to
specific constraints, including legislative provisions relating to foreign enterprise registration, Board of
Directors composition, special treatment of local subsidiaries of foreign firms, and special reporting to the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Foreign investments, subsidiaries and representation bureaus of foreign firms
must have an approval of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for all investments which result in a foreign
investor owning more than 50 percent of the capital stock of an enterprise registered in FYR Macedonia.
While the prospects for enhanced regional stability, and thus for FDI inflows, have improved as a result of
the recent political events in FR Yugoslavia, a concerted reform effort to improve FYR Macedonia's FDI
regime will be needed to allow the country's private sector to capitalize on the concomitant growth and
export opportunities.



- 13 -
Box 4.   Simplification of Enterprise Registration Process
The present registration process is far too long (about three months), time-consuming and costly.  The
documentation required is extremely cumbersome. Many of the forms are either of dubious usefulness or
outright redundant. Would-be entrepreneurs routinely need to hire lawyers (at a cost), to handle the procedure.
In addition, company registers (trade registries) are presently managed by Registration Courts in different cities.
These courts are overburdened and poorly equipped, performing registrations manually. Such responsibility
contributes to clogging the court system. Company records are not properly kept. Little useful information on
enterprises can be obtained from the paper-based company registers. Lastly, there is no direct connection
between the company registers, the Bureau of Payment Operations (ZPP), the customs administration, the tax
office at the MOF, the bureau of statistics, the social security funds, and - importantly for foreign investors - the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs. All these organizations must be visited separately to complete registration.
To remove these obstacles, the following actions should be taken:
* review all legal and regulatory requirements for enterprise registration - including documentation - to
drastically reduce the number of forms and steps required;
* streamline the system for enterprise registration, which would allow domestic as well as foreign
entrepreneurs to complete formalities with one unified form to be shared electronically among all public
administrators involved in the process (company registers, tax office, customs, statistics, etc.); all these
formalities should be completed within two weeks, i.e., all clearances and identification number delivered to
the enterprise; and a single and reasonable fee should be charged for the registration process; and
* decide on the most proper management process of the new electronic company register, i.e., with the
responsibility for the creation and maintenance of the new electronic company register left with the
Registration Courts, the register should be connected electronically to other registries and to various public
administrators.
A new Central Register Organization (CRO) has already been created as a spin-off of ZPP. This CRO will
operate and maintain new movable and immovable collateral registers, as well as a new central legal entities
database. An electronic data link with the new company register should allow the new central legal entities
database to be fully reflective of developments in the company register.
C.       The Government's Financial and Enterprise Sector Reform Program
31.      To address the above identified interrelated nexus of weaknesses in the financial and enterprise
sectors and to spur private sector growth, the Government has developed a comprehensive reform program
encompassing policy actions in the following areas:
*  In the financial sector:
* overhaul of the existing legal framework for banking activity;
* further upgrading of NBM prudential regulations for banks and strengthening of
NBM enforcement;
* proactive problem bank/bank failure resolution; and
* a multi-pronged action plan for financial system infrastructure development;
*  In the enterprise sector:
* streamlining private enterprise entry and the FDI regime;
* strengthening creditor and shareholder rights; and
* state- and/or socially owned enterprise privatization/exit.
32.      In the paragraphs below, the Government's intended reform actions in each of these areas are
elaborated.



- 14-
33.     Overhaul of the Legal Framework for BankinyActivitv. The Government, with the help of Bank
arranged legal expertise, has prepared and Parliament has already adopted in July of 2000 a new banking
law that: (i) introduces definitions, allowable activities and - to the extent they are embedded in the
banking law itself rather than in NBM regulations - prudential regulations for banks that are more in line
with applicable EU Banking Sector directives, IAS and Basle capital rules; (ii) strengthens bank corporate
governance; and (iii) introduces efficient problem bank and bank failure resolution mechanisms that
exclude the BRA from the process.
34.     Despite the BRA's history of unsuccessful impaired debt resolution, during 1999 the Government
openly contemplated the idea of.also giving the BRA a formal role in pre-failure bank rehabilitation. Since
then, and especially as a result of the public debate about the question of whether or not the Government
should use tax payer money to recapitalize systemically unimportant failed banks such as Almako, the
Government has realized the moral hazard implications of such an expanded role for the BRA, and has
therefore agreed to rename the BRA 'asset management corporation' or the equivalent thereof, and to
formally exclude it from involvement in pre-failure problem bank and bank failure resolution,
responsibilities that will henceforth be performed by the NBM and court appointed liquidators.
35.     The Government also has prepared and submitted to Parliament a new deposit insurance law to
replace the current bank-owned and operated deposit insurance system. Parliament enacted the new law in
July 2000. The new scheme, which will become operational on November 20, 2000 is 100 percent owned
by the State and administered by the MOF, and will provide deposit coverage in line with the provisions of
the EU Directive on deposit insurance. Additionally, the new law envisages that the MOF will provide a
back-up line of credit to the new scheme to guarantee its viability. Existing budgetary arrangements allow
the MOF to lend resources to the new scheme at any time by simple Government decision.
36.     Further upgfrading  of NBM  prudential regulations and  strengthening  of NBM
enforcement. Based on the findings of the joint IMF/Bank Basle Core Principles of Bank Supervision
Review which took place in October 1999, the NBM has developed an action plan for implementation of
necessary amendments to both the existing banking law (to the extent prudential rules are embedded in the
law itself) and the existing NBM prudential regulations for banks, to bring all the regulations in line with
international best practice standards. With the adoption by Parliament of the new banking law in July 2000
this process has already been partially completed, and the NBM intends to finalize it by early 2001, with
the issuance of upgraded versions of the remaining prudential regulations for asset classification and
provisioning, large/connected/insider lending, foreign exchange exposure, interest rate risk management
and capital adequacy. The new rules will allow the banks a reasonable transition period to reach full
compliance with the new, tighter prudential standards.
37.     The NBM recognizes that even an international best practice standards regulatory regime for
banks will not change the behavior of the banks unless it proactively pursues the enforcement of its own
rules. Therefore, the NBM has prepared an initial banking system-wide Compliance Report, analyzing the
extent of non-compliance by the banks in the system with its existing prudential regulations. Also taking
into account the findings of the recently completed diagnostic studies of the four large banks (not including
Stopanska Banka) (see paragraph 39 below), the NBM will develop a time-bound enforcement action plan
for all non-compliant banks. The NBM will monitor progress made by individual banks in this respect
against established benchmarks on a quarterly basis, and will regularly prepare updated banking system
wide Compliance Reports that are expected to evidence a sizeable drop in non-compliance.
38.     Problem Bank/Bank Failure Resolution. In order to address the known problem banks in the
system, the Government and the NBM have already implemented a number of reform actions, and intend to
supplement these with further actions as required to resolve all of them within the next one-two years. The
recapitalization and sale of the Government's remaining ownership stake in the dominant Stopanska Banka



- 15 -
has already been completed. The NBM also has closed the deeply insolvent but systemically unimportant
Almako Bank, which is now under liquidation.  Furthermore, the NBM  has recently created and
operationalized a problem bank unit to handle problem banks that have been transferred to it by the regular
Banking Supervision Department (BSD). For the current group of problem banks, by early 2001 proactive
NBM enforcement is to bring about corrective action resulting in either upgrading of the banks concerned
back into the mainstream BSD, or application of more stringent and significantly stronger enforcement
action including the removal of managers. Where banks have capital adequacy ratios below the minimum
required 8 percent and meet the criteria, "prompt corrective action", as defined in the new banking law, will
take effect. Where banks are insolvent or below 25 percent of the minimum capital adequacy ratio
requirement, banks will be placed in receivership. To the extent that problem banks remain or new problem
banks emerge, the NBM during 2001-02 will apply to such banks the same actions as described above.
39.     With the help of the Bank and funding from the Netherlands, one of the big five accounting firms
in cooperation with the NBM has completed comprehensive diagnostic studies of four large banks (not
including Stopanska Banka).  The banks concerned are Komercijalna Banka, Makedonska Banka,
Stopanska Banka Bitola (all part of the former all-Yugoslav monobank but no longer directly state-owned)
and Tutunska Banka (privately owned). The diagnostic studies have helped the NBM to determine the true
solvency of these banks, as well as weaknesses in their internal policies, procedures and controls and their
compliance track record vis-a-vis its existing prudential regulations. Based on the conclusions of the
studies, the NBM will develop by late 2000 tailor made Corrective Action (CA) programs for all four banks
that will seek to address all identified weaknesses and deficiencies, introduce international banking best
practices and enhance the banks' compliance with NBM prudential regulations. As one of the four banks
has been identified by the NBM as a problem bank, the Letter Agreement for this bank will be designed
within the parameters for resolving banks in the problem bank unit outlined in paragraph 38 above. The
NBM will proactively monitor the banks' progress towards improving their financial condition under these
programs, and take further corrective action as necessary to ensure their successful completion by early
2002.
40.     Financial System Infrastructure Development.  The Government's objective is to create a
properly regulated and smoothly functioning banking system, as well as to lay the foundations for further
development of the embryonic capital market. Such banking system and capital markets development is
predicated on the presence of well-developed and modem financial system infrastructure. Therefore, the
Government, jointly with the NBM, ZPP and the MSE, has developed and initiated implementation of a
financial system infrastructure development program, which has as its objectives: (i) reform of ZPP; (ii)
development of effective movable and immovable collateral registration systems; and (iii) creation of a
Central Securities Depository/Central Share Registry (CSD/CSR) and a Delivery-versus Payment (DVP)-
based securities clearing & settlement system.
41.     Actions already completed include: (i) preparation of an EU PHARE financed feasibility study to
identify the reform options open with regards to ZPP; (ii) the passage by Parliament of a law creating a new
Central Register Organization (CRO) tasked with development and maintenance of movable and
immovable collateral registers, and a central legal entities database; (iii) operationalization, with the help of
Norwegian Government financed consultants, of a new movable pledge register; (iv) preparation of a
Norwegian Government financed feasibility study for the establishment of a new CSD/CSR to be linked
into a DVP-based securities clearing & settlement system, that is in compliance with applicable G30
recommendations and will use dematerialized share ownership records; and (v) the passage by Parliament
of amendments to the securities law that mandate the transfer of share registers from companies to the new
CSD/CSR and create the legal basis for the development of the new DVP-based securities clearing &
settlement system. Installation of new systems and software in the NBM and the banks for a new Real
Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) large value payments system, initial establishment of a new bank-owned
clearing house for small value payments and operationalization of a new electronic immovable pledge



- 16-
register are scheduled for early 2001. Additionally, ZPP intends to transfer all corporate customer Denar
current accounts to the banking system by late 2001. By that time, the new large and small value payment
systems operated by the NBM and the banking system, as well as the new CSD/CSR and DVP-based
securities clearing & settlement system are also scheduled to become fully operational.
42.     Private Enterprise Entry and the FDI Regime.  To facilitate new enterprise formation, the
Government has taken several important steps towards its goal of streamlining registration for all business
enterprises. A Committee for Simplifying Formalities (KOPOFO) was created in 1999 with a mandate to
improve the registration process. It has developed a new, shorter registration form, which is currently being
tested in the Bitola and Stip Registration Courts. Additionally, amendments to the company law have
already been enacted by Parliament in early 2000 that require a decision within eight days by authorized
Government bodies for certain regulatory approvals and licenses. This "consent by silence" provides an
incentive for Government bodies to streamline approval procedures and reduces barriers for businesses.
However, to address remaining deficiencies in this area (i.e., such as that the newly adopted registration
form does not substantially lessen the required information for registration, but rather seeks much the same
information in the form of attachments) further action is planned as follows:
* To create a company with limited liability, the Government will ensure that no additional filings
are required for registration beyond a simplified filing form. To accomplish this goal, the
Government intends to seek by late 2000/early 2001 Parliamentary approval of further amendments
to the company law to reduce and simplify the currently required attachments to the registration
form. The planned company law amendment will also introduce a requirement for only one
organizational document (i.e. charter) for business incorporation and registration - not separate and
overlapping articles of incorporation, charter, assembly of subscribers, and company registration
forms and entrance requirements.  For example, the current required information such as
reimbursable corporation costs, "special profit of a stockholder", "announcements that are of
importance" and "other issues important to the company's incorporation" will be eliminated.
*  The Government will establish a maximum time period for the approval or rejection of applications
for entry into the company registry.
* The Government will undertake efforts to eliminate investigations and subjective decision-making
by judges as to the merit of the registered enterprise.
43.     Preparatory activity with the help of EU PHARE financing is also underway for the creation of a
new electronic and centralized company register. The Registration Courts will operate the new company
register. The CRO will receive information electronically from the Registration Courts to allow it to
develop the planned integrated central legal entities database. The new company register is scheduled to by
fully operational by early 2002.
44.     As a first step in the FDI reform agenda, the Government has already completed, in August 1998,
a review of its existing FDI regime with the assistance of the Foreign Investment Advisory Service (FIAS).
This review has documented all the weaknesses affecting FDI in FYR Macedonia. Based on the findings of
this review, the Government: (i) has adopted a time-bound action plan to strengthen the FDI regime; and
(ii) has already implemented several of the study's specific recommendations, in consultation with FIAS,
including the amendments to the company law referred to in paragraph 42 above. The Government intends
to further reform the FDI legal and regulatory environment, and expects that Parliament will have adopted,
by early 2001, most of the new legislation and regulations required for this purpose as envisaged under the
time-bound action plan.
45.     Creditors' and Shareholders' Rights. To strengthen the legal rights of creditors to take action
against defaulting debtors, the Government has already prepared, and Parliament has already adopted
during the summer of 2000 amendments to the Bankruptcy Law and the existing Law on Pledges (security



- 17-
interests in movable property) that have: (i) simplified and accelerated bankruptcy and collateral
foreclosure proceedings; and (ii) closed loopholes previously open to debtors to delay creditor actions.
Additionally, a new mortgage law (for security interests in immovable property) which contains similar
accelerated foreclosure proceedings was also enacted by Parliament during the summer of 2000. As
outlined above, a new movable pledge register operated and maintained by the CRO is already operational,
and a new immovable pledge register is scheduled to become operational by early 2001. To complete the
reform agenda in this area, the Government intends at the same time to submit to Parliament a new
integrated law for both movable and immovable collateral that will replace the two separate laws for
movable and immovable security interests. This new law will incorporate further required changes
suggested by early implementation experience with the amended pledge and new mortgage law.
46.     To strengthen shareholders' rights, engender ownership consolidation and stimulate capital
markets development, the Government has, with the assistance of experts of the United States' Financial
Services Volunteer Corps (FSVC), prepared an initial set of amendments to the securities law that were
passed by Parliament in July 2000. These amendments mandate transfer of share books from companies to
the new CSD/CSR, and have put in place the legal provisions needed for the development of a DVP-based
securities clearing & settlement system. Additional amendments to the securities law will be needed in
future, however, to further strengthen the independence and enforcement powers of the SEC, insider
trading rules, issuer disclosure and listing requirements, and protection of minority shareholders. The
Government intends to prepare such further amendments and seek Parliamentary approval thereof by mid
2001. The Government also has requested assistance from USAID to help it with strengthening the
capacity of the SEC and the MSE as a Self Regulatory Organization (SRO).
47.     To support the above referred legal changes intended to strengthen creditor and shareholder
rights, and to allow banks and capital market participants to take meaningful financing decisions, the
Government also will undertake steps to further improve the quality of debtor and issuer financial
statements and information. Specifically, the following steps are planned:
MOF will mandate the establishment of a Self Regulatory Organisation (SRO) for professional
accountants and auditors, either separate from or through upgrading of the status of the existing
Association of Accountants, Finance Workers and Auditors. MOF will require all (future)
professional accountants and (currently licensed and future) auditors to be members of the SRO,
and will delegate to the SRO the responsibility for: (i) determining minimum professional
education standards; (ii) organizing professional training; (iii) administering professional
examinations, (iv) determining minimum ethical standards, and (v) disciplinary proceedings,
including revocation of SRO membership (which would lead to a reconsideration of a member's
accounting or audit license). MOF may reserve the right to appoint members to the Board of the
SRO, but practitioners will maintain a majority on the Board.
*  The SRO will be responsible for establishing and administering a professional examination
program, but for the initial members of the SRO it will be necessary to establish some
combination of grandfathering and external examination (as members of the examination
committee clearly cannot examine themselves). The USAID financed consultants currently
working with the Association or one of the European Institutes (e.g., the Institute of Chartered
Accountants in Scotland, which has already given some advice to MOF on this topic) may be
able to assist in this initial process.
*  FYR Macedonia has already adopted IAS as its national accounting standards. Many of the
people with the best understanding of IAS and who have a vested interest in keeping abreast of
the numerous additions and revisions to the standards will reside in the SRO. MOF will



- 18 -
therefore delegate to the SRO, in exchange for the right to be self regulating, the responsibility
for maintaining the FYR Macedonian version of IAS and for preparing explanatory drafts.
48.     The Government will prepare and ask Parliament to approve in early 2001 amendments to
existing accounting/auditing legislation that will allow for the creation of the SRO. It is expected that the
new SRO will be operational, and a majority of practicing accountants and auditors will have been certified
by the new SRO, by early 2002.
49.     Large Loss Making Enterprise Resolution. To substantially reduce the occurrence of losses, the
Government is committed to resolve the universe of approximately 40 large loss making enterprises that are
still partially or fully state- and/or socially owned, or for which the Government is a large creditor on
account of overdue claims, through either privatization/financial restructuring or closure. The Government
has already completed the necessary actions in this respect for several firms including Okta, a large oil
refinery, and Feni, a large nickel smelter and the largest loss making enterprise. However, the manner in
which some of these firms were sold has brought to light weaknesses in existing privatization methods
(e.g., the exemption of selected large loss making enterprises from privatization through regular tender
based procedures) and in the manner of determination of a need for Government support for politically and
socially 'sensitive' enterprises. In response, and in consultation with the Bank and with the help of a
privatization adviser specifically hired for this purpose, the Government prepared and the Parliament
approved in June 2000 amendments to the two key laws governing privatization of enterprises: the Law on
the Transformation of Enterprises with Social Capital and the Law for Sale of State Capital, by which the
non-transparent method of enterprise privatization via direct negotiation has been eliminated. Furthermore,
in June 2000 the Government placed a freeze on any negotiations in process using that method, with the
exception of Feni, according to pre-existing agreements with already identified investors.
50.     To guarantee transparency and economic justification in the decision process to sell, and as
applicable financially restructure, or close individual large loss making enterprises, all future Government
decisions related to the disposition of such enterpriscs will be taken based on additional binding guidelines,
formalized through two Government decrees that were issued in the summer of 2000 (Government Decree
No. 56/00 "On the Methods and Procedures for the Sale of Stocks and Shares issued to the Privatization
Agency", dated July 11, 2000; and Government Resolution No. 23-3734/1 "On the Action Plan for the
Restructuring of Loss-Makers", dated August 7, 2000).  These decrees (henceforth the "Resolution
Decrees"):
*  mandate the use of a structured Decision Support Methodology (DSM) encompassing financial
and economic cost-benefit analysis, as a tool to guide the process of future enterprise
privatization/financial restructuring and/or closures;
*  incorporate detailed procedures for international public tender based privatization of enterprises
using international best practices for maximum transparency in seeking, identifying, and qualifying
strategic investors best positioned to restructure and recapitalize the enterprises;
*  incorporate a requirement for independent audit of each enterprise addressed by the DSM, to
support the provision of financial coverage of corresponding costs out of the national budget, the
budget of the Privatization Agency (PA) or through donor aid;
* rationalize the financial restructuring of Government claims on the enterprises concerned on
account of tax, social contribution and energy arrears and BRA debts, and predicate such
restructuring on simultaneous privatization of any remaining Government held or controlled
ownership stakes (social/state ownership); and
define the institutional responsibilities for execution of enterprise-level decisions, delineating lines
of accountability between the Government's Committee for Structural Reforms (tasked with



- 19 -
resolving the loss makers), MOF/BRA/ES as Governmental creditors and the PA as privatization
implementation entity.
51.      Additionally, the Government has adopted a declining cap on public financial support for the
enterprise sector. The cap encompasses a broad spectrum of parameters representing direct and indirect
forms of Government support, including energy subsidies, forgiveness of overdue energy, tax and social
security arrears, forgiveness of overdue Government guaranteed corporate debt, tax holidays and pay-outs
on contingent liabilities assumed by the Government as part of enterprise sales. These parameters are
designed for ease of measurement and monitoring of the success being achieved with the resolution of not
only the specifically targeted loss making enterprises to be resolved as conditions for the proposed FESAL
11 but, with the exception of public utility enterprises, the entire enterprise sector regardless of ownership or
capital structure, or legal status. The cap can thus be seen as a top down policy approach intended to
rationalize Government support for the enterprise sector. The philosophy underlying this approach is that
the Government should in fact limit the provision of support to politically or socially sensitive enterprises;
a declining cap will trigger a rationalization of the current haphazard manner of providing support
including sometimes to profitable enterprises and to enterprises that cannot be characterized as politically
or socially sensitive. The exact stepwise (six monthly) reduction of Government support expressed as a
percentage of GDP - bringing the level of support down from nearly 4.5 percent of GDP in 1999 to
approximately 2.5 percent of GDP by year end 2003 - has been discussed and agreed during negotiations.
52.      To complement the top down policy approach to rationalizing Government support policy for the
enterprise sector, the Government intends to resolve a subset of remaining large individual loss making
enterprises. As a first step, the Government has already hired independent external consultants to
undertake financial and economic cost benefit analysis for the resolution options (sale or closure)
concerning Feni, and has already acted to resolve this company in accordance with the consultants'
recommendations. The Government intends to undertake a similar review using independent external
consultants for Jugohrom, the second largest loss maker, and has agreed to resolve5 this company in line
with the consultants' recommendations, as well as another four large loss-making enterprises by early 2001.
An additional 24 enterprises, whose 1999 losses together with Jugohrom's 1999 losses represent at least 2
percent of 1999 GDP, will be resolved by mid 2002.
53.      To speed up asset recovery and to ensure the BRA will act as a positive and supportive force for
meaningful loss making enterprise resolution going forward, the Government has agreed to prepare
amendments to the existing legislation on the BRA and will request Parliament to adopt these amendments
by early 2001. The amendments will seek to: (i) rename the BRA 'Asset Management Company' (AMC)
or the equivalent thereof, to indicate clearly that the BRA is in fact an asset management company and has
no role in problem bank or bank failure resolution; and (ii) abolish the role of the BRA in the process of
bank restructuring and establish an irrevocable 3 year liquidation provision for the BRA; implying that the
BRA should either have resolved its total existing asset portfolio by the end of the 3 year period or should
5A loss making enterprise will be deemed resolved when it is either: (i) completely privatized, i.e., the effective control
of the enterprise has been transferred to a strategic investor or investors, and any residual Government ownership has
been eliminated, in accordance with the applicable privatization legislation (as supported by the Government's
Resolution Decrees (see paragraph 50 above); (ii) financially restructured, i.e., the restructuring and/or forgiveness of
debt of the enterprise has taken place in accordance with the applicable privatization legislation (as supported by the
Government's Resolution Decrees), either under the Bankruptcy Law or under a voluntary out-of-court arrangement; or
(iii) closed, i.e., (a) the creditor committee constituted under the bankruptcy proceedings under the Bankruptcy Law has
taken a formal decision to forgo any reorganization options and to pursue the liquidation of the enterprise through the
sale of the assets to the highest bidder, or (b) the General Assembly of shareholders of the enterprise has taken a formal
decision in accordance with applicable company legislation to pursue the liquidation of the enterprise through the sale
of its assets to the highest bidder.



- 20 -
by that time sell off any remaining assets to the market and subsequently be liquidated. Additionally, the
Government has adopted a time bound plan to substantially reduce the BRA portfolio. This plan seeks to
segregate the BRA portfolio into three parts consisting of: (i) amounts due from Government agencies and
state-owned utilities, such as the Public Highways Fund and ES, which will be transferred to the MOF; (ii)
amounts due from the large loss making enterprises whose resolution is sought under the proposed FESAL
II; and (iii) the residual portfolio, for which the BRA will continue to pursue collection using existing
collection and sales techniques (e.g. sales of claims at discounts of 65-85 percent to originating debtors).
These segments account for approximately 30, 20 and 50 percent of the nominal value of the BRA portfolio
as of April 30, 2000. The plan will result in a reduction of the BRA portfolio to about one third of its April
2000 value by early 2002.



- 21 -
III.    THE PROPOSED SECOND FINANCIAL AND ENTERPRISE
SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN/CREDIT
A.    The Bank's Financial and Enterprise Sector Assistance Strategy
54.     Bank support for addressing the problems in the financial and enterprise sector was initiated with
the first Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit (FESAC I) approved by the Board in 1995.
With this loan, the Government's initial reform efforts in the two sectors were supported, including the
adoption of initial banking legislation and regulations, the break-up of the former all-Yugoslav monobank,
the first recapitalization of Stopanska Banka, enterprise privatization and the Special Restructuring
Program (SRP) for large state- and socially owned enterprises.
55.     To complement this top-down policy reform agenda, the Bank during the period 1996-97 also
provided two financial intermediary loans to FYR Macedonia, the first and second Private Sector
Development Projects (PSD I and II). These projects were intended to strengthen the institutional capacity
and credit appraisal skills of the banking system and to provide access to term finance for private sector
firms. PSD I was closed in October 1999 and PSD II closes by the end of 2001. A new Intensive Learning
style Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the PSD I was distributed to the Board in June 2000.
56.     The proposed FESAL II builds on the progress achieved during the first period after FYR
Macedonian independence, and seeks to significantly advance the financial and enterprise sector reform
agenda and the state of development of the financial system and the emerging private enterprise sector.
57.     Other parts of the Bank Group have also been active in supporting FYR Macedonia's financial
and enterprise sector development. During the last 2-3 years, IFC has proactively pursued an equity
investment in Stopanska Banka, and this effort has recently come to fruition with the recapitalization and
sale of the bank to the National Bank of Greece (NBG), IFC and EBRD (see Box 1). Additionally, IFC has
provided a loan to the FYR Macedonian telecommunications company and is contemplating participation in
its pending privatization. IFC also has started to operationalize the Balkan Enterprise Facility (now
renamed Southern Europe Enterprise Development Program), which was approved by the Board in January
2000, of which FYR Macedonia is one of the beneficiaries, and is preparing a micro-finance line of credit
to be channeled through a private commercial bank. FIAS has also been active early on with the
preparation of an FDI regime study that was completed in August 1998. Currently, FIAS is in an active
dialogue with the Government on follow-up actions to the study. MIGA recently has initiated a study of
the institutional infrastructure for the promotion of FDI and is advising the Government on best practice
examples and tailor made options for FYR Macedonia in this respect. Cooperation across the Bank Group
in the preparation of the FESAL II operation has been intensive, and the Bank's, IFC's, FIAS's and
MIGA's activities have been mutually supportive and complementary.
B.    FESAL II Objectives, Board Conditions and Tranche Triggers
58.     The main objective of the FESAL II is to support the Government's financial and enterprise
sector reform program, which seeks to significantly accelerate private sector growth through: (i)
strengthening the health of the banking system and improving the quality of bank intermediation; (ii)
improving the private sector business enabling environment; and (iii) resolving, through
privatization/financial restructuring or closure, the universe of large loss making enterprises that crowd out
private sector growth.



- 22 -
59.     The measures which the Government has already implemented and intends to take in the next 24
months to give effect to the strategy of financial and enterprise reform are summarized in Chapter 11 of this
report, the Government's Letter of Development Policy (Annex 4) and the Policy Matrix (Annex 5).
60.      Several key policy actions were completed before project appraisal, to test the Government's
resolve and commitment to the comprehensive reform agenda supported by the proposed FESAL 11. These
include:
  completion by the NBM jointly with the IMF and the Bank of a Basle Core Principles of Bank
Supervision Review (October 1999), and subsequent agreement by the NBM to strengthen its bank
supervision function;
*  recapitalization and sale by the Government of its remaining ownership stake in Stopanska Banka
to a foreign strategic investor; and
  sale or closure of selected large loss making enterprises, including engagement by the Government
of independent external consultants to review the options open to it concerning Feni, the largest
loss making enterprise, using financial and economic cost-benefit analysis and Terns of Reference
(TORs) agreed with the Bank.
61.     Notwithstanding the front loading of these critical policy actions, as the reforrn agenda being
pursued under this Loan/Credit is wide-ranging and in certain instances politically and socially sensitive, a
three tranche loan disbursement structure is proposed, with back loading of disbursements (US$10,006,900
equivalent to be disbursed upon Board approval, US$20,000,000 equivalent upon fulfillment of second
tranche release conditions, and US$20,000,000 equivalent upon fulfillment of third tranche release
conditions).
62.     The following conditions have been met prior to Board presentation, in addition to the signing by
the Government of a Letter of Intent for a new IMF PRGF/EFF program:
*  Passage by Parliament of new banking legislation that has: (i) introduced definitions,
allowable activities and - to the extent they are embedded in the banking law itself
rather than in NBM regulations-prudential rules that are in line with applicable EU
banking sector directives, IAS and BIS standards; (ii) strengthened bank corporate
governance; and (iii) introduced efficient problem bank and bank failure resolution
mechanisms that exclude the BRA from the process;
*  Passage by Parliament of legislation that creates a new properly designed and funded
deposit insurance scheme in line with the EU Directive on deposit insurance;
*  Preparation by the NBM  of an initial banking system wide Compliance showing the
extent of non-compliance with existing NBM prudential rules for all banks;
*  Operationalization by the NBM of a new problem bank unit6;
*  Completion of diagnostic studies of the largest four banks after Stopanska Banka under
TORs and undertaken by expert consultants satisfactory to the Bank;
6 Encompassing: (i) Finalizing and adopting the supervision manual for the problem bank unit, in a manner that is
consistent with the new banking law; (ii) Defining a "problem" bank (i.e., banks with a CAMEL rating of 4 or 5, and 3
rated banks which exhibit unstable characteristics and downward trends); (iii) Appointment of the Special Bank
Committee, in accordance with the supervision manual for problem banks; (iv) Formal transfer of responsibility for
specific banks from regular bank supervision units to the problem bank unit (including transfer of files, working papers,
reports of examination, correspondence, etc.); and (v) Assignment of problem banks to specific staff in the problem
bank unit and commencement of operations of the unit.



- 23 -
* Consultations with FIAS on the state of progress of the Government's action plan for the
streamlining of the FDI regime;
*  Adoption by Parliament of amendments to the company law and supporting regulations
simplifying company formation and registration;
*  Adoption by Parliament of amendments to the Bankruptcy Law and the Law on Pledges
(for security interests in movable property) that significantly strengthen creditors' rights,
accelerate bankruptcy and collateral foreclosure procedures, and close loopholes open to
debtors to delay creditor action;
*  Adoption by Parliament of a new Law on Mortgages (for security interests in immovable
property), including similar accelerated foreclosure proceedings;
*  Adoption by Parliament of amendments to the securities law that mandate the transfer of
share registries from companies to a new CSD/CSR, and that create the legal basis for the
development of a DVP-based securities clearing & settlement system;
*  Adoption by Parliament of amendments to privatization legislation that mandate the use
of 'best practice' international public tender based privatization methods for previously
exempted large loss making enterprises, and issuance of supporting Government decrees
("Resolution Decrees") detailing implementation guidelines;
e Adoption by the Government of a declining cap on the provision of direct and indirect
Government support to the enterprise sector;
* Completion by independent consultants of an external review, using financial analysis
and economic cost-benefit analysis and TORs agreed with the Bank, of the resolution
options (sale or closure) for Feni, the largest loss making enterprise, and subsequent
actual resolution by the Government of Feni in accordance with the consultants'
recommendations; and
* Government agreement to allow a similar independent external review for Jugohrom, the
second largest loss making enterprise, using financial analysis and economic cost-benefit
analysis and TORs agreed with the Bank.
63.     In order for the second and third tranches to be released, the macro-economic framework and
progress in implementing the measures specified in the Letter of Development Policy and Policy Matrix
should be satisfactory to the Bank and, in addition, the following specific core conditions from the Letter of
Development Policy and Policy Matrix stipulated in the Loan/Credit agreements should be met:
For second tranche release:
*  Signing and satisfactory initial implementation of CA programs between the NBM and
Komercijalna Banka, Makedonska Banka, Stopanska Banka Bitola and Tutunska Banka,
drawn up on the basis of the diagnostic studies for these banks and formalized through
Letter Agreements, that will seek to address all identified weaknesses and deficiencies,
introduce international banking best practices and enhance the banks' compliance with
NBM prudential regulations;
*  Submission by the Government to the Parliament of a new integrated law for both
movable and immovable collateral to replace the two separate laws7;
*  Adoption by Parliament of further amendments to the company law that will: (i) for
limited liability companies, ensure that no additional filings will be required for
registration beyond a simplified filing form; (ii) establish a maximum time period for the
7The new law should incorporate further required changes suggested by early implementation experience with the
amended Law on Pledges (for security interests in movable property) and the new mortgage law (for security interests
in immovable property).



- 24 -
approval or rejection of the application for entry into the company registry, (iii) eliminate
investigations and subjective decision-making by judges as to the merit of the registered
enterprise; and (iv) require only one organizational document (i.e. charter) for business
incorporation and registration 8;
*  Adoption by Parliament of amendments to existing accounting/auditing legislation that
will mandate, through a time-bound action plan, the creation of a SRO for professional
accountants and auditors;
*  Compliance with the agreed declining cap on the provision of direct and indirect
Government support for the enterprise sector;
*  Resolution of Jugohrom, in accordance with the recommendations of the independent
external consultants undertaking a review of resolution options under TORs agreed with
the Bank, and of an additional four large loss making enterprises out of an agreed list of
eight9 through either privatization/financial restructuring or closure; and
*  Adoption of amendments to the BRA  law  that will: (i) rename the BRA  Asset
Management Company (AMC) or the equivalent thereof, to clarify that the BRA will not
have any role in problem bank/bank failure resolution; and (ii) abolish the role of the
BRA in the process of bank restructuring and create an irrevocable 3 year liquidation
provision for the BRA.
8 Elimination of overlapping articles of incorporation, charter, assembly of subscribers, and trade registry formns and
entrance requirements (e.g., the current required information such as reimbursable corporation costs, "special profit of a
stockholder", "announcements that are of importance" and "other issues important to the company's incorporation" will
be eliminated).
9Zletovo Topilnica, FAS 11 October, Sasa, Zletovo Rudnici, Zletovo Batteries, Goteks, Porcelanka and Goce Delcev.



- 25 -
For third tranche release:
*  Submission by the NBM of an updated banking system wide Compliance Report showing
significantly improved compliance with NBM prudential regulations by the banks from
the level of compliance on March 31, 2000;
*  Satisfactory implementation of the CA programs by the four banks mentioned above;
*  Transfer of all corporate customer Denar current accounts from  ZPP to banking
institutions;
*  Enactment by Parliament of the new unified collateral law;
*  Compliance with the agreed declining cap on the provision of direct and indirect
Government support for the enterprise sector;
*  Resolving through either privatization/financial restructuring or closure, the remaining
four large loss making enterprises on the list of eight to be resolved as a condition for
second tranche, plus an additional fourteen named large loss making enterprises10, plus
another six unnamed additional large loss making enterprises out of an agreed list of 40
enterprises  whose total 1999 losses including the losses of the enterprises resolved as
conditions for first, second and third tranche release add up to at least 2 percent of 1999
GDP; and
*  Action by the BRA to reduce its loan portfolio as follows: (i) transfer of amounts due
from Government agencies and state owned utilities to MOF; (ii) financial restructuring
of amounts due from the large loss making enterprises whose resolution is sought under
the proposed FESAL II; and (iii) reduction of the residual portfolio (as of December 31,
1999 plus the four loans transferred to the BRA as part of the sale of Stopanska Banka in
early 2000) by 40 percent in value terms and 35 percent in terms of the number of
borrowers, through the use of existing sales and collection techniques (i.e., maintaining
the existing discount policy 2), all as evidenced by independent external auditors
satisfactory to the Bank.
C.      Project Implementation
64.     The proposed FESAL II, to be financed by the IBRD (US$30,3 10,000) and IDA (US$20,000,000
equivalent), would be implemented by the MOF of FYR Macedonia. The Loan/Credit funds would be
released in three tranches:
*  US$10,006,900 equivalent following Board presentation (US$6,006,900 IBRD and US$4,000,000
equivalent IDA),
.  US$20,000,000 equivalent upon fulfillment of specific second tranche release conditions
(US$12,000,000 IBRD and US$8,000,000 equivalent IDA), and
.  the remaining US$20,000,000 equivalent upon fulfillment of specific third tranche release
conditions (US$12,000,000 IBRD and US$8,000,000 equivalent IDA).
10 Frinko, Frotirka, Hemteks, NIP Nova Makedonija, Toranica mine, Gazela, ZIK Kocansko Pole, Astibo Holding and
six associated companies.
I Documented in the FESAL 11 Appraisal Mission Aide Memoire.
12 Maximum 65 percent discount for foreign currency loans, 75 percent for non-agricultural Denar loans and 85 percent
for agricultural Denar loans for agricultural borrowers.



- 26 -
65.     The MOF has appointed the Undersecretary to the Minister of Finance as FESAL II Program
Manager who will ensure overall project coordination among all the agencies involved in the financial and
enterprise sector reform program: the Ministries of Finance, Economy and Justice, the PA, the NBM, ZPP
and the MSE. Progress reports will be provided by the Program Manager to the Bank on a quarterly basis
during project implementation. The proposed Loan/Credit closing date is December 31, 2002.
D.      Financial Management and Reporting
66.     Once the Loan/Credit is approved by the Board of the Bank, the Government will open and
maintain two Special Deposit Accounts at the NBM, one for the Bank Loan and one for the IDA Credit.
Upon Bank notification of tranche release, the Government will submit simplified withdrawal applications,
against which the Bank/IDA will disburse the Loan/Credit proceeds into the respective Special Deposit
Accounts. The FESAL II Program Manager will be responsible for submitting to the Bank the simplified
Applications for Withdrawal form upon receiving clearance from the Bank/IDA that all conditions have
been met for a tranche release. If after deposit into these accounts, the proceeds of the Loan/Credit are
used for ineligible purposes as defined in the Loan/Credit Agreement, the Bank/IDA will require the
Government either to: (i) return the amounts to the Loan/Credit account for use for eligible purposes; or (ii)
refund the amounts directly to the Bank/IDA, in which case the Bank/IDA will cancel equivalent
undisbursed amounts of the Loan/Credit.
67.     The proposed FESAL II proceeds will be disbursed against satisfactory implementation of the
financial and enterprise sector adjustment program, outlined in the Letter of Development Policy and the
Policy Matrix, including compliance with stipulated tranche release conditions and maintenance of a
satisfactory macroeconomic framework. Disbursements will not be linked to any specific procurement
actions or imports; hence, evidence thereof will not be needed to support disbursement requests.
Procurement requirements are not relevant to the planned tranched disbursements. Loan/Credit funds will
not, however, be eligible for certain purposes as noted above. It is the Government's intention to use
Loan/Credit proceeds exclusively for the payment of foreign debt service obligations falling due over the
course of the FESAL II implementation period.
68.     The FESAL II Program Manager in the MOF will maintain records of Loan/Credit activities,
disbursements, and such other files as may be appropriate for audit purposes. The MOF, representing the
Borrower, shall arrange for periodic audits of the project, as indicated in the Loan/Credit Agreements and
supplementary Bank communications on audits. The Bank/IDA retain the right to require an independent
audit by auditors acceptable to the Bank/IDA.
E.      Poverty Implications
69.     The FESAL II reform agenda envisages resolution of large loss making enterprises through
privatization/financial restructuring or closure. These resolution actions are expected to have an overall
positive impact on the FYR Macedonian economy as crowding out of the private sector by large loss
making firms will cease, and as enterprise sector performance will significantly improve. However, in the
short run, the enterprise resolution effort is likely to negatively affect employment, as many of the workers
currently employed by the firms concerned could be laid off due to labor restructuring and firm closures.
70.     The 1998 CAS prioritizes alleviation of poverty and developing human capital by targeting
benefits of social assistance programs, and continuing to upgrade front-line social services. In accordance
with these CAS objectives, the Bank's Board approved a Social Support Project in June 1999. The Social
Support Project is designed to complement the FESAL II enterprise sector reform agenda and to partially
mitigate the short term negative social and economic impact of large loss making enterprise resolution.
Specifically, the project includes: (i) a Labor Restructuring Component, which provides financing for



- 27 -
severance payments to workers displaced by labor shedding and firm closures, monitoring of social support
programs to ensure that aid is provided to the most vulnerable, and assistance to further develop
employment services; (ii) a Labor Redeployment Component, facilitating the redeployment of workers
displaced by labor restructuring and firm closures, the conflict in Kosovo, and the long-term unemployed
and first time job seekers, into the labor force; and (iii) a Social Benefits Component, designed to improve
the targeting efficiency of social assistance programs and to develop the capacity of the Minister of Labor
and Social Protection to evaluate social protection and labor market programs in order to improve program
effectiveness.
71.     Thus, the Bank has secured, through the Social Support Project, the provision of necessary
income support and labor redeployment and social services to the affected segments of the population, in
order to partially mitigate the negative short term social impact associated with the implementation of the
FESAL II enterprise sector reform agenda. As and when the pace of enterprise restructuring picks up, as
evidenced by the successful implementation of the FESAL II reform agenda and fast disbursement of the
remaining funds under the Social Support Project, the Bank will consider providing further support as
necessary for labor restructuring. The Bank is committed to continue to work closely with the Government
to ensure that any social issues are properly addressed.
F.      Environmental Impact
72.     The Government recognizes that the enterprise sector reform agenda, particularly privatization
and/or closure of industrial enterprises, involves certain environmental issues that need to be properly
addressed. Although the large-scale privatization in the enterprise sector has been largely completed, with
the exception of the relatively small number of state and/or socially owned enterprises that will be
privatized or closed under the proposed FESAL II, many environmental issues still remain unresolved in
the enterprise sector as a whole. Therefore, the Government intends to systematically address the issues of
environmental compliance and industrial pollution in the sector, and implement a reform agenda that would
encompass improvement of the environment-related legislative framework, regulatory and institutional
capacity, and mitigate the negative impact of the previous environmental policies and practices in the
enterprise sector. The Government expects to implement the follow-up environmental reform agenda,
targeting the full range of environmental policy and regulatory adjustments, with the assistance of the Bank
and other international organizations, including the EU. In order to reduce health risks from environmental
hazards, the Government also intends to seek assistance for developing a mitigation mechanism through a
possible future lending operation supported by the Bank. In accordance with the Bank's Operational
Directive on Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01, Annex E), the proposed operation has been placed in
the Financial Intermediary category (FI).



- 28 -
IV.   BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.      Benefits
73.     The main benefit of the proposed Loan/Credit would be faster private sector growth and job
creation, supported by a healthier and more developed financial system.  Overall enterprise sector
performance is expected to improve significantly. This improvement may come partly through sales of
large firms to strategic investors with strong management and investment capacity, and partly through
improved financial discipline and more productive use of assets as a result of more proactive creditor
action. Additionally, formation of new private sector firms is expected to accelerate in response to an
improved business enabling environment and an increased supply of productive assets expected to be
released from loss making firms as part of enterprise restructuring efforts. The program is expected to lead
to a decline in the current very high levels of nominal and real interest rates and to a concomitant increase
in domestic savings and financial sector intermediation, generating the much needed working capital and
investment finance needed by the private sector to modernize and expand their businesses. The enhanced
quality of non-lending financial services that is likely to result from the entry into the banking sector of
more sophisticated foreign banks is also expected to benefit the corporate sector through improved
financial management and easier access to modem financial restructuring techniques and merger &
acquisition expertise.
B.      Risks
74.     The main risk to the proposed FESAL II is eventual weakening of political commitment to resolve
large loss making enterprises, many of which are politically/socially sensitive because of their importance
to employment. This risk is partially mitigated by the Bank's Social Support Project, which was approved
by the Board in the summer of 1999. This project will finance severance payments for redundant workers
as well as labor redeployment and retraining schemes. If warranted by the pace of enterprise sector reform
going forward and the speed of draw-down of funds under the Social Support Project, the Bank will
consider further support for labor restructuring as necessary to further mitigate this risk. Weak institutional
capacity could also undermine implementation of the reform program. This risk is mitigated by several
accompanying donor funded technical assistance projects (details on donor funded projects that underpin
the FESAL II's financial and enterprise sector adjustment program are provided in Annex 7). Additional
risks could arise from renewed instability in the region, although this risk has been substantially reduced as
a result of recent political events in FR Yugoslavia, and is also further mitigated by the regional
development efforts under the various South Eastern Europe initiatives.
C.    Lessons Learned from Past Adjustment Operations
75.     The ICR prepared at the conclusion of the FESAC I (Credit No. 2721-MK) noted several key
lessons learned during the implementation of that project, which supported the Government's initial
financial and enterprise sector reform efforts undertaken during 1995-97. In addition, the experience in
FYR Macedonia since the end of the FESAC I, as well as with other FESALs in the Europe and Central
Asia (ECA) Region, suggest that certain approaches be built into the proposed FESAL II in order to ensure
that the adjustment in the financial and enterprise sectors is as timely and effective as possible.
76.     Obiective. measurable reform actions should be sought, rather than the promise of future actions.
A key lesson learned from the FESAC I in FYR Macedonia and a previous FESAL in Romania is to set
objectively verifiable performance criteria, with specific implementation time tables. In the past, the
release of tranches against promises of future action has proven to be ineffective. The policy matrix for the
proposed FESAL II contains conditions based on discrete, objective actions on the part of the Borrower,



- 29 -
such as the resolution of specific problem banks, resolution of specific large loss making enterprises and
creation of specific financial system infrastructure components.
77.     Clear understanding on the part of the Borrower of the Bank's reform expectations is critical. It
is very important that the Government clearly understands the reform objectives and philosophy of the
Bank, and the reasons why the project conditions are designed as they are. To ensure such understanding,
in the case of the proposed FESAL 11, three appraisal conditions were formulated to identify potential
misunderstandings early on. These conditions have served to identify that the Government initially had a
different view of what "sale or closure" of loss making enterprises means, with the potential effect that its
proposed actions would negate the substance of the conditions, leaving only the form. Through intensive
policy discussions, a need for an onsite privatization adviser was identified during project preparation.
This adviser was able to bring the Government's approach in line with the Bank's expectations, and to help
formulate the policy actions for large loss making enterprise resolution.
78.     The Bank and the Borrower should be willing to let the timing of Board presentation and tranche
releases be determined by demonstrated reform commitment. ICRs for FESALs to other countries in the
ECA Region are consistent in their assertions that the commitment of the Borrower to the objectives of the
financial and enterprise sector reform program is absolutely critical to its success. Political will is
obviously extremely important, if the difficult decisions required in enterprise restructuring are to be made.
In the past, political will has either been lacking, or inconsistent. Preparation of the FESAL II has been
based on the premise that the Government remains in control of the timing of Board presentation and
release of Loan/Credit tranches; in effect, when, and only when, the Government musters sufficient
political will to fulfill the conditionalities it has agreed to, then disbursements can proceed. The underlying
purpose of the FESAL 1I has been extensively discussed and negotiated with the Borrower to ensure that it
understands, and is committed to, the implementation of the financial and enterprise sector reform program.
79.     Consistent and complementary design elements promote success. Previous FESALs in the ECA
Region have shown that an integrated approach is needed to address the interrelated issues of banking
system weakness and loss making enterprises. The FESAL II design contains a number of complementary
elements which work together to achieve this objective. The recent sale of Stopanska Banka, the largest
commercial bank in FYR Macedonia, to a foreign strategic investor will in itself act to limit the access to
credit by non-viable enterprises. The requirement for the strengthening of bank regulation and supervision
on the part of the NBM and the independent diagnostic studies and CA programs required for the four large
banks will also have the effect of limiting the provision of credit to marginal borrowers by the commercial
banks. Furthermore, the use of a declining cap on Government support for the enterprise sector, a design
feature also successfully used in a Hungarian FESAL, serves to underpin the banking system reform efforts
by ensuring transparency in the provision of public support and eliminating the need for further banking
system involvement in supporting politically and socially sensitive enterprises. Finally, the reduction and
eventual elimination of Government ownership and other involvement in large loss making enterprises is
buttressed by the requirement that the BRA take aggressive action to resolve its portfolio of bad loans over
the next three years.



- 30 -
V.  RECOMMENDATION
80.     I am satisfied that the proposed Loan/Credit comply with the Articles of Agreement of the
Bank/IDA and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the Loan/Credit.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Sven Sandstrom
Washington D.C.
November 17, 2000



Annex 1
Page 1 of 2
Macedonia, FYR - Key Economic Indicators
Estimate               Projected
Indicator                 1995      1996      1997     1998      1999     2000      2001      2002
National accounts (as % of GDP)
Gross domestic producta                       100      100       100       100      100       100       100      100
Agriculture                                  13        13        13       12        11       11        11        10
Industry                                     32        32       34        35        35       34        34       35
Services                                     54        55       53        53       54        55        55       55
Total Consumption                              89       90        91        91       93        96       94        92
Gross domestic investment                      21       20        22        23       19        22       23        23
Government investment                         3         2         1        2         3        4         4        5
Private investment                           18        18       21        21        16       18        19       19
(includes increase in stocks)
Exports (GNFS)b                                33       28        38       43        44        41       42        43
Imports (GNFS)                                 43       39        51        58       56        57       57        57
Gross domestic savings                         II       10         9         9        7         4         6        8
Gross national savings'                        15       14        16        15       11        13        14       16
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product                      4449      4422      3714     3495       3432     3729      4052     4407
(US$ million at current prices)
GNP per capita (US$, Atlas method)            840      920      1090      1290         .        .
Real annual growth rates (%, calculated from 1996 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices    -1.1       1.2       1.4      2.9       2.7       6.0      6.0       6.0
Gross Domestic Income                       2.1       1.0       0.8      2.4      -0.9       5.8      5.9       5.9
Real annual per capita growth rates (%, calculated from 1996 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices     -2.1      0.5       0.6      2.0       2.1       5.5      5.4       5.4
Total consumption                          -3.3       1.7       1.1      2.4       1.4       3.9      3.1       2.9
Private consumption                         -5.2      2.2       2.2      2.2       2.6       4.3      3.2       2.9
Balance of Payments (US$ millions)
Exports (GNFS)b                             1359     1301      1365     1453      1407      1515     1696      1895
Merchandise FOB                          1204      1147      1237     1322      1175      1319     1484      1666
Imports (GNFS)b                            1780      1773     1896      2025      1892     2110      2287     2477
Merchandise FOB                          1439      1464      1623     1722      1582      1795     1968      2136
Resource balance                           -421      -472      -531      -572     -486      -595      -591     -583
Netcurrenttransfers                          228      213       291      300       384       378      408       439
Current account balance                    -222      -288      -277      -309     -137      -315      -308     -296
Net private foreign direct investment         10       11        16       175       35
Long-term loans (net)                         30       36       109       154       87       103      149       161
Official                                    105       80       102       60        60        66       78        77
Private                                    -75       -44         7       94        27        38       72        84
Other capital (net, incl errors & ommisslons)  255    220       142       24       138
Change in reservesd                         -72        21        10       -44     -123      -155      -65       -65
Memorandum items
Resource balance (%of GDP)                   -9.5    -10.7    -14.3    -16.4    -14.1    -15.9    -14.6    -13.2
Annual growth rates (in terms of US$)
Merchandise exports (FOB)                   10.9      -4.7      7.8       6.9    -11.1      12.3      12.5     12.2
Primary
Manufactures                                 ..        ..       ..        ..        ..       ..
Merchandise imports (CIF)                   13.1       1.7     10.9       6.1      -7.5     13.4       9.6      8.6
(Continued)



Annex I
Page 2 of 2
Macedonia, FYR - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Estimate               Projected
Indicator                 1995     1996      1997     1998     1999     2000      2001     2002
Public finance (as % of GDP at market prices)'
Current revenues                           37.4     35.7      34.9     33.9     36.2      34.9     36.6     37.1
Current expenditures                       36.1     34.7      33.9     33.8     35.5      32.3     33.5     33.5
Current account surplus (+) or deficit (-)  1.3      1.0       1.0      0.1      0.7       2.6      3.1       3.6
Capital expenditure                         2.8      2.3       1.4      1.9      2.6       3.5      4.1       4.6
Foreign financing                           1.0      0.3       0.3      2.1      3.4       2.3      2.0       1.5
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP                                     11.1     10.6      12.6     14.1     18.0      18.4     19.3      20.4
Growth of M2 (%)                          -63.1     -2.4      21.4     15.4     31.3      12.6     13.4      14.6
Privatesectorcreditgrowth/                   ..       ..        ..   141.6      99.9    100.0    100.0    100.0
total credit growth (%)
Price index( YR96 =100)
Real exchange rate(US$/LCU)'              103.8    100.0      85.4     75.1     76.0      76.0     76.0      76.0
Real interest rates                       -14.2      5.9      10.0      6.0      7.4       6.9      6.9      6.9
Consumerpriceindex (%change)                8.6     -0.7       3.3      0.8     -0.4       2.0      2.0      2.0
GDPdeflator(%change)                       17.1      2.9       3.4      0.2      0.2       4.0      3.0       2.0
a. GDP at factor cost
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Consolidated general government.
f. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.



Annex la
Page 1 of 1
Macedonia, FYR - Key Exposure Indicators
Estimate            Projected
Indicator              1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002
Totaldebtoutstandingand                1206    1389    1265    1514    1568    1616    1666    1718
disbursed (TDO) (US$m)'
Net disbursements (US$m)a               304      -75     144     267       54      48      50       51
Total debt service (TDS)                141      144     120     124      183     203     201      186
(US$m)a
Debt and debt service indicators
(%)
TDO/XGSb                              84.9    99.9    86.7    98.3    73.3    69.4    65.8    63.6
TDO/GDP                               27.1    31.4    34.1    43.3    45.7    43.3    41.1    39.0
TDS/XGS                               10.1    10.7      8.4     8.2     8.5      9.5     9.4     8.7
IBRD exposure indicators (%)
IBRD DS/public DS                     20.2    18.8    14.7    11.1      8.4      7.5     6.3     6.5
Preferred creditor DS/public          43.5    35.6    39.7    44.9    53.2    46.9    37.9    31.1
DS (%)'
IBRD DS/XGS                            1.9      1.5     0.9     0.8     0.5      0.5     0.4     0.4
IBRD TDO (US$m)d                       94      81      92      115     110      117     124     128
Of which present value of
guarantees (US$m)
Share of IBRD portfolio(%)             0.1     0.1      0.2     0.2      ..
IDA TDO (US$m)d                         84     125     145      179     223     261     301      321
IFC (US$m)
Loans                                                          25.0     7.0
Equity and quasi-equity /c                                              0.3      4.6
MIGA
MIGA guarantees (US$m)
a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed, use of IMF credits and net short-
term capital.
b. "XGS" denotes exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances.
c. Preferred creditors are defined as IBRD, IDA, the regional multilateral development banks, the IMF, and the
Bank for International Settlements.
d. Includes present value of guarantees.
e. Includes equity and quasi-equity types of both loan and equity instruments.



Annex 2
Page 1 of 2
FYR Macedonia
Status of Bank Group Operations (Operation Portfolio)
(as of March 31, 2000)a/
Difference Between
Expected and Actual
Supervision Rating        Original Amt. In US$ M                Disbursements'
Board Date    Active                                    Development    Implementation   IBRD       IDA    Cancel.   Undisb.   Orig.    Frm Rev'd
Fiscal Year   Projects                                   Objectives        Progress
1996         P036089       Health Sector Transi.             S                S                0    16.9         0      12.06    12.92             0
1996         P010001       Mk. Priv. Farmer Support          S                S                0    7.9          0       3.68     4.18             0
1998         P038391       Education Rehab.                  S                S                0       5         0       0.58    0.633             0
1998         P038399       Irrigation Rehab.                 S                S               7.5      5         0       10.6      1.97         1.34
1998         P042399       Power                             S                S               35       0         0      29.45     3.51             0
1998         P034609       PSD llb/                         U                 U               25       0         0      12.37    -2.26             0
1999         P065834       Emg. Recovery                    HS                S                0      50         0       1.34      1.39            0
1999         P058056       Ref. T. A.                        S                S                0       1         0       0.67     0.57             0
1999         P038392       Social Sectors Adj.               S                S                0      29         0      14.51    14.43             0
1999         P066221       Social Support                    S                S                0      10         0       9.62     2.42             0
1999         P050589       Transport                         S                S               32       0         0       19.48    5.95             0
TOTAL                                                             99.5  124.8         0    113.85    45.71           1.34
Active Projects        Closed Projects    Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):    96.88                      558.71              655.59
of which has been repaid:             0.00                    294.58              294.58
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:   207.14                      248.10              455.24
Amount sold:                          0.00                    0.86                0.86
of which has been repaid:             0.00                    0.86                0.86
Total Undisbursed:                     113.85                 0.00                113.85
lIntended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
a/ Subsequent to this report, a Trade and Transportation Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project in the amount of US$9.3 million equivalent was approved in July 2000.
b/ PSD 11 supervision ratings were changed from Unsatisfactory to Satisfactory after the June 2000 supervision mission.



Annex 2
Page 2 of 2
FYR Macedonia
Status of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 3/00
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                      Disbursed
FY Approval  Company              Loan   Equity  Quasi Partic  Loan  Equity  Quasi Partic
1999         Alkaloid             0.0    0.0    8.3   0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0
1998         Macedonian Telecom   0.0    0.0    25.0  25.0   0.0   0.0    25.0  25.0
1997         Nikol-Fert           3.8    0.0    0.0   0.0    3.3   0.0    0.0   0.0
1997         Makedonijaturist     3.7    0.0    0.0   0.0    1.7   0.0    0.0   0.0
1997         Masinomont           0.7    0.0    0.0   0.0    0.7   0.0    0.0   0.0
1999         SEAF/Macedonia       0.0    2.5    0.0   0.0    0.3   0.0    0.0   0.0
1997         Teteks               1.2    0.0    0.0   0.0    1.2   0.0    0.0   0.0
2000         Stopanska Banka      0.0    9.5    0.0   0.0    0.0   5.5    0.0   0.0
Total Portfolio     9.4    12.0   33.3  25.0   6.9   5.8    25.0  25.0



Annex 3
Page I of I
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROCESSING EVENTS
I.    Time Taken to Prepare and Process the Project   25 months
2.    Project Prepared by                              Government of FYR Macedonia with
Bank assistance
3.    Appraisal Mission                                June 8, 2000
4.    Negotiations                                     August 28, 2000
5.    Planned Board Presentation                       December 14, 2000
6.    Planned Date of Effectiveness                   January 2, 2001
7.    Planned Closing Date                             December 31, 2002



REPUBLIC OF MACEDONLA
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
S ko pj e
To:    The World Bank Resident Office in the Republic of Macedonia
Attn:   Mrs. Marie-Hkirne Bricknell, Resident Rcprcscntative
Resident Mission inMacedonia
Europe and Ccntral Asia Region
Fax:   117-627
November 17, 2000
Dear Mrs. Bricknell,
Please find enclosed Letter of Development Policy signed by Mr. Nikola
Gruevski, Minister of Finance and Mr. Ljube Trpeski, Govemor of the National Bank of
the Republic of Macedonia Tegarding FESAT, T1 arrangemeot.
We would appreciate to have your assistance in dcivcring this letter to Mrs.
Marie Rene Bakkcer, WB and FESAL TI Program Team Leader.
Sincerely,
Zoran Stavreski
Undersecretary in the Ministry of Fi






Annex 4
Page 1 of 13
REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Skopje, November 17, 2000
Mr. James Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
Washington DC 20433
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn,
1.  With the Kosovo crisis and the upheaval it caused for our economy and society now
largely behind us, the Government of the Republic of Macedonia has decided to embark on a
comprehensive multi-year macroeconomic stabilization and structural reform program. This
program seeks to put the Republic of Macedonia on a higher sustainable growth path with a view
to alleviate wide-spread unemployment and poverty, as well as position the Republic of
Macedonia to be the first Balkan European Union (EU) accession candidate. We have agreed
with the IMF on the framework for a macroeconomic stabilization and structural reform program
as the basis for a new 3-year Poverty Reduction and Growth/Extended Fund Facility
(PRGF/EFF) Arrangement, which targets: (i) continued macroeconomic stability through
appropriate fiscal, monetary and exchange rate policy measures; and (ii) sustained higher GDP
growth through structural reform measures that will further consolidate private ownership and
strengthen market-based institutions, as well as promote new investments and job creation.
2.   Additionally, we have structured a multi-year financial and enterprise sector reform effort
that is focused on addressing the most urgent issues in the two sectors, namely: (i) strengthening
the health of our banking system and improving the quality of bank intermediation; (ii)
improving the business enabling environment for private sector firms; and (iii) resolving,
through sale or closure, the universe of large loss making enterprises that crowd out private
sector growth. In support of our multi-year financial and enterprise sector reform program, we
would like to request the Bank to provide a Second Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment
Loan (FESAL II).
Country and Sector Background
3.  In 1994, we launched a program of stabilization and structural reform with the support of
international financial institutions and donors. The budget deficit was reduced from 13 percent
of GDP in 1993 to less than 1.5 percent in 1996 and 1997, consumer price inflation was brought
down from over 240 percent to less than 3 percent per year during the same period, and relations
with Paris and London Club creditors were normalized. Along with the implementation of a
macroeconomic stabilization program, we have been committed to structural transformation, and
have implemented, since 1994, an extensive reform agenda in the enterprise and financial



Annex 4
Page 2 of 13
sectors. By mid-1998, over 90 percent of industrial, commercial and mining enterprises (in
terms of the number of enterprises) had either been privatized or were in the process of being
privatized. Twenty-five of the largest loss-making enterprises in the economy were downsized
and divided into more than 140 separate business units. Changes in the legislative system were
also initiated to establish national property registries, prohibit monopolies and facilitate market
economy based bankruptcy proceedings. Efforts to develop the financial system included the
break-up of the former Yugoslav mono-bank system and a first round of financial restructuring
of Stopanska Banka, as well as the creation of the Macedonian Stock Exchange. The Bank
supported these reformns with the First Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit
(FESAC I).
4.   Despite these initial reformns, the recovery of output and employment has been slow to
materialize. Output declined in 1994-1995, leaving the Republic of Macedonia one of the
poorest countries in Central and Eastern Europe. Unemployment remains exceptionally high at
over 32.5 percent, and is a key factor in rising poverty. The formal enterprise sector, which
accounts for almost 30 percent of GDP and is dominated by privatized firms and remaining state-
and/or socially owned firms, has failed to achieve positive growth. Since 1995, the sector has
registered a decline in both value added and value of output per worker. As a result of the
predominance of management and employee buyouts in the privatization process, the enterprise
sector is characterized by highly fragmented ownership -- often more intent on protecting
employment than on improving enterprise performance -- as well as insufficient inflow of new
management skills and fresh capital. Lack of financial discipline and adequate corporate
governance arrangements have resulted in continuing enterprise losses and a build-up of inter-
enterprise arrears and non-performing loans in the banking system. Many enterprises, including
several large state- and/or socially owned enterprises, are unwilling or unable to pay their debts
to banks and suppliers, but are in a position to delay or frustrate creditors' efforts to collect
payments, seize collateral or initiate bankruptcy.
5.  In the banking system, the functioning of most banks is undermined by poor governance
and ownership structures, inadequate management and controls, a high incidence of insider and
connected lending, weak capital and deficiencies in the payments system. Approximately 40
percent of the total credit exposure of the banking system remains rated substandard, doubtful, or
loss, even after the recent recapitalization and sale of our largest bank (Stopanska Banka) to a
strategic foreign investor. A lack of competition has allowed large banks to impose a high
nominal lending interest rate spread to cover non-performing loans, resulting in very high real
interest rates for the banks' clients (around 20 percent per annum for short term loans). Reform
of the legal and regulatory system for banks remains incomplete, and enforcement of existing
prudential rules by the National Bank of Macedonia (NBM) is still weak.
6.   To a significant extent, these poor results are attributable to a series of severe external
shocks our country experienced with the imposition of trade sanctions on Yugoslavia, the
blockage of the border with Greece and more recently the war in Kosovo. The embargo on
Yugoslavia, the Republic of Macedonia's second largest export market, resulted in a major trade
disruption. Export losses, which had already been apparent in 1998, increased by 13 percent in
1999 and hit overall industrial production hard (the total decline in industrial production in the
first five months of 1999, compared to the same period of 1998, was 12.5 percent). The 1999
conflict in Kosovo also threatened to undermine our hard-won macroeconomic stability.



Annex 4
Page 3 of 13
Additionally, the massive inflow of Kosovo refugees to the Republic of Macedonia imposed a
heavy financial burden on our country. At the same time, we realize that our weak economic
performance and the very lackluster supply response are also partially attributable to the
incomplete nature of structural reforms, especially in the critical enterprise and financial sectors.
That is why, despite the enormous challenges we face, we are committed to the implementation
of a comprehensive sectoral reform program that will strengthen the banking system, improve
the business enabling environment and resolve the universe of large loss making firms, with a
view to significantly accelerate private sector and GDP growth.
Our Financial and Enterprise Sector Reform Program
7.   Our reform efforts in the financial sector focus on: (i) the legal framework for the banking
system; (ii) bank regulation and supervision; (iii) problem bank/bank failure resolution; and (iv)
financial system infrastructure development. Our reform efforts in the enterprise sector focus
on: (i) private enterprise entry and the Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) regime; (ii) creditors'
and shareholders' rights; and (iii) resolution, through privatization and if applicable financial
restructuring or closure, of large loss making enterprises. In the paragraphs below, we elaborate
on the specific sectoral reform measures already taken and still to be undertaken that form the
basis for our request to support our efforts with a US$50,310,000 equivalent FESAL II.
8.   Legal Framework for the Banking System. The reform of banking system legislation
started in the Republic of Macedonia with the 1993 Law on Banks and Saving Houses, which
was passed shortly after the Republic of Macedonia's independence to fill the void caused by the
break-up of Yugoslavia. This law established a basic bank governance structure, bank licensing
procedures and minimum capital requirements for banks denominated in DEM. The law also
introduced supervisory powers for the NBM and allowed the NBM to issue a first set of
prudential regulations for banks covering asset classification and provisioning and Basle-like
capital adequacy computation.  The next reform  milestone was the 1996 banking law
amendment, which introduced a bank owned deposit insurance scheme, further strengthened
NBM's regulatory powers and further raised minimum capital standards. Although we thus had
already made substantial progress towards modernizing our banking legislation, the law still
contained some major weaknesses that were brought to light by the recent failure of one of the
larger saving houses (TAT) and a medium-sized private bank (Almako). The Basle Core
Principle Review, which we undertook in October 1999 together with the IMF and the Bank also
contributed to a further deepening of our understanding of the remaining weaknesses in both our
existing banking legislation and banking sector prudential regime. With the help of World Bank
financed experts, we have been able to prepare a new improved banking law, already passed by
our Parliament, which: (i) introduces definitions, allowable activities and -- to the extent they are
embedded in the banking law itself rather than in National Bank of Macedonia (NBM)
regulations -- prudential rules that are more in line with applicable EU Banking Sector directives,
Basle capital rules and International Accounting Standards (IAS); (ii) strengthens bank corporate
governance; and (iii) introduces efficient problem bank and bank failure resolution mechanisms
that exclude the Bank Rehabilitation Agency from the process.
9.   The Bank Rehabilitation Agency (BRA) was intended to be a temporary asset management
company established to deal with the problem loans carved out of Stopanska Banka during the
1995 recapitalization. The BRA hasn't been very successful to date in resolving its claims, and



Annex 4
Page 4 of 13
more recently the idea was discussed to also give it a role in pre-failure bank rehabilitation. We
do understand the moral hazard implications of such an expanded role for the BRA, and
therefore have decided to rename the BRA 'asset management company' or the equivalent
thereof, and to formally exclude it from involvement in pre-failure problem bank and bank
failure resolution, responsibilities that will henceforth be performed by the NBM, NBM
appointed conservators/receivers or court appointed bankruptcy trustees. Our commitment in
this area is further elaborated in paragraph 31 below.
10.  Our experience with the aforementioned bank failures has also focused our attention on the
weaknesses in our deposit insurance system. The scheme, which covered bank retail depositors
only, was administered by an ordinary joint-stock company owned and run by the banks, and
suffered from an inherent conflict between its "private" ownership structure -- which introduced
a bias towards minimizing depositor pay-offs -- and its quasi-public responsibility to maintain
depositor confidence. If larger banks would fail, the weakly funded nature of the scheme would
also inevitably have become exposed. Therefore, we have abolished the existing scheme and
replaced it with a properly designed, Government owned and funded deposit insurance scheme in
line with the EU Directive on deposit insurance. Our Parliament passed legislation to this effect
over the summer of 2000, and the new 100 percent state-owned and -backed scheme will become
operational on November 20, 2000. In addition, under our existing budgetary arrangements, by
Government decision, budgetary resources can be used for lending to the new Deposit Insurance
Fund in case of a need, assuring the new Fund's financial viability.
l1.  Bank Regulation and Supervision. While the NBM  already has achieved significant
progress in improving its prudential regulations for banks, we recognize the need to further
solidify our regulatory regime for banks and fully upgrade it to international best practice
standards, embodied in EU Banking Sector Directives, Basle capital rules and International
Accounting Standards. Based on the findings of the joint IMF/Bank Basle Core Principles
Review, the NBM has developed an action plan for implementation of necessary amendments to
both the existing banking law (to the extent prudential rules are embedded in the law itself) and
the existing NBM prudential regulations for banks, to bring all our regulations in line with
intemational best practice standards. With the adoption by Parliament of the new banking law in
July 2000 this process has already been partially completed, and we intend to finalize it by early
2001, with the issuance by the NBM of the remaining revised prudential regulations so as to
ensure that in the areas of capital adequacy, large/connected/insider lending, loan classification
and provisioning, foreign exchange exposure and interest rate risk management the regulatory
regime is or will be brought in line with international best practice standards within a reasonable
transition period.
12. We recognize that even an international best practice standards regulatory regime for banks
will not change the behavior of the banks unless the NBM proactively pursues the enforcement
of its own rules. Our banking system has its roots in the former Yugoslav social ownership
structure, which had institutionalized insider lending. Additionally, large exposure and other
financial risks were purposefully disregarded by the banks in order for them to be able to
continue to finance large socially important enterprises, irrespective of their creditworthiness.
Thus, understandably the banks are having difficulty in adjusting to a more prudent, risk
management oriented manner of operation. Similarly, the Banking Supervision Department of
the NBM to date has had limited experience and limited tools at its exposure to effectively



Annex 4
Page 5 of 13
enforce NBM  regulations.  As a result, non-compliance with prudential rules has been
widespread. We are committed to remedy this situation through a much more proactive role for
the NBM in regulatory enforcement. As a first step, the NBM has already prepared a banking
system-wide Compliance Report, analyzing the extent of non-compliance by the banks in the
system with the existing prudential regulations. Also taking into account the findings of the
recently completed diagnostic studies of four large banks in the system (not including Stopanska
Banka which was recently recapitalized and sold) (see paragraph 13 below), the NBM will
develop a time-bound enforcement action plan for all non-compliant banks. This plan will aim
for a significant reduction in non-compliance over the next one to two years. The NBM will
monitor progress made by individual banks in this respect against established benchmarks on a
quarterly basis, and will prepare, starting by September 2000 and quarterly thereafter, updated
banking system wide Compliance Reports that are expected to evidence the aforementioned
sizeable drop in non-compliance.
13. Problem Bank/Bank Failure Resolution. In order to address the known problem banks in
the system, we have already implemented a number of reform actions and intend to supplement
these with further actions as required to resolve all of them within the next one-two years. First,
we have recently completed a second recapitalization of Stopanska Banka, and have fully
divested our remaining ownership stake in this bank to a strategic foreign investor, the National
Bank of Greece. IFC and EBRD also have taken ownership stakes in the bank. Stopanska
Banka is the largest Macedonian bank - accounting for one-third of total banking system assets
and around 40 percent of total deposits, and its resolution is a major step forward in restoring
banking system health. Secondly, we have closed Almako Bank, a medium-sized failed private
bank which was systemically unimportant. The closure of this bank has set a precedent for
forceful NBM action going forward, and has sent a signal to the banking community that private
banks will not be bailed out with public money, but rather that the shareholders of such banks
will lose their investment. Third, the NBM has recently created and operationalized a problem
bank unit to handle, through Corrective Action (CA) programs, 8 identified problem banks with
a CAMEL rating of 4 or 5 that have been transferred to it by the regular Banking Supervision
Department. For these banks, NBM enforcement measures are to bring about corrective actions
by incumbent management by early 2001. By that time, the banks concerned will either have
met the conditions imposed by the NBM, or not. Those banks that have met the conditions will
be upgraded and moved out of the problem bank unit into the regular bank supervision units.
Those banks that have not met the conditions will be subjected by the NBM to more stringent
and significantly stronger enforcement action, including the removal of managers. Where banks
have capital below 8 percent and meet the criteria, "prompt corrective action", as defined in the
new banking law, will take effect. Banks that are insolvent or below 25 percent of the minimum
capital adequacy ratio requirement will be placed in receivership. We intend to apply similar
measures to newly emerging problem banks.
13. Fourth, with the help of the Bank and donor funding from the Netherlands, a foreign office
of one of the big five accounting firms in cooperation with the NBM has completed
comprehensive diagnostic studies of four large banks (not including Stopanska Banka which was
recently recapitalized and sold). The banks concerned are Komercijalna Banka, Makedonska
Banka, Stopanska Banka Bitola (all part of the former monobank but no longer directly state-
owned) and Tutunska Banka (privately owned). The diagnostic studies have helped us to
determine the true financial condition and solvency of the banks, as well as their compliance



Annex 4
Page 6 of 13
track record vis-a-vis NBM's existing prudential regulations. Based on the conclusions and
recommendations of the diagnostic studies, the NBM will shortly enter into formal Letter
Agreements with each bank that will encompass time bound corrective action programs to
address all identified deficiencies. As one of the four banks has been identified by the NBM as a
problem bank, the Letter Agreement for this bank will be designed within the parameters for
resolving banks in the problem bank unit outlined in paragraph 13 above. The NBM will
vigorously monitor the banks' progress towards improving their financial condition under these
programs, and take further corrective action as necessary to ensure their successful
implementation by early 2002.
14.  Financial System Infrastructure Development.  Our objective is to create a properly
regulated and smoothly functioning banking system, as well as to lay the foundations for further
development of our embryonic capital market.  Such banking system and capital markets
development is predicated on the presence of well-developed and modem financial system
infrastructure.  Therefore, we have worked on developing and implementing a financial
infrastructure development program, which involves the following actions: (i) reform of the
Payment Operation Bureau of the Republic of Macedonia (ZPP); (ii) development of efficient
registration systems for pledges of movable and immovable property; and (iii) creation of a new
Central Securities Depository/Central Share Registry (CSD/CSR) and a delivery-versus-payment
(DVP)-based securities clearing & settlement system.
15.  Our payments system is currently run by ZPP. All corporate entities maintain their Denar
giro accounts with ZPP. Although ZPP secures smooth payment operations by allowing same-
day clearing of payments throughout the country, the banking system is currently only allowed to
maintain the foreign currency accounts of private sector corporate clients, Denar accounts of sole
proprietorships and retail Denar accounts. As a result, the banks are deprived of critical
information about their clients' day-to-day liquidity position and of the option to use clients'
account funding balances as security for their lending. Additionally, while ZPP secures smooth
payment operations by allowing same day clearing of payments throughout the country, the
current payment system creates credit risk for the NBM, because payments are final before the
settlement between banks, and banks are not involved in the payment process before the
settlement at the end of each day. Additionally, ZPP offers centralized payments system services
to all banks. Thus, small banks that would under normal circumstances not be able to afford the
cost of building and maintaining a country wide branch network have an unfair competitive
advantage vis-a-vis the larger banks (especially the former state banks with inherited branch
networks). The larger banks in turn do not have any incentive to invest in the development and
upgrading of their own branch networks.
16. ZPP, which is a legacy of the former Yugoslavia's centrally planned economy, currently
also performs a number of other services, including services that in a market economy would
normally be undertaken by a Ministry of Finance or Treasury (maintenance of accounts and
provision of payments services for public sector entities) and a Statistics Bureau (data
collection). We are fully aware that the untimely dissolution of ZPP could interrupt the
provision of such services, with negative consequences for our public sector management.
Therefore, we have requested EU PHARE to fund a feasibility study to outline the reform
options open to us with regards to ZPP. This feasibility study has already been completed as
concerns the possible spin-off of existing ZPP payments system services for private sector



Annex 4
Page 7 of 13
entities. Additionally, the study has identified a new role for a successor organization of ZPP
that could absorb much of the existing ZPP physical, systems and personnel infrastructure that
will become redundant once a new Treasury that we are now in the process of creating with IMF
assistance becomes fully operational. This new role would be the creation and maintenance of a
series of publicly available, modem registers needed as a matter of course in a market economy,
such as registers for pledges of movable and immovable property, and a central legal entity
register.
17. We have formally adopted the recommendations of the feasibility study as Government
policy and have already initiated several actions required to implement them. These actions
include preparatory activity for: (i) the creation of a Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) to be
operated by the NBM and the banking system (for settlement between banks and execution of
large value and urgent payments), and the creation of a bank-owned clearing house for the
processing of small value payments; and (ii) the transfer of all corporate customer Denar giro
accounts from ZPP to the banking system. We expect to complete these actions by late 2001.
Second, a law creating a new Central Register Organization (CRO) has been passed by
Parliament, and with the assistance of Norwegian donor funding, this new CRO has already
operationalized a modem, centralized register for pledges of movable property. Additionally, the
CRO in cooperation with ZPP and Norwegian funded consultants is currently engaged in
intensive preparatory activity for the creation of a register for pledges of immovable property
(expected to be fully operational by early 2001). The legal basis for the effective functioning of
these two new registers has already been strengthened with the adoption by Parliament of
amendments to the existing Law on Pledges and a new mortgage law (see paragraph 22). The
effective functioning of these two registers is expected to significantly increase the ability of the
banking system and other lenders to rapidly foreclose on defaulted loans, and thus contribute to
an overall strengthening of borrower financial discipline. Third, we have already completed a
feasibility study for the establishment of a new CSD/CSR to be linked into a DVP-based
securities clearing & settlement system that is in compliance with applicable G30
recommendations and will use dematerialized share ownership records. We are currently
actively soliciting Norwegian donor support to help us finance the initial establishment cost of
this new central depository/registry. We anticipate that once the funding has been secured, the
new CSD/CSR can be made operational within 8-12 months, and the target date for completion
of our efforts in this respect is late 2001.
18. Private Enterprise Entry and the FDI Regime. Sustainable improvement in enterprise
sector performance is unlikely to be achieved without facilitating the entry of new private firms
and creating a more favorable environment for FDI. The constraints that have been affecting
new enterprise formation and FDI inflows include inefficient enterprise formation procedures
and registration systems, and weaknesses in the legislative and regulatory framework pertaining
to foreign investors. It is our priority to address these issues and to facilitate creation of new
businesses and jobs, thus ensuring the sustainable development of the private enterprise sector.
19.  To facilitate new enterprise formation and registration, we have already taken several
important steps towards our goal of streamlining registration for all business enterprises. We
have formed a Committee for Simplifying Formalities (KOPOFO) with a mandate to improve
the registration process. This Committee has adopted a new, shorter registration form, which is
currently being tested in the Bitola and Stip Registration Courts. Additionally, Parliament has



Annex 4
Page 8 of 13
already adopted amendments to the company law that require a decision within eight days by
authorized Government bodies for certain regulatory approvals and licenses. This "consent by
silence" provides an incentive for Government bodies to streamline approval procedures and
reduces barriers for businesses. However, to address remaining deficiencies in this area (i.e.,
such as that the newly adopted registration form does not substantially lessen the required
information for registration, but rather seeks much the same information in the form  of
attachments) we intend to seek Parliamentary approval of further amendments to the company
law that: (i) for limited liability companies, ensure that no additional filings will be required for
registration beyond a simplified filing form; (ii) establish a maximum time period for the
approval or rejection of the application for entry into the company registry, (iii) eliminate
investigations and subjective decision-making by judges as to the merit of the registered
enterprise; and (iv) require only one organizational document (i.e. charter) for business
incorporation and registration; for example, the current required informnation such as
reimbursable corporation costs, "special profit of a stockholder", "announcements that are of
importance" and "other issues important to the company's incorporation" will be eliminated.
20.  We also intend to replace the existing inefficient paper-based company registers, which are
maintained by the Registration Courts, with a modem centralized electronic company register
accessible on line from different locations throughout the country. The Registration Courts will
continue to operate the company register. We expect the new company register to be fully
operational by early 2002. Additionally, by that time we will ensure the effective functioning of
an electronic data link between the new company registers and the CRO's new legal entity
database, to ensure the latter's completeness.
21.  FDI inflows and foreign investor interest in the Republic of Macedonia in the past have
been limited - approximately 4.9 percent of GDP in 1998 and only 1.07 percent of GDP in 1999.
While the lack of foreign investor interest is partially due to factors outside of our control, such
as the continued political instability in the region and the small size of our internal market and
national resource base, we realize that there are other important parameters within our control
that might favorably influence FDI. These include further legal reform and development of the
judicial infrastructure, simplification of administrative and regulatory procedures, and the
availability of better quality financial and banking services. To date, FDI has also been subject
to specific constraints, including legislative provisions relating to foreign enterprise registration,
Board of Directors composition, special treatment of local subsidiaries of foreign firns, and
special reporting requirements to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. As a first step in the FDI
reform agenda, we have requested the Bank Group's Foreign Investment Advisory Service
(FIAS) to complete a review of our existing FDI legal and regulatory regime. This review has
documented all the weaknesses affecting FDI in the Republic of Macedonia. Based on the
findings of the review, we (i) have adopted a time-bound action plan to strengthen the FDI
regime; and (ii) have already implemented several of the study's specific recommendations, in
consultation with FIAS. We will further reform the FDI legal and regulatory environment, and
expect that Parliament will have adopted, by early 2001, most of the new legislation and
regulations required for this purpose as envisaged under the time-bound action plan.
22.  Creditors' and Shareholders' Rights.  To break the habit of lax corporate financial
discipline, and to allow the banking system to improve its asset quality it will be necessary to
significantly strengthen creditors' rights. To date, the weak legislative framework for the



Annex 4
Page 9 of 13
enforcement of such rights, as well as forbearance on the part of creditors and avoidance of
bankruptcy have allowed enterprises to accumulate large losses and build up sizeable arrears.
This has created significant moral hazard in the enterprise sector, and has contributed to the
accumulation of non-performing loans in the banking system, overdue Government claims on
account of tax, social contribution and energy dues and a large portfolio of unresolved claims on
the books of the BRA. Therefore, our Parliament during the summer of 2000 adopted
amendments to the Bankruptcy Law and the existing Law on Pledges (for movable property)
with a view to: (i) simplify and accelerate bankruptcy and collateral foreclosure proceedings, and
(ii) close loopholes currently open to debtors to delay creditor actions. Notwithstanding, we will
continue to monitor the effect of these amendments to ensure that creditors have timely and
unimpeded access to the courts if they choose to pursue their claim against a debtor using the
bankruptcy process.  If creditor applications to open proceedings continue to encounter
significant delays, we will forthwith enact additional amendments to the Law on Bankruptcy to
ensure that such impediments are removed. Additionally, also during the summer of 2000, a new
mortgage law (for immovable property) was adopted, including similar accelerated foreclosure
procedures. To further streamline the legal framework for secured claims we intend to submit to
our Parliament, by early 2001, a new integrated law for both movable and immovable collateral
to replace the two separate laws. This new law will incorporate further required changes
suggested by early implementation experience with the amended pledge and new mortgage laws.
We expect that this new integrated law will be enacted by our Parliament by early 2002.
23.  Another factor hindering corporate financial discipline and capital markets development is
the inadequate legislative framework for shareholders' rights. Since share registries are currently
kept by enterprises, management has wriggling room to keep highly atomized ownership
structures in place and to obstruct minority shareholders' rights. Additionally, lack of financial
disclosure requirements coupled with very lenient stock market listing requirements is limiting
investor interest in share issuance and trading. Our Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)
is in the early stage of development and has limited capacity for enforcement of the provisions of
even the existing Securities Law. We have remedied several of these weaknesses through
amendments to this law, which were passed by Parliament in July 2000. These amendments
mandate transfer of share books from companies to the new CSD/CSR, and put in place the legal
provisions needed for the development of a DVP-based securities clearing & settlement system,
in parallel with the creation of an independent properly functioning CSD/CSR (see paragraph 17
above). By mid-2001, we intend to prepare and seek Parliamentary approval of additional
amendments to the securities law to further strengthen the independence and enforcement powers
of the SEC, insider trading rules, issuer disclosure and listing requirements, and improve
protection of minority shareholders. We have also requested assistance from USAID to help us
with strengthening the capacity of the SEC and the Macedonian Stock Exchange (MSE) as a self
regulatory organization.
24.  For corporate access to financing from either the banking system or the stock market to
substantially increase, and for issuer disclosure requirements to be meaningful, it will also be
necessary to further improve the quality of financial information. In 1997, the Ministry of
Finance mandated the use of International Accounting Standards (IAS) for the corporate sector
and compulsory audits for all companies meeting minimum size criteria established in the
company law. However, due to the lack of a properly trained and certified profession of
accountants and auditors that understand and can apply IAS and international auditing standards,



Annex 4
Page 1 0of 13
these reforms to date have had less impact than we had hoped, and many enterprises still produce
financial statements based on the previously applicable accounting rules.  To rectify this
situation, we intend to mandate the establishment of a Self Regulatory Organisation (SRO) for
professional accountants and auditors, either separate from or through upgrading of the status of
the existing Association of Accountants, Finance Workers and Auditors. We will require all
(future) professional accountants and (currently licensed and future) auditors to be members of
the SRO, and will delegate to the SRO the responsibility for: (i) determining minimum
professional education standards; (ii) organizing professional training; (iii) administering
professional examinations; (iv) determining minimum ethical standards; and (v) disciplinary
proceedings, including revocation of SRO membership (which would lead to a reconsideration of
a member's accounting charter or audit license). We may reserve the right to appoint members
to the Board of the SRO, but will ensure that practitioners will maintain a majority on the Board.
25.  The Republic of Macedonia has already adopted IAS as its national accounting standards.
Many of the people with the best understanding of IAS and who have a vested interest in keeping
abreast of the numerous additions and revisions to the Standards will reside in the SRO. We
therefore intend to delegate to the new SRO, in exchange for the right to be self regulating, the
responsibility for maintaining the Macedonian version of IAS and for preparing explanatory
drafts.
26.  We will submit, and expect Parliament to adopt by early 2001, amendments to existing
accounting/auditing legislation that will allow for the creation of the new SRO. By early 2002,
we expect the new SRO to be fully operational.
27.  Large Loss Making Enterprise Resolution.  Because of the predominance of the
management/employee buyout method used to privatize state- and socially owned enterprises,
the enterprise sector remains characterized by highly fragmented ownership, which is often more
intent on protecting employment than on improving enterprise performance, as well as
insufficient inflow of new management skills and fresh capital. The lack of financial discipline
and adequate corporate governance has resulted in continuing enterprise losses and a build-up of
arrears and non-performing loans on the books of the banking system and the BRA. Many
enterprises, including several large still fully or partially state- and/or socially owned enterprises,
or for which the Government is a major creditor on account of overdue claims, are unwilling or
unable to pay their debts and arrears. In 1999, enterprise losses amounted to nearly 4 percent of
GDP. The ten largest loss-making enterprises, excluding the railways, accounted for close to 40
percent of these losses, or about 1.5 percent of GDP. These enterprises are chronic loss-makers
and their losses are getting worse over time.  Virtually all of the largest loss makers are
insolvent, as defined in the Bankruptcy Law. During the last two years, also as a result of the
Kosovo crisis, the situation has not improved. To substantially reduce the occurrence of losses,
we are committed to the resolution of the universe of approximately 40 large loss making
enterprises through either privatization/financial restructuring or closure, and have already
completed the necessary actions in this respect for several firms including Okta and Feni.
28.  Since resolution of these enterprises is likely to have a significant economic and social
impact, we have carefully considered a number of issues associated with their sale/financial
restructuring or closure, including: (i) better definition of the rationale for, and allowable amount



Annex 4
Page 11 of 13
of, direct and indirect Government support for socially/politically sensitive enterprises; and (ii)
upgrading the quality of the privatization process (privatization legislation exempted selected
large loss-making enterprises from regular tender based sale procedures), and any associated
financial restructuring of overdue Government claims on the debtor enterprises concerned on
account of tax, social contribution and energy arrears as well as debts held by the BRA. We
have hired a privatization adviser who assisted us with designing new  'best practice'
international public tender based privatization methods for previously exempted large loss
making enterprises. These new methods have already been introduced with the adoption by
Parliamentary in June 2000 of amendments to existing privatization legislation. Additionally, to
operationalize them we have already issued Government decrees (Government Decree No. 56/00
"On the Methods and Procedures for the Sale of Stocks and Shares issued to the Privatization
Agency", dated July 11, 2000; and Government Resolution No. 23-3734/1 "On the Action Plan
for the Restructuring of Loss-Makers", dated August 7, 2000 - together the Resolution Decrees)
that: (i) mandate the use of a structured Decision Support Methodology (DSM) encompassing
financial and economic cost-benefit analysis, as a tool to guide the process of future enterprise
sales/financial restructuring and/or closures; (ii) incorporate detailed procedures for international
public tender based sales of enterprises using best practices for maximum transparency in
seeking, identifying, and qualifying strategic investors best positioned to restructure and
recapitalize the enterprises; (iii) incorporate a requirement for independent audit of each
enterprise addressed by the DSM, to support the provision of financial coverage of
corresponding costs out of the national budget, the budget of the Privatization Agency (PA) or
through donor aid; (iv) rationalize the financial restructuring of Government claims on the
enterprises concerned on account of tax, social contribution and energy arrears and BRA debts,
and predicates such restructuring on simultaneous privatization of any remaining Government
held or controlled ownership stakes (social/state ownership); and (v) define the institutional
responsibilities for execution of enterprise-level decisions, delineating lines of accountability
between the Government's Committee for Structural Reforms (tasked with resolving the loss
makers), MOF/BRA/ES as Governmental creditors and the PA as privatization implementation
entity.
29.  With the help of our privatization adviser, we have also designed a declining cap,
expressed as a percentage of GDP, on the provision of direct and indirect public support to the
enterprise sector, as well as a mechanism that will allow us to monitor compliance with this cap
on an ongoing basis during the next three years. The cap includes support in the form of
forgiveness of newly arising tax, social contribution and energy arrears, provision of explicit
budget subsidies for energy and severance pay, tax holidays and payouts under Government
guarantees and contingent liabilities. Furthermore, we have allowed independent consultants to
undertake an external review, using financial and economic cost benefit analysis and Terms of
Reference satisfactory to the Bank, of the resolution options concerning Feni, and have already
resolved this company in accordance with the consultants' recommendations. We intend to allow
a similar independent external review for Jugohrom, and are committed to resolve Jugohrom, as
well as an additional four large loss making enterprises drawn from an agreed list of eight' by
early 2001, using the new 'best practice' privatization methods and the principles laid down in
our Resolution Decrees. We will also ensure continued compliance with the declining cap on the
Zletovo Topilnica, FAS 11 October, Sasa, Zletovo Rudnici, Zletovo Batteries, Goteks, Porcelanka and Goce Delcev.



Annex 4
Page 12 of 13
provision of direct and indirect Government support to the enterprise sector during this period.
By mid-2002, we expect to have resolved the remaining four large loss-making enterprises from
the list of eight referred to above, together with a further fourteen specified enterprises2 and six
presently unspecified enterprises to be selected from an agreed list of 40 enterprises3 which made
the largest losses in 1999. Overall, by mid-2002, we undertake to sell or close wholly or
partially state- and/or socially owned enterprises whose 1999 losses in aggregate amount to at
least 2 percent of 1999 GDP. Finally, we will continue to ensure sustained compliance with the
declining cap on direct and indirect Government support for the enterprise sector.
30. Our Bank Rehabilitation Agency (BRA), which was originally established in 1994 as a
temporary arrangement for resolving the portfolio of bad Denar loans transferred from Stopanska
Banka, is expected to play a much more proactive role in the future than it has in the past in
underpinning our enterprise closure/sale strategy. The BRA portfolio of approximately US$715
million book value of claims on large troubled enterprises as of mid 2000 has been built up as a
result of this initial transaction, followed by the transfer of foreign currency loans, and a second
transfer in early 2000 of a limited number of loans from Stopanska Banka as part of its
privatization. Resolution procedures were expected to include: (i) the sale of debts to investors
who might wish to acquire shares in debtor enterprise through debt for equity swaps; (ii) the
direct sale of foreclosed assets pledged as security for the debts; and (iii) proactive pursuit of
closure or restructuring through bankruptcy. The BRA initially was not very aggressive in
pursuing collection from debtors; however, this has changed in the past eighteen months. We
have actively encouraged the settlement of outstanding obligations by allowing debtors to pay
with frozen deposits and through the use of special bonds issued by the Government to
enterprises which hold a large volume of Iraq/Kuwait receivables dating from before the Gulf
War. Most sales and settlements have been at a deep discount to the nominal value of the debt;
the BRA has an established discount policy, ranging from between 65 percent and 85 percent for
different types of loans and enterprises.
31.  To further speed up asset recovery and to ensure the BRA will act as a positive and
supportive force for meaningful large loss making enterprise resolution going forward, we will
prepare amendments to the existing legislation on the BRA and request Parliament to adopt these
amendments by early 2001. The amendments will seek to (i) rename the BRA 'Asset
Management Company' (AMC) or the equivalent thereof, to indicate clearly that the BRA is in
fact an asset management company and has no role in problem bank or bank failure resolution
going forward; and (ii) create an irrevocable 4 year sunset provision for the BRA; implying that
the BRA should either have resolved its total existing asset portfolio by the end of 2004 or
should by that time sell off any remaining assets to the market and subsequently be liquidated.
Additionally, we are committed to ensure that by early 2002, from its portfolio of approximately
US$715 million referred to in paragraph 30 above, the AMC will have: (i) transferred all loans
owing from public enterprises and agencies of the Government to the Ministry of Finance; (ii)
resolved the loans owed by large loss making enterprises identified for resolution referred to
above, using the new 'best practice' international public tender based privatization methods
2   Frinko, Frotirka, Hemteks, NIP Nova Makedonija, Toranica mine, Gazela, ZIK Kocansko Pole, Astibo Holding and six associated
companies.
As documented in the Aide Memoire of the FESAL 11 Appraisal mission.



Annex 4
Page 13 of 13
specified in paragraph 28 above and the principles laid down in our Resolution Decrees; and (iii)
resolved, though either collection or sale, 40 percent of its remaining claims in value terms and
35 percent by number of borrowers, using the currently applied maximum discount policy for
sales of claims back to debtor enterprises (maximum 65 percent discount for foreign currency
loans, 75 percent for non-agricultural Denar loans and 85 percent for agricultural Denar loans),
all as evidenced by independent external auditors.
32. Environmental Compliance in the Enterprise Sector. We recognize that the enterprise
sector reform agenda, particularly privatization and/or closure of industrial enterprises, involves
certain environmental issues that need to be properly addressed. Although the large-scale
privatization in the enterprise sector has been largely completed, with the exception of a
relatively small number of large loss making enterprises that we intend to privatize or close,
many environmental issues still remain unresolved in the enterprise sector as a whole.
Therefore, we intend to systematically address the issues of environmental noncompliance and
industrial pollution in the enterprise sector, and implement a reform agenda that will encompass
improvement of the environment-related legislative framework, regulatory and institutional
capacity, and mitigate the negative impact of the previous environmental policies and practices
in the enterprise sector. We expect to implement the follow-up environmental reform agenda,
targeting the full range of environmental policy and regulatory adjustments, with the assistance
of the Bank and other international organizations, including the EU. In order to reduce health
risks arising from environmental hazards, we will also seek assistance for developing a
mitigation mechanism through a possible future lending operation supported by the Bank.
Summary
33.  In summary, we believe we have put in place a strong financial and enterprise sector
reform program, with significant front loading of tough reform measures such as the
recapitalization and sale to a strategic investor or our country's largest bank, and the resolution
of Feni, the largest loss making enterprise. In addition, our Parliament has already adopted many
of the key legal reforms that underpin our program, and we have been proactively working
towards the creation of new and modern market economy financial sector infrastructure. We are
committed to further strengthen the health of our banking system through proactive NBM
enforcement actions, and to resolve the universe of remaining large loss making companies. We
thus request you to support our reform program with a US$50,310,000 equivalent Second
Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan/Credit.
Mr. Ljube Trpeski                            Mr. Nikola Gruevski
Governor of the National Bank of Macedonia   Minister of Finance






Annex 5
Page I of 7
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
SECOND FINANCIAL AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN - POLICY MATRIX
Policy Issues and                 Actions Already Taken                    Actions Prior to Board           Actions Prior to Second Tranche       Actions Prior to Third Tranche
Objectives                                                                   Presentation
1. MACROECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT
Address main macro-economic                                                Letter of Intent for a PRGF/EFF   Satisfactory  implementation  of the   Continued  satisfactory  implemen-
imbalances (e.g., fiscal deficit                                           Arrangement with the IMF signed and   macro-economic reform  program  as  tation of the macro-economic reform
and associated policy issues).                                             transmitted to the IMF's Managing   envisaged   under  a  new   IMF   program as envisaged under the new
Director.                             PRGF/EFF Arrangement.                IMF PRGF/EFF Arrangement.
11. FINANCIAI SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
A. Legal Framework for Banking Activity
Modernize Banking Legislation                                              Passage by Parliament of new banking
legislation that will: (i) introduce
definitions, allowable activities and-
to the extent they are embedded in the
banking law itself rather than in NBM
regulations-prudential rules that are in
line with applicable EU banking sector
directives, IAS and BIS standards; (ii)
strengthen bank corporate govemance;
and (iii) introduce efficient problem
bank and bank failure resolution
mechanisms that exclude the BRA from
the process.
Reform bank-owned, weakly                                                  Passage  by  Parliament  of  new
funded Deposit Insurance                                                   legislation that will introduce a properly
Scheme                                                                     designed and funded deposit insurance
scheme in line with the EU Directive on
deposit insurance.
B. Bank Regulation and Su ervision
Strengthen NBM Regulations      Based on the findings of the joint IMF/Bank                                      Issuance of a set of revised prudential
Basle Core Principles Review, NBM  has                                           regulations (to the extent not already
developed a timetable for implementation of                                      included in the new banking law) for
the necessary amendments to existing NBM                                         capital  adequacy,  large/connected/
prudential regulations for banks to bring the                                    insider lending, loan classification and
regulations in line with international best                                      provisioning, foreign exchange and
practice standards.                                                              interest  rate  risk  in  line  with
applicable BIS standards, EU banking
sector directives and [AS.
Strengthen NBM Enforcement                                                 Submission by the NBM of a banking                                         Submission  by  the  NBM  of an
Actions                                                                    system   wide  Compliance   Report                                          updated   banking   system   wide
showing the extent of non-compliance                                       Compliance    Report   showing
with existing NBM prudential rules for                                     improved  compliance with  NBM
all banks.                                                                 prudential  regulations  from  the
level of such compliance as of
March 31, 2000.



Annex 5
Page 2 of 7
Policy Issues and                Actions Already Taken                   Actions Prior to Board          Actions Prior to Second Tranche     Actions Prior to Third Tranche
Objectives                                                                 Presentation
C. Problem Bank/Bank Failure Resolution
Resolve Problem Banks         The Government has sold Stopanska Banka
to a foreign strategic investor, with IFC and
EBRD participation.
The NBM has created a problem bank unit to  NBM Board to operationalize the new   For the initial set of banks assigned to  To the extent that problem  banks
handle problem banks to be transferred to it  problem bank unit through:      the  problem   bank  unit,  NBM   remain, or  new  problem   banks
by the regular supervision department. The  * Finalizing   and   adopting   the  enforcement action is to bring about  emerge, the actions to be taken prior
unit's mandate is to either restore problem  supervision manual for the problem   corrective action.  Banks that have  to second tranche will apply also to
banks to financial health through corrective  bank unit, in a manner that is  met the  NBM   corrective  action  the third tranche conditionality.
measures  to  be  taken  by  incumbent    consistent with the new banking law;  conditions will have been upgraded
management or to initiate resolution action   * Defining a "problem" bank (i.e.,  and moved out of the problem bank
(conservatorship,   receivership,   license    banks with a CAMEL rating of 4 or  unit into the mainstream supervision
revocation and/or liquidation) in cases where    5, and 3 rated banks which exhibit  units, Banks that have not will have
such  measures fail.   One controversial    unstable    characteristics    and   been subjected to more stringent and
problem bank (Almako) has already been put    downward trends);               significantly  stronger  enforcement
in liquidation.                          * Appointment of the Special Bank   action  including  the  removal  of
Committee, in accordance with the  managers. Where banks have capital
supervision  manual for problem   below 8 percent and meet the criteria,
banks;                            "prompt corrective action" by the
* Formal transfer of responsibility for  NBM, as defined in the new banking
specific banks from other units to the  law, will have taken effect.  Where
problem bank unit (including transfer  banks are insolvent or below  25
of files, working papers, reports of  percent of the  minimum  capital
examination, correspondence, etc.);   adequacy ratio requirement, corrective
* Assignment of problem  banks to  actions will have elapsed and the
specific staff in the problem  bank   banks will have been  placed  in
unit  and   commencement   of  receivership.
operations of the unit.
For   four large  banks  (Komercijalna,  Satisfactory completion of diagnostic  Signing  and  satisfactory  initial  Satisfactory implementation of the
Stopanska   Bitola,   Makedonska   and  studies,                              implementation of CA programs for  CA  programs for Komercijalna,
Tutunska), the NBM  has agreed with the                                       Komercijalna, Stopanska  Bitola,  Stopanska Bitola, Makedonska and
Bank on FORs for diagnostic studics to be                                     Makedonska and Tutunska aimed   Tutunska.
undertaken by a foreign audit firm, and has                                   at achieving full compliance with
obtained  written  confirmation  from  the                                    NBM prudential regulations and at
management and supervisory boards of these                                    upgrading of banking practices to
banks that they will fully cooperate with                                     international    best    practice
these diagnostic studies.                                                     standards. The CA programs to be
drawn up on the basis of the
diagnostic studies and formalized
through Letter Agreements with the
NBM. For the one bank identified
by the NBM as a problem bank, the
CA program to be designed within
the parameters for resolving banks
in the problem bank unit outlined
above.
D. Infrastructure Development
Reform of the Payment        I A feasibility study for the reform of ZPP has                                 Installation of the RTGS s-stem  for  0 perationalization  of small value



Annex 5
Page 3 of 7
Policy Issues and                 Actions Already Taken                    Actions Prior to Board           Actions Prior to Second Tranche       Actions Prior to Third Tranche
Objectives                                                                   Presentation
Operations Bureau (ZPP).        been completed, and the Government and the                                       settlement  between   banks   and   payments system, run by the newly
NBM  have adopted a time-bound reform                                            execution of large value and urgent  created bank-owned clearing house.
action plan. As a first step, new large and                                      payments in the NBM and banks and
small value payments systems run by the                                         training of staff in its use.  Initial  Transfer of all corporate customer
NBM  and the banks and by a bank-owned                                           establishment of the new bank-owned   Denar current accounts from  ZPP
clearing house respectively will be created.                                     clearing  house  for  small  value  to banking institutions.
Additionally, a law on a new Central Register                                    payments.
Organization (CRO) has been adopted. The
CRO will be the main successor organization
of ZPP and will inherit most of its physical,
systems and human resource infrastructure.
Create    Effective    Pledge  'I'he CRO has been tasked with creating and                                       Operationalization of the immovable
Registration Mechanisms         maintaining new  movable and immovable                                           pledge register.
pledge  registers.   The  movable  pledge
register is already operational.
Create  a  Central  Securities   A feasibility study for the creation of the new                                                                      Operationalization   of  the   new
Depository/Central      Share   CSD/CSR and for linking it into a DVP-                                                                                CSD/CSR and DVP-based securities
Registry (CSD/CSR) and DVP-  based securities clearing & settlement system                                                                            clearing & settlement system.
based  Securities  Clearing  &   has been completed.
Settlement System
Ill. PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
A. Private Enterprise Entry
Simplify Company Registration    The Government has taken several important                                      Enactment       of      additional  Operationalization of a new electronic
steps  towards  streamlining  registration                                       amendments to the company law   central  company  register, to  be
procedures for all business enterprises.  A                                      that  further  simplify  company   maintained in the Registration Courts,
Committee  for  Simplifying  Formalities                                         formation     and      registration   with  country-wide  on-line  access,
(KOPOFO) has been formed with a mandate                                          procedures  and  foreign   direct  replacing the current paper based
to improve the registration process. It has                                     investor entry, and issuance by the   registers.  Operationalization of an
adopted a new, shorter registration form,                                        Government  of  any   necessary   electronic data link between the new
which is currently being tested in the Bitola                                   implementing  regulations  in  a   company registers and the new legal
and Stip Registration Courts. Additionally,                                      manner satisfactory to the Bank.     entity database to be maintained and
amendments to the company law have been                                                                               operated by the CRO
passed by Parliament that require a decision
within eight days by authorized Government
bodies for certain regulatory approvals and
licenses. This "consent by silence" provides
an incentive for Government bodies to
streamline approval procedures and reduces
barriers for businesses.   The foregoing
notwithstanding, some deficiencies in this
area remain (i.e., such as that the newly
adopted   registration   form   does   not
substantially lessen the required information
for registration, but rather seeks much the
same   information   in  the  form   of
attachments).
Attract    Foreign     Direct  A FIAS study on weaknesses of existing FDI  Consultations  with  FIAS  on  the   Adoption by Parliament of the new
Investment (FDI).              legal and  regulatory  regime  has  becn  implementation   of  the   study's  legislation and regulations envisaged
completed.                                 recommendations,           including   under the time-bound  action  plan,
completion of a review by independent  satisfactory to the Bank/FIAS.



Annex 5
Page 4 of 7
Policy Issues and                 Actions Already Taken                    Actions Prior to Board           Actions Prior to Second Tranehe       Actions Prior to 'Third Tranche
Objectives                                                                   Presentation                                                                           __      .
The Government has adopted a time-bound   consultants of actual progrcss made.
action plan to strengthen the FDI regime.
B. Creditor and Shareholder Rights
Strengthen the legal framework                                             Adoption by Parliament of amendments  Submission  to  Parliament of a   Enactment by the Parliament of the
for enforcement of creditors'                                              to the Bankruptcy Law and the existing   consolidated law replacing the Law   new unified collateral law.
rights.                                                                    Law   on   Pledges  (for  movable  on Pledges and the mortgage law to
collateral) that will: (i) simplify and   create an integrated framework for
accelerate bankruptcy and  collateral  movable and immovable collateral
foreclosure proceedings, and (ii) close  in a manner satisfactory to  the
loopholes currently open to debtors to   Bank..
delay creditor action.
Adoption by Parliament of a new
mortgage   law   (for   immovable
collateral),    including    similar
accelerated foreclosure proceedings.
Strengthen the legal framework   The Government has already prepared and                                                                              Adoption by Parliament of further
for enforcement of shareholders'  the  Parliament  enacted  in  July  2000                                                                            amendments to the Securities Law that
rights.                         amendments to the Securities Law  that                                                                                will   further   strengthen    the
mandate the transfer of share books from                                                                              independence    and    enforcement
companies to the new central share registry,                                                                          powers of the SEC, insider trading
and create the basis for the development of a                                                                         rules, issuer disclosure requirements,
DVP based securities clearing and settlement                                                                          and    protection    of   minority
system.                                                                                                               shareholders.
Create Effective Accounting and                                                                                  Adoption    by   Parliament   of  * Establishment of the SRO, either
Auditing Profession.                                                                                             amendments to existing accounting/      separate from or through upgrading
auditing  legislation  to  mandate,    of the  status  of the  existing
through a time-bound action plan,      Association    of   Accountants,
the creation and setting up of a Self    Finance Workers and Auditors.
Regulatory Organization (SRO) for  * MOF  to  require  all  (future)
professional    accountants   and      professional   accountants   and
auditors.                              (currently  licensed  and  future)
auditors to be members of the SRO,
and to delegate to the SRO the
responsibility for: (i) determining
minimum professional education
standards;    (ii)    organizing
professional    training;    (iii)
administering        professional
examinations,  (iv)  determining
minimum ethical standards, and (v)
disciplinary proceedings, including
revocation of SRO membership
(which    will   lead   to    a
reconsideration of a member's
accounting or audit license). MOF
may reserve the right to appoint
members to the Board of the SRO,
but  practitioners  will  have  a



Annex 5
Page S of 7
Policy Issues and                  Actions Already Taken                    Actions Prior to Board            Actions Prior to Second Tranche        Actions Prior to Third Tranche
Objectives                                                                    Presentation                                                        majonty on the Board
MOF to delegate to the new SRO,
in exchange for the right to be self
regulating, the responsibility for
maintaining the FYR Macedonian
version of lAS and for preparing
explanatory drafts
C. Large Loss Making Ent rprise Resolution
Resolve the universe of large   The Government has proceeded towards sale   * Completion      by    independent  * Compliance         with     agreed   * Compliance        with     agreed
loss making enterprises,                                                       consultants of an external review,    declining  cap  on  direct  and       declining  cap  on  direct  and
or closure of selected large loss making      using financial and economic cost    indirect Government support for         indirect Government support for
enterprises. However, these first experiences  benefit analysis, of the resolution   the enterprise sector.                the enterprise sector.
have brought to light the need to: (i) better  options (sale or closure) for Feni (the   * Resolution of Jugohrom  through   * Resolution    through  either
define  the  rationale  for, and  allowable    largest loss making enterprise). and  either     privatization/financial    privatization/financial
the Government to resolve Feni in    restructuring   or  closure,  in       restructuring or closure, of the
amount  of,  Government  support  for         accordance  with  the  consultants'    accordance        with       the      remaining four enterprises on the
socially/politically sensitive enterprises, (ii)    recommendations.                 recommendations of independent        list of eight to be resolved as a
upgrade the quality  of the privatization   * The Government to adopt new 'best    external advisers.                      condition for second tranche, plus
practice' intermational public tender  * Resolution of an additional four   an  additional fourteen  named
process (existing  privatization  legislation  based  privatization  methods  for    large  loss making  enterprises,    large  loss  making  enterprises
exempts  selected  large  loss  making        previously  exempted  large  loss    through   either   privatization/       (Frinko, Frotirka, Ilemteks, NIP
enterprises  from   regular  tender-based     making     enterprises,    through     financial restructuring or closure,   Nova   Makedonija,   Toranica
privatization procedures) and (iii) rationalize  Parliamentary  enactment    of      out of the following eight: Zletovo   mine, Gazela, ZIK   Kocansko
amendments to existing privatization  Topilnica, FAS 11 October, Sasa,      Pole, Astibo  Holding  and  six
policies for the financial restructuring of    legislation    and   issuance    of    Zletovo    Rudnici,    Zletovo       associated    companies),   plus
overdue tax, energy and other Govemment       supporting   Government  decrees       Batteries,  Goteks,  Porcelanka,      another six unnamed large loss
held debt in conjunction with privatization of    ('Resolution Decrees') that:       Goce Delcev.                          making  enterprises out of an
lield debt inconjunctionwithprivatiza* Mandate the use of a structured                                                agreed  list of 40  enterprises
remaining Government ownership stakes.          Decision  Support Methodology                                              whose total 1999 losses including
(DSM)  encompassing  financial                                            the   enterprises  resolved   as
and    economic    cost-benefit                                           conditions for first, second and
analysis, as a tool to guide the                                          third tranche release add up to at
process  of  future  enterprise                                           least 2 percent of 1999 GDP.
privatization   &      financial
restructuring and/or closures;
* Incorporate detailed procedures
for international public tender
based privatization of enterprises
using international best practices
for maximum transparency in
seeking,    identifying,    and
qualifying strategic investors best
positioned  to  restructure  and
recapitalize the enterprises;
* incorporate a requirement for
independent   audit  of   each
enterprise addressed by the DSM,
to  support  the  provision  of
financial     coverage       of
corresponding costs out of the



Annex 5
Page 6 of 7
Policy Issues and                  Actions Already [aken                     Actions Prior to Board           Actions Prior to Second I'ranche      Actions Prior to Third Tranche
Obiectives                                                                    Presentation
budget of the Privatization Agency
(PA) or through donor aid;
* rationalize    the     financial
restructuring   of   Government
claimils   on   the   enterprises
concerned  on  account of tax,
social contribution and energy
arrears and BRA debts, and
predicates such restructuring on
simultaneous privatization of any
remaining Government held or
controlled    ownership   stakes
(state/social ownership); and
* define     the      institutional
responsibilities for execution of
enterprise-level      decisions,
delineating lines of accountability
between    the    Government's
Committee for Structural Reforms
(tasked with resolving the loss
makers),   MOF/BRA/ES    as
Governmental creditors and the
PA        as       privatization
implementation entity.
* Adoption of an agreed declining cap
on direct and indirect Government
support for the enterprise sector, and
creation of a mechanism, satisfactory
to  the  Bank,  for  compliance
monitoring.
* Government to agree to allow  an
independent external review, using
financial and economic cost benefit
analysis, tindcr TORs satisfactory to
the Bank, of the resolution options
for Jugohrom (the second largest loss
nmaking enterprise).
Resolve the assets of the BRA                                                                                      Adoption   of  amendments  to   * Transfer of amounts due from
applicable legislation that will: (i)   Government agencies and state
rename the BRA Asset Management         owned enterprises to MOF;
Company (AMC) or the equivalent  * Financial    restructuring    of
thereof to clarify that the BRA will    amounts due from  loss making
not have  any  role  in  problem        enterprises subject to FESAL 11
bank/bank failure resolution; and (ii)    conditionality;
abolish the role of the BRA in the   * Reduction   of  the   residual
process of bank restructuring and       portfolio  (as of December 31,
establish  an  irrevocable  3  year     1999   plus  the   four  loans
liquidation provision for the BRA.      transferred to the BRA as part of
the sale of Stopanska Banka in
April 2000) by 40 percent in value



Annex 5
Page 7 of 7
Policy Issues and                 Actions Already Taken                    Actions Prior to Board           Actions Prior to Second Tranche       Actions Prior to Third Tranche
Objectives                                                                   Presentation                                                   ___________________
terms and 35 percent in terms of
the   number   of  borrowers,
through the pursuit by the BRA
of collection of the loans on its
books using existing collection
and sales techniques (maintaining
the  existing   discount  policy
(maximum 65 percent discount
for foreign currency loans, 75
percent  for   non-agricultural
Denar loans and 85 percent for
agricultural  Denar  loans  for
agricultural borrowers), all as
evidenced    by    independent
external auditors satisfactory to
the Bank.
Actions indicated in bold are conditions to be met which are indicated in the Loan and Credit Agreements.






Annex 6
Macedonia, FYR at a glance                                                          Page 1 of 2
EuroPe &    Lower.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                             Macedonia,   Central  middle-
FYR       Asia  Ineome       Development diamond*
1998
Population, mid-year (inilions)                       2.0       473       908                  Life expectancy
GNPpercapita (Atlas method, US$)                    1,290      2,190     1,710
GNP (Atlas ethod, US$ biltions)                       2.6      1,039     1,657T
Averae annual arowth, 1992498                                                                       T
Population (%j                                        0.7        0.1       G1 
Labor fore (%)                                        1.1        0.6      t.5      Gpe                             Gross
per   ~    .primary
Most recent estimate (atest year available. 1992-98)                               capita         '    '      enrollment
Poverty (% of popultion below national poverty line)
Urban population (% of total opulation)                61        68        58
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       72        69        68
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               16        23        38
Child mainutritin (f% of children under 5)             ..         ..       ..                Access to safe water
Access to safe water (16 of population)                ..         ..       75
Illiteracy (% of populatlon age 15+)                   ..         4        14
Gross primary enroment % of school-sae population)     99       100       103            Macedonia,FYR
Male                                                100       101       10S              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                               98        99       100
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987      1997      1998
Economic ratios*
GDP USS bilons) a/                                      -        3.7      3.5
Gross domestc investment/GDP                                    22.4      22.8
Exports of goods and serviceslGOP                               35.8     41.0                     Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                                       8.1      7.1
Gross national savings/GDP                                      15,0      13.6
Current account bWarace/GDP                    .         .    -7.4      -8.2      Domestic
Interest paymentWaGDP                                            1.9      1.7      Domes                       Investment
Total debt/GDP                                                  34.1     43.3     Savigs
Total debt service/exports                                       8.4      8.2
Present value of debtlGDP                                       74.2        -
Present value ofdebWexports                   -. ..    114.6
Indebtedness
1977487  1988I 8    1997       1998   199903
(average annual growth)
GOP                                   ..      ..      1.5        2.9                      Macedonia, FYR
GNP per capita                       ..       ..      0.6        2.1       ..                Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and seMces          ..       ..    14.2        10.2       ..
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987      1997      1998     Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                        60
Agriculture                                   ..       ..       13.0      12.9    40
Industry                                      ..       ..       31.5     32.0    20
Manufacturing                                                                    20
Services                                      ..       ..       55.5     55.1    -20             9-7
Private consumpton                            ..       ..      74.4      75.4   -40
General govemment consumption                 ..       ..       17.5      17.5                  GDl        e*GDP
Imports of goods and services                 ..                50.1      56.6
1977-87  1988-98      1997      1998     Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                   ..       ..       7.1               30 -
Industry                                      ..       ..        0.6              20
Manufacturing                                ..       ..        ..        ..     10
Services                                      ..       ..       1.5        ..
Private consumption                           ..       ..        5.5      5.0   -10       93_                   97   98
General government consumption                ..       ..       -0.3      3.8
Gross domestic investment                     ..       ..        1.3     -0.8   -20
Imports of goods and services                 ..       ..       19.3     10.5             -     Expons     Imports
Gross national product                        ..       ..        1.3       3.1
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex 6
Page 2 of 2
Macedonia, FYR
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                             1977    1987       1997      1998      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                         30
Consumer prices                                                  1.5       0.8    20
Implicit GDP deflator                                            3 3.3    1.5
Govemment flnance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                          9 9      96       97       9
Current revenue                                                 34.9     33.5    -10
Current budget balance                                           0.9      -0.2                   GDP deflator  -*-CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                         -0.4     -1.7 7
TRADE
1977    1987       1997      1998     Export and import tavels (US$ millions)
(UJS$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                            1,237     1,322    2,500
Raw matenals                                                   147
Food and beverages                                             109      105    2.000
Clothing and textile                          .        ..      261      363    lA50o
Total imports (cif)                                            1 779     1,914    1,000,
Food                                                           242
Fuel and energy                                                193       163      o_
Capital and intermediate                                       775      851        o
92  93  94  90  96          99 g
Exportpriceindex(1995=100)                                      117       126
Importpriceindex(1995=100)                                      114       122                mExports     KImports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..       ..      102       104
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                              1977    1987       1997      1998      Current account balance to GOP ratio (%
Exports of goods and services                                  1,365     1,453     o
Imports of goods and services                                  1,896    2,025         92
Resource balance                                               -531      -572      43
Net income                                                       -33      -17                          -       
Net current transfers                                           291       300      -_
Current account balance                                         -273     -289
Financing items (net)                                           281       328
Changes in net reserves                                          -8       -39      12
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        ..       ..       280       333
Conversion rate (DEC, localJS$)                ..       .       69.4      74.2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS;
1977    1987       1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                     Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS milIlons)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                           1,265     1,533
IBRD                                                           92       115
IDA                                                           145       179                    134    t15
Total debt service                                              120       124                         17     9
IBRD                                                           13        12
IDA                                                              1        1           394                       114
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                                 8        29
Official creditors                                             74       113
Prvate creditors                                               20        55
Foreign direct investment                                      16       167
Portfolio equity                                                2         8                   320
World Bank program
Commitments                                                   102        36     A  IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                                  41        51     8 - IDA   D - Other multilateral    F - Private
Principal repayments                                            8         5     C - IMF                      G - ShDrt-term
Net flows                                                      34        46
Interest payments                                               6         9
Net transfers                                                  28        38
Development Economics                                                                                               9120/99
a. Calculated using market exchange rate.



Annex 7
Page 1 of 4
FYR MACEDONIA: SECOND FINANCIAL AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE MATRIX
FESAL 11 Policy Matrix Item              Technical Assistance Need                          Technical Assistance Available             Local                           Status
Counter-
party
I. LEGAL FRAMEWORK FOR BANKING ACTIVITY
Modemize Banking Legislation    Legal/technical assistance for the preparation of a new   Bank intemal budget resources; PHRD FESAL 11  MOF, NBM    Bank FESAL 11 Team, including a PHRD financed
banking law that will: (i) introduce definitions, allowable   Project Preparation Grants                            legal consultant, have provided technical support
activities and -  to the extent they are embedded in the                                                            during the last six months of 1999 and the first six
banking law  itself rather than in NBM  regulations-                                                                months of 2000 to the FYR Macedonian working
prudential rules that are in line with applicable EU banking                                                        group  tasked  with  preparing  new  banking
sector directives, IAS and BIS standards; (ii) strengthen                                                           legislation. A new banking law was enacted by
bank corporate govemance; and (iii) introduce efficient                                                             Parliament in late July 2000.
problem bank and bank failure resolution mechanisms that
exclude the BRA from the process.
Reform   bank-owned,  under-  Legal/technical assistance for the preparation of new   Bank intemal budget resources, PHRD FESAL 11  MOF, NBM,  Bank FESAL 11 Team, including a PHRD financed
funded    Deposit  Insurance  legislation that will introduce a properly designed and   Project Preparation Grants                  banking         legal consultant, have provided /technical support
Scheme                         funded deposit insurance scheme in line with the EU                                                  community       to the MOF and the NBM in the preparation of a
Directive on deposit insurance.                                                                                      new law to replace the existing bank-owned and
underfunded deposit insurance scheme. The new
law was ado ted by Parliament in late July 2000.
11.  BANK REGULATION AND SUPERVISION                                    _
Strengthen NBM Regulations     Technical assistance for  (i) the development of a time   IMF-MAE, Bank intemal budget resources and   NBM           A joint IMF/Bank Basle Core Principles Review
table for the necessary amendments to existing NBM    USAID financing                                                was undertaken in October 1999, which identified
prudential regulations for banks to bring the regulations in                                                        the main gaps in the existing regulatory regime for
line with international best practice standards; and (ii)                                                            banks (the review also provided input into the
issuance of a set of revised prudential regulations (to the                                                          drafting of a new banking law). Follow-up Bank
extent not already included in the new banking law) for                                                              FESAL 11 missions, as well as visits of USAID
capital adequacy, large/connected/ insider lending, loan                                                             financed OCC  experts have provided further
classification and provisioning, foreign exchange and                                                               technical support to the NBM  in this area.
interest rate risk in line with applicable BIS standards, EU                                                         Additional Bank/IJUSAID assistance is scheduled to
banking sector directives and IAS.                                                                                   be provided during the last quarter of calendar year
2000 and the first half of 2001.
Strengthen NBM Enforcement     No specific assistance to the NBM is required in this area.   USAID financing                         NBM      and    A two year banking assistance project that started
Actions                        However, commercial banks will need support to help                                                   banks           in November 1999, a USAID financed resident
them build the MIS and intemal control systems necessary                                                             banking  adviser  is  providing  broad  based
to improve compliance with NBM regulations.                                                                          institutional development technical assistance to
commercial banks. The efforts of this adviser are
complemented by an Irish financed credit adviser
working with selected banks in the context of the
Bank's Second Private Sector Development
Project to improve their credit policies/procedures
and skills.
Ill. PROBLEM BANK/BANK FAILURE RESOLUTION
Resolve Problem Banks        I Support to assist NBM with the operationalization of the   Bank intemal budget resources, USAID and Dutch   NBM  and   Bank FESAL II Team and USAID financed OCC



Annex 7
Annex 2 of 4
FYR MACEDONIA: SECOND FINANCIAL AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE MATRIX
FESAL 11 Policy Matrix Item              Technical Assistance Need                          Technical Assistance Available              Local                          Status
Counter-
party
newly created problem bank unit, and to assist the four  financing                                   banks           experts have assisted and will continue to assist the
banks that were subject to bank diagnostic studies (see                                                              NBM  with the preparation  and utilization  in
below) with the implementation of corrective action                                                                  practice of a comprehensive problem bank manual,
programs.-Operational restructuring of Stopanska Banka.
Dutch financed bank diagnostic studies for the four
largest banks after Stopanska Banka have
identified the actions to be taken by the banks
concemned to remedy existing deficiencies in their
institutional capacity. For Stopanska Banka, the
new owners (National Bank of Greece jointly with
IFC and EL3RD) are bringing in technical expertise
from  Greece.  The USAID  financed basking
adviser and the Irish financed credit adviser
referred to above will complement these efforts.
IV. INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT
Reform   of  the   Payment  Technical assistance and software/hardware financing for  EU PHARE and Dutch financing                  NBM,  ZPP   An EU PHARE financed feasibility study for the
Operations Bureau (ZPP).       the creation of a new RTGS large value payments system,                                               and banks.     development of a new  payments system  was
operated by the NBM and the banking system, and a new                                                                undertaken in 1999. EU PHIARE is also providing
bank-owned clearing house for small value payments.                                                                 financing  for the purchase of the necessary
software/hardware for the operationalization of the
new RTGS large value payments system,
scheduled  for mid/late  2001.   The  Dutch
Government has agreed in principle to finance the
technical assistance and software/hardware costs
associated with the creation of a new clearing
house for small value payments, to become
operational also by mid/late 2001.
Create    Effective    Pledge   Technical assistance and software/hardware financing for  Norwegian financing                       ZPP, CRO        Norwegian financed consultants have worked with
Registration Mechanisms        the creation of new movable and immovable central pledge                                                             CRO staff during the past two years and have
registers.                                                                                                           already operationalized  a new  central pledge
register for movable collateral.  A new central
register for immovable collateral is expected to be
operational by mid 2001.
Create a CSD/CSR and a DVP-  Technical assistance and software/hardware financing for  Norwegian financing                          ZPP,   MSE   A Norwegian financed feasibility study for the
based  Securities  Clearing  &   the creation of a new CSD/CSR and DVP based securities                                              and     new   creation of a new  CSDCSR  and DVP based
Settlement System              clearing and settlement system.                                                                       CSD/CSR        securities clearing and settlement system  was
undertaken during 1999. Norwegian financing for
implementation has been requested.
V.  PRIVATE ENTERPRISE ENTRY
Simplify Company Registration    Technical assistance for simplification  of enterprise   PHRD FESAL II Project Preparation Grants, FIAS   MOJ,     During  1999, PHRD/FIAS  and  EU  PHARE
registration legislation/procedures and for the creation of a  and EUJ PHARE financing               Registration   financed consultants have provided technical input
new  electronic company registration  infrastructure to                                              Courts         to  the  FYR   Macedonian  authorities  for
._______ _  replace the current decentralized paper-based registers.                                       l                simplification of enterprise registration procedures



Annex 7
Annex 3 of 4
FYR MACEDONIA: SECOND FINANCIAL AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE MATRIX
FESAL 11 Policy Matrix Item              Technical Assistance Need                         Technical Assistance Available            Local                          Status
Counter-
party
and legal provisions. Additionally, EU PHARE is
providing financing for the purchase of the
software/hardware necessary to create integrated
electronic company registers at the three main
_________________________________________________  __________ registration courts.
Attract    Foreign    Direct  Technical assistaDec  for streamlining the FDI legal,  FIAS/USAID financing                         MOE/MOJ        FIAS has completed a study of the FDI regime in
Investment (FDI).             regulatory and tax regime.                                                                                         August 1998 and has since, and will continue to
provide, follow-up support to assist the authorities
with  the  implementation  of  the  study's
recommendations.    USAID  financed  legal
consultants working on modernization of company
legislation are complementing this effort.
Strengthen the legal framework   Assist with strengthening of existing bankruptcy and  Bank internal budget resources, PHRD FESAL 11  MOJ  and   Bank FESAL 11 Team and PHRD financed legal
for enforcement of creditors'  collateral legislation, to allow  more expeditious debt  Project Preparation Grants                banking        consultant have provided technical support to the
rights.                       resolution.                                                                                         community      committees  responsible  for  reviewing  and
amending the relevant legislation. Amendments to
the laws concerned were passed by Parliament in
late July 2000.
Strengthen the legal framework  Provide technical assistance for the preparation  of  Bank intemal budget resources, USAID/FSVC and   MOF,  SEC,  During  1999/2000, Bank  FESAL  11 Team,
for enforcement of shareholders'  amendments to the existing securities law that mandate the  Norwegian financing                 MSE            USAID/FSVC and Norwegian financed securities
rights.                       transfer of share books from companies to the new CSR;                                                             law experts have coordinated the provision of
will strengthen the independence and enforcement powers                                                            advise to a FYR Macedonian working group tasked
of the SEC; insider trading rules, issuer disclosure                                                              with reviewing and amending existing securities
requirements, and protection ofminority shareholders.                                                             legislation. A first round of amendments to the
securities law was passed by Parliament in late July
2000, allowing for the creation of a new CSD/CSR.
Further amendments will be required and Bank and
USAID/FSVC support for future efforts in this area
will be available.
Create Effective Accounting and   Provide technical assistance for the creation of a new SRO   USAID financing                    MOF,           USAID financed consultants have been working
Auditing Profession.          for accountants and auditors.                                                                       Association of  during the past two years with the Association of
Accountants,   Accountants, Finance Workers and Auditors to
Finance        provide training  and  support for cunriculum
Workers  and  development, and will be available to provide input
Auditors       into the design and operationalization of the new
VI. STATE ENTERPRISE EXIT/PRIVATIZATION                                            ___
Resolve selected remaining large   Provide  technical  assistance  to  the  Government'  Bank intemal budget resources, PHRD FESAL 11  Government's  Bank FESAL 11 Ieam  and a PHRD financed
loss making enterprises (still  Committee  for Structural Reforms  (responsible  for  Project Preparation Grants, Dutch financing, FYR   Committee  privatization/enterprise  restructuring  consultant
majority or partially state-owned,  enterprise sector reform) to redraft existing privatization   Macedonian Government budget financing  for Structural  have provided advice on amendments to the
or for which the Government is a  legislation, to  introduce  best practice  privatization                                        Reforms        privatization law and the development of the DSM.
large creditor on account of  standards and processes, and to develop a new Decision                                              chaired    by  Parliament enacted  the  amendments  to  the
overdue claims) through either  Support Methodology (DSM) on the basis of which large                                             MOE,   PA,  privatization  law  during June 2000 and the



Annex 7
Annex 4 of 4
FYR MACEDONIA: SECOND FINANCIAL AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE MATRIX
FESAL 11 Policy Matrix Item             Technical Assistance Need                         Technical Assistance Available            Local                         Status
Counter-
party
sale or closure.              loss making enterprise situations will be resolved.                                                BRA            Govemment [has issued] an implementation decree
that mandates the use of the new DSM. Dutch
financed consultants have undertaken a review of
the loss making enterprise Feni using the principles
specified in the DSM. Dutch grant financing will
in principle also be available to undertake a similar
review  for  Jugohrom.    Additionally,  the
Government intends to use its own budget
resources as well as the proceeds of Dutch grant
based cofinancing of the FESAL II's first tranche
to finance similar reviews for additional enterpriscs
________________.____ _                                                                                                               subject to FESAL 11 conditionality.
Resolve the assets of the BRA.    Future BRA debt resolution activity will need to take place   Bank intemal budget resources.   BRA            Bank FESAL 11 Team has worked with the BRA to
in the context of the new best practice privatization                                                            identify methods of reducing its existing portfolio
standards and the DSM.                                                                                            to the levels specified as FESAL 11 conditionality.
The BRA will indirectly benefit from the technical
assistance that is being provided by the Dutch
financed consultants referred to above to its largest
.___________________________________________ _debtor enterprises including Feni and Jugohrom.



Annex 8
Page 1 of 2
ENVIRONMENTAL DATA SHEET FOR PROJECTS
in the IBRDIIDA Lending Program
Country:                       FYR Macedonia          Project ID No:         MK-PE-42400
Project Name:                  Second Financial and   Total Project Cost:    US$50 million
Enterprise Sector
Adjustment Loan
(FESAL II)
Appraisal Date:                06/08/2000
Board Date:                    12/14/2000             Team Leader:           Marie-Renee Bakker
Managing Unit                  ECSPF                  Sector                 Private and Financial Sector
Est. date for receipt of EA by Bank:  N/A
EA Category (A/B/C/Fl):        Fl                     Date Assigned:         04/13/2000
Date Sheet Prepared/Updated April 24h, 2000
(Please do not leave any items blank: use "N/A" or "To be developed" when appropriate)
Major Project Components: (presents description of project components)
The FESAL 11 is planned to be a three-tranche adjustment loan in support of the financial and private sector reform
program initiated by the Government of FYR Macedonia. The main objectives of the loan are: (i) strengthening the health
of the banking system and improving the quality of bank intermediation; (ii) improving the private sector business
enabling environment; and (iii) resolving, through privatization/financial restructuring or closure, the universe of large loss
making enterprises that crowd out private sector growth.
Major Environmental Issues: (describes major environmental issues identified or suspected in project)
There are no major environmental issues associated with the project.
Other Environmental Issues: (describes environmental issues of lesser scope associated with project)
State and socially owned enterprises may have a legacy of non-compliance with the environmental standards. Although
large-scale privatization in the enterprise sector has been largely completed, with the exception of a relatively small
number of the state-owned enterprises that will be privatized or liquidated under the proposed FESAL 11, environmental
issues sometimes remain unresolved in the enterprise sector as a whole.
ProposedActions: (describes actions proposed to mitigate environmental issues described in project)
The Government recognizes the necessity to properly address the issue of environmental noncompliance in the enterprise
sector. Therefore, the authorities intend to systematically and comprehensively address the issues of environmental
noncompliance and industrial pollution in the enterprise sector, and implement a follow-up reform agenda, that would
encompass improvement of the environment-related legislative framework, regulatory and institutional capacity, and
mitigate the negative impact of the previous environmental policies and practices in the enterprise sector.  The
Government expects to implement such reform agenda, targeting the whole gamut of environmental policy and regulatory
adjustments, with the assistance of the Bank and the EU, extended through a future lending operation. The planned
environment sector operation will be a part of the Bank's future lending program, to be outlined in the next CAS, and has
been tentatively planned for 2002. The Government has agreed to include the environmental reform actions in the Letter
of Development Policy for the proposed FESAL 11.
JustificationiRationalefor Environmental Category: (reasons for env. Category selected & explanation of any changes from initial
classification)
The implementation of a comprehensive financial and enterprise sector reform agenda, planned under the proposed Loan,
is not expected to have any major negative environmental impact. Closure of some loss-making enterprises, supported
under the project, is likely to help reduce industrial pollution, and thus, will have a positive environmental effect.
Nevertheless, the Government recognizes the need to address certain environmental issues in the enterprise sector,
specifically relating to the operation of privatized enterprises and those to be privatized under the FESAL 11, and to
improve environmental compliance among those enterprises. This initiative will be supported by the Bank and other
international agencies through a future environment sector lending operation, to be included in the next CAS.
Status of Category A Environmental Assessment: (presents EA start-up date, EA first draft, and current status)
Not applicable.



Annex 8
Page 2 of 2
Remarks: (gives status of any other environmental studies, lists local groups and local NGOs consulted, tells whether borrower has
given perrnission to release EA, etc)
Not applicable.
Signed by: t 4p   t           {                          4Signed by:
-  ari                            /         wK~~~~~~~ohn Hay  ry
Progr lfTeam Leader                                       Environ  en          L Sector Leader
Date: April 24h, 2000                                      Date         4 A;   )
! - . ff / ,~~~~~



Annex 9
Page 1 of 4
The Bank Rehabilitation Agency (BRA)
1.   The Bank Rehabilitation Agency (BRA) was established in 1994 as an agency of
the Government of FYR Macedonia under the Law on Commercial Banks and Savings
Houses. It was specifically established at the time to assume, at nominal value, the Denar
denominated bad loan portfolio of Stopanska Banka, the dominant commercial bank in
FYR Macedonia. The nominal value of this portfolio was 12.7 billion Denars, or
approximately US$312.9 million at the exchange rate prevailing at the time. At the end
of 1994, responsibility for amounts owing to Paris Club lenders in the amount of US$118
million was transferred to the BRA.  In August 1997, the BRA also assumed
responsibility for approximately US$105 million of non-performing foreign currency
debts of state- and socially owned enterprises owing to London/Zurich Club creditors and
US$145 million owing by these enterprises to the World Bank, the European Investment
bank, the International Finance Corporation and the EBRD. In early 2000, four loans
with a book value of US$120.1 million, which the Government agreed would be removed
from the balance sheet of Stopanska Banka as a condition of its sale to foreign investors,
were also transferred to the BRA.
2.   The BRA has a staff of 16 professionals and four support staff. Its annual budget
of 38 million Denars (approximately US$630,000) has been funded by own revenues of
collection of debts. The annual budget of the BRA is approved by the Parliament.
3.   At the end of 1994, the non-performing Denar denominated loans of Stopanska
Banka were transferred to BRA. Government bonds equivalent to 3.3 percent of GDP
were provided to Stopanska Banka to replace a large portion of its bad loans; the National
Bank of Macedonia (NBM) swapped loans equivalent to 0.6 percent of 1996 GDP with
the BRA in exchange for bonds; and additional non-performing loans were written off
against the equity position of debtors of the bank. The bonds carried a nominal interest
rate equivalent to the NBM discount rate at the time (approximately 4 percent),
considerably less than either commnercial interest rates or inflation at the time. The
exchange was done on the basis of the classification of individual loans, rather than on
the basis of borrower "connections". As a result of these measures the assets of
Stopanska Banka were reduced dramatically; however, Stopanska Banka also retained a
number of loans to enterprises which had been generally unable to service their
obligations.
4.   The BRA was expected to be a temporary arrangement for resolving a portfolio of
bad debts. Resolution procedures were expected to include: (i) the sale of debts to
investors who might wish to acquire shares in debtor enterprise through debt for equity
swaps; or (ii) the direct sale of foreclosed assets pledged as security for the debts.
However, it is evident that the normal role of an asset management company was not
initially understood or, if it was understood, it was rejected by the authorities in favor of a
different role.
5.   Until quite recently, the BRA has had limited success in selling its loans or settling
outstanding obligations, either through negotiations or collection action. Approximately
32 percent of its debt is due from Government agencies and state-owned utilities, and is



Annex 9
Page 2 of 4
not the subject of normal resolution procedures, such as the US$65 million in claims on
the national highway system and national railways. A further 22 percent is due from
wholly or partially state- or socially owned enterprises which the Governnent has
undertaken to resolve under the proposed FESAL II.
6.   Many of the bad debts have become much more difficult to resolve because the
enterprises were given the same rescheduled repayment facility as that negotiated by the
Government with the Paris and London/Zurich clubs. This meant initially that much of
the original debt which was in arrears has become reclassified as current as the result of
new grace periods and rescheduled repayment terms. Even though the enterprises have
almost invariably defaulted on interest payments and the initial rescheduled principal
payments, the BRA has taken the position that it could not foreclose on the portion of the
loans not yet due because the conditions normally triggered by default, such as
accelerated repayment, did not apply to these loans.
7.   Five years after the creation of the BRA, most of the non-performing loans are still
on the books of the BRA. Almost all of the few loans which have been settled have been
repurchased at a deep discount by the original debtors. The five sales of loans which
took place in 1998 were at an average discount of 77.5 percent. Although the BRA
annual report for 1999 refers to an increased emphasis on the sale of loans, no detailed
inforrnation has been provided on the extent of these sales. In addition, during 1998 and
again in 1999, enterprises purchased back obligations at a discount of 60 percent using
bonds issued by the Governrment to enterprises to purchase uncollectable receivables
owing to them by Iraq and Kuwait, and which dated from the Gulf War. This method of
payment accounted for a full 60 percent of the receipts of the BRA in 1999.
8.  As shown in the following table, by the end of 1999 interest totaling US$100.1
million had been accrued and the BRA had collected US$68.1 million of interest and
principal, through the sale of debt and the sale of equity. The cumulative effect has been
for the book value of the portfolio to actually increase by about 6 percent in US dollar
terms despite the fact that there has been a significant depreciation of the Denar during
this period.



Annex 9
Page 3 of 4
Item                  Transferred to BRA  End 1997  End 1998  End 1999
US$ million
Denar Claims                      12/31/94       249.3     235.9     193.0     156.4
Foreign Claims
- Paris Club                     12/31/94         141       139      146.6     130.6
-Zurich/London Club              8/31/97           98        98      106.1     100.8
-IFls                            8/31/97          71.1      83.3     225.0     204.2
- Total                                          310.1     320.3     477.7     435.6
Total Claims                                     559.4     556.2     670.7      592
Shares                                                      59.2     122.3        -
Total Portfolio                                  559.4     615.4     793.0      592
Net Cumulative Accruals/Additions                           82.1     280.6     100.7
Cumulative Collections                                      26.1       47       68.1
Based on information supplied by BRA
9.    The largest inflow of debt service comes from the Public Highways Fund, through
three-way transfers between the budget, the Fund and the BRA. Between 80 to 90
percent of the claims that were extinguished through sales to the original debtors were at
discounts of up to 65 percent on foreign currency debt and 75 percent on Denar debt from
non-agricultural enterprises, and up to 85 percent of amounts owed by agricultural
borrowers. Cumulative proceeds from sales and collections increased from US$26
million at end 1996 to US$68.1 million by the end of 1999. However, net interest
accruals of US$100.7 million to the end of 1999, together with the transfer in of
additional bad loans, imply that little progress has been made in resolving the BRA's
portfolio. This conclusion is reinforced by the fact that only 10 enterprises accounted for
81 percent of the receipts of the BRA in 1999.
10. With the adoption in April 1999 of the Law for Privatization of State Capital, the
BRA's equity portfolio, amounting to some US$120 million, was transferred to the
Privatization Agency to be managed together with other state equity holdings (primarily
from the Ministry of Finance) and residual shares held by the Privatization Agency. The
majority of this share portfolio was acquired as a result of the legislated debt-to-equity
conversion of all bank Denar debt owing by 23 enterprises which were part of the 1995
Special Restructuring Program. In addition, the BRA has participated in debt-to-equity
swaps as part of the bankruptcy proceedings for six enterprises.



Annex 9
Page 4 of 4
11. Although a number of the debtors whose loans are due to the BRA are the subject
of bankruptcy proceedings, these proceedings have usually been initiated by the other
creditors. The BRA also has a number of open mortgage foreclosure actions; it expects
that the recent amendments to the Law on Bankruptcy and the Law on Pledges, as well as
the passage of a new mortgage law, will allow these open situations to be resolved during
2000.
12. At the end of 1999, the portfolio of the BRA had a book value of US$592 million,
US$276 million of which is classified as due or past due, and US$316 million of which is
not yet due. It is relevant to note that almost all of the London Club indebtedness is
classified as not yet due, as a result of the rescheduling at the sovereign level referred to
above. A further US$120 million was transferred in early 2000, as a result of the sale of
Stopanska Banka to a strategic foreign investor.
13.  The experience of the BRA to date in resolving delinquent loans through sale or
negotiations suggests that proceeds can be expected to be roughly 20 to 25 percent of
book value. Applying this level of discount to the portfolio value of loans to non-
governmental borrowers of US$451 million indicates expected proceeds in the region of
US$90-$113 million. Considering that the BRA collected US$18 million in 1998, and a
further US$21.3 million in 1999, it will take a major escalation in effort for the BRA to
achieve its target of completing its mandate by end 2004. In addition to the transfer to
the Ministry of Finance of loans to Government agencies and state-owned utilities, and
the resolution of a specific number of large loss making enterprises as part of the
Government's broader FESAL II reform commitments, the BRA should escalate its
collection action against defaulting commercial debtors, and offer more loans for sale to
outside parties on a regular basis, all without political interference. If these strategies are
pursued, it is not unrealistic to expect that the BRA's residual portfolio could be reduced
by a third in each of the next three years, especially in light of the considerable volume of
sales and buy-backs which have already been negotiated, but which have not yet closed.
At the end of the four years, all remaining loans should be in some form of formal
collection action, to allow for the expeditious liquidation of the BRA in accordance with
the sunset provision in the amended BRA legislation, and the transfer/sale of any
remaining claims to private sector entities.



Annex 10
Page I of 9
ENTERPRISE PRIVATIZATION IN FYR MACEDONIA
Background
1.    The transformation of socially owned capital into privately owned capital of FYR
Macedonian enterprises began in June 1993 with the passing of the Law on the
Transformation of Enterprises with Social Capital. This law mandated that the social
capital of all enterprises, except agricultural enterprises and cooperatives, a number of
"strategic" enterprises, and state-owned enterprises such as the electric utility company or
the railway be converted to a corporatized form, and sold to the private sector. In April
1996, a second transformation law was passed, which covered the agricultural enterprises
with social capital, and cooperatives.
2.    Prior to the passing of the initial privatization law, there was considerable debate
on the transformation model to be used. This debate was eventually resolved by the
adoption of a case-by-case model of privatization, which offered up to ten different
transformation methods. This choice was likely influenced by the nature of "social
capital", a type of enterprise ownership unique to the republics of the formner Yugoslavia.
In theory, social capital is the residual value of assets (including social assets) which
were entrusted to the workers. The workers were to use and hold those assets in trust for
the benefit of the society at large. In practice, the workers in an enterprise came to view
the enterprise as their own, which they had "purchased" with their labor (and payroll
deductions in some cases). This view was reinforced by the initial privatization attempts
initiated by Ante Markovic, the last Prime Minister of Yugoslavia, which involved
workers in enterprises being awarded "internal shares".  These "internal shares"
sometimes comprised a significant percentage of the total capital of an enterprise, and
have often been an important factor in the transformation of socially owned enterprises.
3.    The Privatization Agency (PA) was established to facilitate the process of the
transformation of social capital, and to ensure that the law was applied on a consistent
basis. The PA is a governmental institution. The PA is self-funded by the proceeds from
the sales of enterprises. The Agency is supervised by a Management Board consisting of
nine members; who together with the Director of the agency are nominated by the
Government. The Agency must submit a semi-annual report on its operations to the
Government and an annual report to Parliament.
4.    During the early years of its existence, the Agency was assisted in developing
policies and procedures by of experts funded by international donors.
5.    The mandate of the PA was to enter into contracts with purchasing groups, under
which the purchasers would acquire at least 51 percent of the capital of an enterprise.
The actual percentage purchased could be significantly lower, if the purchasing group
already held a significant percentage of capital represented by "internal shares".



Annex 10
Page 2 of 9
6.    Historically, the Privatization Agency has not had a mandate to require that the
viability of enterprises be established before they started the transformation process. The
valuation of the social capital of each enterprise which was subject to transformation was
determined by valuators who had been trained by an independent accounting firm in
valuation techniques, and licensed by the Agency. Unfortunately, there were many
difficulties with the valuation process.
7.    The Privatization Agency reports that as of December 31, 1999, a total of 1,488
enterprises of a total universe of 1,726 enterprises with social capital had been privatized.
These enterprises employed 216,000 workers and had an appraised value of DEM 4.1
billion. The table below contains the details of transformations completed by end
December 1999, by transformation model:
Privatization Model        No. of    No. of Workers   Appraised Value
Enterprises      (000)        (DEM millions)
Internal Shares                  66            11                       114
Employee Buy Out (EBO)          384            18                       155
Management Buy Out (MBO)        247            73                      1391
Unclassified buy-out             149           50                      1005
Sale of an "ideal part"          67            16                       364
Leasing                          4                                        2
Issue of additional capital      20             7                       137
Residual                         28            15                       307
Debt to equity conversion        75            19                       552
Outside investors               284             7                       110
Liquidations                     164            1 1
Total                           1,488         216                     4,138
8.    Attachment 1 to this Annex includes an extract from the 1995 publication "Doing
Business in Macedonia" which describes the various models of privatization in greater
detail.
9.    As of end December 1999 there were 181 enterprises in the process of
transforming their social capital, and 57 enterprises which had not yet been privatized. In
terms of number and value of enterprises privatized, 86 percent by number and 89
percent by value have already completed the process.
10.   The EBO model of transformation requires that the employees buy 100 percent of
the social capital of an enterprise, whereas the MBO model requires that the
"management team" acquire sufficient shares so it controls 51 percent of the capital of an
enterprise. For this reason, EBOs were not practical for medium and large sized
enterprises. MBOs very often were done by a purchasing group which consisted of a
large percentage of the entire workforce.
11.   MBOs and EBOs can be achieved using preferential share pricing for employees
and ex-employees. Typical purchase terms would involve a 10 percent down payment, a



Annex 10
Page 3 of 9
two year grace period, followed by payment of the balance over five years. In addition,
each employee has been entitled to buy a limited number of shares, at a significant
discount to the appraised value.
12.   Management buyout proposals are based on a "development plan", which is
"scored" by the PA on the basis of published criteria. One oddity of the scoring system
has been that proposing purchasers receive additional evaluation points for maintaining
or increasing employment, and consequently would be penalized for any proposed
reduction in the work force. When the PA and a purchaser reach agreement, the
purchaser's development plan is incorporated into the sale contract with the PA. Clearly,
since the socially owned enterprises have been run primarily for the benefit of the
workers, overstaffing and underemployment are major problems which have been
perpetuated by the policies of the PA. Because the purchase contracts typically have a
life of up to seven years, rapid operational restructuring is risky for the purchaser, even
assuming that the purchaser is not an employee group.
13.   Fifteen percent of the social capital (not total capital) is reserved for the state run
Pension Fund. Where a purchasing group does not wish to acquire more than 51 percent,
the PA can end up with up to 34 percent of the shares in an enterprise as "residual
shares". The Law on Transfonnation of Enterprises with Social Capital requires that
these shares be offered for sale with 90 days of the PA acquiring them. The PA reports
that it currently holds residual shares over 200 enterprises, with an appraised value of
DEM 700 million, including shares held by Government institutions and the BRA or
some 20 percent of the total appraised value of these enterprises. The law was amended
in December 1999 to require the PA to list all residual and recovered shares (see below)
on the Macedonia Stock Exchange. As of January 2000, 72 enterprises had been listed
for trading on the exchange.
14.   An agreement for the sale of shares in an enterprise whose capital has been
transformed pursuant to a purchase contract on deferred payment terms can be cancelled
by the PA if its terms have not been met. In this case, the shares which have been
reserved to meet the deferred purchase terms come under the direct control of the PA.
Because of the grace periods, and because of the apparent importance that the purchasers
put on meeting the terms of their purchase contracts if at all possible, to date the level of
defaults of purchase contracts has been lower than might have been anticipated.
However, in January 2000, the PA recovered all shares which had not been paid for from
employee share purchase contracts in default. Included in the 100 enterprises referred to
above are 10 enterprises, with an appraised value of DM 78 million, in which the PA
controls over 50 percent of the share capital (some, but not all of these holdings are due
to failed purchase contracts). Two enterprises, Bucim and Jugohrom, account for DEM
62 million of the DEM 78 million.
15.   The privatization of enterprises which have been the subject of bankruptcy
proceedings prior to entering into a contract for the transformation of their social capital
is a complex subject, since the Law on the Transformation of Enterprises with Social
Capital is not fully consistent with the Law on Bankruptcy. However, the PA can enter



Annex 10
Page 4 of 9
into "bankruptcy rehabilitation plans" which involve debt to equity conversions, under
which the PA may end up holding a majority of the capital of the restructured enterprise.
There are currently approximately 70 enterprises which have not yet been transformed
because their privatization is suspended pending completion of bankruptcy proceedings.
The Special Restructuring Program (SRP)-1995
16.  In March 1995, the Government passed a special law which mandated the
restructuring and privatization of twenty five large loss making enterprises, including the
electric utility and the railroad (these latter two were not subject to privatization). The
SRP was supported by the Bank with the First Financial and Enterprise Sector Credit
(FESAC I). The essence of the SRP was the legislated debt-to-equity conversion of all
Denar denominated indebtedness owing by the enterprises in the program to the banks,
the Government and its agencies, and the funding of the redundancy costs of up to 20,000
workers who would be let go from the enterprises. Participating enterprises were to be
split into smaller, more viable units, and the units which were deemed to be not viable
were to be liquidated. Participation in the SRP program was voluntary.
17.   The program was overseen by an Inter-Ministerial Committee. The 23 non-state
enterprises were split into approximately 134 smaller enterprises, although there were
wide differences between enterprises with regard to the extent to which a core business
dominated all ancillary activities. As an example, one of the agricultural kombinats split
into 18 smaller enterprises, the shoe factory into two new enterprises, and the chemical
factory and some of the textile enterprises did not split at all. During the program, no
units went into liquidation, even though a number of units were identified as not being
viable, and despite decisions of the Inter-Ministerial Committee that certain units should
enter liquidation.
18.   The process of privatization of the SRP enterprises was somewhat different from
the non-SRP enterprises. Before the amounts owing to the banks and the Government
were converted to equity, the social capital on the books of an enterprise was reduced by
netting the accumulated losses against the capital. In many cases this resulted in the
social capital being eliminated altogether which resulted in the former creditors owning
large blocs of the capital upon conversion. A total of some US$800 million (1.24 billion
DEM) were converted to equity under the SRP.
19.   Where the dominant creditors were Government institutions for unpaid payroll
taxes and social contributions, the enterprise could be "privatized" by becoming state
owned as a result of the debt-to-equity conversion. As part of the Bank-supported effort
to restructure the banking sector, the non-performing loans of FYR Macedonia's largest
commercial bank, Stopanska Banka, were transferred to the Bank Rehabilitation Agency
(BRA) in exchange for Government bonds of an equivalent nominal value. The
legislated conversion of loans to equity for the 23 enterprises meant that the BRA had
roughly 15 percent of its portfolio converted to capital.



Annex 10
Page 5 of 9
20.   Neither the BRA nor the PA have considered it their mandate to fully exercise the
shareholder rights which attached to these shares. Nor initially was there the official
capacity to sell state owned property such as the shares in the SRP enterprises. This
proved to be a particular problem where the BRA, the PA, and the Ministry of Finance
between them held a majority of the capital of an enterprise. The Government initially
addressed this problem by drafting a law which allowed these different parts of the
Government to offer their shareholdings jointly, and then replaced this authority in April
1999 with a law which appointed the PA as the agent for the disposition of all the
Government holdings in these and other enterprises.
Macroeconomic Effects of Privatization
21.   Information provided by the Bureau of Payment Operations (ZPP) for the years
1995 through 1998 which distinguishes between private, privatized and socially owned
enterprises, indicates that the privatized enterprises have had a very uneven financial
record. While always incurring aggregate losses, the socially owned enterprises are
reported to have made a remarkable recovery in 1998 to the point where they apparently
have only nominal losses as a group, and the private enterprises are reported to function
at roughly a break even level throughout the period.
22.   Unfortunately, the quality of financial information reported by the enterprises to
the ZPP is very low. Furthermore, it is not always consistent with information regarding
ownership status which is assembled by the PA, which makes the information difficult to
assess. However, it is clear that privatized enterprises as a group have not become
healthy and profitable as a result of the change in their ownership structure. There are
several possible explanations for this, both internal and external to the enterprises
concerned.
Internal impediments include:
* Many enterprises are owned and managed by the same people as they were before the
social capital was transformed, due to the predominance of the EBO and MBO
acquisition models;
* The procedures of the PA encouraged the maintenance of employment, even in
situations where this was inappropriate;
* The capital of nonviable enterprises, and even insolvent enterprises, has been
transformed, without regard to future viability;
* There is some indication that enterprise resources which are desperately needed to
establish liquidity and upgrade the capital assets of the enterprises are frequently
being diverted to fund the purchase of the equity in the enterprise by management or
employee groups;
* Many of the worst loss makers are state owned, primarily as a result of the SRP
program. Until very recently the Government has failed to address the fate of these
chronic loss makers. Note that in this context "privatized" means transformation of
social capital, rather than transfer of ownership and control to private owners.



Annex 10
Page 6 of 9
External reasons include:
*  The continuing impact of the breakup of the former Yugoslavia, and the attendant
loss of markets, particularly for the intermediate goods or farm products which FYR
Macedonia historically produced. It became obvious during the SRP that the
managements of most of the large enterprises had virtually no market or product
development skills, and extremely limited financial and general management skills;
*  There have been a series of trade disruptions since 1995, including an embargo
imposed by Greece, and sanctions against Serbia imposed by the United Nations.
Most recently, the war in Kosovo not only severely damaged the transportation
corridors to Europe, it also destroyed a number of the trading partners of FYR
Macedonian enterprises;
*  Social attitudes, which translate into severe creditor apathy;
*  Weak court systems which continue to favor maintenance of employment over
creditor rights;
*  A banking system which can only offer a limited range of financial products; because
of the very high real interest rates charged by the banks, it is completely impractical
for an enterprise to borrow funds for anything other than the shortest term trade
financing;
* Incomplete legal and regulatory structure governing private enterprises;
e  External funding, either in the form of equity or long term lending is largely available
only from international financial institutions; many private investors appear to
consider the region much too volatile for major long-term commitments;
-  Lack of commitment on the part of the Government to take, or allow others to take,
actions which might stem the losses of the most problematic enterprises. This
included Government actions such as the 1997 amnesty and across the board
discounts offered to defaulters for tax and contribution arrears (which created the
expectation of future amnesties), and has extended to effectively sabotaging
applications by the electric utility, lodged at the insistence of the IMF, to open
bankruptcy proceeding over its two largest debtors (Fenimak and Jugohrom); and
* Lack of the exercise of any governance over enterprises in which the Government and
its agencies hold a majority of the capital; some of the largest loss makers are
included in this category.
Conclusion and Relation to the Proposed FESAL II
23.   FYR Macedonia has made considerable progress in transforming the vast number
of enterprises which were socially owned. Notwithstanding, both privatized and state
controlled enterprises continue to incur losses.
24.   The FESAL II enterprise sector conditions are focused on the final resolution of
the largest loss making enterprises, with particular attention being paid to enterprises
which are state- or socially-owned or controlled. The Government has agreed a list of
enterprises which will be privatized/financially restructured or closed as conditions for
release of the second and third tranche. These enterprises will be subjected to a rigorous
analytical framework to determine the appropriate course of action, which is supported



Annex 10
Page 7 of 9
by amendments to privatization legislation which require any sale to be the subject of an
international public tendering process. The framework also contemplates that enterprises
which are particularly socially or politically sensitive can be given a limited (and
declining) amount of Government support to facilitate their sale to strategic investors.
25.   In addition, the FESAL II conditions address the governance and transparency
issues which have resulted in the relatively slow pace of operational restructuring
following the transformation of social capital into private capital. Direct measures
include the creation of a central share registry to replace the inadequate and unreliable
registries maintained by individual enterprises, the creation of an independent accounting
and auditing profession to strengthen the legislated requirement that enterprises prepare
their financial statements in accordance with international accounting standards, and
amendments to the Law on Bankruptcy and the Law on Pledges (for pledges of movable
assets) which will strengthen the ability of creditors to protect and pursue their interests
when debtor enterprises are unable or unwilling to fulfill their obligations. A new
mortgage law (for immovable collateral) supplements these amendments. Indirect
measures include a commitment from the Bank Rehabilitation Agency to finally resolve
its non-performing loan portfolio; since it has many large loans in its portfolio, a more
aggressive approach on the part of the BRA is very likely to produce significant
restructuring or exit of marginal enterprises. Finally, the sale of Stopanska Banka to a
consortium of foreign investors, combined with strengthened NBM prudential regulations
for bank capital adequacy and loan loss provisioning, will have a direct and important
impact on externally imposed financial discipline for newly privatized enterprises.



Annex 10
Page 8 of 9
Attachment 1
Extract from "Doing Business in Macedonia", Page 64
".2 Methods of Privatization
According to the Law for Transformation of Enterprises with Social Capital, several
methods or models of privatization are available to enterprises.  The models are
somewhat different depending on whether the enterprise is defined as small, medium or
large. Small and medium-sized enterprises may propose their own models, whereas large
ones must select a model in consultation with the Agency. Potential purchasers can use a
combination of models when bidding.
Small enterprises may be privatized according to the following models:
Employee buy-out (EBO): The employees are given the opportunity to buy out the
enterprise. They may do so if they purchase at least 51 percent of the appraised value
of the enterprise. They are obliged to buy the remaining part in equal annual
installments over the next 5 years without interest.
Sale of a so called ideal part of the enterprise (in the form of quotas, stakes or
shares): A part of the equity - a stake of the enterprise may be sold by a public call
for bids. If there are more than one bidder an auction is to be organized. If the sale is
unsuccessful, the shares are offered through a second public offering.
Medium-sized enterprises may be privatized according to the following models:
*  Sale of the enterprise or a part of it: This is the same model as applied for the
small enterprises.
* Public offering: A public offering is considered to be successful if at least 51
percent of the value of social capital has been sold. The shares are sold through a
public offering. The enterprise transfers the remaining unsold shares to the Agency.
The Agency is obliged to offer these shares to the public within a three month period.
.  Leveraged  management buy-out/management buy-in  (LBO):   A  public
announcement is made to collect bids to buy an enterprise according to this model.
This is an attractive model because it offers the possibility to buy the enterprise on an
installment basis. Same as other models, it is open to all domestic and foreign,
physical and legal persons. An LBO agreement may be made with the investor who
offer a business plan for the enterprise. According to this model the buyer that offers
the most attractive program through public tender can obtain the right to control the
enterprise by means of a down payment of only 20 percent of the appraised value of
the enterprise. They will be obliged to purchase at least 51 percent of the shares in
not more than five annual installments with no interest charge. In the meantime the
Agency holds the unpaid shares, which are preferred shares with an option of their



Annex 10
Page 9 of 9
conversion into common stock if the shareholders do not pay the installments or if
other conditions are not fulfilled.
Issue of shares for additional investment: The enterprise may increase its capital
with a new issue. If the new issue is greater than 30 percent of the appraised value of
the company, the Agency will make an agreement with the investor in which the
investor will be offered an opportunity to purchase 51 percent of the total number of
shares of the firm within a period of not more than five years. The Agency receives
preferred shares with an option to convert them into common stock if the
shareholders do not comply with paying the installments on time.
Debt/equity conversion (D/E Swap): If the creditors and the enterprise find it
viable, an exchange of debt for equity may be used as one of the models of
privatizing a firm.
Large enterprises may be privatized according to the same models as medium-sized
ones. One difference is that the down payment for a leveraged buy-out is only 10 percent
rather than 20 percent. Another difference is that the additional capital investment
required is 15 percent instead of 30 percent. The Agency also plays a much more active
role in the privatization of large enterprises as compared to small or medium-sized ones.
A special body, the Transformation Board, has been established to prepare the
privatization of large enterprises. Half of the voting power in this Board is vested in the
Agency and the other half in the enterprise.
In addition to these models, there are three more possibilities for transformation. They
may be applied to all enterprises irrespective of their size.
Leasing: An enterprise may conclude a leasing agreement with a lessee after a call
for public tenders. A clause of buying out the firm is included in the agreement, so
that the lessee, while paying for the lease, also pays installments on the purchase of
the company over a period not longer than seven years.
Sale of assets of the enterprise: Upon liquidation of an enterprise, its assets may be
sold separately. If some liabilities remain uncovered, the Agency is not obliged to
compensate for them. Creditors participate pari passu in the proceeds. Employees are
treated as under bankruptcy proceedings and may be rehired by the successor
enterprise.
. Transformation of enterprises under the bankruptcy procedure: Upon the
proposal of the leading creditor or creditors, an enterprise may suspend its bankruptcy
proceedings for a period not to exceed 12 months in order to undertake certain
activities for transformation, such as debt/equity swaps, programs for refinancing,
etc..



