Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3442 MK
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit)
between
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
(the Borrower)
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association)
Dated December 15, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3442 MK 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 15, 2000, between the Borrower and the 
Association.
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter 
dated November 17, 2000, describing a program of actions, objectives and 
policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower's 
financial and enterprise sectors (hereinafter called the Program), 
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program 
during the execution thereof;
(B)
the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) to provide additional 
assistance in support of the Program, and by an agreement of even date 
herewith between the Borrower and the Bank (the Loan Agreement), the Bank 
is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount 
equal to thirty million three hundred and ten thousand dollars 
($30,310,000) (the Loan); and
(C)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association 
has decided in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the 
Page  2
Borrower by making the Credit in three tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development 
Credit Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) with the modifications thereof set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read:
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to 
the Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is 
made.”;
(b)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the 
currency of the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the 
Development Credit Agreement.”;
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of 
the Credit from the Credit Account in accordance with the 
provisions 
of the Development Credit Agreement and of these General 
Conditions”;
(d)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(e)
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read:
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or 
such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower 
and 
the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the 
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
program 
referred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit 
Agreement, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Association of 
their respective 
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement 
and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.”; 
and
(f)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified 
above), 9.07 and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 
9.06 and 9.07.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Banking Law” means the Borrower’s Law on Banking published 
in the Official Gazette No. 63/00.
(b)
“Bankruptcy Law” means the Borrower’s Law on Bankruptcy 
published in the Official Gazette No. 55/97 as amended as at the date of 
this Agreement.
(c)
“BRA” means the Bank Rehabilitation Agency established by 
the Borrower in 1994 by the Law on Commercial Banks and Savings Houses 
(published in the Official Gazette No. 31/93) as amended as at the date 
Page  3
of this Agreement to facilitate resolution of bad debts of commercial 
banks, or any successor thereto.
(d)
“Central Bank Law” means the Borrower’s Law on the National 
Bank of the Borrower published in the Official Gazette No. 26/92 as 
amended as at the date of this Agreement.
(e)
“Company Law” means the Borrower’s Law on Trading Companies 
published in the Official Gazette No. 28/96 as amended as at the date of 
this Agreement.
(f)
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
(g)
“Deposit Insurance Law” means the Borrower’s Law on the 
Deposit Insurance Fund and the Establishment and Operations of the 
Deposit Insurance Fund published in the Official Gazette No. 63/00.
(h)
“Feni” means the state-owned company FENI-Kavadarci (Mines 
and Industry for Production of Nickel, Steel and Antimony) registered in 
the District Commercial Court of Skopje on April 10, 1990 under 
registration number 210/90.
(i)
“Jugohrom” means the joint stock company HEK Jugohrom 
registered in the Registration Court of Skopje under registration number 
10490/98.
(j)
“Komercijalna Banka” means the commercial bank operating 
under NBRM (as defined hereinafter) License No.221  dated December 27, 
1989.
(k)
“Makedonska Banka” means the commercial bank operating under 
NBRM (as defined hereinafter) License No. O.BR. 20/I  dated July 29, 
1992.
(l)
“Mortgage Law” means the Borrower’s Law on Contractual 
Mortgages published in the Official Gazette No. 59/00.
(m)
“NBRM” means the National Bank of the Borrower, or any 
successor thereto.
(n)
“Pledge Law” means the Borrower’s Law on Pledges on Movable 
Property published in the Official Gazette No. 21/98, as amended as at 
the date of this Agreement.
(o)
“Privatization Legislation” means (i) the Borrower’s Law on 
Transformation of Enterprises with Social Capital published in the 
Official Gazette No. 38/93, as amended as at the date of this Agreement; 
(ii) the Borrower’s Law on Privatization of State Capital published in 
the Official Gazette No. 37/96, as amended as at the date of this 
Agreement; (iii) the Borrower’s Law on Transformation of Enterprises and 
Cooperatives with Social Capital which use Agricultural Land published in 
the Official Gazette No. 19/96, as amended as at the date of this 
Agreement; (iv) Government Decree No. 56/00 on the Methods and Procedures 
for the Sale of Stocks and Shares issued to the Privatization Agency of 
the Borrower dated July 11, 2000; and (v) Government Resolution No. 
23-3743/1 on the Action Plan for the Restructuring of Loss-Makers dated 
August 7, 2000.
(p)
“SEC” means the Securities and Exchange Commission of the 
Borrower.
(q)
“Securities Law” means the Borrower’s Law on Securities 
published in the Official Gazette No. 63/2000.
(r)
“SRO” means a self-regulatory organization which comprises a 
professional body established by representatives of a specific sector 
Page  4
responsible for establishing a regulatory framework for that sector, 
certifying its members, promoting best sector practices, and enforcing 
disciplinary measures.
(s)
“Stopanska Banka Bitola” means the commercial bank operating 
under NBRM License No.02-14/110-95 dated June 1, 1995.
(t)
“Tutunska Banka” means the commercial bank operating under 
NBRM License No.02-15/XXII-1/93 dated May 20, 1993.
(u)
“ZPP” means the Payment Operations Bureau of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development 
Credit  Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifteen 
million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 15,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) 
and (d) of this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the 
proceeds of the Credit from the Credit Account in support of the Program.
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the 
Association the first request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and 
thereafter maintain in its central bank, a deposit account in Dollars on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. All withdrawals 
from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Deposit Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit 
shall not be used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If the Association shall have 
determined at any time that any proceeds of the Credit shall have been 
used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, (i) deposit into the 
Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if 
the Association shall so request, refund such amount to the Association. 
Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be credited 
to the Credit Account for cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account: 
(A)
after the aggregate of the proceeds of the 
Credit 
withdrawn from the Credit Account shall 
have 
reached the equivalent of SDR 3,000,000 
unless 
the Association shall be satisfied, 
after an 
exchange of views as described in 
Section 3.01 of 
this Agreement based on evidence 
satisfactory to 
the Association,
(i)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the 
carrying out of the Program; 
(ii)
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the 
Borrower 
is satisfactory, as measured on the basis of 
indicators 
agreed between the Borrower and the 
Association; and 
(iii)
that the actions described in Section I of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement have been taken; and
(B)
after the aggregate of the proceeds of the 
Credit 
withdrawn from the Credit Account shall 
have 
reached the equivalent of SDR 9,100,000 
Page  5
unless 
the Association shall be satisfied, 
after an 
exchange of views as described in 
Section 3.01 of 
this Agreement based on evidence 
satisfactory to 
the Association,
(i)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the 
carrying out of the Program; 
(ii)
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the 
Borrower 
is satisfactory, as measured on the basis of 
indicators 
agreed between the Borrower and the 
Association; and 
(iii)
that the actions described in Section II of Schedule 
2 
to this Agreement have been taken.
If, after said exchange of views, the Association is not so satisfied, 
the Association may give notice to the Borrower to that effect and, if 
within ninety (90) days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have 
taken steps satisfactory to the Association, in respect of (i), (ii) and 
(iii) above, then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel 
the unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part thereof.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002, or such 
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall 
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of 
each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty 
(60) days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the 
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from 
the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 
30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as  may 
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as 
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of 
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in 
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be 
payable semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)   Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, 
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each June 15 and December 15 commencing December 
15, 2010 and ending June 15, 2035. Each installment to and including the 
installment payable on June 15, 2020 shall be one and one-fourth percent 
(1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall 
be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national 
Page  6
product (GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for 
three consecutive years the level established annually by the Association 
for determining eligibility to access the Association’s resources; and 
(ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, 
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by the 
Association of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the 
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due 
until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount of 
the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in 
this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be 
a grace period of a minimum of five (5) years on such repayment of 
principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu 
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the 
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision 
shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned  
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s 
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, 
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time 
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions specified in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association for its review and comment a report on the 
progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on 
any proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Credit 
which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action 
specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than four (4) months after the date of the Association’s 
Page  7
request for such audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
the Deposit Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that a 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or 
a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional 
condition to the effectiveness of the Develop-ment Credit Agreement 
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, 
namely, that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Loan 
Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement  is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated 
as the representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 
of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Dame Gruev 14
91000 Skopje
Facsimile:
389 91 117 
280
For the Association:
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
202-477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
Page  8
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
THE BORROWER
By /s/ Goce Georgievski
Authorized Representative
THE ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Christiaan J. Poortman
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of 
the Credit shall not be used to finance any of the following 
expenditures:
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which 
any national or international financing institution or agency other than 
the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or 
which the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed to 
finance under another credit or a loan;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or 
subgroups of the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 
(SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, 
Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or 
subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Association by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
   -
Alcoholic beverages
121
   -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122
   -
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or 
not containing tobacco 
substitutes)
525
   -
Radioactive and associated 
materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
Page  9
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum
group metals (except watches and 
watch cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares (including 
set gems)
971
   -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding 
gold
ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary 
purpose or for luxury consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of 
this paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, 
the manufacture, use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of 
the Borrower or international agreements to which the Borrower is a 
party; 
6.
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a 
member of the Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, 
such territories; or (b) on account of any payment to persons or 
entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import is prohibited 
by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter 
VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association 
determines that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during 
the procurement or execution of such contract, without the Borrower 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Association to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2
Section I.
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) (A) of this 
Agreement
1.
The Borrower shall have submitted to Parliament a consolidated 
draft law replacing the Mortgage Law and the Pledge Law and creating an 
integrated framework for movable and immovable collateral in a manner 
satisfactory to the Association.
2.
The Borrower shall have adopted: 
(i) 
amendments to existing accounting and auditing 
legislation satisfactory to the Association mandating 
the creation and setting up of an SRO for chartered 
accountants and auditors under a time-bound action 
plan; and
(ii) 
revised legislation simplifying company formation and 
registration procedures and foreign direct investor 
entry, and the Government of the Borrower shall have 
issued any necessary implementing regulations for 
such 
legislation, each in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association.   
3.
The Borrower shall have adopted amendments to applicable 
legislation to abolish the role of the BRA in the process of bank 
restructuring and to establish an irrevocable 3 year liquidation 
provision for BRA.
4.
The NBRM shall have: (i) entered into corrective action programs 
satisfactory to the Association, with each of Komercijalna Banka, 
Stopanska Banka Bitola, Tutunska Banka and Makedonska Banka, in 
Page  10
accordance with NBRM’s enforcement powers under the Banking Law and the 
Central Bank Law, designed to enhance compliance with NBRM regulations 
and to bring each bank’s  internal policies and procedures in line with 
international best practice; and (ii) submitted evidence satisfactory to 
the Association of initial implementation of the measures specified in 
such corrective action programs. 
5.
The Borrower shall have privatized and, if applicable, financially 
restructured, or closed (each as defined in Section III of this 
Schedule): (i) Jugohrom; and (ii) four large loss-making enterprises, as 
agreed with the Association. 
6.
The Borrower shall have demonstrated compliance with the declining 
cap on government support for the enterprise sector, as agreed with the 
Association.
Section II.
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) (B) of this 
Agreement
1.
The Borrower shall have adopted a consolidated law replacing the 
Mortgage Law and the Pledge Law to create an integrated framework for 
movable and immovable collateral in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association.
2.
(a) 
NBRM shall have furnished to the Association a compliance 
report, showing improved compliance with the Borrower’s prudential 
requirements by the Borrower’s banking institutions from the level of 
such compliance on March 31, 2000 in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association.
(b)
The Borrower shall have provided evidence satisfactory to 
the Association of implementation by Komercijalna Banka, Stopanska Banka 
Bitola, Tutunska Banka and Makedonska Banka of measures specified in the 
corrective action programs referred to in paragraph 4 of Section I of 
this Schedule .
3.
ZPP shall have transferred all corporate customer local currency 
current accounts to banking institutions.
4.
The Borrower shall have demonstrated compliance with the declining 
cap on  government support for the enterprise sector, as agreed with the 
Association and referred to in paragraph 6 of Section I of this Schedule.
5.
The Borrower shall have privatized and, if applicable, financially 
restructured, or closed (each as defined in Section III of this Schedule) 
such additional loss-making enterprises as agreed with the Association, 
whose losses for fiscal year 1999, when aggregated with the losses of 
Feni and the enterprises identified pursuant to paragraph 5 of Section I 
of this Schedule for  fiscal year 1999 represent at least two per cent of 
the Borrower’s 1999 gross domestic product.
6.
The Borrower shall have disposed of the assets of BRA as evidenced 
by independent external auditors satisfactory to the Association, by: (i) 
transferring amounts due from government agencies and state-owned 
enterprises to the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance: (ii) financially 
restructuring (as defined in Section III of this Schedule) amounts due 
from Jugohrom and the loss-making enterprises identified pursuant to 
paragraph 5 (ii) of Section I and paragraph 5 of Section II of this 
Schedule; and (iii) reducing the residual portfolio of claims in a manner 
satisfactory to the Association.
Section III:
Definitions 
For the purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the 
following meanings:
1.
“Privatized” means, in respect of an enterprise, that the transfer 
Page  11
of effective control of such enterprise to a strategic investor or 
investors has been completed and any residual government ownership has 
been eliminated, each in accordance with the Privatization Legislation 
and the Securities Law.
2.
“Financially restructured” means, in respect of an enterprise, that 
the restructuring and/or forgiveness of debt of such enterprise has taken 
place in accordance with the Privatization Legislation either under the 
Bankruptcy Law or under a voluntary out-of-court arrangement. 
3.
“Closed” means, in respect of an enterprise, that: (i) the creditor 
committee constituted under the bankruptcy proceedings under the 
Bankruptcy Law has taken a formal decision to forgo any reorganization 
options and to pursue the liquidation of such enterprise through the sale 
of the assets of such enterprise to the highest bidder; or (ii) the 
general assembly of shareholders of such enterprise has taken a formal 
decision in accordance with the Company Law to pursue the liquidation of 
such enterprise through the sale of the assets of such enterprise to the 
highest bidder.
