CREDIT NUMBER 144 DA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Hinvi Agricultural Development Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF DAHOMEY
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 5, 1969


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 144 DA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Hinvi Agricultural Development Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF DAHOMEY
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 5, 1969


﻿Brurlopmatt TrMbt Agru~mut
AGREEMENT, dated March 5, 1969, between REPUB-
LIC OF DAHOMEY (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssoCIATION      (hereinafter
called the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower and the Societe Nationale pour le
Developpement Rurar du Dahomey, a statutory corporation
of the Borrower (hereinafter called SONADER), have re-
quested the Association to assist in the financing of a
project which includes the establishment of ten cooperatives
with about 6,000 hectares of improved oil palms and about
6,000 hectares of annual crops together with forests, live-
stock, the necessary infrastructure and adequate process-
ing facilities and equipment;
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Republic of
France to assist in financing such project by making a grant
to it (hereinafter called the French Grant) in an aggregate
principal amount equivalent to $4,600,000, the proceeds of
which shall be made available to SONADER; and
WHEREAS the Association is willing to make a develop-
ment credit available on the terms and conditions provided
herein and in a project agreement of even date herewith
between the Association and SONADER;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
Credit Regulations; Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of Development Credit Regulations No. 1
of the Association dated June 1, 1961, as amended Febru-
ary 9, 1967, with the same force and effect as if they were


﻿4
fully set forth herein subject, however, to the following
modifications thereof (said Development Credit Regulations
No. 1 as so modified being hereinafter called the Regu-
lations) :
(a) Sections 6.01, 6.02 and 6.03 are amended by insert-
ing the words "or the Project Agreement" after the words
"the Development Credit Agreement"; and the words "or
SONADER" after the word "Borrower".
(b) The following subparagraph is added to Section
9.01: "13. The term 'Project Agreement' shall have the
meaning set forth in the Development Credit Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
following terms, wherever used in this Agreement or in
the Regulations, shall have the following meanings:
1. "Project Agreement" means the project agreement
of even date herewith between the Association and
SONADER and shall include any amendments thereof
made by agreement among the Borrower, the Association
and SONADER.
2. "French Financing Agreement" means the agreement
(Convention de Financement) between the Republic of
France and the Borrower setting forth the terms and con-
ditions of the French Grant and includes all agreements
and arrangements, if any, incidental or supplemental there-
to between the Republic of France and the Borrower.
3. "Decree" means the Borrower's Decree No. 62-SO of
February 3, 1962 providing for the establishment of
SONADER and the annex thereto as the same have been
or may be amended from time to time.
4. " SNAHDA" means the Societe Nationale des Hui-
leries du Dahomey established by Decree No. 395/PR/
MCET of December 6, 1961 of the Borrower as a Societe
d'Etat.


﻿5
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to make available
to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions in this Agree-
ment set forth or referred to, a development credit in an
amount in various currencies equivalent to four million six
hundred thousand dollars ($4,600,000).
SECTION 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit
Account on its books in the name of the Borrower and shall
credit to such Credit Account the amount of the Credit.
(b) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account as provided in, and subject to the rights
of cancellation and suspension set forth in, this Agreement
and the Regulations and in accordance with the allocation
of proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, as such allocation shall be modified from time
to time pursuant to the provisions of such Schedule or by
further agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation.
SECTION 2.03. (a) The Borrower shall be entitled to
withdraw from the Credit Account in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods required for the Project and to be
financed under this Credit Agreement:
(i) such amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the As-
sociation shall so agree, shall be required to meet
payments to be made) for expenditures under Cate-
gories I (a) and I (b) of the allocation of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
(ii) the equivalent of forty-six per cent (46o) of such
amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the Asso-
ciation shall so agree, shall be required to meet
payments to be made) for expenditures under Cate-
gory II of said Schedule 1 provided, however, that
if there shall be an increase in the estimate of


﻿6
such expenditures, the Association may by notice
to the Borrower adjust the above percentage as
required in order that withdrawals of the amount
of the Credit then allocated to such Category and
not withdrawn may continue pro rata with the ex-
penditures remaining to be made under such Cate-
gory.
(b) Except as shall be otherwise agreed between the
Borrower and the Association no withdrawals shall be
made on account of expenditures male prior to January 1,
1969.
SECTION 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Associa-
tion a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (% of 17) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn in semi-annual install-
ments payable on each March 1 and September 1 com-
mencing September 1, 1979 and ending March 1, 2019, each
installment to and including the installment payable on
March 1, 1989 to be one-half of one per c?nt of such prin-
cipal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent of such principal amount.
SECTION 2.07. The currency of the Republic of France
is hereby specified for the purposes of paragraph (a) of
Section 3.02 of the Regulations.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall apply the proceeds of
the Credit in accordance with the provisions of this Agree-


﻿7
ment to expenditures on Parts I and II of the Project, de-
scribed in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
SECTION 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, (i) the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits,
published by the Bank in February 1968, and in accordance
with such other procedures supplementary thereto as shall
be agreed between the Borrower and the Association, and
(ii) contracts for the procurement of such goods shall be
subject to the approval of the Association.
SECTION 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively in carry-
ing out the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Project
to be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and shall
cause SONADER to conduct its operations and affairs and
maintain its financial position in accordance with sound
agricultural, engineering and financial practices and under
capable and efficient management mutually satisfactory, at
all times, to the Borrower and the Association.
(b) The Borrower shall cause SONADER to employ con-
sultants and managerial, financial and technical experts
mutually acceptable to the Borrower and the Association,
whose authority and functions shall be determined by agree-
ment between the Borrower and the Association.
(c) The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all
actions which shall be necessary on its part to enable
SONADER to perform all its obligations under the Project


﻿8
Agreement and shall not take, or permit any agency of
the Borrower to take, any action that would prevent or
interfere with the performance of such obligations by
SONADER.
SECTION 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall re-lend the pro-
ceeds of the Credit or the equivalent thereof to SONADER
on the following terms except as the Association shall
otherwise agree: (i) interest at 6% per annum on the
principal amount outstanding from time to time and (ii)
amortization in twenty-five years including nine years of
grace.
(1) The Borrower shall make or cause to be made avail-
able promptly as needed all lands, funds, services, facilities
and resources other than the proceeds of the 0,redit which
shall be required for the carrying out of the Project and
all other operations of SONADER.
SECTION 4.03. The Borrower shall cause Part I (a) of
the Project, when completed, to be operated with due dili-
gence and efficiency and in accordance with sound engineer-
ing, industrial and business practices, either by SNAHDA
or by a qualified management agent as may be decided at
the time, by the Association. The appointment of such man-
agement agent and the terms and conditions of operating
Part I (a) of the Project, whether by SNAHDA or a man-
agement agent as the case may be, shall be mutually agreed
by the Borrower, SONADER and the Association.
SECTION 4.04. (a) The Borrower and the Association
shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each of them
shall furnish to the other all such information as it shall
reasonably request with regard to the general status of the
Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such information
shall include information with respect to financial and
economic conditions in the territories of the Borrower and
the international balance of payments positions of the
Borrower.


﻿9
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time
to time exchange views through their representatives with
regard to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit
and the maintenance of the service thereof. The Borrower
shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit or the main-
tenance of the service thereof.
(c) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity
for accredited representatives of the Association to visit
any part of the territories of the Borrower for purposes
r?lated to the Credit.
SECTION 4.05. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions, imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
S ECTION 4.06. This Agreement and the Project Agree-
ment shall be free from any taxes that shall be imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories on or in connection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 5.01. (i) If any event specified in paragraph
(c) of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall occur, or (ii)
if any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (c) of Section
5.02 of the Regulations shall occur and shall continue for
a period of thirty days, or (iii) if any event specified in
paragraph (b) of Section 5.02 of the Regulations or in
paragraphs (d) or (e) of Section 5.02 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Asso-
ciation to the Borrower, then at any subsequent time the


﻿10
Association, at its option, may declare the principal of
the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immedi-
ately, and upon any such declaration such principal shall
become due and payable immediately, anything in this
Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding.
SECTION 5.02. For the purposes of Section 5.02 (k) of
the Regulations, the following additional events are
specified:
(a) The French Financing Agre( nent or the Project
Agreement shall have been terminated (otherwise than in
accordance with the terms thereof), or in any material
respect amended, suspended, waived or assigned without
the prior approval of the Association.
(b) Any event shall have occurred which shall have
operated to suspend the right of the Borrower to with-
draw amounts under the French Financing Agreement.
(c) Any other creditor shall in accordance with the terms
of his loan agreement demand payment from the Borrower
or SONADER, as the case may be, of moneys lent or made
available to SONADER prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.
(d) A default shall have occurred in the performance
of any covenant or agreement of SONADER under the
Project Agreement.
(e) The Decree shall have been amended, suspended,
terminated or repealed so as to affect adversely the ability
of SONADER to carry out the covenants and agreements
set forth in the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 6.01. The following events are specified as ad-
ditional conditions to the eFectiveness of this Agreement
within the meaning of Section 8.01 (b) of the Regulations:


﻿11
(a) The execution and delivery of the Project Agree-
ment on behalf of SONADER shall have been duly au-
thorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and govern-
mental action.
(b) The terms and conditions for the re-lending of the
proceeds of the Credit, or the equivalent thereof, in ac-
cordance with Section 4.02 (a) of this Agreement shall
have been accepted and agreed upon by SONADER and
the Borrower.
(c) The French Financing Agreement shall have been
duly and validly concluded upon terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Association and that the conditions prece-
dent, if any, to initial disbursement under said Agree-
ment shall have been fulfilled.
(d) The Borrower and SONADER shall have made ar-
rangements satisfactory to the Association for the ex-
emption from import taxes, until the completion of the
Plroject, of goods imported by SONADER for the carrying
out of Parts I and II of the Project.
(e) SONADER shall have certified in writing to the
Association that, as of a date to be agreed between the
Association and SONADER (which shall be prior to the
Effective Date) there has been no material adverse change
in its condition since the date of this Agreement.
SECTION 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 8.02 (b) of the
Regulations, to be included in the opinion or opinions to
be furnished to the Association:
(a) The Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of,
SONADER and constitutes a valid and binding obligation
of SONADER in accordance with its terms.
(b) The re-lending agreement referred to in Section
4.02 (a) of this Agreement is valid and binding on the
Borrower and SONADER.


﻿I
12
(c) The French Financing Agreement constitutes a valid
and binding obligation of each of the parties thereto in
accordance with its terms.
(d) The arrangements referred to in Section 6.01 (d)
hereof shall have been duly and validly made and con-
stitute a valid and binding obligation of each of the parties
thereto in accordance with their terms.
SECTION 6.03. The date of June 5, 1969 is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 8.04 of the Regulations.
SECTION 6.04. Upon termination of the Project Agree-
ment in accordance with its terms, the obligations of the
Borrower with respect to the Project shall forthwith
terminate.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 7.01. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1976
or such other date as may from time to time be agreed
between the Borrower and the Association.
SECTION 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Regulations:
For the Borrower:
Monsieur le Ministre de la Prospective et du Plan
Cotonou
Dahomey
Alternative address for cables:
MINIPLAN
Cotonou


﻿13
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Strect, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
SECTION 7.03. The Ministre de la Prospective et du
Plan of the Borrower is designated for the purposes of
Section 7.03 of the Regulations.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized have
caused this Development Credit Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
For REPUBLIC OF DAHOMEY
/s/ E. D. ZiNzou
President
For INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
/s/ ROBERT S. MONAMARA
President


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Allocation of Proceeds of Credit
Amounts Expressed in
Category                        US Dollar Equivalent
1. Palm oil factory and maize storage
silos
a. Palm oil factory: studies, build-
ings, machinery, water supply       2,265,000
b. Maize storage silos and ancil-
lary equipment                        160,000
II. Plantations, annual crop develop-
ment and infrastructure
Land clearance, planting, plan-
tation maintenance, cattle pur-
chase, roads, buildings, imple-
ments, land rent, staff training
and staffing                        1,775,000
III. Contingency allowance                   400,000
TOTAL                            4,600,000
Reallocation Upon Change in Cost Estimates
1. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any
of the Categories I and II shall decrease, the amount of
the Credit then allocated to, and no longer required for,
such Category will be reallocated by the Association
to Category III.
2. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any
of the Categories I (a) -and I (b) shall increase, an
amount equal to the portion, if any, of such increase to


﻿15
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and, in the
case of such an increase in Category II, an amount equal
to 46o of such increase will be allocated by the Asso-
ciation, at the request of the Borrower, to such Cate-
gory from Category III, subject, however, to the require-
ments for contingencies, as determined by the Associa-
tion, in respect of the cost of the items in the other
Categories.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following:
Part I.   a. the studies for and construction of a palm oil
factory with an ultimate capacity of 70,000
tons of palm bunches per year.
b. the construction of maize storage silos with a
total capacity of about 3,000 tons.
Part II. a. the planting of approximately 6,000 hectares
of oil palm.
b. the preparation of approximately 6,000 hec-
tares for annual crop production principally
maize, groundnats and cotton.
c. the planting of approximately 1,000 hectares
of teak and cassia trees.
d. the purchase of about 300 head of cattle for
the development of beef production.
e. the construction of the necessary roads, cen-
tral facilities (equipment pool, fire fighting
unit and stores) and preparation of village
sites.
f. the provision of training facilities for the
supervisors of the Project and the managing
personnel of 10 cooperatives and one Union
cooperative to be created as the organizational
basis of the Project.
Part III. The procurement of the following goods and
services needed for the implementation of Part II
above:
a. consulting services.
b. fertilizers and pesticides.
c. vehicles and irrigation, farm and miscellane-
ous equipment.
The Project is expected to be completed by mid 1977.


