Report No. PID6720
Project Name                     Guinea-Third Urban Project (+)
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Urban
Project ID                       GNPA1074
Borrower                         Republic of Guinea
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Urban Planning and Housing
Boulevard du Commerce
Conakry, Guinea
Telephone:   (224) 44 38 40
Date PID Prepared                April 15, 1998
Appraisal date                   June 15-26, 1998
Projected Board Date             March 16, 1999
Country and Sector Background
Rural migrants and large numbers of refugees from neighboring countries have
settled in squatter neighborhoods lacking basic services of water,
electricity, solid waste collection, and sanitary disposal of human waste.
The Government's strategy is to enhance empowerment through more decentralized
processes pivotal to improved service delivery by stimulating synergies among
various levels of Government (central, local) in governmental entities and
local communities. The Government's policy aims at ensuring broader public
affordable sanitation and solid waste management, building on the encouraging
results of the pilot in solid waste management under the Second Urban Project.
Project Objectives
The major objectives of the proposed project are to:
- Improve the living conditions of the urban population of Conakry through
the provision of basic priority services.
- Create an enabling environment for the sustained programming, financing and
management of priority investments in the major urban centers of the country.
Project Description
The project is expected to include the following components:
- Priority infrastructure and services for Conakry including solid waste
management, secondary road rehabilitation and primary road network;
- Assistance to secondary cities including urban and financial audits of ten
municipalities and priority investment program for these ten municipalities;
and
- Institutional strengthening including support to the operational units,
support to the financing of priority services and community awareness program.
Project Financing
The project cost is estimated at US$52 million. IDA would finance US$47
million. The contribution from the Government of Guinea would be US$3
million. The City of Conakry and municipalities would each contribute US$1
million. The proposed project will build on the delegation of service



provision to the private sector, the establishment of a conducive
institutional framework with clearly defined roles for the public agency and
the private operator, establishment of clear contract performance indicators,
enforcement of the public health and hygiene act, and public participation by
selecting the type and level of service and financial contribution through
user fees.
Project Implementation
The project will be implemented in 5 years. The overall project
implementation will be coordinated by an autonomous project unit. Each
project component will be implemented by the existing agency in charge of the
sub-sector. DATU will be responsible for the primary roads network; and the
city secondary roads unit of the City of Conakry will be in charge of the road
rehabilitation component and the landfill construction works in collaboration
with the Public Transfer Agency (SPTD). Technical studies will be prepared by
consulting firms or consultants, based on defined terms of reference. Works
will be contracted out to private contractors.
Project Sustainability
Project sustainability will be assured by securing more resources for solid
waste transfer, street cleaning and maintenance of secondary roads. Actual
allocations for solid waste collection and road maintenance need to be
increased through short and medium term measures identified and supported by
the project. The Government has identified solid waste management as a
priority and indicated that resources will be allocated from the national
budget to finance any short term financial shortfall from the city.
Sustainability will stem from (a) clearly separating roles so the city focus
on planning, solid waste transfer and disposal, and the private sector
executes and provides services; (b) allocating resources for financing roads
maintenance through increased resource mobilization; (c) strengthening
existing solid waste collection cost recovery mechanisms through user fees;
and (d) improving local governments management capacity.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Past projects have focused on the use of municipal entities (i.e. UPSU) to
provide solid waste collection and disposal through (a) the acquisition of a
fleet of collection trucks and spare parts and (b) the financing of the
operating costs of UPSU on a declining basis using IDA funds and (c) the
financing of the collection and disposal costs through the city budget. This
approach has led to a low level of service provision with only 10 percent of
the solid waste generated in the city collected and disposed by 1997.
Implementation of the Solid Waste Emergency Program has confirmed that
delegation of collection services to private operators is far more effective.
Collection has increased to 50 percent in the districts of Kaloum, Matam and
Dixxin. The proposed project will build on the delegation of service
provision to the private sector, the establishment of a conducive
institutional framework with clearly defined roles for the public agency and
the private operators, development of performance indicators, the
establishment of a set of detailed public health regulations, and cost
recovery of collection costs with user fees. As safe disposal of refuse has
wider public health benefits, transfer and disposal costs will continue to be
financed through municipal resources and for a transitional period with
central government resources.
-2-



Mobilization of local resources have proven to be difficult to achieve in the
absence of a clear political commitment and a proper definition of roles for
maintenance between the different levels of government and during overall
macroeconomic stabilization. As a result, where local authorities have access
to less efficient but more politically acceptable revenue sources, they tend
to be exploited first. Efforts on collecting city markets taxes have raised
the revenues which account for 4 percent of city resources. The project will
support activities directed toward marginal taxes reforms with higher yield
potential. These reforms should address tax as well as administration policy.
This will result in a more effective allocation of taxes between the national
level and municipal entities and better tax collection capacity at the
municipal level.
Customs regulation, lengthy and cumbersome procurement and contract signing
procedures have, in the past, delayed the implementation of physical
components of projects. Several of the components are being prepared within
the framework of appropriate procurement procedures, already used by other
agencies, and a clear and defined allocation of counterpart funding. Solid
waste collection will be provided on a user charge basis to relieve municipal
budget from financing costs that can be easily recovered out of the general
revenue.
Environmental Aspects
The project has a "B" environmental rating. All the project components will
lead to an improved urban environment through increased solid waste
collection, cleaned gutters, and alleviated traffic-jams in the city. The
disposal site will be operated as a sanitary landfill. A comprehensive
monitoring plan will be implemented. Training will be provided to landfill
site operators.
Program Objective Categories (POC)
Private Sector Development. The implementation of the Emergency Solid Waste
Program at the end of the Second Urban Project has improved the cleanliness of
the city and proved that the use of small and medium scale contractors
continues to be an effective mean for efficient service delivery on a
sustainable basis. Users will pay for services that are effectively provided
to them and will be able to monitor the quality of the service. Capacity
Building. Municipalities and operational units will benefit from capacity
building, and simplified and streamlined procedures. In addition, city
officials will benefit from clearly defined management frameworks for their
city and increase their capacity to formulate and plan effective services on a
participatory basis. The economic productivity in Conakry will be improved
through greater mobility and more financial resources at the local level for
maintenance purposes and infrastructure upgrading. Poverty alleviation. The
solid waste component will improve the conditions of the low income
inhabitants of Conakry and reduce the incidences of disease, especially
cholera.
Contact Point:           The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
-3 -



Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending August 14, 1998.
- 4 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.



