              Document of
           The World Bank




                                      Report No: 33541

 IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
         (IDA-31960 PPFI-Q1070)

                 ON A

                CREDIT

   IN THE AMOUNT OF US$18 MILLION

         TO THE REPUBLIC OF

               GUINEA

                 FOR
THE THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
             FIRST PHASE




            December 16, 2005

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective November 22, 2005)

                              Currency Unit = Guinean Franc (GNF)
                                 1,000 GNF = US$ 0.24
                                       US$ 1 = 4,120 GNF

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1    December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AGETIP  Agence de Gestion de Travaux d'Intérêt Public pour l'Emploi (Public Works
        Executing Agency)
APL     Adaptable Program Loan
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CFU     Contribution Foncière Unique
CPI     Consumer Price Index
CPPR    Country Portfolio Performance Review
CVS     Cellule de Voiries Secondaires
DATU    Direction de l'Aménagement du Territoire et de l'Urbanisme
DCP     Direction de Controle de la Proprete
DNI     Direction Nationale des Impôts
DO      Development Objectives
EIA     Environmental Impact Assessment
ERR     Economic Rate of Return
FG      Guarantee Fund (Fonds de Garantie)
GNF     Guinean Franc
GoG     Government of Guinea
IDA     International Development Association
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
IMF     International Monetary Fund
MAP     Municipal Adjustment Program
MC      Municipal Contract
MoEF    Ministry of Economy and Finance
MUH     Ministry of Urban Planning and Housing
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PIP     Priority Investment Program
PLIC    Programme léger d'initiative communale
PROP    Programme de réhabilitation et d'entretien prioritaire
PU      Project Unit
QSA6    Quality of Supervision Assessment
RFPs    Request for Proposals
SME     Small and Medium Enterprise
SPTD    Service public de transfert des déchets
SW      Solid Waste
SWM     Solid Waste Management
TORs    Terms of Reference

TPU       Taxe professionnelle unique
TUV       Taxe unique sur les véhicules
UDP II    Second Urban Development Project
UDP III   Third Urban Development Project
UPSU      Unité de pilotage des services urbains

                              Vice President:    Gobind T. Nankani
                   Country Manager/Director      Mamadou Dia
                              Sector Manager     Eustache Ouayoro
           Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Catherine Farvacque-Vitkovic

                                           GUINEA


                       THIRD URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                                        FIRST PHASE




                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            15
6. Sustainability                                                                16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 17
8. Lessons Learned                                                               19
9. Partner Comments                                                              22
10. Additional Information                                                       22
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             23
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             26
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             30
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             32
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             34
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                35
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            36
Annex 8. Photos                                                                  38
Annex 9. Borrower's Summary Report on Project Completion                         52

Project ID: P001074                                                  Project Name: Third Urban Development Project - First
                                                                     Phase
Team Leader: Catherine D. Farvacque                                  TL Unit: AFTU2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 16, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Third Urban Development Project - First Phase            L/C/TF Number: IDA-31960; PPFI-Q1070
   Country/Department: GUINEA                                                             Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (40%); Sub-national government
                            administration (33%); Solid waste management (21%); Central
                            government administration (4%); Other social services (2%)
                  Theme: Municipal finance (P); Municipal governance and institution
                            building (P); Other urban development (P); Decentralization (S);
                            Pollution management and environmental health (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 04/30/1998                                     Effective: 1999-11-30                1999-11-30
     Appraisal: 06/08/1998                                         MTR: 2000-12-15                  2002-01-25
      Approval: 04/20/1999                                      Closing: 2002-12-31                 2005-06-30



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT/MIN. OF PLANNING
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director: Mamadou Dia                                          Mamadou Dia
Sector Manager:                 Eustache Ouayoro                               Letitia A. Obeng
Team Leader at ICR:             Catherine Farvacque-Vitkovic                   Catherine Farvacque-Vitkovic
ICR Primary Author:             Ekaterina K. Massey; Catherine
                                D. Farvacque-Vitkovic


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The project, conceived as a two-phase Adaptable Program Lending operation, had two overall development
objectives:
(a)      improve the living conditions of Conakry's urban population through the provision of basic
services, and
(b)      create an enabling environment for sustained programming, financing, and management of priority
investments and services in major urban centers of the country; and in addition, to reinforce the capacities
of the municipalities by targeting specific municipal services and by introducing new tools to improve
selection and implementation of infrastructure and basic services benefiting as many people as possible.

The third Urban Development Project (UDP III) objectives were fully in line with IDA's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Guinea (Report No. 17183, November 21, 1997), which focused on service
delivery, access to basic public services, and effective human resource development as key inputs into
reaching the overarching objective of poverty reduction and improving the living conditions of urban
population. Poverty reduction remains a major challenge for this west-African nation. The overall poverty
rate is still at 47% and is higher than average of 46% in Africa. The Project Appraisal Document (PAD)
made a thorough and succinct presentation of interdependent urban development and municipal
management issues the project strived to address. The issues were presented so as to reflect the specificity
of the sector challenges in Guinea and the imperative to address them in a systemic way.

Aware of the difficult macroeconomic environment and weak governance, the project was designed to
support the long-term and patient effort necessary to effectively improve the performance of the
municipalities of Conakry and those in the major urban centers in the hinterland. The project objectives and
design aimed at consolidating and scaling up the achievements of the Second Urban Project (UDP II, Credit
2212-GUI, closed June 30, 1998). It capitalized on the increased ownership of its key activities by the
Borrower. It maintained focus on municipal priority needs (solid waste management, increasing
accessibility of densely populated urban neighborhoods) and on building sustainability pillars (capacity and
new tools to program and manage investments and services, and mobilize local resources for their
financing). The development objectives remain fully applicable for phase II.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives were not revised during phase I.

3.3 Original Components:
The Phase I of the program had three components:

Component 1: Improvements to Priority infrastructure and Services in Conakry - estimated cost:
US$11.1 million (IDA US$9.8 million) or 57% of the total estimated project cost.

This component was designed to deliver tangible and sustainable improvements in two priority municipal
services (solid waste and secondary roads/drainage rehabilitation) while pursuing the investment program
on primary road networks for the capital city of Conakry. Towards the end of UDP II in 1997 an
emergency program was piloted to improve the dire sanitary conditions in Conakry. The collection of
household waste by the private sector in three municipalities of the capital (Kaloum, Dixinn and Matam)
was launched and was intended to be scaled up under UDP III while the transfer remained a public mission
carried out by the streamlined autonomous agency, SPTD (Service public de transfert des déchets). The



                                                    - 2 -

secondary roads upgrading was to be carried out by the CVS (Cellule de Voiries Secondaires within the
Technical Services of the City of Conakry) in collaboration with the technical services of the five
municipalities of Conakry in an effort to build the capacity of the relevant local government departments
and encourage mobilization of local population in decision-making and implementation. Preparatory studies
for primary roads were to be carried out by DATU (Direction de l'Aménagement du Territoire et de
l'Urbanisme) in an effort to built capacity of this central government department in charge of urban roads.

Sub-component 1.1.Solid Waste Management, US$3.6 million

Activities:
         1) works to develop infrastructure collection network, namely construction of 30 waste transfer
points and the provision of 2 km of access roads to                 the sites in the Ratoma and Matoto
neighborhoods;
         2) provision of 3 large capacity transport trucks, 15 storage containers of 24 m3 each, 1 bulldozer,
and 1 compactor for the La Miniere landfill;
         3) support, training, information and communication;
         4) institutional strengthening of small and medium contractors and SPTD;
         5) environmental monitoring of La Miniere landfill;
         6) pilot compost production and marketing operation, and
         7) technical and environmental studies for construction of the new landfill of Kagbelen, 47 km
from the city center.


Sub-component 1.2. Neighborhood upgrading (Désenclavement de quartiers), US$5.6 million

Activities under this sub-component fell into two different programs:
         1) PLIC (Programme Léger d'Initiative Communale), or small scale district-level initiative
programs, consisting of small routine maintenance works             involving little or no mechanization, identified by
the districts (communes) and implemented by the very small contractors under simplified
procedures, and
         2) PROP (Programme de Réhabilitation d'Entretien Prioritaire), or priority rehabilitation and
road opening programs, consisting of heavier and                    more mechanized works by larger
contractors in accordance with the usual procedures.

Sub-component 1.3. Primary road network, US$2.3 million

Activities:
         1) economic and engineering studies, and bidding documents, and
         2) preparatory works, such as staking out rights-of-way; displacement of utility networks, and
construction of temporary vehicle tracks to facilitate                      access for local residents and the
surveillance of rights-of-way.

Component 2: Assistance to secondary cities- estimated cost: US$3.7 million (IDA US$3.5 million) and
19% of the total estimated project cost.

This component aimed to introduce the concept of "Municipal Contract" (contrat de ville) in a number of
municipalities outside of Conakry based on the results of the audits, or technical and financial assessments
of the municipalities to be prepared by local consultants with participation of local authorities and the
population, and leading to formulation of the highly participatory Priority Investment Program (PIP) and


                                                     - 3 -

Municipal Adjustment Program (MAP).

Sub-component 2.1. Preparation of urban and municipal audits for each city, US$1.3 million;

By the end of phase I at least eight cities would have prepared the PIPs and the MAPs, and at least six
would have signed municipal contracts (MC).

Sub-component 2.2. Implementation of Municipal contracts (PIP and MAP) US$2.4 million;

Once municipal contracts signed, works under respective PIPs (roads, primary schools, health centers, and
markets) and MAPs were to be implemented in phase I with additional priorities non funded under phase I
to be implemented under phase II.

Component 3: Institutional strengthening- estimated cost: US$2.8 million (IDA US$2.7 million) or 15%
of the total estimated project cost.

Sub-component 3.1. Support to Operational Units. US$1.4 million

A lean Project Unit (PU) was created for the purpose of efficient project implementation. This PU was
designed to support and work directly with involved local and central government bodies and provide them
with local technical assistance under the framework of memorandums of understanding, specific
agreements and, in case of municipalities in the hinterland, under the municipal contracts.

Activities:
        1) unit operation ( consumables, supplies, vehicle maintenance, fuel);
        2) technical assistance, and
        3) training.

Sub-component 3.2. Support to improved financing of priority services. US$1.2 million

Activities:
        1) improvement of the fiscal chain, namely through completion of a fiscal census for the entire
Conakry metropolitan area, piloting of improved tax                collection and distribution in phase I;
        2) support to improved management of the city of Conakry through urban, financial, and
organizational audits;
        3) follow-up of implementation of Municipal Adjustment Programs in secondary cities with MC,
and
        4) extension of street addressing system and updating of street plan and data bank.

Sub-component 3.3 Community outreach program US$0.3 million

Activities:
        1) broadcast of about 300 television spots and 800 radio announcements in the country's various
languages, and
        2) finance neighborhood education events and celebrations.

3.4 Revised Components:

The original components and activities were not revised. However, two extensions of the credit closing date



                                                    - 4 -

were granted on December 19, 2002 (from December 30, 2002 to June 30, 2004), and then on June 3, 2004
(from June 30, 2004 to June 30, 2005) to allow for completion of physical and institutional activities.
Reallocations were made between the disbursement categories and resulted in the subsequent amendments
in the Credit agreement but no project restructuring took place.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Overall, the quality at entry at the ICR stage is rated satisfactory.

The rating is given based on (1) good articulation between the development objectives and the sector issues
and policy agenda; (2) appropriate design and implementation arrangements, minimizing risks and
complexity; (3) introduction of new tools and practices to increase the likelihood of project's sustainability;
(4) compliance with Bank safeguard policies.

(1) Good articulation between development objectives and the sector issues and policy agenda. The
PAD effectively articulated the relevance of selected development objectives to the urban development,
municipal management and decentralization reform issues, facing Guinea at the time of appraisal. Given
the extent of the problems and limited donor and local resources, it is commendable that the project
maintained a gradual and well focused course of action. In hindsight, such a focused, continuous, and
systemic approach was crucial to project's achieving its objectives. The Urban Sector Policy letter signed
following the IDA-GoG policy dialogue in the sector during UDP II confirmed the commitment of the
Government to empowering local authorities, increasing reliance on private sector in the provision of local
public services, and adjusting the public procurement procedures to reflect capacities of municipalities and
local private sector consultants and contractors. With the decentralization being slow, the project did not
shy away from establishing itself as a reform vehicle through "pre-building" the capacity of local
governments ahead of legislative reforms. It also allowed to scale up policy pressure on decentralization
reform through encouraging engagement of local governments and increased ownership of their urban
programs through municipal contracts (most notably in secondary cities).

(2) Appropriate design and solid implementation arrangements, minimizing risks and complexity. The
design of the components and implementation arrangements capitalized on lessons from previous projects
and purposefully kept the project focused and streamlined. Three key project risks (political, financial and
institutional) were identified and addressed by the implementation arrangements.Risk of worsening
macro-economic situation and political/social instability within the country and sub-region was mitigated
by choosing an APL lending instrument and an incremental and progressive approach. The 3-year
implementation period (mandatory phase I for APLs) was clearly overly optimistic given the amount of
contracts expected (144 contracts). Financial risks linked to the failure to allocate counterpart funds under
the project for SPTD, PLIC and PIP were directly mitigated by design of the trigger indicators for passing
to phase II, making PROP funds allocation conditional on previous year PLIC funding mobilization, and
applying the binding contractual model of the municipal contracts for PIP investments in the secondary
cities. In addition, the project emphasized mobilizing the private sector for solid waste collection based on
full cost recovery from subscribed households, improving the local resource mobilization by the
municipalities through increasing the proportion of local taxes retained, improving the fiscal chain and
capturing revenues from the commercial projects. Institutional risks associated with the Borrower's
performance in the area of procurement were mitigated by putting in place a streamlined entity (PU)
charged solely with the implementation of the project, with its own budget and operating procedures. The
PU was closely intertwined contractually and operationally with the national sectoral departments, used for
the implementation of UDP II. Close technical assistance from the Bank and periodic assistance and
quality review of products and outputs by international consultants (mission d'appui) were planned for to
further mitigate the risk of insufficient local capacity. It is worth noting that unlike many neighboring



                                                      - 5 -

countries, Guinea does not have an AGETIP-type (Agence de Gestion de Travaux d' Intérêt Public pour
l'Emploi, "Public Works Executing Agency") delegated public works agency which often facilitates the
timely execution of works.

(3) Introduction of new tools and practices to increase the likelihood of project sustainability. The
Municipal Contract (MC) represented a critical innovation introduced (for secondary cities) in this project,
as was done in many countries of the region. The MC formalized the targets for the expected reform of
each individual municipal government; for the level and type of financing of municipal services and
facilities; and for the choice and degree of upgrading on the ground that can be sustainably financed with
that amount. This programming practice allowed to institute: (a) a highly participatory and technically solid
identification of urban investment needs and priorities; (b) comparability of data, and (c) systematic
documentation to allow establishing a coherent database of urban spatial and financial information.

(4) Compliance with Bank safeguard policies. The project was category B. UDP III, being one of the first
APLs, a traditional environmental impact study was not recommended. Instead operationally relevant tools
were developed to provide maximum practical benefit to the Borrower. The Solid Waste Management
component was expected to have major environmental benefits for the city, and was prepared based on
numerous environmental studies for the best way to collect, transfer, and dispose of garbage. For
sub-projects in secondary cities, environmental impact assessment (EIA) was included in the sub-project
data sheet (fiche de projet), and the potential environmental impact of each sub-project was scored to
determine if it would pass or not pass the screening process, leading to the inclusion of the sub-project in
the final PIP.No resettlement was anticipated and no resettlement framework was prepared. No resettlement
took place.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The outcome of the project is rated as satisfactory.

Overall, the rating for the outcome of the project is justified by the fact that the two development objectives
were largely achieved and in a cost-efficient and sustainable manner, despite some implementation delays
and all performance and trigger indicators met (except some related to counterpart funding). Living
conditions in Conakry and in the secondary cities have improved considerably. The project made significant
progress in creating an enabling environment for sustained programming, financing, and management of
priority investments in major urban centers of the country.

Specific achievements are summarized below:

I. The project largely achieved its objectives with respect to improvement of solid waste collection
services in the city of Conakry. The level of garbage collection and has increased, the overall sanitary
condition and habits of the residents improved, a new sector of city economy has been created and
generates income and jobs, the key municipal service is provided under an institutionalized public-private
partnership, the delegated public agency for this municipal service (SPTD) has been strengthened.

The achievement of the objectives of this sub-component has been assisted by improvement of
neighborhood roads that allowed increased accessibility of grouping points and households for the SMEs
and transfer trucks. 35 concessionary SMEs (14 led by women) collect household garbage in the 44 zones
of Conakry (full coverage of city territory, 85% of all SW disposed of at landfill ), collect payments from
115,269 households (73% subscription rate) and bring it to 75 transfer points, 28 of which were created



                                                      - 6 -

under phase I of the project. A large communication campaign has been carried out on television, radio and
in person, including through artistic means (films, plays).     While cholera epidemics continue in the city,
particular during the rainy season, the cases of deaths have been drastically reduced, surely to some extent
due to better sanitation condition in the city, from about a hundred of deaths annually in late 90s to a few in
2005 (only 2 reported deaths until July, or the lethal ratio of 1.9% in the Governorate of Conakry vs 6.1%
average for all Governorates). The new industry created 3,300 jobs during the period 2000-2005. The total
annual turnover of the SMEs in this new line of private business is about US $415, 000 (at an affordable
subscription rate of US$0.375 ­US$1.75 per month per household depending on the income level). Street
addressing database was used to identify collection zones and location of transfer points. Then SPTD
transfers garbage from the transfer zones to the landfill of La Minière by container trucks. The landfill
(located in the middle of the city) environmental condition and management was significantly improved and
it has been supplied with necessary equipment and machinery, including a compactor. The future site of a
new sanitary landfill of Kagbelen has been secured and the technical studies completed, though it appears
unlikely that phase II will have the financing necessary for its construction.

The system allowed to spread the cost of provision of the service between the households, local authorities,
and the central government, increasing its sustainability. As is evidenced by the cost-effectiveness update
(see annex 3), the cost of the system lived up to the original expectations. The actual cost of collection and
transfer is US$4 per ton, that is relatively low for the countries of the sub-region. The representatives of
the SMEs, met during the ICR mission, have confirmed their pride in being able to start a private business
and their general satisfaction with the system, despite some of the disruptions caused by the breach of
commitments by the Governorate of Conakry. Meetings with a number of municipalities showed that the
public-private partnership model is well accepted. In addition, the project has created a good monitoring
system, that should be transformed into a true cost-accounting for this critical municipal service during
phase II.

The project significantly improved the capacity of SPTD through training, study tours and development of
operational tools ­ as is evidenced in the improvement of daily processes within this institution. However,
the reticence of the Governorate to pay its contribution to support SPTD call into questions its institutional
sustainability and, eventually, the sustainability of the whole system and should be addressed as a matter of
priority in phase II.



II. The project has fully achieved its objectives with respect of neighborhood upgrading (désenclavement
des quartiers) and preparation of primary road construction sub-components. The city has benefited
from the improvements in the quality of life in the formerly inaccessible neighborhoods, from opening
densely populated neighborhoods, and from the improvement of traffic flow (confirmed by vehicular traffic
counts) at the scale of the city that led to: (a) appearance of new behaviors and social needs of the citizens
such as " people and car" watching, promenades, sports and children's games, music, eating in the street,
food vendors due to improved hygiene; (b) increased security (confidence of residents in public spaces and
circulation at night, critical in the city that has few illuminated streets); (c) increased accessibility and
safety for pedestrians and residential activities within the neighborhood, as many of the city poorest
neighborhoods are former quarries with rocky terrain, steep slopes, streaming water, floods during rainy
seasons among the key problems; (d) increased connectivity to other neighborhoods and sources of jobs, as
now accessible to taxis and minibuses; (e) improved accessibility for solid waste collection by the SMEs.

The high benefit of the neighborhood upgrading sub-component is best inferred from the support the works
received from the residents who (a) assisted the contractors to clear the rights-of-way, thus introducing



                                                       - 7 -

savings in the cost of works, (b) created spontaneous "supervision" teams at the neighborhood level to
assure that no gravel is removed from the streets, no illegal garbage dumps are created, and no squatters
inhibit circulation; (c) organized communal maintenance systems for the streets and gutters, particularly at
the initiative of youth associations. Thus, the population participated in all three stages of the works
(programming, execution, and maintenance). A number of cases were observed outside of the project where
PLIC-like works were implemented at the initiative of youth associations or financed by subscription
among neighborhood residents.The project conducted a number of communication campaigns that proved
very helpful in explaining the implementation process and soliciting local support. The secondary cities are
interested in applying similar techniques of working with the residents.

The counterpart funds due from the municipalities were paid in full and numerous demands were addressed
to the PU and the CVS for new roads. The municipal technical teams received capacity building and have
strengthened their ability to prepare and supervise road upgrading works. The local labor was trained by
the SMEs and contractors to respond to the construction quality criteria, after their works have been
rejected on the quality grounds by the PU team. SMEs have learned to present more professional contract
bids. A system of pre-qualification could be put in place to assure steady improvement of quality of works.

For the primary road sub-component, the main impact consists in the successful preservation of the
rights-of-way, and the improvement of the local capacity to plan and supervise works for construction of
major urban access roads. It allowed during phase I to leverage national and other donor (Kuwait Fund)
financing and already realize a section of T7.

III. The project has achieved its objectives set in the assistance to secondary cities component. As
measured by the performance indicators, 10 municipal contracts were prepared against 8 planned, and 7
signed against 6 planned, 159% of the original envelope committed against of 80% planned. The basic
infrastructure services provision was improved. Primary schools, health centers, and market facilities were
constructed or upgraded are fully operational in all cities and allow to provide previously inaccessible
services under safe and secure conditions. The project clearly demonstrated that important changes took
place in the behavior of municipalities in the secondary cities, namely: (a) they abided by auto financing
discipline (5% local co-financing for PIPs was paid on average on time and at 100% payment rate); (b)
they complied with reciprocal contractual obligations with the central government through municipal
contracts and agreements; (c) they made use of the new tools for programming municipal investments; and
(d) they bought into improving municipal management practices.

IV. The project achieved improvements in the operational capacity of the critical agencies involved in
urban development and municipal management. The PU, as a new intermediary actor, non-existent during
UDP II, has succeeded in consolidating a lot of technical and contract management expertise within and
beyond the administration, and in working closely with the municipalities. Municipal Assistance Program
(MAP) was welcome by the municipal teams, some of whom volunteered to improve their management
practices in order to benefit from advice and assistance. In addition, the project has made important
progress in introducing participatory practices in municipal management. The project succeeded in
involving the local private consulting industry and building its capacity to produce quality audits for the
municipal clients. The training provided by the Bank team and the mission d'appui proved to strengthen the
local expertise that allowed to increase the standards of quality for audits and surpass the expected number
of prepared municipal contracts. As part of the MC preparation activity, each participating municipality
was audited by local technical experts and, for the first time, a rich exhaustive database of urban, financial
and organizational locally produced data, supported by aerial photography and maps was made available to
local and central decision-making bodies. These databases are in the process of being updated and
improved upon for the next generation of the municipal contracts with the help of many of the same


                                                    - 8 -

consultants.

V. The project has achieved its most challenging objective for phase I of improvements in the system of
municipal finance.

(a) The sharing arrangement of local taxes was reviewed on January 8, 2001 in favor of local
governments. By decree of MoEF the property tax (CFU, Contribution Foncière Unique) was applied to
the whole national territory and the following changes were introduced to the sharing arrangement of local
taxes between the municipalities and the Central Government, benefiting the local governments:
        · CFU: 80% to municipalities (in case of Conakry 45% municipalities, 45% Governarate) as
opposed to 40% before 2001;
        · TPU (Taxe Professionnelle Unique,"business tax"): 80% to municipalities as opposed to 60%
before 2001;
        · TUV (Taxe Unique sur les Vehicules, "vehicle tax"): 50% to municipalities as opposed to 25%
before 2001.

(b) Encouraging dynamic is observed in emission and collection of property and business taxes. In
terms of collection rates (1999 as a base year) 43% growth in emissions of CFU and TPU, and 45%
growth in collections are observed. However, while 2000-2003 showed significant improvements in tax
recovery, 2004 exhibits reduction in the amounts recovered. It appears that such a drop is due to the hasty
deconcentration of tax emissions and collections by DNI in Conakry since January 2004, not supported by
appropriate technical assistance. In the case of TPU, the drop is also due in part to clearing a section of a
major commercial market for the right-of-way under a highway construction (outside of the project). In
general, it appears that TPU management is still too complex and non-transparent despite the introduction
of mayor's signature on the emission rolls. Improvement of tax management practices to consolidate the
achievements with collection of CFU and TPU remains a priority. Per capita indicators of fiscal revenue
are not yet encouraging.

(c) However, inadequate administrative decentralization in the capital did not allow to consequently
improve the expenditure assignments for priority services. Unfortunately, increased emissions and
collections of local taxes and a more favorable distribution ratio did not translate into rationalizing the City
of Conakry expenditure assignments. The organizational and financial audit of the city of Conakry,
completed in 2002, has opened the discussion on ways to tackle it. Phase II will focus on this challenging
issue during preparation of the Municipal Contract for the City of Conakry.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Outputs by component are summarized below and tables with detailed performance and trigger indicators
are provided in Annex 1. Extensive documentation is available in the aide-mémoire of the phase I closing
mission that took place in July 2005. Photo evidence is provided in Annex 8.

Component 1: Priority infrastructure and services in Conakry. All activities under this component were
delivered to the acceptable level of quality within allocated budget. However, it must be noted for phase II
that the implementation of the solid waste management sub-component experienced some setbacks due to
the breach of commitments by the Governorate of Conakry, and the neighborhood upgrading
sub-component has experienced some contract processing delays, increase in relative share of storm and
wastewater related works, and counterpart financing arrears.

Sub-component 1.1 (Solid Waste Management System). Overall objectives were achieved and agreed



                                                    - 9 -

outputs delivered, as is reflected in phase I performance and trigger indicators.

Six studies have been completed: (1) the management plan for the La Minière landfill; (2) composting pilot
unit; (3) consultation with residents around the future site of Kagbelen; (4) the environmental impact study
of the Kegbelen landfill; (5) environmental monitoring and site closing study for the landfill of La Minière;
(6) audit of activities of SMEs and SPTD.

The following works were completed at 100%: (1) refurbishment of SPTD premises; (2) construction of
composting unit at the La Minière landfill; (3) site preservation at the Kagbelen landfill site; (4) installation
of 4 piezometers at the La Minière; (5) removal of illegal dumps; (6) construction of 28 transfer points; (7)
installation of a well, equipped with an electric pump and water tower, and (8) improvement of the access
roads to transfer points.

All goods and equipment were delivered: (1) 40 garbage containers of 24m3, (2) 3 trucks for transfer and
one for control; (3) 1 bulldozer, (4) 1 compactor; (5) 4 liaison vehicles; (6) a set of communication and IT
equipment.

The system of street sweeping was equally privatized at the start of the project in march 1999 and 10
contracts were awarded for all municipalities (2 SMEs for each municipality) but the contracts were never
respected or renewed by the Governorate. The Governor chose to use women groups as a negotiation tool
by putting in place an alternative more politically useful system of street sweeping with the help of the
women's associations. The service is not provided to the standards expected.

To assist the SMEs in acquiring carts and tools, a Guarantee Fund was put in place in September 2001, by
agreement between the MUH and the International Commercial Bank. 21 SMEs took out loans, 14 repaid,
and 7 SMEs are in arrears (GNF25 million).

The project has instituted a system of monitoring and evaluation, that allowed to collect statistical data
about activities of SMEs and SPTD. DCP (Division de Contôle de la Propreté) of the City carried out 450
inspections till June 2004 and 1,200 in the last year of the project. These inspections, called for by the
SMEs and local authorities, allowed to reduce contract infringements and increase subscription levels to the
collection service.

The main problem of this component was delayed budget allocations to the SPTD by the City of Conakry
(87% of commitments allocated in 2005) and by the central budget (representing about 20% of its
operational budget).

Sub-component 1.2 (Neighborhood Upgrading) is judged satisfactory, despite some implementation delays
at the start of the project and nonfulfillment of their respective financial commitments by the Governorate
(only 31.6% of its 75% co-financing of PLIC) and central government (arrears on 10% contribution to
PROP). However, the municipalities have fully paid their 25% contribution to the cost of PLIC. Overall,
three PLICs were implemented, though the volume of works was less than committed under the Credit
Agreement as a trigger for phase II for lack of Governorate's financing (PLIC I financed at 74% of
estimated envelope, PLIC II at 94% of estimated envelope, and PLIC III at 65% of estimated envelope).
The average standards of upgrading were also increased.

The total length of streets improved under PLIC and PROP is 210 km. 29 SMEs and contractors have been
involved in the works. The implementation of PROP II has incorporated the lessons learned during the first
tranche, namely, reduction in quantity of km to upgrade in favor of higher standards of surface treatment


                                                     - 10 -

and improvement of sanitation network. During PROP II a number of works in Kaloum area suffered from
insufficient coordination with the IDA financed Water and Sanitation Project III that caused opening of the
already rehabilitated streets. Better coordination at the city level is required to avoid such unnecessary
expenses and disruptions. Most works were implemented within budget (with some exception of works
where additional modifications and improvements had to be contracted upon completion). The average
duration of PROP works was 6 months. They can be shortened further, including by avoiding downtime
period due to the rainy season.

Based on the experience of the implementation of this critical sub-component, the following improvements
could be introduced in the phase II to increase output efficiency: preparation of a global program for the
whole duration of the phase II on the basis of the urban audit, and indexation of counterpart funding in the
municipal contract, a targeted program of capacity building for the local SMEs, and strengthening the
contract management discipline.

The implementation of sub-component 1.3. (Primary Road Network: T7 and Voie Express) was essentially
a preparation for the works during phase II and was therefore monitored by the trigger indicators. They
were all achieved. The economic studies have been completed and confirmed the economic viability of the
sub-component and its specific design. On December 20, 2002 IDA issued its non-objection on the detailed
designs and bidding documents for 2 packages of works (to be updated at the start of phase II). All the
preparatory works (preservation of rights-of-way, adjustment of network locations, construction of railroad
tracks crossings and partial terracing) was completed between February 2004 and June 2005. All the
studies were carried out by DATU with supervision and quality control by the PU with the assistance from
an independent international consultant and the Bank team.

Component 2. Assistance to Secondary Cities. This component was very successful and in demand from
the Borrower and its activities were increased. Its actual cost represents 134% of the estimated at appraisal.

The component consisted in preparation and implementation of activities agreed in Municipal Contracts.
The urban, organizational and financial audits were implemented in three groups of cities: Kindia. Mamou,
Labé and Kissidougou; Kankan, Boké, Nzérékoré and Faranah; Siguiri and Macenta. The trigger indicators
to phase II have been surpassed: 7 Municipal contracts (instead of 6) have been signed, 10 cities have been
audited (instead of 8), 159% of original allocated amount committed for works (instead of 80%). As the
component was implementing well and given the two years extension of the closing date for phased one,
original IDA allocation of US$2.4 million was increased to US$3.4 million and fully committed.

Before the 10 urban audits were prepared, aerial photographs had been completed in 2001 and urban maps
produced on their basis. The maps, urban audits and the list of priority projects, the municipal assessments
and recommendations for improvement constitute a new urban and municipal database that never existed in
Guinea.

7 Municipal Contracts have been signed between 2002 and 2004 (Kindia, Labé, Nzérékoré, Kankan,
Mamou, Faranah; and Kissidougou). Contracts for Boké, Sigurui, and Macenta have been prepared. All
contracts will be updated for implementation in phase II.

The Priority Infrastructure Projects implemented are summarized in the table below. All of them are fully
completed and operational. 28 projects are new construction and 6 are renovations.




                                                    - 11 -

                                                         Project type
       City            Health    Primary City Hall    Market        Road        Drainage          Total
                       Unité      School

   Faranah    #.                    3         1                                                    4
              Cost                    463       391                                                    854

   Kankan     #.                    4                   2            1               1             8
              Cost                    342                  222          584,7            150         1 299

   Kindia     #.         1          2         1         1            1                             6
              Cost          237      179,7      334        368          681,9                        1 800

   Kissidougou#.         1                                           1                             2
              Cost        382,4                                         505,9                          888

   Labé       #.                    4                   1            1                             6
              Cost                   254,4                59,6           595                           909

   Mamou      #.                              1         1                                          2
              Cost                              343     284,9                                          628

   Nzérékoré  #.         3          1         1                                      2             7
              Cost          611        79       325                                      226         1 242
   Number                5         14         4         5            4               3             35
   Total                  1 230      1 318    1 393        935          2 368            376         7 620
   costs
   %                       16%      17,3%     18,3%     12,3%          31,1%             5%          100%



The quality of works has steadily improved, though some problems were encountered during construction
due to the fact that the bidding documents did not include sufficient level of design detail. The unit costs
(see section 5.4) appear somewhat high and an effort should be made to reduce them through improved
procurement arrangements. Those should also take into account contract management challenges when
working with smaller contractors in remote locations under conditions of high inflation (up to 13%
annually) and long contract award delays (up to 4 months). As agreed in municipal contracts, 5% of the
project costs were co-financed by the municipalities themselves.

Additionally, under the heading of Municipal Assistance Program (MAP), the municipalities engaged and
made efforts to (a) improve the organization of services; (b) maintain the assets; (c) improve budgeting; (d)
rationalize revenue collection from commercial projects (only in Kindia, Labé, Kankan, and Nzérékoré). In
the case of Kissidougou, the municipality also engaged to close the landfill next to the city hall.

The status and the number of municipal employees were improved. Most municipalities have put in place a
technical service for infrastructure works. The computerization has improved operations of main services.
Where city halls were constructed, the services were regrouped on the same premises. Maintenance plans
were reflected in the budgets. All budgets were consolidated for regular analysis by the PU and the first
guide of financial ratios (Guide de ratios financiers) for 2001, 2002, and 2003 was produced in April
2005.This document will serve as a programming aide for municipal investments. Kindia, Labé, Kankan,
and Nzérékoré conducted assessments of their markets, and revisited the management of markets and bus
stations. As a result of such measures, municipal revenues have increased. For example, in Mamou,
revenues from commercial facilities grew 2.4 times between 2000 and 2003. Each municipality received 4
computers and 8 persons from each municipality benefited from computer training (Windows and
Microsoft Office).

Component 3. Institutional Development.

This component focused mainly on improving sources of financing for priority services, including
making sure that the counterpart funds were paid according to the Credit Agreement. This component was
the most challenging one to implement given the slow pace of decentralization reforms and the difficult



                                                   - 12 -

macro-economic situation. It exhibited uneven performance due to the sensitivity of the subject. Its major
value during phase I lies in production and dissemination of information and animating debates among
policy makers ­ an indispensable step before an institutional reform in the second phase. In April 2001, the
protocol of cooperation was signed between the DNI and the PU to assure close coordination of activities,
and the Steering Committee was created to work on the policy reform of the fiscal chain. The PU followed
and consolidated the budget data for the City of Conakry. At the same time the new phase of street
addressing process was completed to assist the city in identifying its tax base.

The Institutional, Financial and Organizational Audit of the City of Conakry and the five municipalities of
Conakry was carried out in 2002. In April 2003 a workshop was held to discuss the conclusions and
recommendations of this audit. The emphasis was made on the need to reform the particular status of the
City of Conakry, improve the city's finances, continue efforts on increased transparency of tax collection
(rolls signed by mayors), and improvement of expenditure management.

The Fiscal Survey (Enquête à but fiscal) of the City of Conakry was finalized in December 2004. It
allowed to clarify and communicate to interested parties the intricacies of the fiscal chain and the ways to
improve it. It also helped to advance the issue of practical coordination between street addressing database
and fiscal records.

The communication campaign to improve collection of local taxes was carried out on TV and on radio in
the national languages during the month of June 2005.

IT equipment and software was made available to the deconcentrated services of DNI in 2004, and an
application study was launched since June 2005 to improve the process of tax management.

The "Guide Communal de Gestion Budgétaire et Comptable" was realized in July 2004 and approved
after revisions in June 2005. This reference document will be disseminated among the local governments
during phase II.

The update of the street addressing system was done in the five municipalities of the City of Conakry in
2003. The data entry is largely completed. The installation of street signs was completed in April 2005 and
will be continued during phase II along with street addressing in secondary cities.

The "Guide des ratios financiers" for the participating secondary cities is nearly completed and will be
finalized and disseminated during phase II.

The staff of agencies involved in the project implementation have been trained, including abroad and
participated in workshops and seminars: SPTD, PU, and managers of collection SMEs on solid waste
management, CVS on urban infrastructure management, and others as relevant on the financial and
procurement topics. Communication campaign for the target population was carried out successfully.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
As stated in the PAD, the cost-effectiveness method was used for the economic analysis of the solid waste
program and is found solid. At ICR mission stage, in July 2005 the total cost per ton (with depreciation)
amounted to US$4 (at US$1=GNF3,826) at the average cost for a household of US$1. At appraisal, the
estimated total cost per ton (with depreciation) amounted to US$7.7 (at US$1=GNF1,292) at the average
cost for a household of US$1.2. The analysis shows that the system, generalized to cover the whole city
of Conakry, proved more cost-efficient and affordable than expected at appraisal. The expected benefits
were fully realized as detailed in section 4.1 and the solid waste program investments are found successful



                                                    - 13 -

on economic grounds.

No ex-ante economic analysis was performed for neighborhood upgrading in Conakry, while the
cost-effectiveness approach was implicitly guiding the investments. Given that the benefits are very
significant and the backlog of streets to be upgraded is immense, establishing average cost criteria and
standards could be very prudent. For some secondary streets, which double up as primary road network
during peak hours, cost-benefit analysis could be performed in phase II.

As the phase I concerned only studies and bidding documents, and only some preparatory activities for the
primary roads construction, a detailed economic analysis study was included in the project to support the
preparation of the bidding documents and the justification of investments in phase II. The economic
analysis study was completed in December 2001 and the bidding documents in December 2002. The
economic analysis confirmed that the voie express (2x2) and the T 7 (1x2) would be a viable investment,
and provided the ERR (Economic Rate of Return) estimate of 17.3% in the high traffic scenario and 13.7%
in low traffic scenario, that is higher than the minimum required rate of 12%. Based on this validation the
phase I has financed US$755, 400 of preparatory works. The summary of the assumptions and results of
the economic analysis will be included into the PAD of phase II.

No ex-ante economic analysis was carried out for neighborhood upgrading and revenue-generating
projects in the secondary cities. While cost-effectiveness approach was equally assumed for the
neighborhood upgrading (social, educational or environmental projects) and reflected in the standardized `
fiche de projet' and used as a screening criteria to include the project into the PIP, for commercial projects
(central markets and bus stations) cost-benefit analysis could have been performed prior to the signing of
the municipal contracts, and will be done for phase II.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional development impact is rated substantial, as the project has made effective contributions to
advancing the decentralization reform. Specifically, the project (a) provided new knowledge, tools and
methods of operation that were appropriated and successfully put in practice by the institutional players in
the municipal sector; (b) improved the technical capacity of major institutional actors in urban
management; and (c) benefitted the development of private sector. A lot remains to be done, but progress is
substantial, given the weak governance tradition in Guinea and the vestiges of highly centralized system of
planning and financing. It is recommended that phase II step up the communication efforts in order to
increase the awareness of all institutional players and donors about the project's strategic approach and
achievements, and to further improve inter-ministerial coordination and resource allocation.

(a)      The project has produced a lot of sector knowledge (see Annex 7) that was made available to
the central and local administrations involved in municipal management. Municipal audits on participating
municipalities have led to building unprecedented knowledge base in secondary cities and were instrumental
in participatory decision-making, either at the stage of programming and planning of future investments or
as operational documents for implementation and follow-up. The preparation of municipal audits also led
to workshops and consensus building around municipal management and municipal finance challenges and
provided a forum for policy debates and increased governance transparency. Transparency and
accountability of municipal governance was further advanced through the changes introduced in the
administration of local taxes, and regular annual production of comparable financial data (Guide des ratios
financiers). Street addressing of Conakry has produced a map of the City as well as a data bank on urban



                                                     - 14 -

dwellers and businesses.

(b)     The technical capacity of central agencies, and municipal technical teams has been improved
through their involvement in the project implementation and through targeted training, and assistance of the
"mission d' appui". DATU (Division de Voirie Primaire) has been able through support from the project
to carry out in-house the technical studies of T7 and Voie Express. DNI (Direction des Impôts) has worked
closely with the Street Addressing Unit on the updating of the tax base of Conakry. The Division de Voirie
Secondaire located within the Technical Services of the City of Conakry along with the five municipalities
of Conakry have worked closely on the selection and rehabilitation of secondary road/drainage networks
under the neighborhood upgrading. The SPTD has been supported in its streamlined mission of solid waste
transfer and landfill management. The elected officials and technical and financial services of the
municipalities participating in municipal contracts have been major players in the municipal audits and the
execution of both the investments programs (PIP) and the adjustment programs (MAPs) of their municipal
contracts. All of these entities have had hands-on training on municipal management and delivery of
municipal services.

(c)     The private sector institutions also benefited from the project: contractors that worked on
PLIC and PROP, the SMEs that have come into existence under private concessions for SW collection in
Conakry, and the private bank administering the Guarantee Fund for SW collectors have all benefitted from
the project. Support measures have been put in place to help what was initially a nonexistent private sector
in solid waste and public works to (a) prepare bids and (b) run a profitable business through sound
accounting practices and appropriate pricing of services.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
    ·   Inappropriate macro-economic policies and sluggishness in the implementation of needed structural
    reforms caused shortfalls in external assistance that affected macroeconomic performance in 2003. The
    IMF program went off-track since December 2002 due to lack of progress in policy implementation,
    and caused limitations on external budgetary assistance and absence of external budgetary
    disbursements in 2003. An expansionary fiscal stance, due in part to excessive defense spending,
    coupled with an accommodating monetary policy, led to a large increase in inflation rate from an
    average of 3.0 percent in 2002 to 12.9 percent in 2003 and provided justification for the shortfalls of
    counterpart funding from the central Government and the Governorate of Conakry, as well as created
    distortions in contract prices (substantial negative impact).

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
    ·   The Government, the Ministry of Finance in particular, while generally very supportive of the
    project, failed to assure timely counterpart funds availability for some components, despite its
    commitments in the Credit letter (substantial negative impact);
    ·   The Governorate of Conakry did not live up to its commitments on honoring the contractual
    arrangements for street sweeping and on funding the SPTD and secondary roads (limited negative
    impact);
    ·   Reform of the ratio of local tax sharing (clé de repartition) led to a desirable impact of the project
    on municipal financial aggregates (substantial positive impact), and
    ·   Both local governments of participating secondary cities fulfilled their commitments to enforcing
    the central-local contractual model of municipal contracts and as well as fully paid their financial
    contributions. (substantial positive impact).




                                                     - 15 -

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
     ·   PU succeeded to assume the role of technical advisor and liaison to agencies and municipalities and
     assure high level of coordination and compliance between parties (substantial positive impact);
     ·   PU made a significant effort to speed up the procurement process in compliance with the Bank
     rules, and was proactive in taking steps to improve the quality of studies and works (substantial
     positive impact), and
     ·   PU was instrumental in building a strong sense of ownership by the municipalities of their PIP and
     MAP programs through the participatory audits and adherence to the terms of Municipal Contracts
     (substantial positive impact).

5.4 Costs and financing:
The project carried out all project activities budgeted for at appraisal at 102% of total estimated cost. The
extension of the closing date allowed the project to complete all its activities and to achieve expected
99.26% disbursement rate for IDA Credit by the end of the grace period (October 31, 2005). Disbursement
rate was slow during the first 3 years of the project due to the high degree of participatory decision-making,
learning curve of the local consulting industry for project studies and bidding documents, anticipated
slowness of contract approval by the Government, and difficulties with some contracts execution. After the
mid-term review (January 2002) the procurement plan implementation accelerated to achieve near complete
disbursement of IDA funds. The project was financed by the combination of funds, namely, the IDA Credit
(91.2% of total project cost), and GoG counterpart funds and local governments contributions (8.8% of
total project cost). Counterpart funding was made available in a timely manner by the local governments,
but not by the central government and the Governorat of Conakry, despite a sustained effort to assure
compliance on the part of the Bank ( a trigger for phase II that was not satisfied at the closure of the phase
I).

The development objectives of the employment creation and building local capacity in the municipal sector
favored the project choice to work with local consultants and smaller contractors. The following average
unit costs were calculated at the ICR stage for key priority projects in the secondary cities: US$87/m2 for
equipped (teachers' and students' desks, toilets, fences) primary school classrooms (total 46 classrooms in
5 secondary cities); US$288/m2 for equipped health center space (total of 900m2 in 5 secondary cities),
and US$117/m2 for commercial market floor space (with concrete counters). The costs are high due to
relatively small pool of qualified contractors, the strategic choice to work with smaller contractors, and the
distance of the cities from the capital. It should be, however, possible to reduce these costs in the next
phase with improved procurement. No meaningful average cost analysis for neighborhood upgrading in
Conakry (the secondary streets) can be conducted due to the heterogeneity of street upgrading done in
different neighborhoods and of contractors, and high inflation (prices at least tripled since appraisal).

The 2005 cost-effectiveness indicator for solid waste collection, transfer, and disposal system (including
equipment depreciation) for the whole city of Conakry shows a lower total cost per ton of GNF15, 304
(US$4) as compared to GNF9,955 (US$7.7) estimated at appraisal. The monthly average cost per
household was also lower at GNF3800 (US$1) as compared to estimated GNF1,514 (US$1.2) (see annex 4
for more details).

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of the project achievements is rated as likely, taking into consideration also that this is the
first phase of an APL. The rating is based on the evaluation of the achievements of phase I and the
proposed design and strategy of implementation of phase II. The rating is in agreement with the conclusions



                                                     - 16 -

of QSA6 (Quality of Supervision Assessment 6) conducted on September 20, 2004.

Overall, the knowledge base on the municipal sector and its use by the decision-makers has been
significantly improved. A large body of studies and operational tools has been developed. Importantly for
sustainability, the data has been collected and processed entirely by local consultants, and disclosed during
the many participatory processes of decision-making. The link between physical and financial databases
has been demonstrated to local and central officials, and through street addressing also made
understandable to the residents of Conakry. This created a favorable ground for consensus over true
investment priorities and sustainable service improvements.

The project's sustainability regarding the provision of solid waste management and street network
maintenance is likely as the assistance of the project allowed to design the provision of this services at low
cost and at a standard, corresponding to the income level of the final beneficiaries (see section 4.3 and
annex 4). The capacity of city technical services and oversight agencies with respect to these two services
has improved. The private sector industries responding to provision of these services and works are
growing and improving their capacity. The awareness and the appreciation of the final beneficiary have
increased dramatically as is evidenced by the high subscription rate to household garbage collection and
implication of the local population in PLIC work and maintenance. However, sustainability of the provision
of these municipal services remains at risk of political interference, as was exemplified in the counterpart
funding difficulties, breach of contracts with the private sector for street sweeping, and low incentive to
improve the transparency of budgeting process, particularly on the part of the deconcentrated authorities in
Conakry. Given the level of poverty in Guinea, and the level of urban poverty and economic
underdevelopment in Conakry, the needs of the capital in urban services far outstrip its limited resources.
Improving institutional incentives to better manage the city, an intergovernmental transfer, and overall
increase in accountability and transparency of municipal budgeting process are imperative to guarantee the
sustainable level of financing for priority municipal services.

The situation is better in the secondary cities, as is evidenced in the successful implementation of the first
generation of the municipal contracts. Municipal contracts in the participating cities have been internalized
as a working model of programming and managing municipal investments. It appears likely that the
ownership and responsiveness of the municipalities during phase I would be instrumental in advancing the
decentralization agenda in phase II, provided the momentum of the APL is not lost.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Most of the activities are mainstreamed into the operations of local governments and the oversight
authorities. The implementation arrangements and municipal contract models will be continued under phase
II. The municipal projects, once completed were transferred to municipalities for operation. The financing
of PU operating costs is still dependent on IDA funding, but the issue of its future mission and financing
sources will be addressed under phase II.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance at lending is rated satisfactory. The Bank team provided critical expert input and
recommendations to the Borrower and collaborated on all aspects of project preparation. Given the
immense infrastructure and service needs of Conakry and in order to further the achievements of UDP II,
the project's design was closely linked to this preceding operation. As UDP II had been significantly
refocused at mid-term review, some of its components needed to be consolidated to increase developmental
effectiveness, especially the Solid Waste Management Program. This program had started towards the end


                                                     - 17 -

of the UDP II and its sustainability and improvement depended on the design of the sub-component in the
UDP III. Overall, the team emphasized elaboration of all the tools to "structure" project implementation. A
Project Unit was carefully crafted to improve efficiency while preserving the expertise of the staff
associated with the previous operation, to improve on procurement and contract management, as well as
assure on-going transfer of knowledge between the project and the government agencies.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance at supervision is rated highly satisfactory. The evaluation is largely consistent with the
QSA6 fully satisfactory rating (2 on the 6 point rating scale), with "Adequacy of Supervision" Inputs and
Processes rated as highly satisfactory (1 on the 6 point rating scale).
According to the QSA6 (September 20, 2004), "the project provided a quantum leap in the country `s
urban development agenda". The Panel highlighted "(i) the commendable staff continuity and skill mix
maintained during project implementation, (ii) strong and supportive management of supervision activities,
and (iii) the quality of supervision documentation. Particularly noticeable was the thoroughness of the
supervision Aide-memoire and their annexes that constitute critical reference documents". As initiated in
UDP II, the supervision aide-memoires and annexes continued to be prepared jointly with the Borrower and
constituted a reference document for the project unit and the government, full of advice and guidance. In
addition, the Panel commended the supervision team for the attention to implementation of technical
assistance and assuring quality training and capacity building activities. Project reporting was done
satisfactorily and accuracy of DO and IP ratings was commendable, though the rating of the risk presented
by the counterpart funding delays appears understated, despite the regular flagging of this issue and efforts
to resolve it. The three pronged strategy of the team ­ (i) to maintain pressure on the Government despite
the difficult macroeconomic situation; (ii) to improve distribution of collected taxes in favor of local
governments and to help them mobilize additional resources; and (iii) to conceptualize new implementation
framework design to mitigate the risk of counterpart funding delays ­ is found an appropriate response to
the persistent problem of counterpart funds availability.

The thoroughness of the design and monitoring of performance indicators was also judged commendable by
the panel and has surely contributed to achieving the positive outcomes of the project. The fiduciary and
procurement issues were handled satisfactorily, including with the help of the country office staff. The
choice of an APL as a (innovative at the time in Africa region) lending instrument appears justified on both
strategic and practical grounds, provided the second phase starts seamlessly. The extensions of phase I
were an appropriate response of the supervision team to the understated original implementation timeframe
and should inform the timeframe setting for phase II.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance at preparation is rated satisfactory. The Borrower displayed a good degree of
ownership of project design and supported introducing implementation arrangements departing from the
experience of the previous urban projects financed by the Bank. The Borrower                engaged into a
participatory process of sub-project design and definition of municipal priority investment programs. The
Borrower assured that most of the implementation arrangements are fully in place by end of project
preparation, and satisfied most of the conditions of effectiveness (approval of the Project Implementation
Manual, including the Procedures Manual for SPTD, establishment of an accounting and financial
management system for project implementation, appointment of auditors, payment of all severance
payments due to SPTD redundant staff, and opening of the project account and making a deposit).



                                                    - 18 -

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance is rated satisfactory. The project enjoyed the continuous support
of Ministry of Finance that assured timely administrative decisions, particularly in regard to reform of the
tax sharing formula. However, the project was plagued by the arrears on counterpart funding, with negative
impact on sustainability of such critical programs as solid waste management and neighborhood upgrading
programs in Conakry, that put in question the Government's commitment to its stated priorities in
improving the infrastructure and service delivery. Given that the Bank has shown its understanding of the
difficult macroeconomic situation and scarcity of public funds to be made available to local government
programs, and focused the project on improving the local revenue mobilization and mobilization of the
private sector and cost recovery, the Government's inability to fulfill its financial commitments in the
timely manner has had a negative impact on some of project's outcomes. The phase II of the project should
be designed so as to even further insulate the project from the destabilizing effects of arrears of central
counterpart funding, while seeking to increase the Government's support to creating incentives for better
management of the City of Conakry, to fiscal decentralization reform (particularly in instituting a transfer
fund for municipalities) and to enabling private sector participation in municipal service and infrastructure
provision. Procurement process needs to be streamlined as well to avoid unjustified delays in contract
processing, penalizing project implementation speed and cost efficiency

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Performance of PU that was an implementing agency for project overall is rated satisfactory. PU was
created at the start of the project and consisted of government officials and project contractual staff. It has
evolved into a competent and efficient structure, capable of managing the project on behalf of other central
and local governments according to the terms of the IDA Credit Agreement. It provided "real-time"
technical contributions and advice to other agencies, contractors, consultants, and newly established SMEs
(in SWM), and became a "clearing house" for the decision makers requesting the generated knowledge. The
expertise gained by the unit, with the help of focused training (solid waste management, procurement,
management of SME, municipal management and accounting, EIAs, computer software), gives confidence
of its capacity to successfully implement the second phase of the program.

While specific performance indicators were not designed to monitor the performance of the PU during
phase I, the overall fulfillment of project performance indicators and triggers for phase II testifies of its
satisfactory performance.     The PU allowed the project to disburse 99,26% of its funds by October 31,
2005. The PU insured quality financial management and regular provision of audits. The PU fully executed
the project procurement plan, totaling 144 contracts for civil works, 24 contracts for goods, and 62
consultant contracts, in full conformity with the Annex 3 of the IDA Credit Agreement and the project
operational manual. The close interaction with the Bank procurement specialists (on-going assistance,
CPPR, and ex-post review) allowed to improve the PU contract management (delays are mostly due to
issues outside the PU direct control at the stage of contract awards, execution and payments). As the
overwhelming majority of the contracts were with the local firms and consultants, the successful
implementation of the procurement plan had a very positive impact on the capacity building of the local
private sector. PU benefited from the technical support of the mission d'appui and the Bank team who
provided timely review of documents and clear work programs and action plans. Jointly prepared
aide-memoire continued to be used as the reference document and the depository of the expertise by the PU.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower Performance is rated satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned



                                                     - 19 -

Lesson 1: Continuity is key to long-term development impact.

UDP III is the third generation of urban projects in Guinea and has built on previous projects with no
interruption in policy dialogue or in World Bank technical assistance and investment lending. This has led
to a consistent set of activities in favor of service delivery and municipal development while keeping up
with large infrastructure investment needs.           Little by little, progress has been made on the
decentralization/municipal agenda.

Lesson 2: APL: Is it worth it ?

Guinea Urban III was one of the first APL Bank wide. The idea behind APL was to enter with government
into a programmatic process with an immediate transition to phase II under "simplified" procedures to do
so, if the trigger indicators were to be met. As it turned out, there is nothing "simplified" about doing APL
as phase I is subject to an ICR and phase II goes through similar preparation procedures as any regular
SIL. In addition, in countries such as Guinea which are in low-case scenario and have therefore a very
small IDA allocation, there is no guarantee to move to phase II even when the trigger indicators have been
met.    No matter how good an APL may be, the project is not ring-fenced if the country is performing
poorly, In the case of Guinea, phase II however has been confirmed for FY07 in view of the good
performance of phase I in the overall country portfolio and transitional arrangements will be made through
a PPF to keep the momentum and capitalize on the achievements.

Lesson 3 : Public-private partnership (involving SMEs and the public sector) improves efficiency in
delivery of municipal services.

In the case of solid waste, experience in the region shows that it is an expensive municipal service and that
many cities have taken the road of no action or drastic privatization actions with few sustained results. In
the context of Conakry, the challenge was immense as the city had gained over the years the title of
"dumpsite of West Africa" and there was no guarantee that the private sector would get involved. The first
lesson from phase I shows that concessioning out the collection of household waste to SMEs is an efficient
and sustainable solution for African cities. It works, it reduces costs, it allows to improve the environment
and public health, creates jobs and promotes entrepreneurship and the population is willing to pay for a
service rendered. The second lesson is that it works because a set of enabling measures is in place. These
"enabling measures" are (1) clear collection zones (based on street addressing), (2) clear contractual
arrangements, (3) little demand on SMEs operating methods (no micro-management of their equipment)
and no demand on them to transport solid waste to landfill but rather to transfer zones in order to cut down
on their operating costs and the need for heavy equipment, (4) the availability of a guarantee fund is a
necessary complement to allow SMEs to           fund their equipment, activities and growth, and improve
services, (5) some technical assistance/training to SMEs to improve their budgetary systems and fee
collection tracking, (6) the financing of supporting "infrastructure" (i.e. construction of transfer zones and
access roads as well as the improvement of the existing landfill ). Population participates better if the
service is managed by the private sector, but thorough contractualization is needed, and outside interference
of local politicians can be an hindrance.

In the case of neighborhood upgrading, the challenge deliberately taken at time of project preparation was
to work at the city level and put in practice the following guiding principles: (1) extensive participatory
process for the selection of PROP, (2) local counterpart in kind by the municipalities (through the
implementation of the PLIC), and (3) execution of works by local contractors supervised by the Cellule de
Voirie Secondaire. This was in sharp contrast with previous projects in Guinea where infrastructure
projects were carried out by large international firms and with many similar projects in the region where


                                                     - 20 -

contract management and supervision of works are carried out by delegated contract managers (i.e.
AGETIP). Working with public works SMEs has been challenging. It has created jobs and promoted
entrepreneurship, but will require in the future some improvements of the procurement process. A system
of pre-qualification is needed, a stricter control of realism of bidding proposals, in general, an extra effort
is also needed to improve professionalization of the SMEs in the industry. For the project to execute
smoothly and within budget, a mechanism of faster contract processing is needed, as well as indicators of
performance, and ways of organizing/assisting SMEs working in remote locations (villes de l'Intérieur).

Lesson 4: Municipal contracts enhance performance in decentralization.

The key to success was the introduction of municipal audits which for the first time provided baseline
information on the spatial, organizational and financial attributes of Guinean municipalities and helped
shape municipal programs which were not politically based but instead based on priority needs set in local
realities and expressed at the local level. In a sector, which critically and historically lacks data, the
municipal audits became a tool to gather in a short period of time, at low cost and using the local
consulting firms, targeted information to support important decision-making.

Nothing is perfect, however, and the project has learned some important operational lessons. These lessons
are: (1) although the screening process of sub-projects included in the PIP is rigorous, site availability has
proved in a few cases to be a problem and mechanisms should be refined to reduce the occurrence of this
issue; (2) in the second generation of municipal contracts, the maintenance program will be more
demanding and municipalities will have to show real improvements at the city level; and (3) more attention
should be paid to the urban fabric and, especially in the case of the metropolitan region of Conakry, to
infrastructure which have an inter-municipality impact rather than a neighborhood impact; (4) municipal
audits will have to capture the economic development dimension of the city and translate it into some
activities to be included in the PIP.

Lesson 5: Capacity building works better if it is integrated in a contractual arrangement and linked
to investments than if it is a free-standing component.

Many "traditional" urban projects have not yielded the expected results on capacity building and
institutional strengthening because (a) they are too far removed from local needs and realities; and (b) they
are not linked to investment incentives. In the case of the municipal contracts, the municipal adjustments
programs derive from the conclusions of the financial and organizational audits and are therefore tied to
local needs and targeted to specific goals and commitments. The eventuality that these commitments may
not be met has an impact on the implementation of the investment program (PIP).

Lesson 6 : Street addressing has many practical municipal management applications.

In the case of UDP III, street addressing has proved instrumental to achieving successful project outcomes.
It was essential in determining solid waste collection zones, supporting the programming of secondary
streets rehabilitation, and has helped to provide strong baseline information on cities. As such, street
addressing has gained its place as a key activity that should be included in most urban projects.




                                                     - 21 -

Lesson 7 : Counterpart funding availability is strongly linked to a fully owned, well justified, and
enforceable local commitment.

Interestingly enough, counterpart funding has never been an issue in secondary cities while it has plagued
activities in Conakry.     This shows that (1) ownership of the municipal contract and (2) proper
determination of the absorptive capacity of the municipalities have contributed to the very good record of
local governments outside of Conakry. Instead in Conakry, in the absence of a municipal contract and of a
check and balance system and with the large share of counterpart funding that was expected to come from
the central government, the counterpart funding has been an issue. It was further exacerbated by the lack of
commitment of the Governor of Conakry and his negative interference in the implementation of the solid
waste component. This lesson particularly needs to be taken into account in phase II in order to mitigate
counterpart funding problems.

Lesson 8: Clear implementation arrangements are essential ingredients for success

Contrary to current thinking which promotes the "No Project Unit" approach and having evaluated the
experience of the previous project ( UDP II ) which had no project unit but an army of international
technical assistants who departed after the project end leaving no expertise behind, the decision was made
during UDP III project preparation to put in place a small project unit. Although not located directly
within any ministry, the Unit kept very strong ties with the central administration (Ministry of Finance,
Urbanization, Public Works and Local Governments) and worked closely with DATU (Direction
d'Aménagement du Territoire et de l'Urbanisme) and DNI (Direction Nationale des Impôts) on the
implementation of their respective components. At the same time, the PU had strong operational interface
with the City of Conakry , the SPTD and local governments throughout the country which carried out the
implementation of their respective components. This interface enabled a strong technical partnership
whereby the Project Unit was not seen as doing things "instead of" but rather "with" local partners and
where information, technical expertise and decision-making were shared.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The ICR was prepared in close coordination with the Borrower. The Borrower has submitted a completion
report that is included in Annex 9 (without tables). The overall assessment of the project is consistent with
the present ICR conclusions, and no specific comments have been made.

(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information

N/A




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


 Target Indicators                                 Situation as of June 30, 2005
1. 60% illegal dumps eliminated by December                     85 % by December 31, 2001
31,2000 ; 80% by December 31, 2001 ; 95% be                     90 % by December 31, 2002
December 31, 2002                                               90 % by December 31, 2003
                                                                95 % by December 31, 2004
2. 75 to 77% of garbage collected transferred to                87 % by December 31, 2001
landfill, by December 31 2000 ; 77 to 80% by                    90 % by December 31, 2002
December 31, 2002.                                              87 % by December 31, 2003
                                                                76 % by December 31, 2004
3. 1000 new jobs created in the SW service: by     · 1318 in 2000
December 31, 2000 ;                                · 984 in 2001 (out of which 318 additional in 2000)
800 additional jobs by December 31, 2001 ;         · 541 in 2002
700 additional jobs by December 31, 2002           · 318 in 2003
                                                   · 169 in 2004
                                                   Total : 3 330 as of June 30, 2005
4. CFU and TPU roles issue: + 30% by end of the    · Growth relative to the base year of 1999
project                                           Issue : + 43%
Total CFU et TPU collected: + 20% during the life Collection : + 45%
of the project
                                                  · In 2000 :
                                                  CFU : +29% (issue) + 3% (collection)
                                                  TPU : +40% (issue) + 20% (collection)

                                                  ·In 2001 :
                                                  CFU : +21% (issue) + 7% (collection)
                                                  TPU : -11% (issue) + 162% (collection)

                                                  · In 2002 :
                                                  CFU : +45,2% (issue) + 45,9% (collection )
                                                  TPU : -15% (issue) -37,9% (collection)

                                                  ·In 2003 :
                                                  CFU : + 16,6 % (issue) -14,3% (collection)
                                                  TPU : + 3 % (issue) + 37,3% (collection)

                                                  · In 2004 :
                                                  CFU : - 1 % (issue) - 8% (collection)
                                                  TPU : - 1 % (issue) - 9% (collection)
5. Annual contributions of local governments to·In 2000 :
street networks upgrading:                        20 million FG (130 million as an emergency measure)
 150 million FG by the Gouvernorate               10 million FG (50 million as an emergency measure)
  10 million FG by each municipality (total : 50
million FG)                                       · In 2001 :
                                                  70 million FG
                                                  40 million FG

                                                  · In 2002
                                                  52 million FG
                                                  30 million FG




                                                   - 23 -

                                                     ·In 2003
                                                     10 million FG
                                                     70 million FG


Triggers for Phase II

 Components                         Indicators          Situation as of June 30, 2005
 1. Improvements to priority
 infrastructure and services
 in Conakry
1.1 Solid Waste              Transfer funded by the            188 million in 2000
Management                   Governorate at the                504 million in 2001
                             annual level of : 800            480 million in 2002
                             million FG                        560 million in 2003
                                                               443 million in 2004
                                                                                          Not met
                                                               50 million in 2000
                                                               176 million in 2001
                             Government                       113 million in 2002
                             depreciation subsidy              113 million in 2003
1.2 Secondary street network 200 million FG annual       20 million 2000 (Governorate)
                             financing by                       70 million 2001
                             Governorate and                    52 million 2002
                             municipalities                     10 million 2003
                                                                                          Not met
                                                        10 millions 2000 (Municipalities)
                                                                40 million 2001
                             PLIC implementation                30 million 2002
                             (Governorate)                      70 million 2003
1.3 Primary street network   Rights-of-way preserved        Rights-of-way preserved        Met
                             for T7                       Bidding documents finalized
                             Finalize bidding                     Implemented
                             documents
                             Create system of
                             supervision of works
2. Assistance to secondary
cities
2.1 Urban, organizational   Urban, organizational      10 audits completed                 Met
and financial audits        and financial audits in 10
                            secondary cities
2.2 PIP and PAC              8 cities to prepare their · 10 municipalities prepared their  Met
                             PIP and MAPs;             PIP & MAP (Kindia, Labé,
                                                       Nzérékoré, Kankan, Mamou,
                                                       Faranah, Kissidougou, Boké,
                                                       Siguiri and Macenta)                Met
                                                       · 7 municipalities have signed a
                             ·6 municipalities to sign municipal contract (Kindia, Labé,
                             the municipal contract ; Nzérékoré, Kankan Mamou,
                                                       Faranah et Kissidougou)             Met

                             80% of financing          + 159% of the original financing



                                                      - 24 -

                          envelope for works     envelope committed (6,783 billion
                          committed              FG)
3. Support to urban
management
4. Financing of priority  The destribution ratio Ratio modified in 2001             Met
services                  for CFU, TPU and TUV Improvements during the project
                          revised                life phase I with 1999 as a base
                          Increase in CFU and    year :
                          TPU rolls issue of at  Issue : +43 %
                          least 30% and at least Collection : +45 %                 Met
                          20% growth in          CFU : -1 % (issue)
                          collection rates.              - 8,5 % (collection)
                                                 TPU : -1 % (issue)
                                                         - 9,2 % (collection)
                                                 Patente : +6,2% (issue)
                                                          + 20,3% (collection)




                                                 - 25 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                                    Appraisal             Actual/Latest             Percentage of
                                    Estimate                Estimate                 Appraisal
       Component                   US$ million            US$ million
1. Priority                           11,08                  11,09                      100
Infrastructure and
Services for                          3,57                    2,89                       80
   Conakry                            5,20                    7,06                      135
   a. Solid Waste                     2,31                    1,14                       48
Management
   b. Neighborhood
Upgrading
   c. Primary Road
Network
2. Assistance to                      3,66                    4,93                      134
Secondary Cities
3. Institutional                      2,83                    3,41                      120
Strengthening                         1,63                    2,73                      167
   a. Support to
operational unit and                  1,20                    0,68                       56
   community awareness
   b. Support to improve
the financing of
   priority services

Reimbursement of the                  0,50                    0,49
PPF

Total Baseline Cost                   18,07                  19,90
Contingencies                         1,47                    0,05
   Total Project Costs                19,54                  19,97                     102.2
     Total Financing                  19,54                  19,97                     102.2
         Required
Note: Total project costs include financing from BND and counterpart funds from the Governorat and
Municipalities. IDA financing is $18 million.




                                                  - 26 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

  Expenditure                       Procurement Method                             Total Cost
    Category                                                                        (including
                                                                                 contingencies)
                      ICB           NCB           OTHER             N.B.F.
1. Works              3,90          5,00             0,20           0,47               9,54
                     (3,58)         (4,5)           (0,18)          (0,00)            (8,26)
2. Goods              1,50          0,60             0,15           0,00               2,25
                     (1,50)         (0,57)          (0,14)          (0,00)            (2,21)
3. Consultant         0,00          0,00             4,63           0,00               4,63
Services             (0,00)         (0,00)          (4,63)          (0,00)            (4,63)
4. Operating          0,00          0,00             1,04           0,00               1,04
Costs                (0,00)         (0,00)          (0,93)          (0,00)            (0,93)
5. Guarantee          0,00          0,00             0,00           0,12               0,12
Funds                (0,00)         (0,00)          (0.00)          (0,00)            (0,00)
6. Unallocated        0,00          0,00             1,47           0,00               1,47
Funds                (0,00)         (0,00)          (1,47)          (0,00)            (1,47)
7. PPF                0,00          0,00             0,50           0,00               0,50
refinancing          (0,00)         (0,00)          (0,50)          (0,00)            (0,50)
Total costs           5,40          5,58             7,98           0,58              19,54
Total Costs          (5,08)         (5,07)          (7,85)          (0,00)            (18,00)
Financed by
IDA




                                            - 27 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

  Expenditure                       Procurement Method                             Total Cost
    Category                                                                        (including
                                                                                  contingencies)
                      ICB           NCB           OTHER             N.B.F.
1. Works              4,54          6,74            0,20             0,22             11,70
                     (4,09)         (6,06)         (0,18)           (0.00)            (10,33)
2. Goods              1,52          0,80            0,25             0,00              2,57
                     (1,52)         (0,76)         (0,23)           (0,00)            (2,51)
3. Consultant         0,00          0,00            3,02             0,00              3,02
Services             (0,00)         (0,00)         (3,02)           (0,00)            (3,02)
4. Operating          0,00          0,00            2,02             0,00              2,02
Costs                (0,00)         (0,00)         (1,60)           (0,00)            (1,60)
5. Guarantee          0,00          0,00            0,00             0,12              0,12
Funds                (0,00)         (0,00)         (0,00)           (0,00)            (0,00)
6. Unallocated        0,00          0,00            0,05             0,00              0,05
Funds                (0,00)         (0,00)         (0,05)           (0,00)            (0,05)
7. PPF                0,00          0,00            0,49             0,00              0,49
refinancing          (0,00)         (0,00)         (0,49)           (0,00)            (0,49)
Total costs           6,06          7,54            6,03             0,34             19,97
Total Costs          (5,60)         (6,82)         (5,80)           (0.00)            (18,00)
Financed by
IDA




                                           - 28 -

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

Compo         Appraisal Estimate       Actual/Latest Estimate    Percentage of Appraisal
  nent   IDA Govern Munici BND       IDA GovernMunici BND       IDA GovernMunici BND
               orat    palities              orat palities            orat palities
1.        9,80  0,35    0,12   0,81  9,93    0,17    0,06  0,93 101   48       50    114
Priority
Infrastr
ucture
and
Services
for
Conakry
2.        3,53  0,00    0,12   0,01  4,63    0,00    0,16  0,14 131    0      133    140
Assistan
ce to
Seconda
ry Cities
3.        2,70  0,00    0,00   0,13  2,90    0,00    0,00  0,51 107    0       0     392
Instituti
onal
Strength
ening
Reimbur   0,50  0,00    0,00   0,00  0,49    0,00    0,00  0,00  98    0       0      0
sement
of the
PPF
Conting   1,47  0,00    0,00   0,00  0,05    0,00    0,00  0,00  3     0       0      0
encies
BND: Budget National de Développement




                                             - 29 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Solid Waste Management Component
(costs are given in GNF 2005)

The PAD opted for a cost-effectiveness analysis comparing three waste management systems : (i) collection
by carts, transfer to grouping points, and transfer in one shift to the landfill in trucks bearing large capacity
(24m3) containers; (ii) the same system, using the same type of truck, and two work shifts to transfer to the
landfill; (iii) a system involving the collection and transfer of garbage to the landfill by trucks bearing
containers with 7m3 capacity. The costs are acquisition of trucks, carts, bins and containers, as well as
construction costs for the grouping points and operating expenses. The cost of waste dumping at the landfill
is not taken into consideration in this comparison.

The costs were recalculated based on actual expenses: the transfer trucks costs amounted to GNF518
million, 40 container trucks of 24m3 valued at GNF463 million, grouping points at GNF20 million, truck
amortization period of 7 years, and carts the average of 1.5 years ( from 6 months to 1.5 years depending
on the neighborhood street conditions); the average distance to the landfill is the average of 15kms; total
waste produced by the total population of Conakry, since the system was extended for the whole capital
(1,120,000 instead of 200, 000).The work shift is the on average 8 hours and there are 312 working days in
the year.

Cost-effectiveness indicators

A comparison of costs indicates that the system of collection with carts, grouping points, transfer in two
work shifts by trucks of 24m3 capacity has the lowest operating cost per tonn (GNF3 048) compared with
the system of using cart, a single day work shift (GNF9 565), and a 24m3 container truck (GNF15,304).
The following tables provide the analysis at appraisal and at ICR stages:

  At appraisal, the estimated total cost per ton (with depreciation) amounted to US$7.7                      (at
US$1=GNF1,292) at the average cost for a household of US$1.2.

                               Carts, grouping points, Carts, grouping points            Trucks wit 7 m3
                                    one work shift,         and two work shifts            capacity bins
                               including depreciation
     Preliminary collection                 203 793 569                  203 793 569             -
     Grouping points                         13 000 000                   13 000 000             -
     Transfer to the landfil                146 548 549                   92 721 436             -
     Total                                  363 342 118                  309 515 006           389 188 107

     Total cost per ton                            9,955                          8480               10 663
     Total cost per m3                             4,778                         4 070                5 118
     Total       cost     per                      1 514                         1 290                 1622
     household per month
     Total       cost     per                        151                           129                  162
     individual per month



   At ICR stage, in 2005, the total cost per ton (with depreciation) amounted to US$4 (at
US$1=GNF3,826) at the average cost for a household of US$1.



                                                     - 30 -

                             Carts, grouping points, Carts, grouping points Trucks wit 24 m3
                                  one work shift,        and two work shifts  capacity bins
                              including depreciation
    Preliminary collection             1 587 790 000            1 587 790 000      -
    Grouping points                       20 000 000              20 000 000       -
    Transfer to the landfill             826 960 301              439 242 268      -
    Total                              2 434 750 301            2 047 992 268

    Total cost per ton                        15 304                   12 200
    Total cost per m3                          7 652                    6 121
    Total       cost    per                    3 826                    3 060
    household per month
    Total       cost    per                   510,13                      408
    individual per month




    Low income household rate     US$ 0,375               GNF1 434,75
    Middle-income household rateUS$ 0,875                 GNF3 347,75
    High income household rate    US$ 1,750               GNF 6 695,5
    Turnover                      415 000 tonns GNF 1, 587, 790, 000

The analysis shows that the system, generalized to cover the whole city of Conakry, proved more
cost-efficient and affordable then expected at appraisal.




                                                 - 31 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              12/97                     7    Team Leader (Lead Urban
                                             Development Specialist), Sr.
                                             Water and Sanitation Specialist,
                                             Program Assistant, Consultant,
                                             Sr. Financial Management
                                             Specialist, Municipal Urban
                                             Planner, Engineer


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              05/98                     7    Team Leader (Lead Urban
                                             Development Specialist), Sr.
                                             Water and Sanitation
                                             Specialist, Program
                                             Assistant, Consultant, Sr.
                                             Financial Management
                                             Specialist, Municipal Urban
                                             Planner, Engineer


 Supervision
              05/27/2001                6    Team Leader (Lead Urban              S               S
                                             Development Specialist), Sr.
                                             Water and Sanitation
                                             Specialist, Implementation
                                             Specialist, Financial
                                             Management Specialist,
                                             Procurement Specialist, Sr.
                                             Municipal Financial
                                             Specialist
              01/14/2002                6    Team Leader (Lead Urban              S               S
                                             Development Specialist), Urban
                                             Specialist, Financial
                                             Management Specialist,
                                             Procurement Specialist,
                                             Environment Specialist,
                                             Engineer
              07/08/2002                4    Team Leader (Lead Urban              S               S
                                             Development Specialist), Urban
                                             Specialist, Financial
                                             Management Specialist,
                                             Municipal Finance

              03/31/2003                4    Team Leader (Lead Urban              S               S
                                             Development Specialist), Urban
                                             Management Specialist, Sr.




                                              - 32 -

                                           Water and Sanitation Specialist,
                                           Procurement Analyst

               11/17/2003              6   Team Leader (Lead Urban             S    S
                                           Development Specialist),
                                           Procurement Specialist,
                                           Engineer, Financial Management
                                           Specialist, Consultant

               07/31/2004              5   Team Leader (Lead Urban             S    S
                                           Development Specialist), Sr.
                                           Municipal Finance Specialist,
                                           Financial Management
                                           Specialist, Engineer,
                                           Procurement Specialist

 ICR
               07/11/2005             6     Team Leader (Lead Urban            S    S
                                            Development Specialist),
                                            Engineer, Sr. Sanitary
                                            Engineer, Communication
                                            Specialist, Urban
                                            Management Specialist,
                                            Program Assistant



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           418,8                           953,3
  Appraisal/Negotiation                55,36                           119,1
  Supervision                          186,2                           487,3
  ICR                                   5,18                            11,1
  Total                              662,54                          1570,8




                                            - 33 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Bank's Back-to Office reports and aide-memoires
Manuel de Procédures de PU
"Future of African Cities", by Catherine Farvacque-Vitkovic, Lucien Godin, The World Bank, 1998.
"The Street Addressing and Management of Cities", by Catherine Farvacque-Vitcovic, Lucien Godin,
Hugues Leroux, Florence Verdet, and Roberto Chavez, The World Bank, 2005.

Documents produced during phase I:

 N°                       Title                              Consultant                 Date
                                           I. Solid Waste
 1    Schéma directeur d'exploitation du CET de Jean Claude MARRON                 Novembre 2000
      la Minière.
 2    Etudes filière de compostage du CET de la Nadine DULAC                       Décembre 2000
      Minière.
 3    Consultation des riverains de la décharge de Entraide Universitaire pour le     Juin 2001
      Kagbelèn.                                     Développement ( EUPD )
 4    Etudes      de       faisabilité,   d'impact BURGEAP                           Février 2003
      Environnemental et techniques détaillées de
      la décharge de Kagbelèn.
 5    Suivi environnemental et post fermeture du TRACTEBEL           Development     Août 2003
      CET de la Minière.                            Engineering
 6    Vérification des données statistiques des Dr Mamadou Alpha DIALLO              Mars 2005
      PME de collecte et du SPTD
                                II. Assistance to Secondary Cities
7     Audits urbain, organisationnel et financier   CARIG                         Février 2001
      de Kindia/Mamou
8     Audits urbain, organisationnel et financier   ARIAS                         Février 2001
      de Labé/Kissidougou
9     Audits urbain, organisationnel et financier   THEAM Guinée                  Août 2001
      de Kankan/Boké
10    Audits urbain, organisationnel et financier   BAEC GUIDE                    Août 2001
      de Nzérékoré/Faranah
11    Audits urbain, organisationnel et financier   COM SAN                       Décembre 2002
      de Siguiri
12    Audits urbain, organisationnel et financier   STRATHEG                      Décembre 2002
      de Macenta
13    Photographie aérienne des villes de           MAPS GEOSYSTEM                Mars 2000
      l'intérieur




                                                 - 36 -

                                   III. Local Finances
14 Audit des 5 Communes et de la ville de     TAFSIR Audit & Conseil Septembre
   Conakry                                                           2002

15 Enquete à but fiscal sur l'agglomération   BENETD ­ CI            Décembre 2004
   de la ville de Conakry

16 Diagnostic informatique à la DNI           GUINEENNE              Mars 2003
                                              INFORMATIQUE

17 Guide budgétaire, financier et comptable TAFSIR Audit & Conseil   Juin 2005
   des Communes

18 Conception et mise en place d'un           BAROUWEL               Juin 2005
   logiciel d'application de gestion de la
   Patente et de la TPU
19 Guide des Ratios Financiers des            Unité de Projet        2005
   Communes 2001, 2002,2003



                              IV. Primary Road Network
20 Etude économique de la voirie                        SETEC           Juin 2002
                                              International
21 Rapports de suivi                          Consultant Voirie
                            V. Neigborhood Upgrading

22 Modalité de mise en oeuvre des             Vincent Foleah         Mars 2000
   programmes
23 Evaluation des impacts des programmes Vincent Foleah              Octobre 2002
   de la tranche 1
24 Programme d'information, Education et      The Center for         Août 2001
   Communication                              developpement
                                              Communication




                                           - 37 -

Additional Annex 8. Photos

1. Solid Waste Management




                              - 38 -

- 39 -

2. Neighborhood Upgrading




                             - 40 -

- 41 -

- 42 -

- 43 -

- 44 -

3. Secondary Cities




CS Dorota - Nzerekore           CS Gonia - Nzerekore




                         Ecole de Tata-Labe




Formation Mamou                 Halles Kindia




                                      - 45 -

Mairie de Mamou                        Marche de Mamou




Mairie de Kindia

                                       Mairie de Kindia




Mairie de Kindia - salle de reunion    Mairie de Kindia




                                          - 46 -

                       Route Condeta - Centre ville - Kindia




                     Nzerekore - 1er franchissement sur la Tile




Nzerekore - Tile - Excavation             Nzerekore - Tile - Coffrage




                                                 - 47 -

Nzerekore - Tile - Remblaiement de l'acces       Nzerekore - Tile - Vue de profil




                                                 Marche Missira - Hangar et Enceinte
Kankan - Marche Missira - site




                                                 Marche Missira
Marche Missira - tables et kiosques pour bouchers




                                                 - 48 -

                                   Marche Missira - Esplanade de vente




Nzerekore - Centre de sante de GONIA    Centre de sante de GONIA - Apres




Nzerekore - Centre de sante de Dorota   Labe - salle de classe a Konkola




                                               - 49 -

                            Nzerekore - salle de classe a Gonia




                            Kankan - Route Komarata - Dibida




Labe - Voie Konkola parava - Avant           Labe - Voie Konkola parava - Chantier




                                                - 50 -

- 51 -

Additional Annex 9. Borrower's Summary Report on Project Completion

                               République de Guinée
                                      ---------
                          Travail ­ Justice - Solidarité
                                      ---------
                 Ministère de l'Urbanisme et de l'Habitat
                                      ---------
              Troisième Projet de Développement Urbain
                                    (PDU3)




    Rapport d'Achèvement de la Phase 1
                    (Crédit IDA 3196 Gui)

                                (Version provisoire)




                                  Novembre 2005




                                       - 52 -

                   Abréviations et sigles

ACGP         Administration et contrôle des grands projets

CFU          Contribution foncière unique

CVP          Cellule voirie primaire

CVS          Cellule voirie secondaire

DATU         Direction de l'aménagement du territoire et de l'urbanisme

DEF          Direction de l'économie et des finances

DAF          Direction administrative et financière

DNI          Direction nationale des impôts

IDA          Association internationale de développement

PAC          Programme d'ajustement communal

PDU1 PDU2    Premier et deuxième projet urbain

PIP          Programme d'investissement prioritaire

PLIC         Programme léger d'initiative communale

PPE          Prêt à des programmes évolutifs

PROP         Programme de réhabilitation et d'ouvertures prioritaires

SNAT         Schéma national d'aménagement du territoire

SPTD         Service public de transfert des déchets

TPU          Taxe professionnelle unique

TUV          Taxe unique sur les véhicules

CPU          Cellule de la programmation urbaine

PME          Petites et moyennes entreprises

AO           Appel d'Offres

BND          Budget National de Développement

CDV          Contrat de Ville

CET          Centre d'Enfouissement Technique

DAO          Dossier d'Appel d'Offres

DCP          Divion du Contrôle de la Propreté

DP           Demande de Propositions

DRUHTPT      Direction Régionale de l'Urbanisme des Travaux Publics et des Transports

DST          Direction des Services Techniques

DTS          Droits de Tirages Spéciaux

FG           Franc Guinéen




                                - 53 -

MUH         Ministère de l'Urbanisme et de l'Habitat

PAC         Programme d'Appui Municipal

PDU 3       3ème Projet de Développement Urbain

3ème PEA    3ème Projet Eau et Assainissement

SAF         Service Administratif et Financier

TDR         Termes de Référence

UP          Unité de Projet




                              - 54 -

I.        INTRODUCTION

Dans le cadre de sa coopération avec la Banque mondiale, la Guinée est à son troisième projet urbain. Le premier
projet urbain a été exécuté entre 1984 et 1991 et le second             entre 1990 et 1998. Le Troisième Projet de
Développement Urbain (PDU3), actuellement en cours, se distingue des deux précédents en ce qu'il est un
Prêt-Programme-Evolutif (PPE, ou APL en anglais) qui se subdivise en deux phases. Placé sous la tutelle du
Ministère de l'Urbanisme et de l'Habitat, la mise en oeuvre du programme est de la responsabilité conjointe d'une
Unité de Projet (UP) et des Cellules opérationnelles logées dans les administrations (SPTD, CVS, CVP DNI).

Les activités du PDU3, phase 1, ont démarré suite à la mise en vigueur de l'Accord de Crédit intervenue le 30
novembre 1999, suivi du recrutement du personnel (octobre 1999 - mars 2000) et de l'Atelier de lancement du
projet qui s'est tenu à Conakry les 14 et 15 mars 2000. La revue à mi-parcours intervenue en janvier 2002 a
confirmé les objectifs du projet tels que initialement définis ainsi que les mécanismes de mise en oeuvre. Elle a
permis la mise à jour des plans d'action, compte tenu des contraintes de terrain et d'un taux de décaissement faible
(moins de 25%), et proposé l'extension de la durée du projet assortie d'une réallocation des fonds. Pour des raisons
multiples qui seront précisées plus loin, la phase 1 a bénéficié au total de deux extensions de la durée de son crédit
reportant la date de clôture du 31 décembre 2002 d'abord au 30 juin 2004 et ensuite au 30 juin 2005.

La phase 1 du programme vient de s'achever avec la réalisation de la totalité des activités qui étaient inscrites au
plan d'action. Ces activités, telles qu'elles ressortent de l'Accord de Crédit et du Rapport d'évaluation du projet ont
concerné la réalisation d'études et de travaux, l'acquisition de fournitures et la mise en oeuvre de programmes de
formation ciblés.

Le présent rapport fait le point de l'exécution du projet et de l'atteinte des objectifs, passe en revue les
performances des parties prenantes, évalue les impacts et évoque les principales leçons apprises.

Outre les nombreux entretiens avec les principaux acteurs et les témoignages des bénéficiaires et des parties
prenantes, ce rapport se fonde sur les documents suivants : l'Accord de crédit, le Rapport d'évaluation du projet,
les Rapports périodiques, les rapports spécifiques (dimension environnementale, évaluation de composantes,
évaluation d'activités, etc.) , les aide-mémoire, la revue à mi-parcours, les rapports d'audit des comptes du projet.

II.       OBJECTIFS ET COMPOSANTES DU PROJET

Rappel de la description du projet dans le rapport d'évaluation
Les principaux objectifs du projet tels que définis dans le Rapport d'évaluation sont (i) la fourniture de services
prioritaires de base pour améliorer les conditions de vie des populations urbaines, (ii) la création d'un
environnement propice à une programmation, à un financement et à une gestion durable des investissements et des
services prioritaires dans les grands centres urbains du pays, et (iii) le renforcement des capacités des municipalités
en appuyant des services municipaux spécifiques et en introduisant de nouvelles méthodes propres à améliorer la
sélection et la fourniture des infrastructures et des services de base au profit du plus grand nombre.

En vue de permettre la réalisation de ces objectifs, le programme a porté au cours de la phase 1 sur trois
composantes: (i) Infrastructures et services prioritaires de Conakry; (ii) appui aux villes de l'intérieur; et (iii)
renforcement institutionnel. La description détaillée de ces composantes se présente comme suit:


Composante 1 :              Infrastructures et services prioritaires de Conakry :


         Sous composante 1 :Déchets Solides
                  Cette sous composante devait appuyer le programme de privatisation de la collecte des ordures
                  ménagères (PME), le raffermissement de la mission de transfert et de mise en décharge des
                  déchets par le SPTD et les réformes d'accompagnement. Les actions programmées étaient les
                  suivantes :



                                                          - 55 -

  Travaux : aménagement de 30 points de regroupement et de leurs voies d'accès, construction
  d'un poste de compostage, réhabilitation des locaux du SPTD
  Etudes :appui à la gestion des contrats des PME, étude de confirmation de site et EIE de
  Kagbelen, étude post-fermeture de la Minière, Consultation des riverains, étude de
  l'aménagement de la décharge de Kagbelen , étude du suivi environnemental de la décharge de la
  Minière, étude de la filière de compostage, supervision compost et points de regroupement (PR)
  Formation/Appui : Appui à la gestion des contrats des PME, mise en place d'un Fonds de
  garantie, Formation du SPTD et des PME
  Equipements : Acquisition de 15 conteneurs de 24 m3, acquisition de 3 camions lève conteneur et
  1 camion de suivi, acquisition de 4 véhicules de liaison (SPTD et DCP), acquisition d'1 Buldozer
  330 CV et d'1 compacteur, acquisition d'équipements informatiques

Sous composante 2 : Désenclavement des quartiers
  Les activités de cette sous composante portaient essentiellement sur des programmes de travaux
  basés sur une approche participative impliquant les collectivités locales de Conakry (la Ville et les
  5 communes). Chaque programme comporte deux volets : le programme de réhabilitation et
  d'ouverture prioritaire (PROP) financé par le crédit IDA à 90% et le budget national de
  développement de l'Etat à 10% concerne des travaux d'investissement pour accroître et améliorer
  le patrimoine routier des collectivités, la finalité étant l'amélioration de l'accessibilité aux
  services de base; le programme léger d'initiative communale (PLIC) financé par la ville (75%) et
  la commune (25%) assure l'entretien régulier des voiries réalisées dans le cadre du PROP. Il était
  prévu la réalisation en parallèle d'un PLIC et d'un PROP par an dans chaque commune, soit un
  total de 15 PLIC et 15 PROP.

  La mise en oeuvre des programmes devait être assurée par la Cellule de voirie secondaire (CVS)
  qui relève de la Direction des services techniques de la ville de Conakry.

Sous composante 3 : Voirie primaire
  Les voiries visées sont la Voie Express et la Transversale n° 7, pour désengorger la sortie de
  Conakry et faciliter le transfert des déchets à la future décharge de Kagbelen au km 36. La phase
  1 avait pour but de préparer les études techniques détaillées et DAO, et de réaliser des travaux
  préparatoires permettant notamment de préserver et de préparer les emprises des voies.
  L'exécution des travaux à proprement parlé était programmée en phase 2.
  La mise en oeuvre de la sous composante était sous la responsabilité de la Cellule de voirie
  primaire au sein de la DATU.




                                         - 56 -

Composante 2 : Appui aux villes de l'intérieur


             La composante «Appui aux villes de l'intérieur» avait pour objectif principal d'accompagner le
             processus de décentralisation en cours en aidant les maires à mieux programmer les besoins de
             leurs communes et en préparant un Contrat de Ville. Ce dernier comporte un Programme
             d'investissement Prioritaire (PIP) et un Programme d'Appui Communal (PAC). Les audits
             urbain, organisationnel et financier étaient prévues sur les dix villes de l'intérieur suivantes:
             Boké, Kindia, Mamou, Labé, Faranah, Kissidougou, Macenta, N'Zérékoré, Kankan et Siguiri.
             Les activités de la phase 1 devaient permettre au moins l'audit urbain, organisationnel et
             financier de 8 communes, la signature d'un Contrat de Ville avec 6 communes, et la réalisation
             des travaux prioritaires contenus dans les contrats de ville signés.


Composante 3 : Renforcement institutionnel


         Sous composante 1 : Appui au financement des services prioritaires
             La sous composante a comporté deux volets : i) l'amélioration de la chaîne fiscale (CFU, TPU,
             patente, mise à jour de l'adressage, panneautage des rues des cinq communes et action de
             sensibilisation) et ii) l'appui à l'amélioration de la gestion financière de la ville et des communes
             de Conakry à travers un audit institutionnel, financier et organisationnel de la ville et des
             communes ainsi que des études spécifiques et des programmes de formation.
             La mise en oeuvre de la composante devait se faire en étroite coordination avec la DNI.

         Sous composante 2 : Programme de sensibilisation des communautés
             Cette sous composante concerne la mise en oeuvre d'un programme d'information, d'éducation et
             de communication, notamment sur le système de gestion des déchets solides, le désenclavement
             des quartiers, l'appui au financement des services prioritaires. Les activités consistent en la
             diffusion de spots audios et TV, l'organisation de réunions d'explication et de sensibilisation, la
             préparation et diffusion de plaquettes, etc.

III. REALISATION DES OBJECTIFS

     Le projet a atteint ses objectifs opérationnels sur l'ensemble des composantes et les a quelque fois
     dépassés.


Composante I : Infrastructures et services prioritaires de Conakry


         Gestion des déchets solides
             Le système de gestion des déchets solides fonctionne à l'échelle de la ville. Avec un taux de
             pénétration moyen supérieur à 75%, 35 PME concessionnaires des 44 zones de collecte assurent
             le ramassage de plus de 85% des déchets mis en décharge, le reste étant collecté soit par le SPTD,
             soit par les communes soit par des institutions telles que les ambassades. Le taux de collecte et de
             mise en décharge des déchets a atteint 80% dès 2002, et l'a même quelquefois dépassé. Son
             instabilité tient aux difficultés rencontrées dans le financement du fonctionnement du SPTD et à
             la non mise en oeuvre du système de balayage tel que défini dans le cadre du projet. Plus de 3500
             emplois directs ont été créés dans le cadre du système. Ces données confirment que les
             indicateurs de performance sont largement atteints.

             Le projet a progressivement mis en place un système de suivi et de supervision des différentes
             activités du programme. Ce suivi a permis une collecte des données statistiques tant au niveau des
             PME que du SPTD et de la DCP. Ces données ont été régulièrement diffusées auprès des acteurs



                                                     - 57 -

                  et des différentes institutions concernées par la gestion des déchets solides et la propreté de la
                  ville. Une évaluation contradictoire menée en mai 2005 par un consultant indépendant a permis
                  de confirmer la fiabilité des statistiques collectées dans le cadre de la supervision et du contrôle
                  des activités de la filière.

                  Concernant le plan d'action, les activités initialement programmées ont été réalisées, ainsi que
                  celles qui ont été identifiées lors de la revue à mi-parcours ou des exercices de réallocation du
                  crédit. Les résultats sont les suivants :
                (i)    Travaux: (i) Sept activités ont été exécutées à 100% : Aménagement des locaux du SPTD ;
                       Construction du poste de compostage à la décharge de la minière, Sécurisation du site du
                       CET de Kagbèlen par l'implantation de bornes géantes et la construction d'un bâtiment
                       raccordé au réseau électrique de l'EDG ; Installation de 4 piézomètres à la décharge de la
                       minière ; Elimination des dépôts sauvages ; aménagement de 28 points de regroupements sur
                       30 prévus, Exécution d'un forage équipé d'une pompe électrique avec un château d'eau et
                       aménagement des voies d'accès aux points de regroupement.

                (ii)   Etudes: Les six études prévues ont été terminées : Schéma d'exploitation de la Minière,
                       Filière de compostage ; Consultation des riverains de Kagbélen ; Etude de confirmation,
                       d'impact environnemental et technique détaillée de Kagbélen ; Suivi environnemental et de
                       post-fermeture de la Minière et Etude de vérification des données statistiques des PME de
                       collecte et du SPTD.

                (iii)    Equipements: Toutes les fournitures prévues ont été livrées à 100% et les réceptions sont
                       prononcées : 40 bacs à ordures de 24 M3 ; 3 camions de transfert et 1 de suivi ; 1 bulldozer,
                       1 compacteur ; 4

                        véhicules de liaison , un lot d'équipement informatique et du matériel de communication
(Talkie walkie), raccordement du bâtiment du site de Kagbélén au système de réseau électrique.
                       En outre, le fonds de garantie (310 millions FG) a été mis en place et a fonctionné
                       correctement. Il a permis l'octrois de crédit à 21 PME pour un montant total de 212 million
                       FG. 7 de ces PME n'ont pas terminé le remboursement pour un montant de 24, 7 millions
                       FG. Le dépôt actuel s'élève à 311,8 millions FG, le placement ayant rapporté 81,8 millions
                       FG.

             Désenclavement des quartiers défavorisés
                       Les trois tranches de programmes de travaux PLIC et PROP prévues ont été effectivement
                       réalisées. 27 PME locales et 2 grandes entreprises sont intervenues pour l'exécution des
                       travaux. Elles correspondent à 15 PLIC et à 19 PROP qui ont couvert un linéaire total de 210
                       km et coûté respectivement 463 601 820 FG et 14 970 714 538 FG, soit un montant global
                       de 15 434 316 358 FG. Il faut noter que le PROP 3 a fait l'objet d'un lot unique dont le
                       marché a été passé en AOI, après une procédure d'AON infructueuse.
                       Tirant les leçons de la mise en oeuvre au fur et à mesure, le projet a adapté le contenu des
                       programmes aux réalités de terrain pour mieux assurer la durabilité des travaux et répondre
                       aux besoins exprimés par les bénéficiaires. Ces adaptations ont ainsi conduit à privilégier le
                       drainage des eaux, à accroître la consistance des travaux des PROP, à intégrer des voiries de
                       dégagement et à bitumer autant que possible les voies sur lesquelles le trafic était élevé.
                       Le suivi de plus en plus rapproché des entreprises a permis d'améliorer les taux de réalisation
                       des travaux et d'éviter d'aller systématiquement à la résiliation des contrats.
                       Le programme a souffert toutefois d'un manque de coordination avec le 3ème Projet Eau et
                       Assainissement dont l'intervention sur le réseau d'égout de Kaloum à réduit l'impact des
                       travaux du PROP réalisés dans cette commune, en occasionnant une dégradation prématurée
                       des voies.




                                                          - 58 -

      Voirie primaire
              Les activités prévues au titre de cette sous composante ont été entièrement réalisées. IL s'agit
              des études économiques et techniques et du DAO de la réalisation de la voie express en 2x2
              voies et de la T7 en 1x2 voies, de l'exécution des travaux dits préparatoires sur la voie
              express (bornage des emprises pour les préserver de manière durable, déplacement de
              réseaux, construction d'ouvrages de traversée de la voie ferrée, terrassements partiels) et de
              l'organisation du suivi et du contrôle de la réalisation des travaux. L'ensemble de ces
              activités ont été assurées par la CVP appuyée par un Bureau d'ingénieurs conseils pour les
              études et un consultant indépendant pour les travaux. Outre ses missions principales d'appui
              à la CVP pour le contrôle des travaux et de perfectionnement de l'équipe, ce spécialiste a été
              chargé également du contrôle de travaux de voiries dans les villes de l'intérieur.

              Sur la base du dossier d'exécution disponible, le Ministère des TP a pu réaliser le premier lot
              de travaux de la voie Express (section carrefour T4- carrefour T7) de même que la section
              nord de la T7 à partir d'autres sources de financements (Fonds Kowétien et BND). Cette
              flexibilité dans la gestion du dossier a permis d'entamer une réalisation progressive des
              investissements.


Composante 2 : Appui aux villes de l'intérieur


         Cette composante a entièrement couvert son plan d'action et dépassé les indicateurs qui lui
         étaient prescrits. Les audits urbains organisationnels et financiers des 10 villes inscrites au
         programme sont terminés et approuvés par l'IDA. Ces audits urbains organisationnels financiers
         ont été précédés d'une campagne de prises de vues aériennes qui a permis d'obtenir les croquis
         urbains des villes de l'intérieur concernées.
         Sept communes ont signé et exécuté leurs Contrats de ville : Kindia (27 avril 2002),
         Labé (25 avril 2002), Nzérékoré (29 novembre 2002), Kankan (février 2003), Mamou (18
         décembre 2003), Faranah et Kissidougou (18 novembre 2004). Les projets de contrats de ville de
         Boké, Siguiri et Macenta sont élaborés.

         Les travaux exécutés au titre des PIP des contrats de ville signés sont :
                   §        14 écoles pour un total de 47 salles de classes permettant une scolarisation
         additionnelle d'au moins 2500 enfants par an.
                   §        5 centres de santé pour assurer les soins de santé primaires (santé maternelle et
         infantile, programmes de vaccination élargie...) dans des quartiers défavorisés.
                   §        5,2 km de voies de désenclavement et 6320 ml de caniveaux pour le drainage
                            des eaux pluviales dans les villes de Kindia, Kankan et Labé, un canal de 600
                            ml pour lutter contre les inondations à Kankan, deux ouvrages de
                            franchissement pour relier les quartiers Sud et Nord de Nzérékoré ;
                   §        5 marchés pour 3500 m2 de surfaces de ventes sous halles, 15 kiosques et des
         plateformes capables d'accueillir une soixantaine de boutiques ;
                   §        4 mairies pour les villes de Kindia, Mamou, Faranah et Nzérékoré.

         Il faut noter que 28 des équipements construits sont des travaux neufs et 6 sont des rénovations ou
         extensions. Le coût global des réalisations est de 7 620 798 900 FG.

         Au titre des PAC et des mesures d'accompagnement contenus dans les contrats de ville, le bilan
         intègre l'informatisation de l'administration communale (fourniture d'ordinateurs à la totalité des
         communes du programme et formation du personnel administratif ciblé et de conseillers
         communaux à l'outils informatique : windows et logiciels de base word, excell, Access, ...) et la
         prise d'initiatives pour l'amélioration de l'organisation des services et des ressources des
         communes.




                                                - 59 -

Composante 3 : Renforcement institutionnel


      Appui à l'amélioration du financement des services prioritaires
         Quatre actions principales ont été réalisées au titre de la sous composante :

         (1) l'« enquête à but fiscal » sur l'agglomération de la ville de Conakry, exécutée en 2003/2004,

         a permis d'évaluer le potentiel de la fiscalité locale à Conakry (émission et recouvrement) et de
         réaliser une enquête pilote sur une commune de la Ville (Dixinn),

         (2) l'audit organisationnel et financier de la Ville et des cinq Communes, réalisée en 2001, a
         permis de faire le point sur les difficultés et les axes de reforme qui pourraient être retenus pour
         rendre plus performante la prise en charge par les collectivités des missions qui leur sont
         confiées,

         (3) la mise à jour de l'adressage de Conakry a été réalisée ainsi que le panneautage des rues des
         Communes de Kaloum, Dixinn, Matam

         (4) un appui informatique a été apporté à la Direction Nationale des Impôts (DNI), par la
         fourniture d'équipements informatiques en faveur des services en charge de la CFU, de la patente,
         et de la TPU.

         D'autres initiatives ont été réalisées     par l'UP dans le cadre de cette composante et sont
         présentées ci après :

                   a.       signature d'un protocole d'accord avec la DNI (15 mars 2000). Ce protocole
                   annuel dont la reconduction est tacite a permis de créer une bonne collaboration avec la
                   DNI dans la mise en oeuvre du PDU3 ;
                   b.       création d'un comité de suivi pour « l'Amélioration de la chaîne fiscale ». Ce
                   comité, mis en place en 2001 par le MEF (Arrêté A/2001/N°001264/MEF/CAB/SGG du
                   4 avril 2001), a joué un rôle actif dans la diffusion des informations sur les performances
                   du système actuel de la fiscalité locale (volume des rétrocessions, impact de la révision
                   des clés de répartition des impôts locaux, etc...) ;
                   c.       suivi et mise à jour des finances de la ville et des communes de Conakry. Cela a
                   consisté à recueillir auprès des collectivités locales les états financiers d'exécutions
                   budgétaires et de les comparer par année. Des rapports ont été produits en 2001, 2002 et
                   2003.

      Programme de sensibilisation des communautés
         Depuis le démarrage du projet, des activités de sensibilisation autour d'objectifs ciblés ont été
         menées par le biais de spots télévisés (Tantie Fèntènyi), de meetings d'information et de
         sensibilisation dans les quartiers de Conakry (voirie secondaire, déchets solides et mobilisation
         fiscale) et lors des nombreuses rencontres avec les autorités locales et certains leaders d'opinions
         tant à Conakry qu'à l'intérieur du pays. Des reportages et des émissions ont été réalisés dans les
         médias publics et privés (presse écrite, et audio-visuelle).

         Le projet a réalisé également des activités d'information avec le séminaire atelier de Mamou
         (mars 2000) et les tournées de prise de contact et d'information des autorités communales (élus et
         services techniques) des villes concernées par le projet en août et décembre 2000 ainsi qu'au
         cours des études d'audits urbain organisationnel et financier (2001-2003).

         Un programme stratégique de sensibilisation et de communication a été élaboré pour soutenir et
         vulgariser les activités du projet, en particulier dans les domaines de la gestion des déchets
         solides, du désenclavement des quartiers défavorisés et de la mobilisation des finances locales. Sa
         mise en oeuvre s'est poursuivie jusqu'à la fin de la phase. Ce programme a permis de toucher un
         très large public, conformément aux objectifs du projet.



                                                - 60 -

          Activités transversales : Appui et formation
              Contrairement aux projets antérieurs, le personnel du PDU3 ne compte pas d'assistants
              techniques, il est entièrement local. Le choix qui a prévalu a été de s'attacher les services de
              missions d'appui dont l'intervention, ponctuelle et à la demande, se concentrerait sur des
              questions spécifiques particulièrement pointues. Ce choix stratégique met en exergue un des
              objectifs du programme qui est de favoriser la promotion d'une expertise nationale de plus en
              plus qualifiée dans le secteur du développement urbain et la création d'emplois.
              Dans ce contexte, des missions d'appui ont été recrutées en faveur de la cellule de Voirie Primaire
              (SETEC International), de la Cellule de Voirie Secondaire (Vincent FOLLEA), de la Cellule de
              Programmation Urbaine et de la mobilisation des ressources locales (GROUPE HUIT). Un
              consultant international (Georges BAN) a été également recruté comme mission d'appui pour le
              suivi et le contrôle des travaux de voiries par la CVP et la CPU. Des consultants nationaux ont été
              également recrutés pour assurer le suivi et le contrôle de travaux à Conakry, ou pour être placés
              au sein des services techniques des communes de l'intérieur pour le suivi et le contrôle des
              travaux des PIP exécutés dans le cadre des contrats de ville signés.
              Pour les mêmes raisons, l'essentiel des études et des travaux ont été exécutés par des bureaux et
              des entreprises guinéennes. Cela a représenté un stimulant important pour ces institutions et pour
              le secteur urbain.
              Diverses formations ont été mises en oeuvre, en faveur des collectivités locales, des PME, des
              cellules opérationnelles, de l'Unité de Projet et des services de l'administration centrale. Ces
              formations ont touché plus d'une centaine de personnes et ont couvert les domaines de la gestion
              des ordures ménagères, du compostage, des études d'impact environnemental, de la gestion des
              services urbains, de la planification et programmation urbaines, des procédures de passation des
              marchés, de la programmation informatisée des équipements urbains, de la conception de Bases
              de données et de l'apprentissage de logiciels courants (bureautiques) et de logiciels spécialisés
              (AUTOCAD, PISTE, MS PTOJECT). Les maires de Labé, Kindia, N'Zérékoré, Mamou et
              Dixinn (Conakry) et des responsables de l'administration centrale et décentralisée ont également
              participé à des ateliers internationaux à l'initiative du projet. Les coûts totaux des formations et
              des participations aux séminaires et ateliers se chiffrent à 529 752 USD.

IV.  FINANCEMENT ET GESTION DES FONDS DU PROJET

     Le coût estimatif de la phase 1 du PDU3 défini dans son Rapport d'évaluation est de 19,5 millions de
     dollars US. Ce coût devait être financé respectivement par la Banque mondiale (18 millions de dollars US
     correspondant aux 12 900 000 DTS inscrits dans l'Accord de crédit IDA 3196 ), et par des contributions
     locales dont le Gouvernement guinéen (953 000 USD à partir du Budget National de Développement,
     BND), la ville de Conakry (340 000 USD), les cinq communes de Conakry (112 000 USD) et les villes de
     l'intérieur (120 000 USD).


Décaissement du crédit IDA 3196 GUI

              Après avoir été relativement faible au cours des deux premières années du projet, le taux de
              décaissement s'est amélioré par la suite avec la réalisation des travaux de génie civil à Conakry et
              à l'intérieur du pays. Ce taux a été tributaire de la faible taille des marchés, de leur multiplicité et
              des lenteurs d'exécution. Pour ces raisons, mais également pour réaliser des activités
              supplémentaires identifiées dans le cours du projet afin d'absorber le montant non affecté du
              crédit notamment, et en tenant compte d'un contexte de difficultés conjoncturelles liées à
              l'environnement, le projet a bénéficié de reports de la date de clôture, assortis de la réallocation
              des fonds. Ainsi, le taux de décaissement qui n'était que de 22% à la revue à mi-parcours est
              passé à environ 99 % à la clôture du crédit. Il faut noter que le compte spécial a régulièrement
              fonctionné, sans aucun rappel à l'ordre du service des décaissements, et que par ailleurs la gestion
              du crédit a totalisé 106 DRF régulièrement payées.




                                                     - 61 -

Paiement des fonds de contrepartie

-     Etat/BND
               1)        Opérations du projet : l'Etat a payé un montant total de 2 222 970 000 FG
               correspondant à 1 049 837 USD soit 110 % de la prévision du Rapport d'évaluation. Cette
               performance traduit clairement l'intérêt et le soutien manifestés par l'Etat en faveur de la
               réalisation des objectifs du projet. Cependant, les investissements liés aux contrats de ville et la
               réallocation du crédit qui a conduit notamment à la programmation de la ligne `non affecté'' ont
               accru le montant final des contreparties dues par l'Etat qui accuse à la fin du projet un total
               d'arriérés de paiement de fonds de contrepartie de 900 millions FG (environ 210 000 USD). Des
               dispositions sont en cours pour l'apurement de ce montant.
               2)        Dotations aux amortissements du matériel du SPTD : le montant cumulé des paiements
               effectués par l'Etat s'élève à 678 325 000 FG (environ 281 597 USD) soit 113 065 000 FG par an
               pendant 6 ans. La prévision était sur 3 ans.
               3)        Sur initiative propre, l'Etat a accordé régulièrement des subventions au budget de
               fonctionnement du SPTD. Elles s'élèvent à 2 416 531 109 FG correspondant à environ 1 202
               944 USD.

-     Ville de Conakry : ses obligations en matière de contrepartie se subdivisent en deux et se présentent
comme suit :
             1) Financement du fonctionnement du SPTD pour un montant annuel de 800 millions FG sur la
             durée du projet. La ville a payé un montant total de 2 803 968 698 FG sur une prévision de 4,8
             milliards FG soit 58,4 %. Les paiements correspondent à environ 1 271 276 USD.
             2) Financement de 75% du coût des travaux PLIC correspondant au total à 450 millions FG pour
             la phase 1. Le montant de la contribution acquittée sur la période s'élève à 142 millions FG soit un
             taux de 31,5 %.

             Des mesures sont envisagées, en concertation avec le Gouvernement, pour éponger ces arriérés de
             paiement de la ville.

-     Communes de Conakry : le schéma de balayage envisagé dans le cadre du projet ayant été relayé par une
      intervention en régie directe des communes, les montants des contreparties de balayage ne sont pas
      comptabilisés au titre du projet. Pour ce qui est du financement du programme PLIC, les communes de
      Conakry se sont acquittées de l'intégralité de leurs contreparties qui s'élèvent à 150 millions FG soit 30
      millions par commune.

-     Communes de l'intérieur : les contreparties au titre des investissements réalisés dans le cadre des 7
      contrats de ville se sont élevées à 355,6 millions FG. 329 millions FG correspondant à 92,5% des
      contreparties ont été payés.

Audits financiers du projet:

               Les obligations en matière d'audit ont été respectées durant l'exécution du projet: les comptes de
               l'UP et des cellules opérationnelles (SPTD et CVS) ont été audités pour chaque exercice fiscal par
               un cabinet indépendant recruté à cet effet. Les rapports des audits ont été régulièrement fournis à
               la Banque dans les délais impartis, c'est à dire avant le 30 juin de l'année suivant la fin de
               l'exercice audité. La portée et le degré de détail de ces rapports ont été constamment améliorés
               conformément aux principes de la profession et aux recommandations de la Banque.

               Durant l'exécution du projet, aucune anomalie susceptible d'affecter la sincérité et/ou la
               régularité de la gestion des fonds mis à disposition, n'a été enregistrée au cours de ces audits
               annuels. Les recommandations formulées ont porté en général sur des éléments de contrôle
               interne (passation des écritures comptables, imputation de certaines charges, etc.) et ont toujours
               donné lieu à l'établissement par le projet de plans d'actions de mise en oeuvre dont le suivi a été
               assuré de manière satisfaite par l'UP, le spécialiste en gestion financière de l'IDA ainsi que les



                                                       - 62 -

             missions de supervision et les missions ponctuelles de revues spécifiques organisées par le
             bailleur de fonds.


Passation des marchés:

             Le plan de passation des marchés préparé au démarrage du projet a été régulièrement mis à jour
             et entièrement exécuté avant la date de clôture du crédit. Ce plan a concerné 144 contrats dont 58
             pour les travaux, 24 pour les fournitures et 62 pour les services de consultants. Tous ces marchés
             ont été passés conformément aux dispositions de l'annexe 3 de l'accord de crédit, explicitées dans
             le manuel d'exécution du projet.

             Les amendements de l'accord de crédit, ont permis surtout d'accroître le montant alloué à la
             catégorie 1 ``travaux'', et d'assurer ainsi le financement davantage de travaux dans la ville de
             Conakry et les communes de l'intérieur du pays.

             Durant l'exécution du projet, les compétences en matière de passation des marchés des membres
             de l'équipe du projet et des agents des administrations concernées, ont été sensiblement
             améliorées grâce aux différentes formations dispensées par les spécialistes en passation des
             marchés de l'IDA ou dans des centres spécialisés. Afin de mieux qualifier les résultats des
             travaux des commissions d'évaluation des offres, il serait souhaitable d'élargir le bénéfice de ces
             formations à d'avantages de cadres des administrations impliquées dans les activités du projet.

V.  FACTEURS MAJEURS AYANT AFFECTE LE DEROULEMENT DU PROJET

    Deux facteurs majeurs ont influencé le projet.
    1. L'environnement national et international: La mise en oeuvre du projet a été forcément tributaire de son
    environnement :
    -        Une certaine instabilité des interlocuteurs au niveau communal. En effet, les élections
    municipales intervenues au second semestre de l'année 2000, c'est à dire après le lancement du projet,
    ont amené de nouvelles personnalités à la tête des communes. Les conseils communaux étant les
    interlocuteurs de premier plan du projet, plusieurs activités n'ont pu être entreprises qu'au début de
    l'année 2001. Pour le cas particulier de Conakry, il faut ajouter la suspension des cinq maires et leur
    remplacement à la tête des communes au cours du second semestre 2004 ;
    -        Victime d'une rébellion armée à partir de septembre 2000, la priorité pour le pays a été de faire
    face à cette situation de guerre. L'insécurité tant à Conakry qu'à l'intérieur du pays ont gêné ou retardé le
    déploiement des activités sur le terrain pendant plusieurs mois;
    -        La dégradation du cadre macro-économique du pays (situation inflationniste, forte variation de
    l'indice des prix à la consommation, baisse des activités économiques), particulièrement à partir de 2003,
    combinée avec un contexte international difficile (renchérissement des prix des produits pétroliers et des
    matériaux de construction, etc.) ont fortement gêné les activités du projet. Il faut rappeler en effet que les
    fournisseurs de services dans le cadre du projet sont pour l'essentiel des entreprises locales.
    -        L'essentiel du tissu urbain de nos villes est caractérisé par des occupations spontanées. Cette
    situation rend difficile toute intervention sur la voirie dont les emprises sont insuffisantes ou occupées
    ainsi que l'obtention de sites pour de nouvelles constructions.

    2. La passation et la gestion des marchés : dans ce domaine, le déroulement du projet a été affecté par les
    éléments suivants :
    -        le nombre élevé de petits contrats à passer (liés à la nature des actions à réaliser) a généré, au
    niveau des commissions de passation des marchés, un volume de travail important qui s'est traduit
    parfois par des délais d'examen des offres et d'adjudication des marchés relativement longs (jusqu'à trois
    mois) ;
    -        Il s'est avéré que la majorité des entreprises, bien que présentant des références acceptables,
    avaient des faiblesses techniques et financières et dans la gestion des contrats. Ces entreprises manquaient
    également d'expérience dans la conduite de travaux urbains. Les retards sur les délais et un taux



                                                    - 63 -

         d'inflation élevé, ont fortement gêné le décaissement du crédit.
         -         la signature des marchés résultant d'appels d'offres internationaux a connu des retards, allant
         jusqu'à 6 mois.

VI.      ANALYSE DES PERFORMANCES

         Le Chapitre des réalisations a clairement démontré que le projet a satisfait, et quelquefois dépassé les
         indicateurs de performance qui lui étaient assignés. Par ailleurs, les indicateurs de passage à la phase 2 ont
         été également satisfaits. Le présent chapitre rend compte des performances des parties prenantes.

Performance de l'emprunteur

1.       Le projet a bénéficié de l'appui de l'ensemble du Gouvernement. Sous la houlette du Ministère de
l'Urbanisme et de l'Habitat, tutelle du projet, les Ministères chargés des Finances, de la décentralisation, du Plan et
des Travaux publics, ainsi que l'ACGP se sont fortement impliqués, à travers leurs services concernés, dans la
mise en oeuvre des activités. Le MUH a régulièrement informé le gouvernement de la situation du projet, en vue
d'une recherche coordonnée de solutions aux difficultés rencontrées. Le gouvernement a consenti des efforts
importants en matière de mobilisation des fonds de contrepartie aussi bien pour faire face à ses propres obligations,
que pour venir au secours des collectivités de Conakry et même en subventionnant directement et significativement
le SPTD qui occupe une position stratégique dans le système de gestion des déchets solides de la ville de Conakry.
Les arriérés résiduels actuellement en cours de paiement, concernent uniquement l'exercice 2005, et ne
s'expliquent que par une conjoncture financière difficile résultant de la dégradation du cadre macro-économique du
pays. Par ailleurs, il apparaît que le Ministère de tutelle a toujours engagé à temps les initiatives nécessaires pour
négocier avec le bailleur de fonds les extensions de la durée du crédit et les réallocations nécessaires. Egalement,
dès janvier 2001, l'emprunteur, à travers le Ministère des Finances a concédé des ressources importantes aux
collectivités locales, en procédant en leur faveur à la révision des clés de répartition des impôts partagés. Enfin,
une bonne coordination entre le Ministère de l'Urbanisme et le Ministère des TP a permis à ce dernier d'utiliser le
dossier d'exécution préparé dans le cadre du PDU3 pour faire exécuter les travaux de la voie express entre la T4 et
la T7 et de la T7 nord, à partir d'autres sources de financement.

2.       La ville et les communes de Conakry sont , à travers leurs services techniques respectifs ou cellules
opérationnelles (SPTD, CVS), les responsables de la mise en oeuvre des activités liées aux services prioritaires:
gestion des déchets et désenclavement des quartiers défavorisés. Au terme de la phase 1, l'évaluation montre que
les objectifs globaux ont étés atteints malgré les aléas liés au déficit de financement des contreparties, notamment
celles du ressort de la ville de Conakry. Cela tient essentiellement à la qualité des montages institutionnels, et à
leur acceptation par les différents acteurs. En effet, en matière de gestion des déchets solides, le système mis en
place est crédible, ce qui lui permet d'assurer de bons résultats, nonobstant les dysfonctionnements dus aux
difficultés de financement du SPTD. Pour ce qui est du programme de désenclavement des quartiers, il vient
combler un vide, et bénéficie en conséquence d'un soutien très fort des responsables et de la population qui
multiplient les requêtes pour une intervention du projet dans leurs quartiers respectifs

              Dans la perspective de pouvoir assurer la pérennité des services prioritaires, les obligations de
              financement à la charge des collectivités locales de Conakry, les obligations de résultats du SPTD et
              de la CVS et le rôle du projet sont formalisés dans un « Protocole d'accord », dûment signé au début
              de chaque année et engageant les parties prenantes. Au regard des résultats, il faut admettre que les
              protocoles d'accord n'ont pas eu la force nécessaire pour servir de levier approprié de mobilisation des
              financements des collectivités concernées. S'y ajoute que les maires ont changé trois fois entre le
              démarrage et la clôture de la phase 1, ce qui n'était pas de nature à favoriser la mise en oeuvre du
              projet basée sur une approche participative.

3.       Les villes de l'intérieur ont manifesté un vif intérêt pour le projet et son approche participative de mise en
oeuvre. Si les délais des études conduisant au contrat de ville et d'adjudication des travaux leur ont semblé parfois
longs, toutes ont adhéré aux principes des contrats de ville et se sont acquittées de manière satisfaisante de leurs
contreparties aux PIP. Les réalisations du projet dans les communes concernées constituent les investissements les



                                                         - 64 -

plus significatifs de ces villes que les maires intègrent tout naturellement dans le bilan de leurs mandatures.
Cependant, il sera nécessaire de mettre à l'avenir davantage l'accent sur la mise en oeuvre des PAM, qui
représentent la clé de la continuité des efforts de développement des communes. Au vu des résultats positifs des
contrats de villes, de nombreuses communes ont exprimé auprès du gouvernement et même de l'assemblée
nationale le souhait d'intégrer le programme.

4.       L'Unité de Projet et les cellules opérationnelles ont conjointement assuré la mise en oeuvre du projet. Cette
mise en oeuvre à bénéficié de la claire définition des rôles et des responsabilités des différents acteurs, ainsi que de
l'expérience avérée de leurs personnels respectifs. Le projet a également bénéficié de la pertinence des différents
outils mis en place : Manuel d'exécution du Projet, Manuels des procédures de gestion administrative, financière et
comptable de l'UP et du SPTD, logiciels de gestion financière et comptable de l'UP et du SPTD, Canevas pour la
conduite des audits urbains, organisationnels et financiers, etc. La définition spécifique des missions d'appui a
permis au personnel national d'améliorer substantiellement son expertise, en approfondissant par la pratique ses
connaissances techniques et professionnelles.
             Un comité consultatif a été mis en place pour appuyer la mise en oeuvre des activités, et aider à la
             recherche de solutions aux problèmes éventuels que rencontrerait le projet. Ce Comité consultatif,
             composé des représentants des institutions concernées par le projet, a tenu deux sessions annuelles,
             respectivement en 2001 et 2002. Il n'a plus siégé par la suite, compte tenue du manque de résultat
             dans la mise en oeuvre des recommandations issues de ses sessions.

             L'équipe du projet a bénéficié du soutien régulier du gouvernement et des autorités régionales et
             locales. Le Ministère de tutelle a dans ce cadre joué un rôle essentiel d'orientation, d'appui et de
             relais, ce qui a permis à l'UP de remplir correctement sa mission d'interface, ainsi que de préparer et
             de soumettre normalement les dossiers requis pour l'exécution correcte de la phase 1, dans le respect
             des procédures du projet et des dispositions de l'Accord de crédit.


Performance de la Banque

             La performance de la Banque est jugée très satisfaisante. Elle s'est fortement impliquée en appuyant
             pratiquement l'équipe de projet dans le suivi des activités à travers (a) les missions de supervision
             (une dizaine), des missions spécifiques de suivi des procédures financières, de décaissement et de
             passation des marchés (3), des missions de revue du suivi des procédures (2), une mission spécifique
             de revue des outils d'évaluation de l'impact environnemental utilisés dans le cadre du projet et de
             nombreuses missions de suivi des chantiers à Conakry et à l'intérieur du pays et (b) l'utilisation
             intensive des moyens modernes de communication (vidéoconférences, messages électroniques et
             téléphones). Elle a organisé des ateliers et des séminaires à l'intention de l'équipe de projet sur des
             questions spécifiques favorisant l'avancement des activités (passation des marchés, gestion financière
             et décaissement). La mission résidente également a été très active, et son suivi rapproché a facilité
             l'obtention d'informations pertinentes et la recherche de solutions opérationnelles quelques fois dans
             des situations d'urgence. L'équipe de la Banque a dans son ensemble manifesté une grande
             disponibilité et s'est montrée à l'écoute de toutes les parties prenantes au niveau de l'emprunteur.




                                                        - 65 -

VII. IMPACTS DU PROJET

Impact sur les conditions de vie des populations

        Le projet a permis la création d'emplois et de revenus au profit des ménages. A Conakry, on peut
        rappeler que le système de gestion des ordures ménagères a créé plus de 3500 emplois directs et
        génère annuellement un chiffre d'affaire de plus de 3,5 milliards FG sur le maillon de la collecte. Par
        ailleurs, le programme de désenclavement des quartiers a eu un impact sur l'ensemble de la ville de
        Conakry, puisqu'il a touché ses cinq communes. Il a rendu accessible des secteurs qui n'avaient
        aucune voirie aménagée, et a suscité l'éclosion de petites activités économiques le long des voies
        traitées et la mise en service de nouvelles lignes de transport collectif. Le programme a également
        contribué à l'amélioration du cadre de vie des populations de Conakry, en réalisant plus de 40 000 ml
        de fossés et de caniveaux et plus de 2500 ml de radier et de dalots qui assurent l'assainissement des
        quartiers. A l'occasion des travaux, les salaires payés au titre de la main d'oeuvre sont estimés à
        environ 4 milliards FG.

        Dans les villes de l'intérieur, l'impact du projet sur la qualité de vie des populations s'est traduit par
        l'amélioration de l'accès à la scolarisation (2500 élèves) et aux soins de santé primaires, la rénovation
        et la construction de nouveaux équipements marchands (près de 3 500 m2 de superficie) et la
        réalisation d'environ 5 km de voiries de quartiers. Les revenus distribués sont estimés à environ 2
        milliards FG.

        Globalement, la population urbaine qui aura bénéficié des actions du projet, de manière directe ou
        induite, s'élève à 2 330 000 habitants, soit 80,5% de la population urbaine totale et 29,5 % de la
        population du pays. On peut en déduire que le projet est bel et bien un instrument de lutte contre la
        pauvreté.


Impact sur les institutions

        Le projet a contribué au renforcement des capacités des administrations centrales et déconcentrées
        concernées par la formation et la pratique quotidienne et la fournitures de moyens de travail
        appropriés. Il a également permis de collecter une masse importante de données urbaines et d'avoir
        une meilleure connaissance des problèmes urbains et des approches techniques et participatives
        novatrices pour les résoudre.

        Le projet a contribué (i) au renforcement des capacités des communes pour programmer, financer et
        suivre les investissements, (ii) à l'accroissement du patrimoine des communes et de leurs ressources,
        et iii) à l'amélioration de la gestion des biens publics.

        Le projet a enfin permis de vulgariser la contractualisation du partenariat entre l'état et les
        collectivités locales, avec la préparation et la signature des Contrats de ville.


Impact sur le secteur privé

        Le secteur privé guinéen a largement bénéficié du projet. Celui-ci a en effet mis sur le marché un
        volume de travail important qui a contribué aux chiffres d'affaires de plus de 200 PME et entreprises
        individuelles dans les trois catégories des travaux, des fournitures et des études. Ces nombreuses
        activités ont substantiellement contribué à la promotion de l'expertise nationale. Les entreprises ont
        acquit une meilleure maîtrise des procédures de passation de marché par voie d'appel d'offres et de
        gestion des contrats.




                                                    - 66 -

VIII. CONCLUSION

        Cette revue de la réalisation de la phase 1 du PDU3 montre que les actions mise en oeuvre ont
        contribué aux objectifs assignés au programme. Cependant, il est clair que ces objectifs ne peuvent
        être pleinement atteints que sur la durée.

     Pérennisation des programmes et des investissements du projet
        Le PDU3 a apporté des outils et des procédures qui ont un caractère novateur en matière de
        programmation et de gestion urbaine.           Leur utilisation a permis de renforcer les capacités
        institutionnelles des différents intervenants, qu'ils soient du secteur public ou du secteur privé. La
        pérennité des acquis du Projet passe d'abord et avant tout par la poursuite des efforts engagés, en
        capitalisant sur l'expérience acquise.

        Le système de gestion des déchets solides a continué à fonctionner, en dépit des dysfonctionnements
        ponctuels dus aux difficultés rencontrées dans le financement régulier et correct du transfert et de la
        mise en décharge des ordures. Les PME de collecte et le SPTD sont aujourd'hui des institutions
        reconnues et acceptées tant par les autorités que par les populations. Le défi reste celui de
        l'amélioration de la qualité du service, qui est une problématique globale.

        Les communes et les populations de Conakry se sont entièrement appropriées le programme de
        désenclavement des quartiers défavorisés. En effet, les communes ont entièrement payé les fonds de
        contrepartie qui leur étaient imputés, et présentent les réalisations des PLIC et des PROP comme
        partie intégrante du bilan de leurs mandats. Quand aux populations, elles multiplient les requêtes
        pour la prise en charge de leurs quartiers respectifs.

        Il existe désormais une véritable appropriation des contrats de ville par les communes. Les contrats de
        ville signés et mis en oeuvre ont eu un grand retentissement : les réalisations dans le cadre du PIP font
        figure de références dans le pays, qu'il s'agisse des bâtiments abritant les sièges des mairies, des
        équipements marchands, des ouvrages d'art ou des équipements socio-collectifs. Les communes sont
        conscientes de la nécessité d'accorder à l'avenir une plus grande importance aux PAC qui conduisent
        plus au renforcement de leurs capacités. Ce renforcement concerne à la fois l'administration
        communale (relativement stable), le maire et les conseillers responsables des différentes commissions.
        La pérennisation des acquis gagnerait par le maintien d'une rigueur budgétaire et le renforcement des
        différents services technique, financier et administratif.

        Les conditions financières des collectivités locales se sont énormément améliorées à Conakry et dans
        les villes de l'intérieur. Pour intégrer cette opportunité dans la dynamique du projet, il conviendrait
        d'étendre l'approche des contrats de ville aux collectivités de Conakry.

     Leçons pour la phase 2.
        La phase 2 pourrait capitaliser sur les leçons suivantes:
        1. Les conditions de mise en oeuvre de la phase1 du PDU3 ont confirmé que le volume de financement
        n'est pas l'élément déterminant pour l'évaluation de la durée d'un projet. Celle-ci est largement
        tributaire de la nature des activités, de la taille moyenne des marchés, des modalités de mise en
        oeuvre. Ainsi, en considérant que les solutions techniques sont bien maîtrisées, un projet
        d'investissement s'exécute plus rapidement et plus simplement qu'un projet fondé sur l'approche
        participative. De ce point de vue, les délais de réalisation de la phase 1 avaient été visiblement sous
        estimés. En effet si l'approche participative a favorisé l'appropriation des activités du projet par les
        différents acteurs et bénéficiaires concernés, cela a cependant nécessité des délais plus longs. Au delà
        de ces considérations, il faut souligner que l'ampleur des besoins des villes est telle que le défit
        principal reste le relèvement à un niveau significatif du volume global des investissements dans le
        secteur urbain;
        2. La passation des marchés demeure un élément critique dans la mise en oeuvre efficace des projets
        en Guinée. Au delà de la nécessité de trouver les moyens de raccourcir les délais d'examen des offres,
        d'adjudication et de signature des marchés, les contrats exprimés et payés en monnaie locale, dans un



                                                    - 67 -

contexte économique inflationniste doublé de conditions défavorables sur le marché international,
rencontrent des difficultés pratiquement insurmontables. Il serait également de l'intérêt du projet de
pouvoir mieux intégrer les bénéficiaires dans les procédures de passation des marchés. La phase 2
devrait s'appuyer sur des suggestions de solution de ces problèmes.
3. Dans le cadre de la deuxième génération des contrats de ville, les PIP devraient comporter dans
toute la mesure du possible la réalisation davantage d'équipements urbains structurants, sans
abandonner bien sûr l'amélioration de l'accessibilité aux services de base.
4. Il est nécessaire de créer au niveau national, et en concertation avec les bailleurs de fonds, les
conditions d'amélioration de la coordination des interventions des différents projets sur le terrain.
5. Il faut enfin accorder plus d'intérêt à la gestion des impacts environnementaux, notamment en
développant davantage les outils d'évaluation intégrés dans les projets.




                                          - 68 -

- 69 -

