                                                                                           86618

                 International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
                          International Development Association
                             International Finance Corporation
                        Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency

                                  FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                      CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                  EDS2000-137
                                                                                   May 22, 2000
                                                                                   11:16:52 AM


Statement by Bassary Touré, Executive Director
Date of Meeting: May 23, 2000

              CHAD - Country Assistance Strategy, [Petroleum Development and Pipeline
              Project, Petroleum Sector Management Capacity Building Project, Petroleum
                       Environment Capacity Enhancement Project for Cameroon]


                I welcome the discussion of the CAS for Chad and the two projects for Petroleum
Development and Pipeline, Petroleum Sector Management Capacity Building Project for Chad,
as well as Petroleum Environment Capacity Enhancement Project for Cameroon.

               I highly commend the staff for the hard work they have gone through. The CAS
paper and the project documents are indeed very well done, very informative and helpful. Also,
on behalf of my Chadian authorities, I wish to appreciate and thank, very sincerely, the staff for
the invaluable assistance provided in the context of the economic reforms program.

Economic Reforms and Development Agenda

               As of the beginning of 1999, impressive progress has been achieved in fiscal
consolidation and public financial management. In addition, the Government has continued to
effectively implement its divestiture program. Indeed, after the completion of a three-year
adjustment program, a significant progress was registered on key areas in terms of structural
reforms, including privatization or the liquidation of the large majority of public enterprises.
Nevertheless, the structural reform agenda remains focused on the private sector development,
the administration efficiency and the economic management.

                Within the framework of poverty reduction and growth facility agreement with
the IMF, approved in January 2000, Chad is implementing a medium term strategy and a
program for 1999-2000, that aims at achieving the transition from crisis management and fiscal
stabilization to the implementation of economic and social policies for sustained development.
The Chadian authorities are aware that great achievements towards poverty reduction need a
comprehensive strategy for poverty reduction and an implementation of sound policies and
appropriate measures to strengthen the economic structure and to create a favorable environment
paving thus the way to greater improvement and sustainable development. Hence, the key
elements of the medium-term program include a poverty reduction strategy over the upcoming
months, maintaining macroeconomic stability, consolidating the public finance situation and
strengthening the efficiency of the public and financial administration, and also continuing with
the remaining structural issues with a focus on private sector development.

               Also, not to forget, progress has been recorded in non-economic areas as well.
For example, the Government has successfully implemented a demobilization program that has
downsized the army from 52,000 military personnel to 26,000, thus sharply reducing the military
expenditures. The Chamber of Accounts of the Supreme Court has the mandate to auditing
military expenditures. That has already started in September 1999, which is a clear sign of
seriousness from the Government on how to maximize the best use of public resources for
developmental impact.

Social Indicators

                Poverty in Chad is endemic. Social indicators are the lowest in Sub-Saharan
Africa. Life expectancy at birth is about 50 years. Vaccination coverage rates are very low and
nearly 200 out of 1000 children die before the age of 5. Net primary enrollment rates, through
sharply increasing over the last four years, are still very low, and literacy rate is within the lowest
in the world. Access to safe water is limited to about ¼ of the population, etc. The depth and
pervasiness of poverty is striking, with a huge percentage of the population living with less a
dollar per day. This project is not an oil project, but more importantly a project to fight poverty
and misery. Poverty is so extreme that this huge country has just one main road of
disengagement, and a limited number of phone lines (total number of lines for the whole country
of 7 million people is less than the World Bank phone lines). Therefore, telecommunication and
transport within and outside are real problems in Chad.

The Bank’s Assistance Strategy

                This 1999 Bank’s assistance strategy is a very well conceived strategy in a broad
participatory manner within Chadians and with partners, building on the development impact of
the previous CAS. While the 1996 CAS has supported macroeconomic stabilization and market
reforms, this CAS is focused on specific priorities spelled out by the Government in its strategic
development options and in the context of PRSP process. A PRSP process has been initiated by
the Government and has indeed given very significant momentum to the central role of poverty
and participation in the Bank/Chad dialogue. Para. 10, page 3 of the CAS addendum captures
the undertakings in that context and an interim PRSP is expected in the upcoming months,
building on the pertaining discussions held in February 2000 in N’Djamena, Chad, with the full
participation of development partners, and mainstreaming the conclusions of the national
seminar/workshop on poverty reduction strategy organized in April 2000.

               It is an adequate CAS, complemented by the addendum, which is indeed well in
line with the Government’s development agenda and strategic objectives. As such, I am fully in
agreement with its content, and strongly support the CAS and addendum aiming at poverty
reduction through the use and impact of future oil revenues.

Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project

                Chad has an untapped quantity of oil. It is a blessing for a country living in a
terrible misery. It is really a once in a lifetime opportunity to build on. Without those natural
resources, there are no positive prospects for Chad, and in the best circumstances, it would take
35 years to get an income per capita of $460.00. Thus, we have at stake the future of Chad’s
people, through this genuine economic breakthrough. The extreme poverty of the population and
the limited human capacities and institutional weaknesses are the major challenges to be tackled
by the Chadian Government. In this context, the Chadian authorities have declared poverty
reduction the overriding objective of the oil resources utilization, and their policy framework
emphasizes on priority spending for education, health, social affairs, infrastructures and rural
development.

                 To ensure a transparent and efficient use of the future oil revenues, the
government has developed, with Bank support, a far-reaching Oil Revenue Management Law.
This law is virtually unique in the world and was adopted by the Chadian Parliament on
December 31, 1998 to target oil revenues to priority sectors (Education, Health, Social Affairs,
Infrastructure, Rural Development) in a manner to contribute to poverty alleviation. The Head of
State has clearly and publicly stated that the oil exploitation project is dating since his youth
time, almost about 30 years now. Since then it is a long awaiting. The control over the use of oil
revenues is to be carried out separately or jointly by the Financial Controller of the Ministry of
Finance, the college of Control and Monitoring of the oil revenues (CCOR), the Chamber of
Accounts of the Supreme Court and the Parliament. Hence, development opportunities for the
Chadians are at the core of the benefits and sustainability of these government’s planning
actions. It is a unique opportunity for Chad to use its own resources to finance its own
development. Oil revenues will be distributed according to the following terms: 90% will be
deposited in a special account of the Treasury department to be opened in one or two primary
commercial banks. 80% of these 90% will go to the priority sectors, (Education, Health, Social
Affairs, Infrastructure, Rural Development), 15% allocated to the public administration
functioning and investment expenditures, and 5% devoted to the decentralized communities of
the oil producing region. The remaining 10% will be deposited in a financial institution savings
account to benefit future generations. Furthermore, the first dollar revenue of oil will be
available in four years. In the meantime, the capacity of both the civil society and the
government will be strengthened for the oil management, and Chadians, and Chadians only, have
enough time in between to revisit and improve any provision in the oil revenues management
context, if necessary.

                Also, I would like to underline the importance of the ownership, since it is a
current and important concept in development operations. Chadians (Government, Parliament,
civil society) have actively participated in the preparation of this development project to ensure
their ownership. I wonder what meaning is given to ownership in this context? Moreover, the
Bank Group staff has worked relentlessly for almost 8 years to finalize this project. What
message are we giving to the staff for this hard and risky work and effort from their part, because
a blockage of the project could even jeopardize their own career as a matter of mistrust. This
project is so important even for the sub-region of Central Africa and the whole continent. That is
why African Heads of State have publicly and formally endorsed it at the Organization of
African Unity (OAU) meeting in Algiers in July 1999, and in the meeting held in Libreville
(Gabon) in February 2000. This fact should not be neglected in favor of letters and pamphlets
received from people who even don’t know where Chad is and in which conditions Chadians are
living. It seems to me that those people are unaware of poverty and misery of Chadians, because
they have better standards of living (electricity, safe water, hospitals, good schools, roads).

Environmental Issues

                Beside the usual environmental issues in Bank operations, an environmental
assessment has been undertaken by the Government, with the Bank financing and under the
supervision of a panel of experts. The Government, the Bank’s services, the private sponsors,
NGOs and civil society have relentlessly reviewed the assessment documentation to ensure that
it complies with the Bank’s environmental and social safeguard policies and guidelines. The
proposed pipeline route has been revised to reflect the views of the Governments, local
communities, and environmentalist specialists, and to minimize the impact of the pipeline
construction and operation, notably by burying the pipeline rather than the aboveground. The
highest possible standards of environmental protection are being observed, including offsetting
measures for sensible habitats. The final revised documentation, in 19 volumes and more than
1000 pages, includes all the changes and revisions made by the Bank Group’s environmental
experts as well as those by the independent panel of experts comprising environmental, health,
and social science specialists. The final documents, probably the most comprehensive ever
undertaken for a project of this type, were made available widely for public scrutiny in Chad and
Cameroon and were accessible through the World Bank InfoShop since June 1999. Regarding
the compensation and resettlement plans, the work has been efficiently done. No family has been
involuntary displaced from its home and only 30 families will be resettled. These families have
been compensated for everything. Peasants living in a terrible poverty situation received
ploughs, tools and other equipment and monetary compensation. The compensation for affected
areas is even some times excessive (for example a mango tree is compensated for 550.000
CFAF, $800.00 versus $20.00 in the local market). As far as health is concerned, a health
management plan following the WHO guidelines has been adopted. Furthermore, Chad has even
created a monitoring unit within the Ministry of Environment (Comité technique national de
suivi et de contrôle) to that effect in view of developing capacity to manage environmental
issues.

Governance and Human Rights in Chad

                Governance problems in Chad stem from the youth of its democratic institutions
and insufficient accountability and weak capacity. Chad is a post-conflict country after almost
35 years of generalized civil strife, and has had relatively little time to develop institutions able
to manage satisfactory public resources. A more inclusive form of Government stated to
materialize in the mid-1990s as conditions developed for a more peaceful and lasting resolution
of internal disputes. Under the present administration, a serious effort of transition towards
democracy has taken off and a measure of political stability has been achieved. During the last
electoral process, 70 political formations participated in the poll, and 11 parties are represented
in the National Assembly. This project will run through neither from pigmy’s communities, nor
from hunting grounds or cultural properties (graves, sacred sites). We may add that during the 7
years of preparation of this project, more than 900 meetings and consultations/participations,
workshops and seminars were held to ensure appropriateness and adhesion. The Government has
been pursuing a policy of national reconciliation aiming at bringing various political and military
groups into the political process. In some cases, peace agreements with rebels have been signed
and members joined the national army and civil service. Independent newspapers are writing
freely and even lynching the Government every day. The UN Commission on Human rights has
sent twice a team to Chad for a scrutiny of the situation and has issued a report dismissing all the
derogatory information. The Chad case is not any longer on the table at the Geneva Office.

Capacity Building Projects

              The three capacity building projects – two in Chad and one in Cameroon – will
help to implement an improved public expenditure in Chad and bolster both countries’ capacity
to implement environmental protection measures.

                In Chad, the management of the Petroleum Economy Project, approved in January
2000, will help to build capacity to implement its future petroleum revenue management
strategy. The Petroleum Sector Management Capacity Building project will strengthen the
Government capacity to monitor implementation of the environmental management plan. In
Cameroon, the Petroleum Environment Capacity enhancement project will strengthen the
coordination capacity for environmental management, including field units to monitor project
construction. It is indeed in that logic that these inter-linked projects are critical in mitigating
risks associated with the development and implementation of the environmental management
plan, as well as the implementation of the related revenue management plan.

                To conclude, I wish to pinpoint that poverty reduction prospects in Chad are
closely linked to how the Government will use its own resources from oil exploitation.
Translating Chad’s oil revenues into services, which help the poor directly will be an important
challenge. But, with my authorities’ firm commitment to that goal, I can assure you that poverty
reduction is the cornerstone of the Chad’s agenda and strategy, and a development institution
like the Bank must take up the challenge in helping Chad to achieve that goal. Therefore, I
would very much appreciate Board members’ support to my authorities in their endeavor.

               Thank you.
