Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19342 CD
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 17.4 MILLION
(US$ 23.7 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
FOR A
PETROLEUM SECTOR MANAGEMENT
CAPACITY-BUILDING PROJECT
March 30, 2000
Energy Team
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1 = 651 CFAF
FISCAL YEAR
January 1- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFD               Agence Franqaise de Developpement
AIDS              Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
CAPECE            Petroleum Environment Capacity Enhancement Project (Cameroon)
CAS               Country Assistance Strategy
CTNSC             Comite Technique National de Suivi et de Contr6le
Doba Petroleum    Development of the Kome, Bolobo and Miandoum fields in the Doba region in
Project         southern Chad under the Chad/Cameroon Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project
ECAs              Export Credit Agencies
EMP               Environmental Management Plan
Esso Chad         Esso Exploration and Production Chad, Inc., the operator of the Doba oil field development
Exxon             Exxon Mobil Corporation (USA)
FACIL             Fonds d 'Actions Concertees d 'Initiative Locale
GDP               Gross Domestic Product
GTZ               German aid agency
IAP               International Advisory Panel on Environment and Social Issues
IBRD              International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IEC               Information, Education and Communication
IDA               International Development Association
IFC               International Finance Corporation
LGPPS             Letter of Government Policy for the Petroleum Sector
MIS               Monitoring and Informnation System
MEWR              Ministry in charge of Environment and Water Resources (Ministere de l'Environnement et
de l'Eau)
MMEP              Ministry in charge of Mines, Energy, and Petroleum (Ministere des Mines, de 1 'Energie et
du Petrole)
MOF               Ministry in charge of Finance (Ministere des Finances)
NGO               Non-Governmental Organization
PAD               Project Appraisal Document
PDF               Pilot Development Fund (FACIL)
PCU               Project Coordinating Unit
PIU               Project Implementation Unit
PPF               Project Preparation Facility
Private Sponsors    Consortium of international oil companies, led by Exxon, investing in Chad's Doba oil
fields
RDP               Regional Development Plan
SOE               Statement of Expenditures
STDs              Sexually Transmitted Diseases
STEE              Societe Tchadienne d'Eau et d'Electricite
TA                Technical Assistance
TOTCO             Tchad Oil Transportation Company, S.A., the owner/operator of the Doba pipeline in
Chad
Vice President: Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director: Serge Michailof
Sector Manager: Mark Tomlinson
Task Team Leader: Michel Layec



ii
Chad
Petroleum Sector Management Capacity-Building Project
TABLE OF CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective .........................2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators
B. Strategic Context ..........................2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
C. Project Description Summary .........................6
1. Project components
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
3. Benefits and target population
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
D. Project Rationale ........................                                      11
1. Project alternatives and reasons for rejection
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
in Chad
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
5. Value added of Bank support in this project
E. Summary Project Analysis              ........................ 13
1. Economic and Financial
2. Technical
3. Institutional
4. Social
5. Environmental Assessment
6. Participatory Approach
F. Sustainability and Risks ........................1  5
1. Sustainability
2. Critical Risks
3. Possible Controversial Aspects



iii
G. Main Loan Conditions .......................................................                                          16
1. Board Presentation Conditions
2. Effectiveness Conditions
3. Other
H. Readiness for Implementation .......................................................                                  17
I. Compliance with Bank Policies .......................................................                                 17
Annexes
Annex 1:  Project Design Summary .................................................                             19
Annex 2:  Project Description ..................................................                               25
Part A: Detailed Project Description ............................................. 25
Part B: CTNSC  Organization Chart .............................................. 44
Part C: CTNSC  Budget for the Construction Phase ..................... 45
Part D: CTNSC  Secretariat Staffing Plan ..................................... 46
Part E: Institutional Arrangements ................................................ 47
Part F: Description of Rapid Intervention Measures .................... 48
Part G: Description of FACIL  and Map of RDP Area .................. 53
Part H: Communications Plan ..................................................    60
Part I: Summary of MIS Information ............................................ 63
Part J: Chad Petroleum/Pipeline Development Project Schedule.65
Annex 3:  Estimated Project Costs .................................................                            67
Annex 4:  Financial Expenditures Summary .................................................                      69
Annex 5:  Environmental Analysis .................................................                             71
Annex 6:  Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements ................................... 75
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Annex 7:  Letter of Government Policy for the Petroleum  Sector ....................... 87
Annex 8:  Project Processing Budget and Schedule ............................................. 93
Annex 9:  Documents in the Project File ..................................................                     95
Annex  10: Statement of Loans and Credits                           ...................................... 97
Annex 11: Chad at a Glance ...................................................                                 99
Map IBRD 30058 ......................................................                                                   101



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Africa Regional Office
Project Appraisal Document
Chad
Petroleum Sector Management Capacity-Building Project
Date: March 30, 2000                              Task Team Leader: Michel Layec
Country Director: Serge Michailof                 Sector Manager: Mark Tomlinson
Project ID: TD-PE-48202    Sector:                Program Objective Category: Environmentally
Energy/Petroleum       Sustainable Development
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance          Program of Targeted    [] Yes       [X] No
Intervention:         l            l
Project Financing Data                 [I Loan  [XI Credit  [] Guarantee  []I Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$ m / SDR m): SDR 17.4 million (US$23.7 million equivalent)
Proposed terms:                           []  Multi-currency    [   Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 10 years  [   Standard          [] Fixed   []  LIBOR-based
Variable
Years to maturity: 40 years
Commitment fee: 0%
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$ m):
Government of Chad                                     2.5                            2.5
IDA                                                                   23.7           23.7
Total      2.5            23.7            26.2
Borrower: Republic of Chad
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agencies: Ministry of Mines, Energy, and Petroleum, and Ministry of Environment and Water
Resources
Ebrs                   ,,         $
Annual         7.0        6.0       5.7       3.0        2.0
Cumulative         7.0      13.0       18.7      21.7      23.7
For Guarantees: N/A                        [    Partial credit     [] Partial risk
Project implementation period: 2000-2005
Expected Effectiveness Date: September 30, 2000  Closing Date: December 31, 2005



2
A: PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1)
The development objective of the project is to strengthen the capacity of Chad to:
* manage the development of its petroleum resources in an environmentally and socially
sound manner, beginning with the Doba Petroleum Project in southern Chad;
* minimize and mitigate the potential negative environmental and social impacts of the
Doba Petroleum Project on the producing region, strengthen local capacity in the region,
and provide opportunities for the region's residents to improve their living conditions; and
*  establish an effective framework for further sound private sector investment in the
petroleum sector, and engage effectively with such investors.
The key performance indicators are: (i) effective Govermnent monitoring of implementation
of the Doba petroleum project; (ii) effective implementation of the Doba Petroleum Project's
environmental management plan; (iii) social infrastructure improvements and employment
generation in the producing region; and (iv) substantially increased Government dealings with
potential new private investors.
B. STRATEGIC CONTEXT
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see
Annex 1)
CAS document number: 15287 - CD     Date of latest CAS discussion: February 15, 1996
New CAS document:  19365-CD         Date of upcoming CAS discussion: May 2000
The key objectives of the Chad CAS are to restore public sector capacity by enhancing the
efficiency of Government services, focus public expenditures on poverty reduction, and create
an environment favorable to private sector development. The proposed Doba Petroleum
Project is expected to generate substantial oil revenues for the Government, which are key to
Chad's central development objective of accelerating economic growth and reducing poverty.
The Bank's assistance strategy generally, and this proposed capacity-building project
specifically, aim to meet these objectives through the development of critical skills and
institutions in Chad to assist the country to plan, implement, and monitor expansion of the
petroleum sector in an environmentally and socially sound manner, beginning with the Doba
Petroleum Project. The Bank is also helping Chad to make the best developmental use of
petroleum revenues while avoiding the pitfalls encountered by other countries exporting oil
and minerals.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
General Sector Issues. Chad faces a variety of issues in the energy sector relating to the use
of forest resources, management of the power sector, and development of the petroleum sub-
sector.
* Currently, Chad's primary domestic energy resource is its forests. The uncontrolled
exploitation of wood has caused deforestation around major urban areas. The



3
Government has taken actions, supported by the IDA Household Energy Project
(1998), to tackle these problems on the supply and demand sides. Specific measures
include transferring responsibility for control and management of forests from the
state to the local rural communities, promoting inter-fuel substitution, and distributing
improved wood stoves.
* Chad's power sector is characterized by high tariffs and limited access to power
supply, as well as unreliability and poor quality (load shedding). Government
interference has been constant and investment has been lacking. The Government is
in the process of implementing fundamental reforms, including privatization of the
local power and water utility, and is expanding generating capacity and rehabilitating
distribution facilities. IDA and other donors have been supporting this process.
Recent actions include the signing of a contract with a private consortium to manage
the electricity and water sectors.
* The petroleum sub-sector has faced various major hurdles, relating both to production
and consumption. Even though oil was discovered in Chad over 25 years ago, it has
yet to be produced either for export or to meet domestic energy needs, despite high
energy costs for domestic petroleum and power consumption. Other issues in the
sector include the relatively large amount of smuggling of petroleum products and the
Government's consequent loss of fiscal revenues.
These problems in the energy sector are attributable partly to the long series of political crises
and armed conflicts that marked the country's history, but also partly to the lack of
investment, lax management, the land-locked nature of the country, the shortage of alternative
energy sources, and a dearth of trained and qualified staff. Despite efforts to build capacity,
which have seen some success over recent years, institutional and administrative skill levels
remain well below those in most of the other countries in the region. To address this
weakness, the proposed project seeks to strengthen the capacity of the Government in the
management of the petroleum sector and related environmental and social aspects.
Petroleum Sector: The Doba Petroleum Project. The Government of Chad has completed
negotiations of a petroleum production agreement with a consortium of oil companies (the
Private Sponsors) to develop the oil discovered in the southern part of the country at Doba.
Under the proposed Chad/Cameroon Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project (the Doba
Petroleum Project) the Private Sponsors, with the Government, are expected to produce,
transport, and sell nearly one billion barrels of oil from three fields in the Doba Basin to world
markets. Chad is expected to earn some US$ 1.5 to 2.0 billion over the 28-year production life
of the fields (on the basis of a Brent oil price of about US$15.25/barrel, 1999 US$s). The
project, however, carries risks, including the risk that environmental and social impacts may
not be avoided, minimized or mitigated, and the risk that petroleum revenues that accrue to
the Government may not be managed properly. In addition, the Government is also
discussing with the same Private Sponsors the development of a small oil field at Sedigi, close
to Lake Chad (total provenlprobable reserves of about 15 million barrels) to meet the
domestic needs for petroleum products.



4
Environmental/Social Impacts: The Government is aware of the opportunities and risks
arising from the development of oil resources, in particular potential environmental and social
impacts, as well as the need to manage revenues properly. Both Government and Private
Sponsors' actions are planned in this regard.
* The Doba Petroleum Project has been engineered to avoid, minimize, and mitigate
adverse environmental and social impacts. Detailed environmental and social mitigation
plans have been prepared as part of the project's Environmental Management Plan --
"EMP" (see description in Annexes 14-17 of the PAD for the Doba Petroleum Project);
primary responsibility for implementation rests with the private sector operators, which
are subsidiaries of the Private Sponsors.
* However, the Government of Chad also has an important role to play, primarily in helping
to mitigate induced impacts in the producing region and in supervising the private sector
operators. For example, the population around the project site is estimated at about
54,000, and will possibly increase by 10 to 35 percent with the influx of between 5,000 to
20,000 people looking for economic opportunities. In the short term, mitigation of the
impact of in-migration is likely to require social investments in health facilities, water
supply, management of woodfuel resources, and STDs/AIDS prevention.
* The Govermment has also established an inter-ministerial committee (Comite Technique
National de Suivi et de Controle --CTNSC), which is responsible for the monitoring and
control of the environmental and social impacts of the project. The CTNSC contracted
consultants to assess its training and operational needs to support implementation of the
Doba Petroleum Project's EMP. CTNSC has already set up an Executive Secretariat,
recruited an Executive Secretary, and is staffing the Executive Secretariat with the
requisite professional and support staff to be located in N'Djamena and on the Doba
Petroleum Project site (see Annex 2). The Government also engaged environmental
experts to help in assessing the potential environmental and socio-economic aspects of the
Doba Petroleum Project.
Financial/Technical Supervision. The oil exploration and production contract negotiated by
the Government with the Private Sponsors is based on a system of royalties, income taxes,
and dividends. As a consequence, project revenues and expenditures will need to be reviewed
and monitored carefully and audited annually. Chad will also need to monitor other technical
aspects of the project, including well drilling, oil pumping, and oil-flow measurement and
transportation.
Opportunities for Additional Petroleum Development. The initial permit of the Private
Sponsors in Chad encompassed 104,234 square kilometers (sq. km), but has been reduced to
41,693 sq. km, with relinquishments. Further relinquishments can be anticipated in southern
and west central Chad within the next several years, if the Private Sponsors do not submit
development plans. Much of this area is promising and has been very lightly explored. In
addition, the older sedimentary basins in the north of the country are also prospective for
petroleum exploration. These potential areas would need to be promoted to the international
petroleum industry by the Government in an organized fashion. To do so, various actions are
required. Chad must revise and update its legislative and fiscal frameworks for the petroleum



5
sector, including applicable environmental regulations, to encourage environmentally and
socially sound investments in the sector. Also, a strategy needs to be developed to determine
which areas to promote, and when and under what conditions new and relinquished areas
should be awarded to companies already operating in Chad or to others. In addition, the
Government will need to develop the elements of a geological survey, and effectively store
and manage the existing invaluable geological and geophysical data to enable it to attract and
engage with potential new operators and investors.
Managing Petroleum Revenues. In anticipation of the arrival of oil revenues, Chad adopted a
Law on the Management of Oil Revenue (promulgated January 1999) which establishes a
framework for deploying anticipated oil revenues to support poverty reduction (see Annex 11,
Part B of the PAD for the Doba Petroleum Project). To assist Chad, the Executive Directors
of IDA approved on January 27, 2000 a capacity-building project focused on public financial
management and related issues (the Management of the Petroleum Economy Project).
Notwithstanding these actions, the Government remains aware of the substantial challenges it
faces in the petroleum sector and has asked for Bank assistance in strengthening its capacity
to monitor and supervise the environmental, social, and technical aspects of petroleum
projects, starting with the Doba Petroleum Project. Support in addressing the induced impacts
that will be generated by the Doba Petroleum Project is a particular area of interest. This
Petroleum Sector Management Capacity-Building project is designed to provide this
assistance.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
This project seeks to strengthen the Government's capacity: (i) to manage the environmental
and social impacts of the Doba Petroleum Project, and (ii) to effectively promote and manage
the development of the petroleum sector in general.
Environmental/Social Aspects: Although the primary responsibility for preventing, avoiding,
mitigating, compensating, and monitoring the environmental impacts of the Doba Petroleum
Project lie with the project's private operators, Chad has an important role in monitoring the
private operators, and in preventing and responding to the potential environmental and social
impacts of the pipeline project. Specific Chad actions include:
* monitoring implementation of the mitigating measures by the private sector operators;
* enforcing regulations on pollution control, health, and nature protection;
* mitigating induced impacts in the producing region;
* monitoring environmental and social impacts,
* regulating the sector to provide a sound framework for making petroleum
development in Chad environmentally sustainable;
* delivering administrative authorizations on the basis of sound technical analysis
performed by TOTCO and the upstream operator and checked by the CTNSC; and
* conducting Information, Education, and Communication (IEC) activities on
environmental matters related to the Doba Petroleum Project.
The project will strengthen Chad's capacity to play this role. It will be implemented over a
five-year period (2000-2005), which covers the Doba Petroleum Project's construction period
and one year of operations. This project will, inter alia, help:



6
Strengthen Government Capacity by strengthening national capacity to monitor and
manage the environmental and social impacts of development in the petroleum sector,
including the preparation of a Government Oil Spill Response Plan. The lead time before
the major construction activities begin (i.e., about 18 months - see project schedule in Part
J of Annex 2) provides the opportunity for Chad to begin to effectively prepare itself in
these areas.
*  Managing Induced Impacts and Providing Opportunities to Local Populations:  In
addition, rapid intervention social infrastructure activities are planned to address the
expected in-migration into the producing region and a pilot development fund has been set
up to finance complementary development activities (see Annex 2, Part F, Rapid
Intervention Measures, and Part G, FACIL). The pilot fund should help the local
population to better seize the economic opportunities created by the Doba Petroleum
Project. For the longer term, Chad will prepare a Regional Development Plan for the
project area and the surrounding region in a participatory manner, involving local non-
governmental organizations (NGOs) and affected populations.
Technical, Financial, and Other Aspects. The Government is also seeking to strengthen its
capacity to monitor the activities of the private operators in technical, petroleum, and other
areas, as well as to strengthen its capacity to audit these companies effectively so as to
maximize Chad's revenues. This capacity-building project would also strengthen Chad's
capacity to engage effectively with potential new investors through various measures: (i)
establishment of a complete inventory and an effective data storage and retrieval system for
the geological, geophysical, engineering, and economic data that have been collected from the
Doba and other projects over the years; (ii) an evaluation of the hydrocarbon potential of the
country in light of the data gathered so far and development of a strategy to maximize private
investment in the sector; and (iii) strengthened sector institutions, including improved
staffing, organization, and systems.
C: PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed
cost breakdown)
The project has two main components:
* the Doba Project Management Component (US$18.9 million, of which US$16.4
million financed by IDA), designed to increase Chad's capacity to monitor and
manage the environmental and social impacts of the Doba Petroleum Project, and to
mitigate the project's impact on the producing region; and
* the Petroleum Sector Management Component (US$5.3 million, financed by IDA),
designed to strengthen the Government's capacity to support and manage the
development of Chad's petroleum sector.
A. The Doba Project Management Component
This first and main component will aim at strengthening Government capacity and mitigating
the impact of the project on the producing region. This component will also support



7
information and communication campaigns to increase the amount and quality of information
about the project made available to the Government, local populations and other stakeholders.
a. Strengthening Government Capacity by:
i.  Building environmental, social and technical capacity, both in the Ministry of
Environment and Water (MEWR) and the Ministry of Mines, Energy, and
Petroleum (MMEP).
ii. Building Government's capacity to deal with legal, financial, and other
technical aspects of the Doba Petroleum Project.
iii. Providing operational support for project coordination activities.
b. Mitigating Project Impacts on the Producing Region by:
i.  Implementing a communications campaign to limit migration to the producing
region and mitigate its impact on local populations. Support will also be
provided for the development of mechanisms to promote sound and stable
interactions amongst the various stakeholders in the project area (including
the private sector operators, local populations, and in-migrants).
ii. Mitigating induced impacts on the producing region through the financing of
rapid intervention measures, such as increased health facilities and water-
wells.
iii. Supporting development activities in the producing region through the
establishment of a pilot development fund to finance complementary rapid
intervention measures and mid-term development activities proposed by
communities and local NGOs.
c. Additional Information and Communication activities:
i.  Supporting the development of a monitoring and information system (MIS).
ii. Implementing communication and consultation activities to generate accurate
information regarding this project, as well as the Doba Petroleum Project, and
support information dissemination and dialogue with all stakeholders.
B. The Petroleum Sector Management Component
The second main component will build on the invaluable information generated by the Doba
Petroleum and other projects. It contains two sub-components:
a. Strengthening the environmental and social regulatory framework applicable to
petroleum development activities in Chad, building on the lessons of the Doba Petroleum
Project.
b. Strengthening Chad's capacity to manage the technical aspects of the sector by
creating an effective petroleum sector information management system. Specific actions
include: training, database management, promotion activities and technical assistance to
enhance Chad's capacity to attract, negotiate, and otherwise to engage effectively with
potential investors in the sector.



8
The project costs are set out in the following table:
A. Doba Project Management
Government Capacity
1. Environment (Technical and Institutional    Institutional  6.7    26
Support)                           Development
(i) Ministry of Environment/CTNSC                     6.1
(ii) International Advisory Panel                     0.6
2. Technical Experts and Training:      Institutional     2.1         8
(i) Engineering and Petroleum      Development        0.7
(ii) Financial and Legal                              0.8
(iii) Fiscal Consultants/Audits                       0.6
3. Project Coordination Support                            0.3         1
Producing Region
4. Induced Impacts in oil producing region  Physical and   9.0       34
(i) Social Infrastructure (Rapid   Institutional      5.5
Intervention Measures), Awareness  Development
Campaign, and Fostering Stakeholder
Interaction
(ii) Pilot Development Fund for                       3.5
decentralized regional expenditures
Additional Information Activities       Institutional      0.8         3
5. Monitoring, Information Gathering,   Development
Dissemination, and Communication Activities
B. Petroleum Sector Management
1. Petroleum Sector Environmental/Social  Policy          0.7         3
Regulatory Framework
2. Petroleum Sector Information Management  Institutional  4.6       17
System                                  Development
C. Refinancing of PPF Advances                             2.0        8
Total         26.2       100



9
2.   Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
(a) Clearly defining the respective roles of the State and the private sector in the
development of petroleum resources (Letter of Government Policy for the Petroleum
Sector - Annex 7).
(b) Updating and improving the legislative and fiscal framework for attracting private
investment to the petroleum sector.
(c) Drafting and adopting new environmental regulations that would govern petroleum
sector activities.
(d) Using innovative ways (pilot development fund (FACIL)) to mitigate project impacts.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project is expected to yield four major benefits. First, it will help mitigate any negative
impact of the Doba Petroleum Project on the local environment and populations in the
producing region. The net environmental impacts are expected to be positive. To this end, the
project will (a) finance social infrastructure and set up a Pilot Development Fund to finance
additional development activities in the region, and (b) provide training to upgrade the
capacity and skills of the CTNSC and MEWR to manage the Doba Petroleum Project's
environmental and social impacts. These should also help to reduce the potential for social
conflicts. Second, it will foster a more participatory approach to development, with civil
society involved in the preparation and implementation. Third, it will help strengthen the
capacity of Chad to manage the technical, financial, and fiscal aspects of the Doba and other
petroleum projects, thereby increasing its ability to reap the projected financial benefits from
oil production and export. Fourth, it will increase the country's ability to develop further its
petroleum sector by strengthening the capacity of the MMEP. Improvements in sector
management are expected to increase investment by the private oil companies presently
operating in Chad and to attract new investors to undertake hydrocarbon exploration under a
new environmental legal framework in an environmentally and socially sound manner, so that
the sector can be developed in a sustainable manner. Additional petroleum development
activities are expected to have a positive impact on the economy through increased revenues
if properly managed (see discussion above on Management of Petroleum Economy Project).
The target population for the project is:
*  people living and conducting economic activities in the vicinity of the pipeline and
oilfield areas;
* public servants and state-owned agency personnel in the petroleum, social, and
environmental sectors; and
*  the public interested in the environmental and social aspects of the Doba
Petroleum Project.



10
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period:2000-2005
Executing agencies:   Direction du Petrole of MMEP, the Comite Technique National de
Suivi et de Contr6le (CTNSC) of MEWR, the Doba Petroleum Project National Coordinator,
the civil society, including NGOs.
Project oversight and coordination: Oversight of the project will be the responsibility of
MEWR and MMEP (see Chart in Part E of Annex 2). In addition, overall coordination of the
project will be ensured by a National Coordinator specifically appointed for this purpose (who
is the successor of the present Coordinator of the Petroleum Negotiating Team, which has
successfully operated for the last three years). The National Coordinator will be acceptable to
IDA at all times.
Project Implementation: The project will be implemented by the Direction du Petrole of the
MMEP, the CTNSC of the MEWR, the National Coordinator, and NGOs over a five-year
period. A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in the Direction du Petrole will implement the
petroleum sector management components, including organizing and storing data and
selection of auditors. The CTNSC and local NGOs will implement the environmental
components, including the social investments for the Doba oil region. In addition to project
coordination, the office of the National Coordinator will be responsible for designing and
implementing the Information and Communications Strategy for the Doba Petroleum Project,
as well as the MIS. The MMEP and its Direction du Petrole, have nominated a full-time
manager of a PIU acceptable to IDA. Similarly, MEWR and CTNSC have nominated a
Secretaire Executif to the CTNSC and a field supervisor to implement the environmental
component of the project and execute the social investments. All these positions would be
acceptable to IDA  at all times during project implementation.  Also, the Project
Implementation Manuel (Manuel d' Execution du projet), the Manual of Procedures (Manuel
de Procedures) and Procurement Plans to be submitted to the Association as a condition of
credit effectiveness would be acceptable to IDA at all times during project implementation
and any modifications to these Manual and Plans would be subject to IDA's approval. Goods
and works would be procured in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Guidelines
for Procurement under IBRD loans and IDA credits (January 1995, revised in January and
August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999) and consultant services in accordance with
Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
(January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999).
Accounting, financial reporting, and auditing arrangements. The MMEP and the MEWR
will: (a) establish and maintain, to IDA's satisfaction, separate adequate accounts and records
for the project; (b) engage independent auditors acceptable to IDA to audit the project
accounts and the Statement of Expenditures (SOEs), in accordance with internationally
acceptable auditing standards and in such detail as IDA may request; and (c) undertake annual
audits and submit an audit report to IDA within six months after the end of each fiscal year.
The necessary accounting and procurement capacity is being established in each of the
ministries; in the interim, the Cellule Economique in the Ministry of Economic Promotion,
Development, and International Cooperation will be responsible for the procurement and
financial aspects of the project. It has developed a strong capacity in these areas under a



11
previous project financed by IDA. The respective ministries will be required to establish
satisfactory financial systems as a condition of credit effectiveness. Procurement will follow
Bank guidelines (see Annex 6). There will be two Special Accounts opened at commercial
banks acceptable to IDA, as follows: (i) Special Account 1 for the components to be
implemented by MEWR/CNTSC, including the social infrastructure and the pilot
development fund (FACIL); and (ii) a Special Account 2 for the components to be
implemented by the Direction du Petrole in the MMEP, and the National Coordinator.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements: (a) The executing agencies will set up a
monitoring information system (see below) and will submit semi-annual progress reports on
the project to IDA; (b) representatives of the various ministries benefiting from the project
(including MMEP, MEWR, Finance, Planning, and Health, among others) and IDA will meet
once or twice each year to review progress on the implementation of the project, and a mid-
term review will take place approximately two years after credit effectiveness; and (c) the
MMEP and the MEWR will jointly submit a project Implementation Completion Report to
IDA within six months after the credit closing date.
Monitoring Information Systenm An MIS will be set up under the project. The two main
purposes of the MIS are (i) to monitor the existing social infrastructure and the correlated
socio-economic indicators to allow, along with the defined eligibility criteria, sound planning
of the activities to be undertaken, and (ii) to set mutually agreed, realistic, and clear indicators
for each activity, and to measure gaps between actual and targeted objectives (Monitoring and
Evaluation System). An operating manual dedicated to monitoring will describe
responsibilities, the contents of the semi-annual reports, the procedures to feed the system,
and the software package. The proposed indicators to monitor the project's activities and
impacts are shown in Annex 1 (Project Design Summary).
D: PROJECT RATIONALE
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The no-project alternative would not have allowed the Government of Chad to implement
effectively the safeguard measures for which it is responsible under the Doba Petroleum
Project, and would have perpetuated the very weak capacity of the Government in
environmental management of the petroleum sector. This no-project alternative was clearly
unacceptable to all parties. IDA initially considered providing financing only for the proposed
Doba Petroleum Project, but the size and complexity of that project revealed a compelling
need to: (i) strengthen the Government's capacity to help to manage and mitigate the
environmental and social impacts of the Doba Petroleum Project on the environment and the
local populations in the Doba region; (ii) strengthen the capacity of the Government to
oversee the Doba Petroleum Project in order to increase its revenues and protect its other
interests in dealing with its private sector partners; and (iii) assist Chadians to manage
effectively the future development of the petroleum sector in a socially and environmentally
sound manner. To meet this need, a capacity-building and technical assistance project to
build Chadian capacity for petroleum sector and environmental management was viewed as
an integral part of the Doba Petroleum Project. Sound management of petroleum revenues is
being dealt with under the related project for petroleum revenue management (Management
of the Petroleum Economy Project).



12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies in Chad
(completed, ongoing, and planned):
Implementatio Development
n Progress    Objective
(IP)         (DO)
Bank-financed
Domestic Energy           Sedigi Development Project       S             S
Development               Engineering Credit
Household Energy                S             S
Petroleum Development &        N/A           N/A
Pipeline (FY00)
Electricity (FY00)             N/A           N/A
Capacity Building         TA for Economic and              S             S
Financial Management
(completed)
Capacity Building for           S             S
Economic Management
Management of the              N/A           N/A
Petroleum Economy
(FYOO)-pipeline related
Health Sector:            Health and Safe Motherhood       S             S
Population and AIDS             S             S
Transport:                Transport Sector II              S             S
-Transport III (FY01)          N/A           N/A
Agriculture               Agricultural Services           U             U
Other development agencies
AFD (Agence Franqaise de   Rural roads in cotton area
Developpement)            (almost completed)
African Development Bank   Road rehabilitation,
upgrading, and paving
(ongoing)
European Union            4         ; 4 
KfW (Germany)
Taiwan
GTZ (Germany)             Rural roads in Northeast
(ongoing)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Capacity building and technical assistance are key instruments for improving policies,
enhancing skills, and building institutions. The Bank's current technical assistance portfolio
comprises about 140 free-standing loans and credits, amounting to about 10 percent of Bank
Group lending. Technical assistance has often been more successful in delivering specific



13
products than in achieving institutional development. This is particularly true in sub-Saharan
Africa where the results of technical assistance projects overall have been disappointing in the
past, though not necessarily in Chad. Two of the three technical assistance projects financed
by IDA in Chad have been rated satisfactory and present conditions in the country augur well
for making good use of additional technical assistance to build and strengthen national
capacity. First, the IDA-assisted Capacity Building Project for Economic Management
(FY96) helped to implement civil service reforms, a key governance condition for technical
assistance to succeed and be used effectively. Second, this project has been designed to take
into account the lessons of the Technical Assistance Project for Economic and Financial
Management (FY88), the very first of its kind in Chad, and it comprises focused activities
aimed to achieve concrete results within set time limits and provide Chad with access to
specialized technical expertise needed to monitor a complex operation. Third, community and
civil society participation was actively sought in the design of the rapid intervention
measures, the regional development plan, and the pilot development fund (FACIL), which is a
key lesson learnt in past projects. Fourth, since activity in the petroleum sector is expected to
increase dramatically, the Government is keen to build its own capacity and was fully
engaged in the preparation of this project. Fifth, a technical assistance project attached to an
active and promising sector has a good chance to succeed.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The proposed project is intricately linked with the Doba Petroleum Project, which was the
result of long and difficult negotiations that the Chadians conducted on their own. The
negotiations were carried out by the Government's Petroleum Negotiating Team which
included representatives of all the major ministries. The project has the full commitment of
two executing agencies, the MMEP and MEWR, and was designed after in-depth discussions
with the Petroleum Negotiating Team over several months, as well as with the full and active
participation of representatives of several ministries (including MMEP, MEWR, the
ministries responsible for planning, health, education, rural development, transport, and social
affairs), civil society, and NGOs .
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
IDA support provides the vehicle for implementing a technically and environmentally sound
investment in the petroleum sector. Bank/IFC involvement in the Doba Petroleum Project has
helped to improve the quality of the environmental assessments and mitigation plans. IDA
support through this capacity-building project will build on the physical implementation of
the Doba Petroleum Project and contribute substantially to institutional development, both in
petroleum sector management and environmental management.
E. SUMMARY PROJECT ANALYSIS
1. Economic and Financial
The capacity building and technical assistance characteristics of this operation do not permit a
meaningful quantitative economic and financial analysis.  However, if implemented
successfully, this project would minimize the economic and financial costs to be borne by
Chad in the development of its oil resources, and would also help to ensure that the expected
revenues provided for in the financial agreements with the Private Sponsors in fact accrue to
the country. Also, the project would create an environmental and social regulatory framework



14
for the petroleum sector and would establish a small, but effective, permanent capacity to
monitor and implement this framework which will require Government expenditure. Fiscal
revenue from the petroleum sector would be more than adequate to cover this limited
incremental cost. Also, if the petroleum exploration promotion component of the project is
successfully implemented, Chad can expect increased private sector investment in the
petroleum sector and increased revenues from royalties and taxes. These benefits would far
exceed the costs of providing technical assistance to the ministries concerned.
2. Technical:
The project will create an advanced technological capacity to monitor the technical and
environmental impact of a large infrastructure project. The Chadian staff in charge of
monitoring air, water, and soil quality will learn new techniques and the use of new
equipment that will be useful in the context of other infrastructure projects. The laboratories
that will execute the analyses required will also improve the general knowledge of the
technical and environmental management in Chad. Also, for the first time in 20 years, Chad
will be able to properly store geological and geophysical data and actively manage this
information for the benefit of the country. This project thus provides a unique opportunity for
Chad to bring its petroleum, technical, and environmental management capacity in the
petroleum sector up to date.
3. Institutional
a. Executing agencies: Since both the MMEP and MEWR are weak in implementation
capacity, the project will need to finance high-caliber experts and carry out training for these
ministries. The MMEP has already appointed a person in the Direction du Petrole and
MEWR has appointed the Executive Secretary of CTNSC and the field supervisor, as well as
an acting administrator for the FACIL. In addition, an Office of National Coordinator has
been established, headed by a person who has a proven capacity to manage complex
activities.
b. Project management:  The two project managers in MMEP and MEWR shall be
acceptable to IDA at all times during project implementation.
4. Social
This project is aimed at institutional capacity building, including outreach to civil society and
the media. It is designed to establish a transparent dialogue between the Government and
various stakeholders in order to promote public participation in the pipeline project activities.
In particular, the project will help implement programs aimed at ensuring adequate protection
of public health and protecting Chad's cultural heritage. While this project largely provides
for capacity building and technical assistance, it will also support financing for social
investments in the producing region to mitigate potentially adverse induced impacts resulting
from population in-migration. The project will (i) support measures to prevent and mitigate
the negative impacts of a population influx into the region, and (ii) improve the living
conditions of residents by investing in the socio-economic infrastructure available to
communities and promoting rural development.



15
5. EnvironmentalAssessment        Environmental Category    []A [X] B []C
As a free-standing capacity-building and technical assistance project, the operation does not
present any environmental risks. However, because of the social investments included to
mitigate induced impacts, the project is rated "B" for environmental purposes (See Annex 5
for Environmental Analysis). By developing and strengthening environmental and health
monitoring and mitigation capacities to minimize adverse impacts, especially those associated
with induced population in-migration in the project area, the project is expected to contribute
significantly to improving environmental and health standards/norms within Chad.
6. Participatory Approach:
People living in the area where the oil wells will be drilled and alongside the pipeline route
have been consulted during the Environmental Assessment of the project, particularly in the
context of compensation. Their opinions and concerns have been integrated into the design of
this project, as well as into the Doba Petroleum Project. During project implementation, the
field units will be in contact with affected people on a daily basis and will facilitate dialogue
between the population, TOTCO, Esso Chad, and the representatives from the decentralized
public services.
The Government employees who will benefit from training and technical assistance in this
project will acquire more modem and better skills that they can use in other circumstances,
(e.g., in the expanding field of environmental management and in a promising petroleum
sector).  Project preparation for the capacity building project included a participatory
workshop involving key stakeholders.
Identification/Preparati  Implementation  Operaion
n
Beneficiaries/community groups     CON               COL             COL
Intermediary NGOs                  CON               COL             COL
Private Sector                      IS               COL             COL
Local governments                  CON               COL             COL
Other donors                        IS                IS              IS
[Note: IS=Information Sharing; CON-Consultation; COL=Collaboration]
F. SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS
1. Sustainability
The project components are designed to build institutional capacity and skills in Chad to
manage the environmental and management aspects of petroleum production. Sustainability
of this project is built upon: (a) strong ownership of the project; (b) its link to a large private
sector project in a promising sector; (c) continuing private sector interest in petroleum
development; (d) the project's potential to catalyze additional private sector investments in
the country; and (e) the Bank's ongoing support for capacity building and petroleum revenue
management. Both the central Government and regional administrations are keen to develop



16
sufficient capacity to make optimal use of current and potential revenues for development and
to safeguard both the environment and the health of the population.
2. Critical Risks (see also column 4, Annex 1):
Project Outputs to Objectives            Modest
Government and Private Sponsors are not            Conditionality agreed to in the
committed and do not have the capacity to  Modest   context of the Doba Petroleum
implement a sound EMP.                             Project
Inadequate information on operations               Agreement reached with Private
provided by Private Sponsors              Low      Sponsors of the Doba Petroleum
Project
Government does not implement policies to          Delineation of Letter of
attract more private sector investment in the  Low  Government Policy for the
petroleum sector                                   Petroleum Sector;
Doba Pipeline Project being
implemented
Weak collaboration among stakeholders              Ongoing dialogue and specific
(Government, NGOs, Private Sponsors)     Modest   consultative activities; FACIL to
support dialogue and
participation
Government does not make best use of     Modest   Project provides for enhanced
trained Chadians                                   working conditions
Project Components to Outputs            Modest
Government does not adopt new legal                Experience with Doba Petroleum
framework and comprehensive environmental  Low     Project
regulations
Weakening in continued Government                  Support provided by the Bank,
commitment and capacity (including       Modest   and linkage to effective
financial) to capacity building in the sector      implementation of the Doba
I           I _   _  Petroleum Project
Overall Risk Rating                      Modest
3. Possible ControversialAspects
This project does not present any controversial aspects except by association with the Doba
Petroleum Project (see the PAD for the Chad/Cameroon Petroleum Development and Pipeline
Project).
G. MAIN LOAN CONDITIONS
1. Board Presentation Conditions
None
2. Effectiveness Conditions
The following events are specified as additional conditions to the effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement:



17
(a)  the Loan Agreement for the Doba Petroleum Project has been executed and
delivered and all conditions precedent to its effectiveness have been fulfilled;
(b)  Chad has submitted the Project Implementation Manual (including the FACIL
Manual) to IDA and has adopted the Project Implementation Manual satisfactory to
IDA;
(c)  Chad has established a computerized accounting and financial system for the
Project, satisfactory to IDA;
(d) Chad has opened the Project Account and the initial deposit has been deposited
therein; and
(e)  Chad has submitted to IDA the procurement plan satisfactory to IDA for the first
two years of the Project.
3. Other
(a) Agreement on the role and modus operandi of the NGOs, particularly in the area of
social investments.
(b) Appointment of a permnanent Administrator of FACIL.
(c) Appointment of auditors acceptable to IDA.
(d) Chad will duly follow the Project Implementation Manual (Manuel d'Execution) .
(e) Chad will implement the Petroleum Revenue Management Program, agreed upon
with the Bank in the context of the Doba Petroleum Project.
H. READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready
for the start of project implementation. [ X ] Not applicable.
[ ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities of project implementation will be
submitted as a condition of effectiveness.
[ ] The Project Implementation Plan has been discussed and will be finalized as a condition of
credit effectiveness.
[ ] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
I. COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[]  The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval:
Sector Manager: Mark Tomlinson         Country Direc  : Serge Michailof






19
Annex 1
Chad: Petroleum Sector Management Capacity-Building Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary            Key Indicators              Monitoring and        Critical Assumptions and
Supervision                  Risks
CAS Objectives:
1. Restore critical public    - Strengthened public sector  - Bank's supervision
sector capacity.        management.                   missions
2. Protect the environment.  - Adoption of new        - Annual reports from
environmental regulations.   MMEP on private investment
3. Create an environment                              in the petroleum sector
favorable to private sector   - Increased private investment.
development.
Narrative Summary            Key Indicators              Monitoring and        Critical Assumptions and
Supervision                  Risks
Project Development      Impact/Outcomes                                          (Development Objectives
Objectives:                                                                       to CAS Objectives)
Strengthen Chad's capacity. - Effective Government    Re. (a), (b):              1. Environmental
to:                      monitoring of implementation of  - Semi-annual reporting by   management is considered
the Doba Petroleum Project      the National Coordinator,  high priority in the
(a) manage the           (including financial and        CTNSC Executive         Government's strategy.
development of its      technical aspects).              Secretariat, Direction du
petroleum resources in an                                Petrole, and Ministry of    2. Government committed
environmentally and      - Effective implementation of   Finance.                to attract investors in a
socially sound manner,    the Doba Petroleum Project's                           transparent manner.
starting with the Doba   Environmental Management     - Semi-annual reporting on
Petroleum Project;       Plan, in particular as concerns  Doba operations by
social impact aspects.          Government and private
(b) minimize and mitigate                                sector operators.
the negative environmental  - Social infrastructure
and social impacts of the    improvements and employment   Re. (a): Quarterly Reports
Doba Petroleum Project on  generation in the producing   from TOTCO and Esso
the producing region,    region.                         Chad.
strengthen local capacity in
the region, and provide  - Substantially increased     Re: (a), (b), (c): Bank
opportunities for the    Government dealings with        supervision missions.
region's residents to    potential new private investors.
improve their living                                  Re. (c): Annual reports from
conditions; and                                          MMEP on private
investment in the
(c) establish an effective                               petroleum sector
framework for further
sound private sector
investment in the
petroleum sector, and
engage effectively with
such investors.



20
Annex 1
Narrative Summary            Key Indicators              Monitoring and        Critical Assumptions and
Supervision                  Risks
Project Outputs                                                                  (Outputs to Development
Objectives
Al. Environmental        Re. Al:                      Re. A:                      1. Sound management of
Management               - Number of persons trained in  - MIS reports.           Doba Petroleum Project by
the following specialties by                          private sector operators.
Ala. Capacity in MEWR,     July 1, 2001: (i) Biophysical:  - Bank supervision
CTNSC, and MMEP to         4 persons ;(ii) Socio-        missions.               2. Government and Private
supervise and monitor      economics: 4;(iii)Health: 2;                           Sponsors are committed
environmental and social   (iv) IEC and Conflict      - Reporting by the CTNSC   and have the capacity to
aspects of petroleum       management: 4; and (v) Oil    Executive Secretariat on   implement a sound EMP.
activities is strengthened.  Spill Response: 4.          EMP implementation.
3. Information on
Alb. Government is      - IAP appointed by January 1,   - Reporting by the       operations provided by
provided with advice from  2001.                         Environmental            private sector operators of
International Advisory                                   Compliance Monitoring    Doba Petroleum Project.
Panel (IAP) on           - First report of IAP published  Consultant.
environmental and social   by July 2001.                                          4. Borrower will make
aspects of the Doba                                    Re. Al:                    best use of newly trained
Petroleum Project.       - Adoption of Oil Spill       - Reports on STDs and      experts by deploying them
Response Plan by July 2001   AIDS situation in project  in positions for which they
A2. Technical                                            area                     were trained and further
Re. A2:                                                  developing on-the-job
A2a. The capacity to     - Engineering, Petroleum,     - Consultation with NGOs.  training programs.
monitor oil production in  Legal, Financial, and
MMEP is strengthened.      Auditing experts hired by   - Reports from             5. Participation of legal and
January 1, 2001.             International Advisory   financial advisors in
A2b. Legal and financial                                 Panel.                   negotiations and
agreements of the Doba   - Legal and financial                                    implementation of Doba
Petroleum Project are      agreements protect Chad's    Re. A2c: Oil Price        Petroleum Project
monitored.                 interests.                    Comparator study.        agreements.
A2c. Oil price comparators  - Oil price comparators reflect  Re. A2d: Audit reports  6. Effective collaboration
are negotiated with        pertinent international price                          among stakeholders in
upstream oil consortium    indicators.                 Re: A4:                    producing region
companies.                                             - FACIL's reports and     (including Government,
Re. A4: See Attachment I to this    reports from consultants    NGOs, and Private
A2d. Private sector        Annex 1                       and FACIL's advisors.    Sponsors).
operators of the Doba
Petroleum Project are                                  - Census reports and       7. Contracts with three
audited.                                                 monitoring of the        member experts signed in
migrants.               timely manner.
A3. Project Coordination.
- CTNSC report on Rapid   8. Government will share
A4. Social and Rural                                     Intervention Measures    information with civil
Development. The pressure                                executed.                society.
of migrating population on
the region is mitigated and
the living conditions of



21
Annex 1
Narrative Summary             Key Indicators              Monitoring and        Critical Assumptions and
Supervision                  Risks
Project Outputs                                                                   (Outputs to Development
Re. A5:                    Objectives)
residents are improved.                                - Press reviews
9. Government gives high
A5. IEC and MIS          Re. A5:                       - Reports from the          priority to training.
(i) Populations, NGOs, and  - First Quarterly consultation  Government's
donors are sensitive to the  with local populations and   Communication Task       10. Government will
Doba Petroleum Project 's  civil society by July 1, 2001.  Force                  implement policies to
realities and impacts.                                                             attract additional sound
- MIS system in place and fully  - Consultation reports  private investment.
(ii) Project MIS operating.  operational by July 1, 2001.
- NGOs' reports
- First project progress report
by July 1, 2001.
B. Petroleum Sector      Re. BI:                       Re.: Bl:
Management               - Draft regulations and code  - Bank supervision missions
prepared by January 1, 2002
Bl. Environmental                                      - Semi-annual reports by
regulations for the      Re. B2a and b                   CTNSC, Direction du
petroleum sector are     - Number of persons trained in  Petrole, and on capacity
developed, and a new       the following areas: (i)     improvements
hydrocarbon code is        Geology, 2 persons by May 1,
prepared.                  2001; (ii) Geophysics, 2    - Consultants' reports and
persons by May 1, 2001; (iii)    report from Direction du
B2a. The technical         drilling, 2 persons by May 1,  Petrole
expertise and capacity to  2001; (iv) Contracts and Fiscal
develop and manage a       Specialists, 2 persons by   Re.: B2
hydrocarbon sector         January 1, 2002; (v)        - Consultants and Direction
information database is    Petroleum economics and        du P&trole reports
improved.                 finance, 2 persons by January
1, 2002; (vi) Archivists for  - Report on Hydrocarbon
B2b. Chadians are trained  petroleum data, 2 persons by  database
as petroleum experts and   July 1, 2002.
negotiation specialists.                               - Consultants report;
Re.: B2c and d:                Promotion documentation
B2c. An inventory of     - All past geological and
Chad's petroleum resource   geophysical data acquired
potential is available.     and stored in a systematic
manner and easily available
B2d. A study on Chad's     to potential investors.
sedimentary basins is    - Number of Seismic data
completed.                  reprocessed and reinterpreted.
- Updated study of Chad's
petroleum potential.



22
Annex 1
Narrative Summary            Key Indicators              Monitoring and         Critical Assumptions and
Supervision                  Risks
Project Components                                                                (Components to Outputs)
1. Continuity and retention
A. Doba Petroleum        Total Cost: US$ 18.9 million                             of trained staff in jobs for
Project Management                                     * MIS quaterly reports     which they were trained.
Al. Environmental                                      * Bank Group supervision
Management                                            missions and reports.       2. Government remains
committed to
Ala. Technical assistance                              *Consultants semi-annual    implementation of the
for drafting regulations,                             reports;                    EMP, including
training / capacity                                                              investments in rapid
building, equipment i                                   Semi-annual reporting on   intervention measures.
financing, and logistical                             use of consultants and output
support for MEWR and                                  ueof criigponsulantsadotu   3. Government has the
CTNSC                                                 of training programs        capacity and willingness to
A.b. Operation of the                       *Reports of the Advisory   commit resources.
A lb. Operation of the                                Pnlado h
International Advisory                                Panel and of the            4. Government remains
Panel                                                 MoEnvironmental   tant      willing to create a legal and
Monitoring Consultant      regulatory framework to
A2. Technical Aspects                                                             attract private sector
A2a. Training / capacity                               + Financial Audit reports  investment for petroleum
building, equipment                                                               exploration and production.
financing, and logistical                              * Periodic consultations with
support for MMEP                                      local and international NGOs  5.Govemment remains
and with the Civil Society  willing to develop and
A2b. Legal and financial                                                          enforce new environmental
supervision of                                         * FACIL's reports         regulations on all
financial/legal aspects of                                                        petroleum sector
Doba agreements                                                                   development activities.
A2c. Study of oil price
comparators
A2d. Auditing of Doba
private operators.
Training! capacity
building, equipment
financing, and logistical
support for Ministry of
Finance.
A3. Project Coordination
A4. Social and Rural
Development. Rapid
Intervention measures,
including: (a) awareness
campaign re: in-migration;
rehabilitating basic



23
Annex 1
Narrative Summary            Key Indicators             Monitoring and        Critical Assumptions and
Supervision                 Risks
Project Components                                                              (Components to Outputs)
infrastructures and (b) Pilot
Development Fund
A5. IEC and MIS
Support to the
communication campaign
and Monitoring
Information System
B. Petroleum sector       Total Cost: US$ 5.3 million
management:
Provide Technical
assistance, training,
equipment, and logistical
support for:
B]. Environmental
Regulatory Framework
B2a Petroleum
exploration promotion
activities
B2b. Legal and
Negotiations activities
B2c. Petroleum resource
database/inventory
B2d Study on sedimentary
basins



24
Annex 1
Attachment 1 to Annex 1: Indicators for A4:
* Number of rapid intervention infrastructure measures completed by July 1, 2001:
*  Construction of health center in Doba
*  Rehabilitation of health center in Bebedjia
*  Rehabilitation of Doba hospital
*  Construction of public market in Doba
*  Construction of public market in Bebedjia
*  Construction of slaughterhouse in Doba
*  Construction of slaughterhouse in Bebedjia
*  Construction of cattle market in Doba
*  Rehabilitation and enlarging of sewerage facilities in Doba
*  Construction of sewerage facilities in Bebedjia
*  Addition of 10 water-supply bore-holes in Doba
*  Delivery of health equipment and medications in Doba and Bebedjia
* First sensitization campaign on STDs and AIDS completed by January 1, 2002.
* Adoption of forest resources management plan for the producing region by January 1, 2002.
*  FACIL Activities : (i ) first update of Regional Development Plan by July 1, 2001; (ii) Number of
cumulative micro projects approved: 5 by July 2001; 10 by July 2002; 20 by July 2003; and 30 by
July 2004.



25
Part A of Annex 2
CHAD: Petroleum Sector Management Capacity-Building Project
Part A: Detailed Project Description
I. Project Background
1.    The Government of Chad has completed negotiations of a petroleum production
agreement with a consortium of oil companies (the Private Sponsors) to develop the oil
discoveries in the southern part of the country at Doba. The Chad/Cameroon Petroleum
Development and Pipeline Project (the Doba Petroleum Project) is expected to produce,
transport, and sell nearly one billion barrels of oil from three fields in the Doba Basin to
world markets. On the basis of a Brent oil price of about US$15.25/barrel, Chad will earn
some US$ 1.5 to 2.0 billion over the 28-year production life of the fields. The Doba
Petroleum Project, however, carries risks: the risk that some environmental and social
impacts may not be avoided, minimized, or mitigated; also that the petroleum revenues that
accrue to the Government of Chad may not be properly managed.
2.    The Government of Chad is aware of the opportunities and risks arising from the
development of oil resources and has asked for Bank assistance in strengthening its
capacity: (a) to monitor and supervise the environmental, social, and technical aspects of
petroleum projects, starting with the Doba Petroleum Project; (b) to address the induced
impacts in the producing region that will be generated by the project; and (c) to manage the
petroleum sector as a whole. The proposed Petroleum Sector Management Capacity-
Building project aims at providing this assistance. In addition, in anticipation of the arrival
of the oil revenue, Chad has adopted a revenue management program for managing these
petroleum revenues, and has also requested Bank assistance to strengthen its capacity to
implement the program. To this end, a separate capacity-building project was prepared and
was approved by IDA's Board on January 27, 2000 (the Management of the Petroleum
Economy Project). In Cameroon, a Petroleum Environment Capacity Enhancement Project
(CAPECE) is being designed with the same schedule and a set of activities focussing on
strengthening Cameroon's capacity to monitor the environmental impacts of the Doba
Petroleum Project in Cameroon. Exchange of information, knowledge, and expertise
between Chad and Cameroon on the objectives and achievements of these environmental
management capacity-building projects will be promoted through the cluster of projects
related to the Doba Petroleum Project.
II. Project Context
3.    The key objectives of the Chad CAS are to restore public sector capacity by
enhancing the efficiency of Government services, focus public expenditures on poverty
reduction, and create an environment favorable to private sector development. The
proposed Petroleum Sector Management Capacity-Building project aims to meet these
objectives through the development of critical skills and institutions in order to plan,
implement, and monitor development of the petroleum sector in an environmentally and



26
Part A of Annex 2
socially sound manner. The proposed capacity-building project is closely inter-linked to
the development of the Doba Petroleum Project, which project will actually generate oil
revenues for the Government. The mobilization of oil revenue is key to Chad's central
development objective of accelerating economic growth and reducing poverty.
4.    The Doba Petroleum Project has been engineered, along with the environmental
management plan (EMP) developed under the pipeline project, to address potential
environmental and social impacts (see Annexes 14, 15, 16 and 17 of the PAD for the Doba
Petroleum Project).  The environmental and social impacts of the project requiring
monitoring and mitigation are detailed in the EMP, which includes a Resettlement and
Compensation Plan.
5.    Although the primary responsibility for preventing, avoiding, mitigating,
compensating, and monitoring the environmental impacts of the Doba Petroleum Project
lie with the project's private operators, the Government of Chad has an important role in
monitoring the private operators and in preventing and responding to the potential
environmental and social impacts of the pipeline project. Specific actions include:
* monitoring implementation of the mitigating measures by the private sector
operators;
*  enforcing regulations on pollution control, health, and nature protection;
*  mitigating induced impacts in the producing region;
*  monitoring environmental and social impacts,
* regulating the sector to provide a sound framework for making petroleum
development in Chad environmentally sustainable;
*  delivering administrative authorizations on the basis of sound technical analysis
performed by TOTCO and the upstream operator and checked by the CTNSC; and
*  conducting Information, Education, and Communication (IEC) activities on
environmental matters related to the Doba Petroleum Project.
6.    There is a need to strengthen the capacity of the Government of Chad to monitor
and supervise the environmental, social, and technical aspects of the Doba Petroleum
Project, as well as its capacity to manage the sector as a whole. This project is designed to
assist Chad in these areas. Specifically, the development objectives of the proposed
capacity-building project are to strengthen the capacity of Chad to:



27
Part A of Annex 2
. manage the development of its petroleum resources in an environmentally and
socially sound manner, beginning with the development of the Doba oil fields and
the pipeline;
* minimize and mitigate the potential negative environmental and social impacts of
the Doba Petroleum Project on the producing region, build capacity in the region,
and provide opportunities for the region's residents to improve their living
conditions; and
* establish an effective framework for further sound private sector investment in the
petroleum sector and engage effectively with such investors.
III. Project Description
7.    The project has two main components:
A.   the Doba Project Management Component (US$ 18.9 million, of which
US$16.4 million financed by IDA), designed to increase Chad's capacity to
monitor and manage the environmental and social impacts of the Doba
Petroleum Project and to mitigate the project's impact on the producing
region; and
B.   the Petroleum Sector Management Component (US$ 5.3 million, financed
by IDA), designed to strengthen the Government's capacity to support and
manage the development of Chad's petroleum sector.



28
Part A of Annex 2
The Project costs are set out in the following table:
A. Doba Project Management           _         _ 
Government Capacity
1. Environment (Technical and        Institutional      6.7          26
Institutional Support)           Development
(i) Ministry of Environment/CTNSC                   6.1
(ii) International Advisory Panel                   0.6
2. Technical Experts and Training:    Institutional     2.1            8
(i) Engineering and Petroleum   Development         0.7
(ii) Financial and Legal                            0.8
(iii) Fiscal Consultants/Audits                     0.6
3. Project Coordination Support                         0.3            1
Producing Region
4. Induced Impacts in oil producing region   Physical and  9.0        34
(i) Social Infrastructure (Rapid  Institutional     5.5
Intervention Measures), Awareness    Development
Campaign, and Fostering Stakeholder
Interaction                                         3.5
(ii) Pilot Development Fund for
decentralized regional expenditures
Additional Information Activities    Institutional      0.8            3
5. Monitoring, Information Gathering,  Development
Dissemination, and Communication
Activities
B. Petroleum Sector Management
1. Petroleum Sector Environmental/Social  Policy        0.7           3
Regulatory Framework
2. Petroleum Sector Information      Institutional      4.6           17
Management System                    Development
C. Refinancing of PPF Advances                          2.0           8
Total          26.2         100



29
Part A of Annex 2
A. The Doba Project Management Component
8.    This first and main component will aim at strengthening Chad's capacity to: (i) monitor
the implementation of the Doba Petroleum Project; (ii) mitigate the impact of the Doba
Petroleum Project on the producing region; and (iii) support information and communication
campaigns to increase the amount and quality of information about the project made available
to the Government, local population and other stakeholders. The construction schedule for the
Doba Petroleum Project is provided in part J of this Annex.
a. Strengthening Government Capacity by:
i. Building environmental, social and technical capacity, both in the MEWR and the
MMEP.
ii. Building Government's capacity to deal with legal, financial and other technical
aspects of the Doba Petroleum Project.
iii. Providing operational support for project coordination activities.
b. Mitigating Project Impacts on the Producing Region by:
i. Implementing a communications campaign to limit migration to the producing
region and to mitigate its impact on the local population. Support will also be
provided for the development of mechanisms to promote sound and stable
interactions among the various stakeholders in the project area (including the
private sector operators, local population and in-migrants).
ii. Mitigating induced impacts on the producing region through the financing of
rapid intervention measures, such as increased health facilities and water-wells.
iii. Supporting development activities in the producing region through the
establishment of a pilot development fund to finance complementary rapid
intervention measures and mid-term development activities proposed by
communities and local NGOs.
c. Additional Information and Communication activities:
i. Supporting the development of a monitoring and information system (MIS).
ii. Implementing communication and consultation activities to generate accurate
information regarding this project and support information dissemination and
dialogue with all stakeholders.



30
Part A of Annex 2
9.    Estimated costs of the eight sub-components are given in the table below. Detailed
descriptions of the sub-components of this Part A follow later:
Sub-Component                                    Estimated Costs (US$ Mil.)
Capacity Building for Environment Management                6.7
Capacity Building re: Technical Aspects                     2.1
Project Coordination                                        0.3
Management of Induced Impacts: Information to               0.5
Migrants; Fostering Stakeholder Interaction
Management of Induced Impacts: Rapid Intervention           5.0
Measures
Pilot Development Fund and Regional Development Plan        3.5
Activities
MIS                                                         0.5
Information, Education, and Communication                   0.3
Total                                                      18.9
a. Government Capacity Building
i. Chad Environment/Social Management Capacity re: Doba Petroleum Project
(US$ 6.7 Million)
10.   As indicated above, the environmental and social impacts of the Doba Petroleum
Project that require monitoring and mitigation are detailed in the EMP for the pipeline project.
The main responsibilities of the Government include: (i) monitoring any oil spills; (ii)
monitoring and management of non-worker health and safety; (iii) monitoring and support to
the management of compensation and resettlement programs; (iv) monitoring and management
of access to hunting, agriculture, and timber harvesting; (v) monitoring and support to the
management of waste and waste-water; (vi) monitoring and support to the management of
cultural properties, and (vii) more generally, monitoring the state of the environment in the oil
field area and along the pipeline. In addition, the Government will improve the regulatory
framework for environmental management in the petroleum sector (see part B.i below).
11.   The environmental management sub-component will provide for:  (i) training of
CTNSC and staff in decentralized administrative services; (ii) engaging the services of an
International Advisory Panel (IAP) specialized in analyzing environmental and social project
impacts; (iii) logistical support to strengthen Government capacity to manage and mitigate
social impacts in the field; and (iv) development of a Government oil spill response plan.
12.   CTNSC. To provide the required inter-departmental coordination mechanism, the
Government has established a technical committee (Comite Technique National de Suivi et de
Contr6le - CTNSC), that is responsible for the monitoring and control of the environmental and
social impacts of the Doba Petroleum Project and, more generally, of the petroleum sector in
Chad. The Government established CTNSC by decree No. 298/PR/MTE of July 10, 1997. The
CTNSC is made up of representatives from the following ministries MEWR (chair), MMEP,
Ministry of Public Administration and of Employment, as well as the Ministries of Public



31
Part A of Annex 2
Health, Social Affairs, Family, Public Works, Transport and Urban Affairs, Housing,
Livestock, Justice; Interior, Security, Decentralization, and Agriculture. The basic role of
CTNSC permanent staff will be to monitor closely the operations of the oil development
project, cater for exceptional emergency situations where TOTCO's capacity may be overtaxed,
but primarily focus on coordinating the interventions of specialized Government agencies (in
particular those in charge of water and environment, mines, industry, health, and social affairs).
13.   To meet these objectives, CTNSC needs to strengthen its operational capacity. The
CTNSC has set up an executive secretariat and appointed an Executive Secretary. CTNSC
proposes to increase its staffing by employing technicians in N'Djamena (including three
professionals and other support staff) and at the Doba Petroleum Project site (including five
professionals covering biophysical and socio-economic issues and support staff). It has office
facilities in N'Djamena and it will open up such facilities in the project area (close to the Esso
Chad base at Kome and in Bebedjia). CTNSC's proposed organizational chart is set out in Part
B of this Annex. Some training for CTNSC staff has begun; for example staff participated in
the September 1999 NGO training session on the World Bank Group's safeguard policies.
CTNSC will also upgrade its office supplies, equipment (including laboratory equipment, office
equipment, and telecommunications equipment), and vehicles to improve its capacity to
function effectively. As early as 1997, the CTNSC hired institutional experts to analyze its
training and other operational needs. The experts (who prepared this part of the project)
submitted a detailed report in February 1998 with a detailed cost estimate (Part C of this
Annex), a plan for recruitment of personnel for the Secretariat (Part D of this Annex), and a
plan for training. The total budget for CTNSC is estimated to be about US$6.5 million for a
five-year project implementation period. The performance of CTNSC and of the Government
agencies involved will be monitored as part of the overall MIS to be established under this
project.
14.   Training. Central and field staff of the Executive Secretariat, as well as of the relevant
ministries, will be trained in skills needed to play their role in the implementation of the EMP.
Training will be procured through a small set of contracts (preferably one or two) to ensure
consistency and quality of services. The training programs for the Chadian administration will
be very closely coordinated with the TOTCO training programs for its own and contractor staff
and the CAPECE training programs for the Cameroonian administration. The list and
implementation schedule of the training sessions are outlined below.



32
Part A of Annex 2
List and schedule of training activities
Environmental Management Information Systems (2001)
Information on the EMP (project launching early 2001)
Pollution inspectors (2001)
Legal training (2001)
Implementation of the new environmental protection decrees (2001)
Implementation of the Government Oil Spill Response Plan (2001)
Languages and Information Technology (2001 and 2002)
Health management, including HIV/AIDS prevention, treatment, and training (2000-4)
Training for IEC (2000-4)
Conflict Resolution Training (2001)
15.   Services of an International Advisory Panel. CTNSC will receive annually the
services of an independent International Advisory Panel (IAP). These services will be obtained
under a contract with an independent consulting company or university. At the beginning of
each year, CTNSC will produce a list of three or four fields of expertise required. These will
most likely include biophysical impacts management, preventive/public health management,
socio-economic aspects of petroleum projects, and environmental laws.
16.   Oil Spill Response Plan. For the Doba Petroleum Project, Esso Chad/TOTCO has
developed an oil spill response plan (see General Oil Spill Response Plan, dated September
1999, and released to the public in October 1999). The Government of Chad will work to
develop a complementary oil spill response plan during the first year of this capacity-building
project. It would be designed: (i) within the Doba Petroleum Project context, to complement
the efforts of Esso Chad/TOTCO in preventing and mitigating the environmental and social
impacts of oil spills, if and when they occur, and (ii) at the national level, to prevent and
mitigate oil spills from any future oil project. The development of the plan will be carried out
by international and national consultants with the involvement of potential stakeholders.
17.   Monitoring and Evaluation. The CTNSC will monitor the state of the environment in
the Doba oil field area and along the pipeline. Measurements of the quality of air and water, as
well as of the health status of non-workers within the project area, will be made. These
measurements will be based on analyses conducted on an ad hoc basis by specialized
laboratories and consultants employed by the CTNSC. The CTNSC will also conduct and
publish the results of surveys to monitor the economic status of persons having been resettled
and on the status of financial compensation. In addition, the CTNSC will report periodically on
the progress made on environmental management in the Doba region and along the pipeline by
publishing the results of pre-selected performance criteria.
18.   Technical Assistance and Logistical Support. In-country technical assistance will be
needed for the first two years of project implementation. One technical expert will be advising
the CTNSC Executive Secretariat in N'Djamena on the overall management of the component,
while another one will advise the CTNSC field team. The terms of reference of the technical
experts will include regular training of CTNSC members, as well as daily interaction with



33
Part A of Annex 2
CTNSC Executive Secretariat staff. The project will also provide logistical support to CTNSC
to monitor the environmental and technical performance of TOTCO and of Esso Chad.
19.   The estimated cost breakdown for this sub-component is as follows:
Chad Environment! Social Capacity                   Estimated Costs (US$
Mil.)
Environmental / Social Consultants                            1.5
International Advisory Panel                                  0.6
Equipment (including measuring equipment, office              0.8
equipment, and telecommunication equipment)
Vehicles                                                      0.4
Fees, Supplies, and Operating Costs for CTNSC                 1.7
Training                                                      0.9
Civil Works (CTNSC N'Djamena and Bebedjia Offices)            0.8
Sub-Total                                                     6.7
ii.   Capacity  Building re: Technical Aspects of the Doba Petroleum  Project
(US$ 2.1 million)
20.   This sub-component will finance the provision of: (i) experts in the fields of engineering
and petroleum; (ii) legal and financial advisors required by Chad to enable it to manage
effectively the legal and financial relations with its private partners; and (iii)
accountants/auditors to monitor the financial activities of the private sector operators.
a. Engineering and Petroleum Experts (US$ 0.6 million):
21.   The Government of Chad, and in particular the Petroleum Directorate of MMEP, will
need its technical capacity strengthened to supervise and monitor the construction and operation
by the Private Sponsors of the Doba Petroleum Project. This is the first time that a pipeline is
being constructed in Chad and the first time that such a large number of wells are being drilled.
These works would need to be monitored by the Government to ensure that they are being
undertaken in compliance with sound engineering norms and the EMP. Drilling engineering,
geology, and pipeline expertise would be required. In addition, because the upstream
concession is based on a calculation and negotiation of appropriate oil price comparators, the
Government would employ specialists with expertise in the determination of relevant oil price
comparators (given such factors as market prices, quality of petroleum, and transportation
costs) to assist it in its discussions with the Private Sponsors. The intervention of these
specialists will be required shortly before the initial shipment of oil through the pipeline. They
would be employed, however, during the preceding two years to enable Chad to begin to
familiarize itself with the dynamics of this process, as well as provide support and training
through the initial two years of these calculations, given changing market dynamics.



34
Part A of Annex 2
b. Legal and Financial Advisors (US$ 0.7 million):
22.   The development of the Doba Petroleum Project involves a variety of parties, including
the private sector operators, the Governments of Chad and Cameroon, commercial
lenders/export credit agencies (ECAs), and the Bank Group, linked by a series of legal
agreements and financial relations. The contractual structure has been negotiated over a five-
year period. While the major terms of the legal agreements are complete, further work is
required on the details of these agreements, as well as to manage implementation of conditions
and other aspects. The Private Sponsors have employed external legal experts and financial
advisors to support them in this effort. The commercial lenders/ECAs, IFC, and the Bank have
also employed outside legal counsel. Similarly, to assist in managing the legal aspects, the
Government has called on outside legal counsel, and to assist in analyzing the financial
implications, it has called on financial advisors. The project would provide financing to Chad
to enable it to continue to avail itself of these experts, with particular focus over the next 18
months, which covers the following critical periods: (i) negotiation of the final wording of the
contracts; (ii) financial closure, including fulfillment of conditions precedent to funding by the
commercial lenders and the World Bank Group; and (iii) initial implementation of the
contractual framework, including disbursement of funds.
c. Fiscal Consultants/Auditors (US$ 0.8 million):
23.   The upstream concession signed between Chad and the Private Sponsors is based on a
system of royalties and taxation. Although significant tax revenues are not expected during the
initial years of operation, expenditures incurred by the Private Sponsors during the construction
period will affect the level of revenues Chad can subsequently expect. Auditing the Private
Sponsors' accounts and tax filings will be central to this process. In order to strengthen Chad's
capacity to perform this function effectively, the Ministry of Finance, supported by the MMEP,
would employ external auditors whose roles would be two-fold: (a) to conduct audits of the
private sector companies for the next five years; and (b) to train Chadian officials in the
Ministry of Finance and the MMEP in auditing petroleum  sector activities.  Primary
responsibility for oversight of this component will rest with the Ministry of Finance, which is
responsible for administering Chad's tax regulations. In addition, given the need to call on
petroleum experts in assessing the reasonableness of claims, the MMEP will provide ongoing
support. Both ministries will benefit from training.
iii. Project Coordination (US$ 0.3 million)
24.   The institutional arrangements for the implementation of the various activities under
both the Doba Project Management Component and the Petroleum Sector Management
Component (see para. 43 below) are set out in the chart in Part E of this Annex 2. Overall
guidance would be provided by the National Coordination team for the Doba Petroleum
Project. This coordination team will be the successor to the Chadian negotiating team
established to manage the negotiation process of the Doba Petroleum Project. Currently, this
inter-ministerial negotiating team is led by the Office of the Presidency, but the Government
has decided that following financial closure, lead responsibility will be vested in a National



35
Part A of Annex 2
Coordinator located in the Prime Minister's Office. The credit will provide financing for
operational support of project coordination.
b. Mitigating Impacts on the Producing Region
25.   Socio-economic context and Induced Impacts. Like most of Chad, the Doba region is
characterized by low rural incomes, socio-economic infrastructure in poor condition, and an
agricultural system which puts pressure on natural resources, compounding the effects of high
population growth. Unlike the rest of the country, however, the region has adequate rainfall for
intensified agricultural production, some feeder road infrastructure to serve cotton growing, and
a population density that should be sufficient to enable provision of basic services at reasonable
cost. In the context of a fragile equilibrium between population and resources, the Doba
Petroleum Project presents both the risk of increasing pressure on resources and a unique
opportunity to put the interest, activities, and resources generated by the project to work for the
region's development.
26.   Induced impacts and strategy. Studies have indicated that the Doba region could
experience an immigration flow of between 5,000 and 20,000 people lured by the hope of
benefiting from the oil project. Compared with the current population of about 54,000, this
10% to 35% increase in the number of residents could aggravate the already significant
pressure on the socio-economic infrastructure and natural resources of this fragile region.
Possible negative impacts that could jeopardize the economic opportunities generated by oil
production include deterioration of food security, price inflation, depletion of natural resources,
conflict between local population groups and immigrants, and increased risks of epidemics.
The Government is currently preparing, in a participatory process with the different
stakeholders, a plan to define priorities for the development of the producing region (the RDP).
This process of delineating the RDP will take time, but it is already clear that the sustainable
development of the region over the medium term cannot rely exclusively on oil revenues. For
example, local communities expressed, during various workshops, their more immediate needs
for: (i) rural infrastructure; (ii) credit; (iii) fertilizer and production equipment; and (iv) training.
27.   Considering the socio-economic opportunities and risks mentioned above, a component
to mitigate impacts on the producing region has been developed. This component will have
three sub-components: (i) measures to prevent and mitigate the negative impacts of a
population influx into the region; (ii) actions to prepare the region for a rapid increase in
population by upgrading essential infrastructure and services at the greatest pressure points
before the migration flow gathers momentum; and (iii) establishment of a fund to finance
income-generating and other activities designed to improve living conditions in the project
area, while also establishing a vehicle for increased participation in the development dialogue at
the local level.
i. Information and Awareness-Raising Campaign related to In-Migration, Fostering
Stakeholder Interaction, and Information Campaign (US$ 0.5 million)
28.   In order to limit the pressure on the Doba region's already limited resources, inflow of
migrants should be minimized. Unlike traditional refugee situations, where the migrants are of



36
Part A of Annex 2
a nationality other than that of the receiving country, the Doba Petroleum Project will mostly
involve Chadians seeking to move within their own country. No restrictive or prohibitory
measures are being considered. Esso Chad and TOTCO will implement a communication plan
to explain, for example, their local-based hiring procedures. A complementary communication
campaign plan would be developed by Chad. This campaign will have three target groups: (i)
potential migrants, with the primary aim of informing them of the potential problems they
would confront in migrating to the project area and the limited employment opportunities, and
if they choose to migrate, explaining to them how to settle in the region with the least possible
impact; (ii) inhabitants of the region, to prepare them for the expected in-flow; and (iii) the
transhumant populations, to inform them of issues involved in settling in the Doba region. This
campaign will use various media: radio broadcasts, posters in public places, information and
discussion kiosks, drama performances, and videos. Local NGO capacity exists in the region to
carry out this campaign.
29.   Fostering Sound and Stable Interaction amongst Stakeholders. The project will
inevitably involve intense interaction among a variety of stakeholders in the project area,
including local populations, Esso Chad and TOTCO (the private sector operators), contractors,
in-migrants, local NGOs, and local and national government authorities. The Government is
interested in nurturing the establishment of mechanisms to facilitate these interactions, with the
aim of avoiding or minimizing disagreements and of resolving disputes (e.g., between the
private sector operators and local population) where possible in a collaborative manner. These
mechanisms would be developed in the context of, and build upon, the variety of vehicles
which have already been put into place (such as the Esso Chad program of consultations,
actions called for under the EMP, the FACIL, existing practices in the project area, and
mechanisms prescribed under Chad's judicial system).
30.   A component to promote stakeholder dialogue and support the Government's efforts in
nurturing such mechanisms will be financed under the project. The activities planned under
this component will complement a variety of other actions of this project, such as (i) the
training of government employees in conflict resolution under Part A(a) of the project (see para.
14), and (ii) the development of a communications campaign under Part A(c) of the project (see
para. 42). They will include the formulation of an action plan and training and logistical
support to implement the action plan. As needed, consultants will be hired to assist the
Govermment in formulating the action plan in consultation with the private sector operators,
local population, and other stakeholders. The first draft of such a plan will be prepared for
discussion by December 31, 2000, well before the Doba Petroleum Project activities begin in
earnest.
ii.    Rapid  Intervention  Infrastructure  Improvement  and  Other  Measures
(US$ 5.0 million)
31.   The project will support various measures to increase the capacity of the petroleum
producing region to accommodate a large number of people. In addition to trying to limit the
influx of people while preparing local populations for the inevitable increase in migrants under
the awareness raising campaign described above (see para. 28), additional priority measures



37
Part A of Annex 2
will include: (i) strengthening the region's socio-economic, sanitation, and water-supply
infrastructure; (ii) strengthening the region's health services (hospitals, dispensaries, and
awareness campaigns); (iii) development of an action plan to promote the sustainable use of
natural resources in the project area; and (iv) carrying out preventive activities with respect to
STDs/AIDS. These rapid intervention measures are described in more detail in Part B of this
Annex 2; their estimated cost is provided below. The implementation of the rapid intervention
measures is designed to rely heavily on private operators and NGOs.
RAPiD INTERVENTION MEASURES              Local      Foreign    Total Costs
Costs       Costs      (US$ mil.)
(US$ mil.)  (US$ mil.)
Health Facilities in Doba and Bebedjia (Civil Works)  0.1         0.9          1.0
Public Infrastructure: Construction of public markets  0.2         1.4        1.6
and slaughterhouses, provision of sanitation facilities,
cattle markets, rehabilitation of health facilities
Water-Supply Facilities (Civil Works):Bore-holes,    0.1          0.6         0.7
pumps and standpipes
Activities with respect to STDs and AIDS                          0.3         0,3
Sustainable management of fuelwood supplies          0.1          0.3         0.4
Monitoring and Operational support costs             0.3          0.7          1.0
Sub-total - Rapid Intervention Measures    0.8          4.2         5.0
iii.   Pilot Development Fund  and  Regional Development Planning  Process
(US$ 3.5 million)
32.   The producing region can derive significant benefits from the economic and financial
opportunities created by the proposed petroleum project (e.g., increased employment and
demand for local products and services). These opportunities can help to improve the
development prospect of the producing region, provided the region is adequately prepared. The
proposed component would encourage the medium-term development of the region by:
*  preparing a Regional Framework to: (i) ensure a coordinated approach to regional
development; (ii) set intervention priorities for the pilot development fund (Fonds
d'Actions Concertees d'Initiative Locale,(FACIL)), and (iii) provide the baseline for
elaborating the RDP;
*  setting up the FACIL, a pilot development fund, to implement and refine financial
and other support mechanisms for micro-development activities, complementary
rapid intervention measures and other small-scale development activities; and
* helping the Government, the FACIL Steering Committee, and other stakeholders
prepare the RDP through a participatory approach.
These activities are described in greater detail in Part G to this Annex 2.



38
Part A of Annex 2
33.   Framework for Regional Development Activities. To organize the activities of the
FACIL and to help elaborate the Regional Development Plan, a Regional Development
Framework is being developed in the context of the ongoing discussions with local population
and NGOs. This framework will be incorporated into the FACIL manual which will guide the
activities of the FACIL Steering Committee. This interaction between the development of a
guiding framework and the operations and the consultation systems built into the FACIL
structure provide a mechanism through which experience can be fed directly back into the
framework and the regional development planning process. Some of the main priorities which
have been identified for the Regional Development Framework are:
* the national priorities in the education, health, rural development (agriculture,
livestock, environment, water supply) and economic infrastructure and services
(transport, sanitation, etc.);
* the national policy for these sectors (including, for instance, the minimum distance
between two infrastructures, the decentralization policy, and construction
standards);
*  a comprehensive list of actors and activities in these sectors (including
NGOs/Community Based Organizations, private sector, Government, and donors);
and
*  cost standards.
34.   The Pilot Development Fund (FACIL) is a facility established to finance social and
economic infrastructure and to promote income-generating activities in the region, while
contributing to the mitigation of possible negative impacts. It is also a vehicle to promote a
consensus-building framework for the producing region with the active participation of local
stakeholders. The specific objectives of the FACIL are to:
*  Improve the living conditions of the local population by providing them with better
access to basic socio-economic infrastructure and services;
*  Improve incomes through the creation of temporary and permanent employment,
development of income-generating activities, creation of economic opportunities, and
strengthening capacities of local micro and small enterprises;
*  Enable local institutions to respond better to unforeseen situations as needed to mitigate
the social and environmental impacts of the Doba Petroleum Project;
*  Create an institutional and operating framework for other donors prepared to become
involved in the development of the producing zone;
* Facilitate, by its pilot nature and rapid implementation, the preparation and updating of
the RDP, and enable the harmonization of local actions with the medium- and long-term
regional and sectoral development policies.
The specific objectives of the FACIL and its activities will be guided by priorities and
guidelines defined in the RDF and, eventually, in the RDP. The FACIL's institutional set-up
and operating principles are described in detail in Part G of this Annex 2.



39
Part A of Annex 2
35.   Technical assistance for the FACIL. Tne establishment of a development fund is a
relatively new experience for the Government and other local stakeholders, as is the degree of
civil society participation in this process.  To enable Chad to effectively manage this
component and given the current limitations of the CTNSC, the Government would employ
external technical experts who will provide in-depth expertise on: (i) rural infrastructure,
engineering, and civil works; (ii) monitoring and MIS; (iii) financial management and
procurement practices; and (iv) regional planning and stakeholder participation.  These
technical experts would be in place for an initial period of at least two years and would help to
support the smooth implementation and management of the pilot fund and subsequently assist
the Government in the transition to the larger scale phase.
36.   Participation. One of the goals of this sub-component is to build social capital and to
empower local communities. Accordingly, a participatory approach is being adopted at every
step of its implementation. Preparation work has shown that local people are eager to have
their voices heard, but at present there are no listening channels, let alone mechanisms to ensure
that their views will be taken into account in decision-making. The project will set up a number
of mechanisms to ensure grassroots participation and promote community empowerment, with
particular attention to traditionally disadvantaged groups, such as women. These mechanisms
will include:
* membership of community representatives in the FACIL Steering Committee, in
which civil society will hold the majority;
* open FACIL Steering Committee meetings in various regional centers, to allow a
wide range of communities and groups to attend and present their concerns/requests;
* active participation in the elaboration of the RDP, including through local
consultations and participatory reviews;
* mechanisms for communities or other groups to present initiatives directly to FACIL
for funding (as well as cross-checks by FACIL to confirm that the preferences of
disadvantaged groups have been taken into account);
* control over decisions concerning FACIL-funded initiatives (e.g., location and
technical design) via participation in the Steering Committee's final decision-making
process;
* joint supervision of FACIL-funded initiatives via supervision reviews of the Steering
Committee;
* capacity building through specific training in organizational skills, problem analysis,
leadership skills (with a special focus on women), strategic planning, and functional
literacy;
* focal points for screening sub-projects and for the environmental and social review of
the environmental assessments conducted on potentially sensitive sub-projects;
* access to information through rural radio and kiosks in Bebedjia, Doba, and
Moundou; and
* a dedicated staff at FACIL responsible for listening to local communities.



40
Part A of Annex 2
37.   The RDP will be elaborated in parallel with and through the operation of the FACIL.
The RDP will build on the RDF (described above) that guide FACIL's activities in its initial
phases. The process of delineating the RDP was initiated in early 1999 by the Government
together with civil society. As requested by local NGOs, the Government is organizing the
delineation of the RDP through an iterative and participatory process designed to promote full
and widespread ownership in the region. The FACIL is a vehicle for creating the processes to
support the preparation of the RDP. FACIL's first activities will be instrumental in building
trust among beneficiaries and encouraging local participation in the RDP. The process of
preparing the RDP will be as important as the formulation of the final document, given that it
represents a key opportunity to empower various population groups. The operation of the
FACIL provides the key underpinning for this process.
c. Additional Information and Communication Activities (US$ 0.8 million)
38.  In addition to the information and awareness raising campaign designed to limit the
inflow of migrants (see para. 28 above), the project will support the following information and
communication activities: (i) creation of an MIS; (ii) a census of the local populations; and (iii)
development of an information and communication campaign to keep stakeholders informed
during implementation of the Doba Petroleum Project.
i. MIS (US$ 0.5 million).
39.   To support project management and communication, the project will support the
creation of a monitoring and information system. The system will serve three distinct
objectives: (i) monitor the technical progress of activities planned (on a yearly basis) and
implemented by the project; (ii) support the Government in evaluating the conformity of
construction and exploitation phases of the Doba Petroleum Project with the benchmarks
detailed in the EMP; and (iii) provide information for dissemination under the communications
component described below. The system will build on the information being generated under
this project and the Doba Petroleum Project, such as CTNSC progress reports, Private
Sponsors' information update, reports from the IAP and the environmental compliance
monitoring consultant, health surveys, and consultations with local communities and NGOS.
40.   To meet these three objectives, two separate information sub-systems will be designed:
(i) a Monitoring and Evaluation System and (ii) an Environmental Information System. Both
of these will produce regular reports and will provide a web site with relevant and up-to-date
information. These two systems would be developed to meet the different needs of the
stakeholders involved in this project and the Doba Petroleum Project:  (i) the National
Coordination Unit (ii) the CTNSC (iii) the Direction du Petrole, (iv) the private operators; (v)
Civil Society, and (vi) the project financiers. In addition, these objectives are shared by
Cameroon, and Chad will coordinate with Cameroon in creating a collaborative information
system.
ii. Census of the Local Populations
41.  In order to assess the impact of the Doba Petroleum Project on the populations, it will
be essential to determine accurately and track the numbers of inhabitants, with a focus on the



41
Part A of Annex 2
towns of Doba and Bebedjia. Although population census of these two towns have been
conducted regularly, this approach will not suffice in the face of a rapid inflow of migrants.
Consequently, a team of survey-takers will be set up in each town; these teams will live in the
area and will conduct regular surveys among the inhabitants in their particular areas. These
surveys will list names together with the basic statistics: e.g., age, sex, diseases, date of arrival
in town, and employment. This activity will be supervised by the CTNSC. The survey data will
then be analyzed by a coordination team which will publish the findings (in paper form and on
the Internet).
iii. Communication and Consultation (US$ 0.3 million).
42.   During the process of preparing the Doba Petroleum  Project, the Government
recognized the importance of informing its population of the many critical aspects of proposed
activities. Accordingly, it intends to carry out a communications plan during implementation of
the Doba Petroleum Project. Although the detailed elements of the communications plan need
to be more fully defined, a process to be supported under this project, the major objective of the
plan is to ensure communication and consultation with the affected populations, Chad's civil
society, and NGOs. The Government has recognized the importance of informing civil society
and affected populations about the impacts of the Doba Petroleum Project, the actions being
envisaged by the authorities, the revenues generated each year, and their use.  The
Government's experience in the preparation of the Doba Petroleum  Project has also
demonstrated the importance of outreach to foreign stakeholders, better organizing its
communications with the Private Sponsors, and the rest of the Government, as well as
improving its communication with other external partners, including the project financiers and
the donor community. An initial draft program being considered by the Government is set out
in Part H of this Annex. The IDA credit would help finance consultants and logistical support.
B. Petroleum Sector Management Component (US$ 5.3 million)
43.   The second main component of this capacity building project is designed to build the
capacity of the Government to manage the further development of the petroleum sector as
whole. The Doba Petroleum Project is the first petroleum project in Chad. The private sector
is showing increased interest in Chad, and the Government wants to strengthen its ability to
deal effectively with these potential partners. Building on the invaluable information generated
by the Doba and other exploration activities, this component will: (i) help to strengthen the
regulatory framework applicable to oil development, particularly to ensure environmentally and
socially sound activities; (ii) provide training and technical assistance to the Direction du
Petrole for petroleum database management; and (iii) strengthen capacity in negotiating with
prospective investors. In addition, the Direction du Petrole, responsible for these activities,
will require logistical support, including equipment. In particular, geological and geophysical
data and information need to be carefully stored in climate-controlled space. This Petroleum
Sector Management Component will have two sub-components: (i) preparation of a regulatory
framework specifying, inter alia, the environmental regulations governing petroleum
exploration and production in Chad; and (ii) the development of a Petroleum Sector
Information Management System and operational support. The costs of this Petroleum Sector
Management component are estimated as follows:



42
Part A of Annex 2
Sub-Component                                       Estimated Costs (US$
Mil.)
Legal, Fiscal, and Environmental Consultants                   0.7
(Regulatory Framework)
Petroleum Consultants                                          1.0
Training                                                       1.0
Office and Storage Space for the Direction du Petrole          0.9
Office and Storage Equipment and Vehicles for the              0.9
Direction du Petrole
Incremental Operating Costs for the Direction du Petrole      0.8
Sub-Total                                                      5.3
i. Petroleum Sector Environmental, Social Regulatory Framework (US$ 0.7 million)
44.   National Environmental Framework for the Petroleum Sector. The Government
will draw up the necessary decrees and train the relevant Government agencies in the
implementation of its new National Environmental Framework, and will prepare a long term
vision study and establish a permanent structure for monitoring and mitigating environmental
and social impacts in the petroleum sector. The long-term vision study will: (i) draw the
lessons learned from the experience of the CTNSC's first years of operation; (ii) identify
alternative institutional scenarios for the long term management of the petroleum sector and
describe their respective advantages and costs; and (iii) provide the basis for the Government to
choose an institutional setup. This study will be carried out about mid-way through project
implementation. The results will be discussed with the Bank and put into effect before the end
of the project.
45.   Chad may potentially have other oilfields that could be developed commercially. Chad
has gained a great deal of experience in preparing the Doba Petroleum Project as to the nature
of environmental and social issues that arise in the course of this type of operation. While Bank
safeguard policies helped provide a framework with respect to the Doba field development,
Chad is looking to assess options in developing a framework for other areas. To this end, Chad
would inventory its existing laws and regulations, review practice in other countries, and the
requirements under Bank Group guidelines for environmental and social impacts of petroleum
development activities, with a view to developing a strengthened regulatory framework to
ensure environmentally and socially sound development of its petroleum resources. Issues to
address would include the need for cumulative/regional/sectoral impact assessments, as needed.
The MMEP together with CTNSC will supervise this activity. External consultants will be
hired to provide expertise and training.



43
Part A of Annex 2
ii. Petroleum Sector Information Management System (US$ 4.6 million)
46.   Much of Chad is composed of sedimentary rocks filling five major basins; the Erdis
Basin to the northeast, the Lake Chad Basin in the western central region, and the Doba,
Dosseo and Salamat Basins in the south. From 1961 to 1965, some exploration efforts were
made in the Erdis Basin but their results were not conclusive. The extent of exploration efforts
in both basins is minimal compared to the potential and efforts need to continue in this area. In
addition, the invaluable geological and geophysical data and information generated to date will
need to be stored and actively managed in order to better position Chad to attract operators and
investors, negotiate with potential investors, and increase petroleum revenues. The Government
needs to develop a strategy to determine which areas to promote, and when and under what
conditions new and relinquished areas should be awarded to existing and new companies. The
Petroleum Sector Information Management System is designed to support this effort.
47.   Under the Petroleum Sector Information Management System, Chad, and in particular
the Direction du Petrole of MMEP, will: (i) retrieve and organize, with the assistance of
experts, the information from the over 30,000 seismic lines that have been shot and the over
56,000 line kilometers of aeromagnetic surveys that have been carried out and from the 45
wells that have been drilled; (ii) construct a data storage facility with controlled temperature to
store geological and other petroleum data and information; (iii) develop a storage and
information management system; (iv) reprocess and re-interpret some of the existing geological
and geophysical information, using state-of-the-art techniques; (v) conduct seminars in the oil
capitals of the world about Chad's petroleum potential; (vi) negotiate complex contracts with
private oil investors to maximize the benefits to Chad; (vii) train and build capacity in the areas
of data management, geological and seismic studies, as well as contract negotiation; and (viii)
purchase critical office equipment, such as computers, printers, telecommunications hardware,
vehicles for field transportation, and basic office supplies. The project will finance consultants,
training, civil works, equipment and vehicles, and logistical support these efforts.



44
Part B of Annex 2
Environmental Management Organization
Construction Phase
CTNSC Executive Secretariat
Headquarter1 (N'Djamena)
Project Leader
1 Planner                   ~Interrrational Technicalica
I Accounting spec.teatonl                                                                                                                                              ccunin                      Srvce
Technical                       Docuinentation                                                            Technical Office   Saccntacin                             ASeicst
Assistance:                       Reproduction                                                                                            ffc
1 Secretary ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~     frc                                                                                                          ICrtghe                      Scetr
NIagfnicen                        I Technician                                                                          I             AcchtciantaSec 2 Security Grd
Specialist                                                                                                                                                   I Radio Dispatcher
Doba Antenna Sites:  Supervisory
FA C IL               .........................................................................................................
I Directorr_r
I Engineer
I Agro-cconomtist                                                                         ogitcaServics                                    g '                            A
I Planner                               International Technical                          lptclSrcsAccournting Specialist
I Sociologist                                Assistance                                     8 Chauffeur                                                    Technical Office                             Oflire
I AconI ng speciais                  I Enviromnaceal Eniginerinng                       2 Radio Dispatches                                               I Coffputer Operator                    I Accountant's Assistant
Socioeconorric                 Socioeconornic               |Biophysical    ||Biophysical    ||Biophysical    |                                                Health Tea
Tearn# I                   | Tearn # 2      || Teaun # I    || Teain # 2                                                  | Teamn # 3                          All  Saite
Pipeline:                 |     Drilling                       Drilling     ||                 Pipeline     || All Sites                                       AlSie
I Expert                  |    I Expert    ||                  I Expert    ||                  I Expert    ||                  I Expert                        I | AgExent
I Agent                   |    I Agent     ||                  I Agent                   j     I Agent                   i     I Asent                            ge



45
Part C of Annex 2
Part C: CTNSC Budget for the Construction Phase of the Project
Budget Component                                Total CFAF mil.    %
1  Investments                                                              521,300   14%
11  Infrastructure                                                            50,000     1%
12  Vehicles                                                                 219,300    6%
13  Office Equipment                                                         168,000    4%
131   * CTNSC office equipment                                43,000
132   * Equipment for the technical office in N'Djamena       25,000
133   * Equipment for documentation/reproduction office in    24,000
134  * Equipment for CTNSC office- Doba                       26,500
135   * Communications equipment (/Doba)                      38,000
136   oConference/audio/photo equipment (/Doba)               11,500
14  Technical Equipment                                                       68,000    2%
141   * Equipment and operational costs for the Biophysics work  32,000
142  * Equipment and operational costs for Socioeconomic work  13,000
143   - Equipment and operational costs for Health services   23,000
15  Equipment for field operations                                            16,000   0.4%
2  Operations                                                              2,010,871    53%
21  Committee members                                                         95,400    3%
22  Salaries of local personnel at Executive Secretariat in Ndj.             136,800    4%
23  Salaries of local personnel at Doba site                                 397,800    10%
24  Lodging for personnel at Doba site                                       100,080    3%
25  International Technical Expert                                           634,500   17%
26  Operating Expenses - Car                                                 167,184    4%
27  Operating Expenses - motorcycles                                           17,346    0%
28  Operating Expenses - CTNSC office -                                      181,873     5%
29  Operating Expenses - CTNSC base - Doba                                   111,709    3%
210  Operating Expenses - CTNSC office in Doba operating base                       0    0%
211  Operating Expenses - field team - Doba                                    25,620     1%
212  General Expenses - Other Operating Expenses                              142,560    4%
3  Sub-Contracting                                                          146,780    4%
31  Technical Expert mission of an international expert                       66,780    2%
311   * Actions on Biophysical aspects                        33,120
312   * Actions on Socioeconomic aspects                      11,220
313   * Actions on Health aspects                             22,440
32  Budget for institutes/laboratories for analyses/studies                   65,000    2%
321   * Actions on Biophysical aspects                        50,000
322   * Actions on Socio-Economic aspects                          0
323   * Actions on Health aspects                             15,000
33  Technical Assistance missions (local biologists, etc.)                    15,000    0%
331   * Actions on Biophysical aspects                         4,500
332   * Actions on Socioeconomic aspects                       6,000
333   * Actions on Health aspects                              4,500
4  Training Budget                                                          623,484   16%
41  Training in Chad                                                          144,890    4%
42  Training abroad at specialized training organizations                    159,940    4%
43  Visits to petroleum projects abroad                                      214,740    6%
44  Other training                                                           103,914    3%
Total without Contingencies                                            3,302,435   87%
Contingencies/ International Advisory Panel                              717,365   13%
Total Budget                                                          4,020,000 =
US$6,700,000



46                            Part D of Annex 2
Part D: CTNSC Executive Secretariat Personnel Recruitment Planning
Positions           Desirable recruitment timeframe assuming normal Project progress
Years 2000-2001
__April  May June  July  Aug  Sept  Oct  Nov  Dec  Jan   Feb   March
HQ
Project Leader
TA HQ                  . .    _                                               ___
Secretary HQ          _           =      _                            ___
Accounting l  
Documentation_                                      
Tech. Office                                                            __
RadiogDispather1
Chauffeur 2_                ==                       _     =    _       =
Chauffeur 3                                                   _ _                  _
Valet
Security Guard I
Security Guard 2            6                       7            1 = == = =   t
Field_                      _=                             =      = 
Supervisor__                                         __
TA Field                        I     I     I        _
|Biophys. Expert 1                    < I_ 7 = ==
|Biophys. Expert 2    1      _=                      
|Biophys. Expert 3           _r  
|Socioecon. Expert 1|        _                                               I
|Socioecon. Expert 2|                        1 H       -
Health Expert       rI                      I     I        =    -I
|Biophys.Agent 2   r                        L      I_I
|Biophys. Agent 3                                                 _      _|
Socioecon. Agent I                                               _I
|Socioecon.+ Agen -2~ 
Health AgettrI I_I
|Accounting Assistant                         
|Computer Operator|  l
IChauffeur I                 _
|Chauffeur 2    _
|Chauffeur 3 ||= 
IChauffeur 41             1     I      I     II                                    I
IChauffeur 5                                                      _
|Chauffeur 6|                   |                           =            =
Chauffeur 7                                                _      _
|Chauffeur 8                           j                           _
|Radio Dispatcher I |                                       =      _     =
|Radio Dispatcher 2 |        _
Valet                       _
|Security Guard     |      0                  
|Recruitment Total  |7    |16  |                     7      =    13      =



47                          Part E of Annex 2
Cbad
Petroleum Sector Management Capacity
Building Project
Institutional Arrangements
Upstream, (Doba)                                                  Mawgement of the
IWOT    )hba)                                                     Pereum Etxmox
COTUO (Doba)7                                                         Project
Prime Mnister's Office   ,,
\   dttonalCoodiator  ,Etergyo    md
cnw                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dimecton du Ptrti*
MInforniation, Education
::-ronmR tI                                      IePt,
Devdopne*itNMnagetnent Infornution          Aet)Dvpm
v                                                    . 1tEnm
'""''''''''''-'                                                         . 



48                       Part F of Annex 2
Part F of Annex 2:
Rapid Intervention Measures
1. Overview. A variety of measures is planned to limit the inflow of migrants into the
region and to prepare to accommodate a large number of people, while reducing the negative
socio-economic impacts. These measures would be carried out expeditiously in view of the
potentially rapid influx of people into the producing region. These rapid intervention
measures include: (i) strengthening the region's socio-economic, sanitation and water-supply
infrastructure; (ii) strengthening the region's health services (hospitals, dispensaries,
information campaigns); (iii) promotion of the sustainable use of natural (forest) resources;
and (iv) preventative actions to control STDs/AIDS. A detailed cost estimate is provided at
the end of this Part F.
2. Geographic scope. The towns of Doba and Bebedjia have been selected as the focal
point for implementing the rapid intervention measures based on the migration projections
made in connection with the EMP. These two towns, owing to their proximity to the oilfields,
are seen as the two main population magnets. The rapid intervention measures were adopted
after consultation meetings in the first half of 1999 with the local population and NGOs active
in the Doba region. Successive missions to the oil producing region helped to formulate the
actions described below.
a.  Strengthening of the region's socio-economic, sanitation, and water-supply
infrastructure
3. A series of activities is planned under this sub-component that involves the construction of
infrastructure facilities; These are set out below. A management committee will be
established to implement activities that require the participation of engineers and architects;
an agreement will be signed with the CTNSC, the Deputy Director General responsible for
Construction and Urban Development, the Director of Water Resources, and the Cellule
Economique, that will specify the role of each party in the technical studies in the field and
preparation of bidding documents. A community specialist supervised by the CTNSC will
carry out a field mission to establish: (i) the management procedures for the infrastructure
facilities; (ii) the training needs; and (iii) the economic studies of the operation of these
facilities. Works are targeted to begin towards mid-200 1.
i.   Urban planning (Doba and Bebedjia). In view of their small size, a small reference
urban plan will be prepared for Doba and Bebedjia. This plan will provide a
framework for the future expansion of these two towns over a fifteen-year timeframe
and would include the following steps: (i) an assessment of the present population
served by the infrastructure and facilities (Inventory for the Programming of
Infrastructure and Equipment); (ii) determination on the basis of this inventory of the
short-term priorities and an analysis of deficiencies, by zone, and by sector; (iii) the
determination of space, infrastructure and equipment needs for a 10/15-year timeframe
and compilation of this information in plans and tables; and (iv) design of a 15-year
investment programn based on the data obtained. Points (i) and (ii) have already been
studied in the context of the RDP. Moreover, the small size of the two towns will in
itself limit the efforts required. The representatives of civil society and the local



49                       Part F of Annex 2
technical services will be associated in this undertaking, along with the municipal
authorities.
ii.  Construction of public markets. The three markets in Doba are all in need of
upgrading. Construction of a modem market near that of the Foire Agricole is needed
to cope with the inflow of migrants. This market will have an initial capacity of 200
places. The feasibility study will include construction of a sub-grade, with backfill
and roadways, a drainage network (concrete gutters with some flagstone crossings),
potable water supply (standpipes), and installation of a waste-treatment system. A
new butcher shop will be incorporated into the market. The study of the rehabilitation
of the three old markets will also be included in this activity. In Bebedjia, which still
has only one market that has been overrun by the town's development, the problems
are similar and it will be necessary to build a new market outside the town, in
accordance with the urban development plan. The proposed site is south of Bebedjia,
on the road to Miandoum. This market will be similar to the one in Doba, but with a
smaller capacity of around 150 places. The collection of taxes on the sale or renting of
places in the markets will enable them to cover their recurrent costs.
iii. Construction of abattoir complexes. Doba has only one slaughterhouse, built in 1962
and rehabilitated in 1992, and it is inadequate to cope with the requirements arising
from an influx of migrants. A new site has been selected southwest of the Doba-Ndoh
neighborhood on the Doba-Bero highway. An abattoir with a daily capacity of about
15 oxen and some 30 sheep and goats will be needed.  In Bebedjia, the old
slaughterhouse built by the Government is out of use, while a second location
currently being used for the purpose, does not meet elementary hygiene requirements
and is also being encroached upon by the town. The new site proposed is Nolohman,
about three kilometers outside the town. Bebedjia, which is closer to Kome than
Doba, will need an abattoir of similar capacity, despite the town's smaller size, to meet
the needs of Esso Chad/TOTCO workers.
iv.  Construction of a cattle market in Doba  There is no cattle market in the town of
Doba at present . However, the size and expected growth of the town render such a
facility indispensable.   The proposed site is southwest of the Doba-Ndoh
neighborhood, on the Doba-Bero highway and close to the waterworks. The market
will have a total surface area of about 1,000 square meters and will be surrounded by a
3 meter fence. It will comprise at least a watering trough, a shed with a window for
the collection of taxes on cattle sales, and a control and vaccination post.
v.  Construction of a drainage system and implementation of sanitation measures. The
town of Doba experiences serious health problems during the wet season. The open-
air reinforced-concrete drainage system built by Care Tchad in 1984 is not being
maintained and only covers a small part of the town. The old system needs renovation
and new neighborhoods have to be served. The town of Doba is built on land that
slopes gently down toward the Pende river, which will facilitate installation of the
drainage system (masonry gutters running for about 3,000 meters in length with 4
meter flagstones to facilitate crossing them every 25 or 50 meters). In addition, a



50                        Part F of Annex 2
system for managing sanitation and sanitary facilities will be instituted. In Doba, it
will also be necessary to construct six ventilated latrines (one per school) and public
trash receptacles (around twenty). A study will also have to be made for the
establishment of a dump that would be organized as a compost heap to facilitate
recycling of waste as organic fertilizer. The Health Committee will be responsible for
trash collection and its workers can be provided with equipment for cleaning out the
gutters: rake, boots, shovels, wheelbarrows and gloves. It will also be given about 500
kilograms of calcium hypochlorite to disinfect the traditional wells in use in Doba. A
self-financing mechanism will be the object of a study. Moreover, Bebedjia has never
had any drainage system, and a drainage system is indispensable for this town that is
most unhealthy during the wet season. Like Doba, Bebedjia is built on ground that
slopes gently down to the river, which should facilitate the works involved. The same
complementary works as described above for Doba (latrines, public trash receptacles,
etc.) will be carried out in Bebedjia.
vi.  Water supply. The town of Doba has a single pump with a water tower, managed by
STEE and of sufficient capacity to supply a good part of the town. At present, only
ten standpipes are supplied by this means, which is far from sufficient to cover the
expected increase in population.  Depending on the economic criteria that are
determined, the action that will be taken will be either to entrust the expansion of the
existing system to STEE, or else to drill a new borehole and construct a water tower,
the management of which will be entrusted to the Mairie and the Population
Committee. At least 10 additional standpipes will be installed. In Bebedjia, the
situation is more open since there are only two boreholes with handpumps there. In
this case, too, a study will have to determine the solution offering maximum benefit
for a given cost. In parallel with them, traditional rural wells will be dug in the region
at a cost of US$100,000 in order to meet this basic need of water supply for small
villages near Doba and Bebedjia that are also likely to receive some of the incoming
migrants.
b. Health Activities
4.    Two distinct sets of activities are planned under this project to strengthen the delivery
of health services in the oil producing region, which comprise two health districts, Doba and
B1bedjia. These activities have been identified taking into consideration the National Health
Policy and the special requirements of the region due to the planned oil production activities.
First, the upgrading of existing infrastructures, construction of health facilities and the
acquisition of complementary equipment for these infrastructure. Second, communication
activities which would have two main focuses: information on the project, and education
campaigns related to sexually transmitted diseases and HIV/AIDS.
Health infrastructure. The project will finance the construction and the rehabilitation of
the following facilities: (i) a new suburban health center in Doba; (ii) expansion of the
capacity of the Doba hospital by 30 hospitalization beds; and (iii) completion of the
health center built in 1997 in Bebedjia, which is not yet operational. The project will
also finance some equipment for these health facilities, in accordance with the national
norms. Their operation and maintenance will be handled by the Ministry of Public



51                      Part F of Annex 2
Health with the support of MSF Belgium in the Doba district and of BELACD in the
Bebedjia district, with the assistance of COOPI for the hospital. The new health center
in suburban Doba will be built using the model plan with a total surface of about 1 25m2
and will comprise: a registration/consultation room, a multipurpose care room (septic
and antiseptic care), a delivery room, a storage area and a small pharmacy with a built in
safety box. In addition, a covered area along the health center will have benches and
serve as a waiting room. Housing for the head nurse, latrines (for patients and one for
the head-nurse family) and showers will also be built in the same compound. As in all
other health facilities built with IDA financing, water necessary for the functioning of
the health center will be provided by a bore hole with a foot pump, which can also be
used by the population. The hospital will be expanded by the construction of an aseptic
operating room, a thirty-bed ward, laundry facilities, an incinerator capable to burn
needles, and shed with cooking facilities for visiting family etc. The new buildings will
be connected with the old ones by covered walkways. In addition, water will be
supplied to the hospital by a dedicated bore hole (with or without a water tower,
depending on the budget available). Finally, the Bebedjia health center will be
completed by drilling a bore hole in the health center compound, hooking up a power
generator, building two latrines and putting up a fence around the compound. Finally,
the project will provide some equipment to the two hospitals -- the Doba hospital and
the Saint Joseph hospital in B6bedjia -- and to the health centers located near the towns
to bring them up to standard and to cope with the increased activities which are expected
to result from the increase in population (in particular, laboratory equipment). An initial
supply of essential generic drugs will also be supplied to all facilities.
ii.  STDs/AIDS Prevention Campaign.  The project will also provide financing for
awareness raising activities regarding STDs/AIDS to be carried out by a specialized
NGO in the Doba region. The activity will need to be carried out in cooperation with
MSF, which manages the Doba health district, and with BELACD with regard to the
Bebedjia district, to promote the sustainability of the action given the experience of
these NGOs in operating in the region. The activities identified are: (a) strengthening
the MASOCOT project, which provides for social marketing of condoms and carrying
out IEC prevention campaigns in the producing region, and (b) supporting the
roads/AIDS project, which focuses on high risk populations (truckers and commercial
sex workers) in the project area.
c.    Promoting sustainable use of natural (forest) resources.
5.   In the petroleum producing region, the forests are shrinking under the pressure of
constant fuelwood gathering. A marked increase in the number of people living in the region
is to be expected and sustainable solutions for managing its wood resources need to be
implemented before project starts. To help to address this issue, the following actions are
planned:  (i) rehabilitating the zone's classified forests; (ii) strengthening management
capacity through additional personnel, procurement of equipment and vehicles, and
establishment  of  a  surveillance  committee,  and  (iii)  proactive  resource
management/reforesting of certain areas and planting of nurseries specializing in fuelwood
trees. A tie-in with the "Household Energy" project also financed by the World Bank will be
explored in finalizing the design of this activity.



52                       Part F of Annex 2
Heading                    Cost (US$ 'OOs)  Cost (CFAF 'OOOs)
Planning
Study on Management of basic public                18.5            12,000
infrastructures
Urban planning Doba and B6bedjia                   37.0            24,000
Public infrastructure
Construction of a public market in Doba          461.5          3,000,000
Construction of a public market in B6b6djia       461.5           300,000
Construction of an abattoir complex in            150.0            97,500
Doba
Construction of an abattoir complex in            128.5            83,500
Bebedjia
Construction of a sewerage system in Doba        230.8            150,000
Construction of a sewerage system in             230.8            150,000
Beb6djia
Construction of a cattle market in Doba           138.5            90,000
Water
Boreholes, pumps and standpipes in Doba           369.3           240,000
Boreholes and pumps in Bebedjia                   369.2           240,000
Shallow wells in rural areas                       92.3            60,000
Health
Expansion of Doba hospital                        303.2           147,000
Construction of a suburban dispensary in          303.2           147,000
Doba
Rehabilitation of the Bebedjia public              21.5            14,000
dispensary
Sub-Total Infrastructure                             3,279.1         2,155,000
Health
Support to the Doba District (MSF)                615.4           400,000
Support to the Bebedjia District (BELACD)         261.5           170,000
Awareness raising campaign STDs/AIDS              307.7           200,000
Information Activities
Census (during project implementation)            130.8            85,000
Sustainable management of forests
Management Plan of existing resources             369.2           240,000
Sub-Total Associated Activities                      1,684.6         1,095,000
Total                                                5,000.0         3,250,000
Note: In this table: 1 US$= 650 FCFA



53                       Part G of Annex 2
Part G of Annex 2:
Fonds d'Actions Concertees d'Initiative Locale [Local Initiatives Fund]
(FACIL)
1.    The producing region can derive significant benefits from the economic and financial
opportunities created by the proposed petroleum project (e.g., increased employment and
demand for local products and services, etc.). These opportunities can help to improve the
development prospects of the producing region, provided the region is adequately prepared
when oil revenues will enter the local economy. The proposed component would encourage
the medium-term development of the region by:
* preparing a Regional Framework to: (i) ensure a coordinated approach to regional
development; (ii) set intervention priorities for the pilot development fund (Fonds
d 'Actions Concertees d 'Initiative Locale); and (iii) provide the baseline for elaborating
a Regional Development Plan (RDP);
*  setting up the FACIL, a pilot development fund, to implement and refine financial and
other support mechanisms for micro-development activities, complementary rapid
intervention measures and other small-scale development activities; and
* helping the Government, the FACIL Steering Committee and other stakeholders
prepare a RDP through a participatory approach.
a. Framework for Regional Development Activities
2.    To organize the activities of the FACIL and to help elaborate the detailed Regional
Development Plan, a Regional Development Framework is being developed in the context of
the ongoing discussions with local populations and NGOs This framework will be
incorporated into the FACIL manual which will guide the activities of the FACIL Steering
Committee. This interaction between the development of a guiding framework and the
operations and consultation systems built into the FACIL structure provide a self adjusting
mechanism under which experience can be fed directly back into the framework and
underlying regional development planning process. Some of the main priorities which have
been identified to date for the Regional Development Framework pursuant to preliminary
discussions are:
* the national priorities in the education, health, rural development (agriculture
livestock, environment, water supply) and economic infrastructures and services
(transport, sanitation, etc.);
* the national policy for these sectors (including, for instance, the minimum distance
between two infrastructures, the decentralization policy, construction standards,
etc.);
* a comprehensive list of actors and activities in these sectors (including
NGOs/CBOs, private sector, Government and donors); and
* cost standards.



54                         Part G of Annex 2
b. Fonds d'Actions Concert&es d'Initiative Locale [Local Initiatives Fund] (FACIL)
3.    General objectives. The Local Initiatives Fund (FACIL) is a facility established to
finance social and economic infrastructures and to promote income-generating activities in the
region, while contributing to the mitigation of possible negative impacts; it is also a vehicle to
promote a consensus-building framework for the producing region with the active
participation of local stakeholders. The specific objectives of the FACIL are to:
*  Improve the living conditions of the local population by contributing to providing
them with better access to basic socio-economic infrastructure and services.
*  Enable improvement of the population's income through creation of temporary and
permanent employment, development of income-generating activities, creation of
economic opportunities, and strengthening of the capacities of local micro- and
small enterprises.
*  Enable local institutions to better respond to unforeseen situations as needed to
mitigate the social and environmental impacts of the Doba Petroleum project.
*  Create an institutional and operating framework for other donors' further support to
the development of the region.
*  Facilitate, by its pilot nature and rapid implementation, the preparation and updating
of the RDP, enabling harmonization of the local actions with the medium and long-
term regional and sector development policies.
4.    Proposed approach.  The mandate of the FACIL is to manage and to channel
financing to target groups through the components identified below The FACIL is not an
executing structure and, consequently, the implementation of all operations financed by it will
be entrusted to promoters, intermediaries and experts, as specified in its procedures manual.
In its choice of activities, operators and beneficiaries, the FACIL is guided by the following
principles:
* Grassroots participation: The operations financed shall meet the needs of the final
beneficiaries and shall be designed at their request and/or with their participation.
Their participation in the implementation and the future maintenance of the activities
is also required (except in special cases). Cofinancing by the beneficiaries and their
assumption of responsibility are the two basic principles in the financing of activities.'
* Simplicity and transparency: The FACIL must be managed by procedures that are
both transparent and verifiable, as well as simple and efficient, while also being
sufficiently flexible to permit contracting with a wide variety of types of operators
(village groups, NGOs, private enterprises, craftsmen and tradesmen, etc.).
* Appropriate technology: The micro-projects to be financed must utilize, to the extent
possible, labor-intensive technologies and local materials.
* Decentralization: The projects must be executed by operators well-represented at the
local level (or possessing significant recent experience in the zone). The FACIL's
decision-making and resource-management bodies must also be based in the region.
The rapid intervention measures can, if necessary, be exceptions to this principle.



55                       Part G of Annex 2
* Promotion of the local private sector: An objective of the FACIL is to contribute to
the development of the region in a context that supports development of the private
sector.  To do this, the fund's structures will sub-contract the technical and
administrative work to the extent possible, including through framework contracts
with local operators.
* Human capital development: The actions financed by the FACIL would include a
training/capacity-strengthening component aimed at the beneficiaries.
* Equity: The FACIL would pay special attention to ensuring: (i) the participation of
women, in significant and visible measure, in the identification of needs and the
choices of actions; and (ii) balanced participation by the sexes in the benefits resulting
from what is accomplished.
* Responsiveness: The FACIL is being set up in an evolving context, the extent of
which is not well known. To take account of this situation, 20% of the resources of
the fund will be available for allocation to unforeseen rapid intervention actions that
could not have been anticipated at the time the fund was set up.
* Synergy: The FACIL would avoid dispersion of financing in order not to lessen the
impact of its operations; it would also avoid any duplication of existing micro-projects
in the region.
5.   The structure of the FACIL. The FACIL will consist of three structural elements:
(i) a Steering Committee (SC); (ii) a Technical Unit (TU); and (iii) a bank account.
a. Steering Committee. The SC is the FACIL's decision-making body; it has the final say
as to whether a micro-project can be financed by the fund. The composition of the SC
reflects the desire for representation of all parties concerned (Government, beneficiaries,
civil society, NGO), so that its decisions require action in concert. The members of the
committee will elect the Chairperson and his/her deputy at their first meeting. Their term
of office will be 12 months and they can be reelected. The SC makes decisions by simple
majority (more than 50% of votes) for current matters and by qualified majority (75% of
votes) for special decisions, such as rejection of a Technical Unit decision, exclusion of a
member of the committee, etc.
b. Technical Unit. The TU manages the fund's regular activity. It is responsible for:
(i) reception and evaluation of micro-project proposals; (ii) informing and raising the
awareness of the beneficiaries and partners concerned; and (iii) management of the funds
and of contractual relations with operators. The TU is made up of contract technical and
administrative personnel and also receives technical assistance from one or more NGOs.
The Technical Unit budget will be revised and voted by the Steering Committee each year,
starting with the second year of the FACIL's implementation.
c. Bank Account. The FACIL's bank account will be opened in a bank of the region and
will be periodically replenished to a level corresponding to four months' activities. Once a
micro-project is approved, the disbursement of funds will have to be authorized by the
Steering Committee. The chairman of the SC may, however, delegate authority to the
director or the manager of the fund to sign checks for amounts below a preset limit. The



56                         Part G of Annex 2
FACIL's operating budget (not counting sub-project financing) will be under the direct
control of the director of the fund.
6.    Type of projects, beneficiaries and operators. In order to accomplish the objectives
assigned to it, the FACIL will focus on four areas: (i) basic socio-economic infrastructure; (ii)
income-generating activities; (iii) capacity strengthening and development of the private
sector; and (iv) rapid intervention measures. Eligible beneficiaries will include village
groups, local authorities, micro- and small enterprises, and professional associations. These
beneficiaries will be able to submit their requests to the FACIL either directly or through
approved internediaries (NGOs and decentralized technical services). The micro-projects
concerned may be implemented directly by the beneficiaries or through local operators
(including approved internediaries and private contractors and consulting firms).
7.    The micro-project cycle. Eligible Micro-project proposals will have to be consistent
with a set of criteria and priorities, as laid down by the national or sector policies and
incorporated in the Regional Development Framework. In addition, proposals will be
screened through three sets of criteria: (i) a list of rejection criteria, which defines the
categories of projects that cannot be financed by the FACIL because they are contrary to its
basic principles; (ii) a list of general eligibility criteria defining the categories of projects
eligible for financing, on the basis of their approach and objectives; and (iii) a list of specific
criteria, defining the eligibility indicators and evaluation indicators for different types of
specific micro-projects. The screening on the basis of (i) and (ii) will be done on receipt of
the request. If the project is found to be initially acceptable, it will be passed on to the TU for
appraisal and formulation of recommendations to the SC. The SC will then analyze the
proposal and the appraisal dossier and decide on financing the project. If it is approved, the
SC will authorize commencement of the contract procedure and commitment of the funds
granted. The following chart sets out the micro-project selection process.
8.    Financial criteria. Micro-projects may be financed up to a ceiling of CFAF 30
million (about US $50,000). The financing will require a contribution by the beneficiaries (in
kind, labor or cash) of at least 20% of the amount of the project. Specific contractual
arrangements will be set up on the basis of the nature of the project and the amount of the
financing requested. The services provided by the intermediaries for the coverage of "soft"
activities (training, promotion, information, monitoring, etc.) can be funded up to a limit of
15% of the financing granted. Disbursements will be made by tranches, after verification of
the progress of the works or services. A final tranche of 10% will be held until verification
that all required arrangements have been made to ensure the maintenance of the structures
constructed.



57                         Part G of Annex 2
FLOW-CHART OF FACIL MICROPROJECT CYCLE
WB
GC Credit  Other Donor
Steering   NOOe~Mna
Regional
DevelopmentPlan
Fund Manal lement
Reg. Development
ement~~~~~~~~~~~Famwr
FLOWS                     Ui
to    Project proposals 
1- Funds
Project proposa s     ~      ~     wto 
Info ration &
<  GO, GVT) 
Fun; 
Beneficianes )
9. Technical assistance for the FACIL. The establishment of a development fund is a
relatively new experience for the Government and other local stakeholders, as is the degree of
participation of the civil society in this process. In order to enable Chad to effectively manage
this component and given the actual limitations of the CTNSC, the Government will need to
employ external technical experts who will provide in-depth expertise on (i) rural
infrastructures, engineering and civil works; (ii) monitoring and management information
systems; (iii) financial management and procurement practices, and (iv) regional planning and
stakeholder participation. These technical experts would be in place for an initial period of at
least two years and would help support the smooth implementation and management of the
pilot fund and to subsequently assist the Government in the potential eventual transition to a
larger-scale phase.
10. Participation. One of the main goals of this sub-component is to build social capital
and to empower local communities; accordingly, a participatory approach is therefore being
adopted at every step of its implementation. Preparation work has shown that local people are
eager to have their voices heard, but at present there are no listening channels, let alone
mechanisms to ensure that their views are taken into account when decisions are made. The
project will set up a number of mechanisms to ensure grassroots participation and promote
community empowerment, with particular attention to traditionally disadvantaged, such as
women. These mechanisms will include:



CHAD
REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN                                                                            P    O      U    I    G     R     G O
(PRODUCING REGION)                                                                                 PRODUCING  REGION
@     PREFECTURE ADMINISTRATIVE CENTER                                                                       ZONE  COVERED  BY  THE
O    SUB-PREFECTURE ADMINISTRATIVE CENTER                                                             REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT  PLAN
O    OTHER COMMUNITIES
-        PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES                                                                                       L  ,
~-      -INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                              KILOMETERS
\>  Bongor 
CAMEROON  /
|SI */                                                   sTANDJILL
This map was produc.S byti    \         MAlb.KEBBi (
Map Dsign Wit of The Wodd Bank          MAYO-KEBBI
The bomndarint, o,ors, denominations                                                         Lai
and nsyodher infonrmtion showson  '                                        *KeoI      *Ber, K
this map do not impy, on the part of
Tho Wodd Bak Gnp. any judgmo"nt                                                            ,r
an the legalstatus of any torritro,r
any endorsement or acceptance of
such boundaris.                                                                                                                      MOYE            A           Q,
r          \    [                l                  ^;            LIYA  Krim-Krim   ~ Bonoyk                          *Koumra 
-     AlGERIA        ' -         LIBYA     ,                       LOGONE OCCIDENTAL
*  / 8~.Bnamar   Moundou                                                                jj       Doba/   BWdiondo
MALI    j   ~NIGER    ,!                                                                             rn'9 f   <o e)  % 
L-r'           I           "-:CHA,                            MounMoiB.ocla
SUDAN                                            LOGONE        ooB.o          )
BURKINA                                i                                                    ORIENTAL
FASO
NIGERIA                                                                        TiMH7-n /
/   ~ ~~'k~Ar.soof                                          0 *i   ny
4L7-JCENTRAL    \                                       ..ssoa                Gr
AFRICAN REP'. 
< - 6'0. eCAMEROON            h         -.A\ t,           HBoi koum p * 
0o ;t:  G"lie"   00sQCAMEOO   4ai6a                                                                                           CENTRAL   FRICAN  REPUBLIC
xmD ~*. ;it'0: A  gABON     j     DEM. REP.,                                              X                           
CONGO



59                       Part G of Annex 2
*  membership of community representatives in the FACIL Steering Committee, in
which civil society will hold the majority;
*  open FACIL Steering Committee meetings in various regional centers, to allow a
wide range of communities and groups to attend and present their
concerns/requests;
*  active participation in the elaboration of the RDP, through local consultations,
participatory reviews, etc.;
*  mechanisms for communities or other groups to present initiatives directly to
FACIL for funding (as well as cross-checks by FACIL to confirm that the
preferences of disadvantaged groups have been taken into account);
* control over decisions concerning FACIL-funded initiatives (e.g., precise location,
technical design, etc.) via participation in the Steering Committee's final decision-
making process;
* joint supervision of FACIL-funded initiatives via the supervision reviews of the
Steering Committee;
*  focal points for screening sub-projects and for the environmental and social review
of the environmental assessments conducted on potentially sensitive sub projects;
*  capacity building through specific training in organizational skills, problem
analysis, leadership skills (with a special focus on women), strategic planning,
functional literacy, etc.;
*  access to information through a rural radio, and kiosks in Bebedjia, Doba and
Moundou; and
*  a dedicated staff at FACIL responsible for listening to communities.
11. Monitoring. This component will be monitored by the CTNSC. All data concerning the
budget, schedule and performance of the various tasks will be incorporated into the project's
Management Information System (MIS) (described in para. 39 of Part A of this Annex 2).
The monitoring system will monitor, inter alia, project activities and impacts (e.g., based on
the census information generated under the project; see para 41 of Part A of this Annex 2).
CTNSC will appoint staff responsible for monitoring who will assist in developing the details
of this function.
12. The Regional Development Plan (RDP) will be elaborated in parallel with and through
the operation of the FACIL. The RDP will build on the Regional Development Framework
(described above) used to guide FACIL's activities in its initial phases. It represents a more
detailed planning activity than the Regional Development Frarnework. The process of
delineating a Regional Development Plan was initiated in early 1999 by the Government with
civil society. As requested by local NGOs, the Government is organizing the delineation of
the RDP under an iterative and participatory process designed to promote full and widespread
ownership in the region (see map). The FACIL is a vehicle for creating the processes to
support the preparation of the RDP. FACIL's first activities will be instrumental in building
trust among beneficiaries and encouraging local participation in the RDP formulation. The
process of preparing the RDP will be as important as the resulting document, given that it
represents a unique opportunity to empower various population groups. The operation of the
FACIL provides the key underpinning for this process.



60                      Part H of Annex 2
Part H of Annex 2
Chad: Government Communications Strategy
1.    Chad has virtually lost its anonymity as a little-known, landlocked, and impoverished
country in Central Africa. Working to join the ranks of the region's oil-producing nations,
with the real prospect of greatly transforming the lives of its seven million inhabitants, Chad
is gaining attention from the international community. Oil is, of course, the issue, but there
are the bigger questions of how this resource will be used to increase standards of living and
free the population from the stranglehold of poverty.
2.    The Government of Chad now recognizes the need to develop a strategy to improve its
general communication with the national public as well as the external world. This strategy
must respond to a national and international environment marked by persistent questions
about the capacity of the Government to make good use of oil revenues and to guarantee basic
freedoms and security in the country.
Strategic Objectives
3.    This context obligates the Government to present its side of the story. The efforts over
the past decade to reconcile and rebuild the country after so many years of ethnic and political
division and decades old conflict must be better explained. The Government must reassure its
internal and external supporters and respond to the persistent questions about revenue
management, about its willingness and ability to use new income to provide badly-needed
social services, develop infrastructure, build capacity within the country, and improve living
conditions for the majority of Chadians. The Government must also respond to the doubts
expressed about environmental management of the Doba Petroleum Project and about human
rights in Chad.
4.    Finally, the Government must take into account the expectations which have
developed in the country and efficiently communicate its development priorities once
petroleum revenues begin to flow from the Doba Petroleum Project. To ensure that there is an
appropriate environment for the changes expected on the economic and social level,
maintaining a national consensus is essential. The citizens of Chad expect a positive change
at the individual and national levels when oil begins to flow. They expect concrete results
beneficial to the majority of the country. And many expect improvements sooner rather than
later. The reality is that these changes will be slow and incremental. Moreover, although
these resources should make a substantial difference for Chad, they will not be sufficient to
eliminate the need for external aid. This situation could become even more complex with
relatively low petroleum prices. In this case, oil revenues would not meet expectations.
Organization of Government Communications
5.    Up to now, communication from Chad about oil and other matters of concern to the
national and international communities has not been systematic. To respond to the growing
need to deliver coherent and consistent information, the Government has put in place a



61                       Part H of Annex 2
communications task force responsible for organizing its communication with internal and
external audiences. This task force will become a permanent unit within the Government
charged with the communications policy, monitoring reactions, and providing feedback to the
Government on its development initiatives.
6.    The task force would be headed by a media expert - a trained communications
specialist with an in-depth knowledge of the country and a perfect understanding of how
media work. The search for such an expert is currently being undertaken. The duties of this
task force include:
* Outline a policy communication framework;
* Identify target audiences within and outside the country;
* Define a set of messages for various audiences;
* Identify all available internal and external communications instruments;
* Establish a database of spokespeople, products and communication events;
* Identify local and international spokespeople capable of helping designate other
spokespeople;
* Organizing media training on a needs basis;
- Develop a program of activities for task force members government spokespeople;
* Prepare information materials on the project and on the country's development
policies and create a system of documentation;
- Establish internet access and develop and maintain a web site;
e Monitor world news about Chad and the oil project and provide clarification where
necessary;
D Produce periodic reviews and modifications of the current strategy;
* Prepare a draft budget for the task force.
7.    This task force will also be charged with the development of a program to assist the
local press in Chad. It will have to work with the existing media institutions, such as the
Union of Chadian journalists, the Press Council, and the Ministry of Communications, as well
as international organizations that assist the press worldwide, like the World Bank
Development Institute, the Institut PANOS, and SYFIA.
Communication Policy Framework
8.    The communication framework must be flexible enough to deal with different changes
at the national and international levels without changing the basic thrust of the strategy. The
task force must therefore develop a matrix that clearly indicates policy objectives,
instruments, activities and their periodicity and expected results.  It should assign
responsibilities and set performance indicators.
Implementation Timetable
9.    There is, and will be, many activities surrounding the Doba Petroleum Project. These
activities could change at any time. The Government needs to rapidly move towards the



62                      Part H of Annex 2
mobilization of this task force and bring about the implementation of its communication
strategy.
a.    The first order of business is the hiring of a communications specialist who,
working with the different ministerial departments, the World Bank, the International
Finance Corporation, and the oil companies, would produce an action plan.
b.    Once the plan is approved, the resources necessary for implementing the plan
will be made available.
c.    The rest of the task force will be mobilized as soon as possible thereafter.
d.    The implementation strategy agreed upon should allow a quick roll out.
e.    Communication should build upon and be coordinated with similar efforts on
the part of Cameroon.



63
Part I of Annex 2
Part I of Annex 2:
Management Information System- Summaiy Data Sheet -
Description              Main areas or performance i      s        Information Source & Procedure for                         Data Gathering
Description              Main areas or performance indicators                data collection                Frequency          Responsibility
Monitoring of EMP implementation (excl. Emergency Measures and Regional Development Activities): Monitoring of Upstream Consortium, Health Impacts and
Migration's, under CTNSC
Monitoring of compliance of     + 12 biophysical themes                    4 Base line data is critical and should be  At least I control  Consortium, CTNSC
Upstream consortium/TOTCO with   + 9 socio-economic themes                 obtained quickly                        by theme and by   Experts, International
respect to the 28 themes of the  + 7 health themes                         + Unscheduled controls by CTNSC for     semester          Advisory Panel,
EMP A                                                                      each of the 28 themes                                     consultants
* Implementation of EMP is Consortium
responsibility
Compensation and Resettlement   Monitoring of each individual case:        * Surveys of impacted populations       One exhaustive    Consortium, CTNSC
Plans *                          * Number of problems documented           * Meetings with Consortium              survey at the     Experts, International
* Number of controls realized             * Each person impacted should be        outset, then on an   Advisory Panel,
consulted                               annual basis      consultants
Monitoring of in-migration to   Number of inhabitants, repartition by gender,    * Annual surveys, detailed for Doba and  One exhaustive    Consortium, CTNSC
project area (demography) *     occupation, etc...                         Bebedjia, and through sampling for the  survey at the     Experts, International
region with a baseline data before startup of  outset, then  Advisory Panel,
project implementation                  annually through   consultants
* Links with Management of the Petroleum   sampling
Economy project
Public Health Monitoring (STDs  For each type of health issues: number of  * Surveys of the hospitals and health   Every six-months  Consortium, CTNSC
and AIDS) *                     cases, location, trends                    centers                                 or once a year    Experts, International
* Consortium responsible for his                         Advisory Panel,
employees                                                 consultants
Supporting documentation: EMP,    Repertoire of documentation needed by    All parties can contribute by sharing the  NA             CTNSC Executive
Implementation Manuals, contracts   CTNSC and the Direction du Petrole (Library,  information                                        Secretariat and thematic
Documentation centers, etc.)                                                                        experts
FACIL, Rapid Intervention Infrastructure Improvements, Regional Development Plan: Monitoring of the Project Area
Technical and financial monitoring   * Commitments / Disbursements         4 Monthly monitoring scorecards for micro   * Monthly for  Responsible for
of micro projects and rapid      + Implementation indicators specific to each    projects                          micro-projects    Monitoring and
intervention infrastructure     micro project                              * Monitoring of invoices and payments by   4 NA for       Appraisal - FACIL
improvements (including the                                                accounting unit                         accounting        Technical Unit (TU)
accounting system)
Data base of all relevant       Name, address, telephone, area of activity  As soon as a contact is identified, the data    NA       Secretariat - FACIL TU



64
Part I of Annex 2
stakeholders                                                               base is updated
Data base of all relevant contracts   Number, amount, schedules and conditions  As soon a contract is signed, the data base    NA    Accountant - FACIL
is updated                                               TU
Supporting documentation:       Repertoire of documentation needed by FACIL  All parties can contribute by sharing the  NA           Secretariat - FACIL TU
strategies, RDP, Development    and CTNSC                                  information
Framework,, Implementation
Manuals
Monitoring of FACIL's impacts    * Utilization of infrastructures built    * Surveys with populations and          Every six-months   + 3 experts from
and of the implementation of the  * Access to social services (health and  infrastructures built                   or once a year    FACIL TU
emergency measures *            education)                                 * Links with Management of the Petroleum                  + Experts CTNSC and
* Capacity of local communities, following  Economy project (poverty assessments)                   International Advisory
implementation of micro projects          and with CTNSC                                            Panel
(management and maintenance)
Monitoring of infrastructures in the   Schools, water systems, health centers,  Links with monitoring of project impacts;    Every six-months   * 3 experts form FACIL
region covered by the FACIL *   hospitals, roads, etc. with indicators on  combined surveys with respect to public  or once a year   TU
utilization and condition                 services                                                  + Experts CTNSC and
International Advisory
Panel
Monitoring - Supervision of the Capacity Building project
Technical and Financial          * Commitments / Disbursements             CTNSC and Direction du Petrole have     Monthly           CTNSC and Direction
Monitoring - Supervision of the  * Performance Indicators specific to each  nominated one person in charge of the MIS                du Petrole (N'Djamena
project                         activity of each component                 and of exchange of information on project                 and project area)
* Global Performance Indicators          implementation
* Audit of project and of private operators
Data base of all relevant       Name, address, telephone, area of activity  As soon as a contact is identified, the data    NA       Secretariat - FACIL TU
stakeholders                                                               base is updated
Data base of all relevant contracts   Number, amount, schedules and conditions  As soon a contract is signed, the data base    NA    Accountant - FACIL
is updated                                                TU
Supporting documentation: laws,    Repertoire of documentation needed by   All parties can contribute by sharing the  NA             CTNSC and Direction
decrees, strategies, best practices,    CTNSC and the Direction du Petrole (Library,  information                                    du Petrole and thematic
Implementation Manuals          Documentation center, etc.)                                                                          experts
NA      Non Applicable
*       Geographic Component



C----------         -   - -       ----
U')
"0~~~ 0
_)   __               - 
7---                                --
CY,
N a.
a=                E
2~~~~~~~'         
8~~~~~~ a
E~~~L.                                 a                    _            8 
V a~~O
CO,  O    Wi   a   _   1111 (              
w                 EL  EL          M
<i; i   _  _   _    lu_g_   _    w    we_          a     o     _~~~~~~~~~~~I



66
Part i of Annex 2



67                             Annex 3
Annex 3
CHAD: Petroleum Sector Management Capacity-Building Project
Estimated Project Costs (Includes Contingencies)
Project Component                            Local       Foreign    Total
US $ million
a. Government Capacity
i. Environmental Management:
MEWR/CTNSC
a. Consultant Services                         0.2         1.3         1.5
b. Equipment and Vehicles                      0.0         1.2         1.2
c. Supplies and Operating Costs                0.2         1.5         1.7
d. Training                                    0.2         0.7         0.9
e. International Advisory Panel (IAP)          0.0         0.6         0.6
f. Civil Works                                 0.3         0.5         0.8
Sub-Total - Environmental Management       0.9        5.8         6.7
ii. Technical Experts
a. Engineering and Petroleum Experts           0.0         0.6         0.6
b. Financial, Legal and Audit Experts          0.0         1.5         1.5
Sub-Total---Technical Experts         0.0         2.1         2.1
iii. Project Coordination                        0.0        0.3         0.3
b. Producing Region Impacts
i. In-migration Awareness Campaign and           0.1        0.4         0.5
Fostering Stakeholder Interaction
ii. Rapid Intervention Measures
a. Health Facilities in Doba and Bebedjia (Civil  0.1      0.9         1.0
Works)
b. Public Infrastructure (Civil Works):        0.2         1.4         1.6
Construction of public markets, sanitation facilities,
etc.
c. Water-Supply Facilities (Civil Works): Bore-  0.1       0.6         0.7
holes, pumps and standpipes
d. Activities with respect to STDs and AIDS     0.0        0.3         0.3
e. Sustainable management of Fuelwood           0.1        0.3         0.4
supplies
f. Operational support and other costs          0.3        0.7         1.0
Sub-total - Rapid Intervention Measures   0.8         4.2         5.0
iii. Pilot Development Fund/RDP- (FACIL)         0.0        3.5         3.5
Sub-Total - Rapid Intervention Measures        0.9        7.6         8.5
and Pilot Development Fund
c. Other Information and Communication            0.2         0.6         0.8
Activities
Sub-Total - Doba Project Management      2.1        16.8        18.9



68
Annex 3
i. Environmental, Social Regulatory Framework     0.0        0.7         0.7
ii. Petroleum Management Information System     0.4         4.2        4.6
a. Data torage                                 0.1        0.8         0.9
b. Consultants                                 0.0        l.0         l.0
c. Training                                    0.2        0.8         l.0
d. Equipment, Vehicles, and Operational Support  0.1      1.6         1.7
Sub-Total - Petroleum Sector Management     0.4         4.9        5.3
TOTAL COSTS                                       2.5       21.7        24.2
Total Project Costs, Including PPF Advances       2.5       23.7        26.2



69
Annex 4
Annex 4
CHAD: Petroleum Sector Management Capacity-Building Project
Financial Expenditures
(000 US$)
Totals, including Contingencies
Fiscal Year                 2001         2002          2003          2004         2005          Total
1. Micro-Projects (FACIL)     500         1,000         1,000          700          300          3,500
2. Civil Works              2,000         2,000          900                                     4,900
3. Consultant services       1,400        1,800         2,900        1,700         1,300         9,100
4. Equipment and Vehicles     800           800          500                                     2,100
5. Operating Costs           1,000        1,000         1,000         1,000          600         4,600
6. PPF Refinancing           2,000                                                               2,000
TOTAL Project               7,700         6,600         6,300        3,400         2,200        26,200
TOTAL IDA                    7,000        6,000         5,700        3,000         2,000        23,700



OL



71
Annex 5
Annex 5
CHAD: Petroleum Sector Management Capacity-Building Project
Environmental Analysis
1.    The proposed project has the following main components:
(a) Technical Assistance, training and institutional strengthening of the environmental
aspects of the project;
(b) Technical Assistance, training and institutional strengthening for environmental
management of the petroleum sector; and
(c) A social infrastructure and rural development component to mitigate the social
impacts of the project.
2.    The first two components include intangible investments that have no negative impact on
the environment. The tangible investments consists of acquisitions of equipment, vehicles, etc.
whose specifications will take into account international environmental norns.
3.    The third - social infrastructure and rural development- component has some intangible
investments and are subject to same comments as in para 2. Above. On the other hand, the
social infrastructure investments could have an impact on the environment. These impacts need
to be analyzed, and negative impacts either avoided or mitigated against, in accordance with the
safeguard policies of the World Bank. The scope of this environmental analysis is limited to this
component of the proposed project.
4.    The forecast environmental analysis is in accordance with Chadian legislation and Bank
guidelines (environmental) relating to social funds.
Objectives
5.    The environmental analysis has the following main objectives:
* Making a quick assessment of the potential environment impacts of social infrastructure
investments; and
* Assessing the capacity building needs for future evaluations and approval of
environmental assessments of future projects in the sector.
Present Status of Environment in Project Zone
6.    The impact zone of the social infrastructure investments are those defined in the Regional
Development Plan and consists of the districts of "Logone Occidental and Oriental," and that of
Tandjile. The sub-districts of Bediondo, Koumra and Moissale of the district of "Moyen Chari"
are also affected by the project. All of this area of influence is located in the south of Chad,
approximately 85 degrees latitude north and 16.5 degrees longitude east, southwest of the town
of Doba.



72
Annex 5
7.    The main human and material characteristics of this zone of influence may be
summarized as follows:
* Average altitude of 500 meters above sea level with a flat surface or slightly undulating
* Intense hydrological network consisting of two major rivers (Logone, Pende) that flow
into Lake Chad
* Soils that can support agriculture: acidic fluvial and alluvial soil in the south and vertisol
(black soil for cotton production) in the north
* Average rainfall of between 1000 and 1300 mm from the months of May to September
* The area is densely active with people involved in agro-pastoral activities, with some of it
covered by secondary forests or degraded forests.
* The local population consists of the Sara group, but also consists of a strong immigration
from the north, who are principally engaged in commerce.
* The zone is also used by animal-herding nomads.
* The zone is densely populated (50 inhabitants/km2 and the growth is high (2.4% per year)
* Agriculture is the principle local economic activity.
Description of Activities
8.    The main activities to be financed under this component of the project include the
following:
* Transport of immigrants to the zone of influence, who do not find employment in the
zone
*  Construction of a health center to monitor the health impacts
* Construction of a health center and rehabilitation of 100 bed hospital
* Improvements to the public markets at Doba and Bebedja
* Improvements to public sanitation in Doba and Bebedjia
* Improvements to wood-fuel supplies
* Water-wells and pumps
* Slaughterhouses and cattle markets in Doba and Bebedjia
* Other infrastructure
9.    The detailed information is contained in the "Plan de Developpement Regional : Mesures
d"Urgence" PGE, Volume 4, Part 1 of April 1999, produced by CTNSC and prepared with a
high degree of participation from local persons both in N'Djamena as well as in the field.



73
Annex 5
Potential Impact of Activities
10.   The table below summarizes the cost and potential impact of this component:
Activity                          Cost         Potential Impact
1. Infrastructure - provision of public US$1.6 mil.  Market  and  animal  waste,  but
markets,      cattle     markets,              essentially degradable; minimal risks
slaughterhouses   and    sanitation            with regard to sanitation
facilities in Doba and Bebedjia
2. . Construction of health centers and US$. 1.0 mil.  Probably limited, because of small
rehabilitation of a 100 bed hospital           size of building, construction mainly
limited to rehabilitation and operating
costs
3. Fuelwood production and supply  US$0.4 mil.  Favorable environmental impact
4. Water-wells and pumps          US$0.7 mil.  Pollution from used water
5. Other Infrastructure                        Small works - negligible impact
General Mitigation Measures and Follow Up
11.  In general, taking into account the small size of social investments that are required and
the fact that capacity will be strengthened in the petroleum sector, capacities that are needed both
for small and large investments, the environmental and social risks of this component are
minimal.
12.   The following general measures are envisaged:
-  Management of medical and hospital waste.
-  Management of degradable waste from slaughterhouses (public and market, etc).
*  Waste or used water from water wells that will be drilled.
13.   The procedures for environmental selection of sub-projects, proposed in para. 15 will
allow, on a case by case basis, an environmental assessment of infrastructure needing specific
treatment.
Environmental Management Plan (EMP)
14.   The EMP (See Annex 10 of the EMP documentation) includes: (a) the procedures to be
put in place; (b) a strengthened institutional framework to prevent, mitigate, and follow potential
impacts; (c) a timetable to implement it.
15.   The procedures to be put into place include:
*  Systematic integration of environmental clauses in the specification documents of
infrastructure work to be carried out under the project.
*  Examination on a case by case basis of work documents and decisions, by CTNSC, for
projects to be submitted for detailed environmental analysis. From present knowledge of



74
Annex 5
the works, the only investments that would need a separate evaluation is the rehabilitation
of the hospital, the slaughterhouse and the public markets.
Annual follow-up of environmental and social impacts of infrastructure works.
16.   The key World Bank document on environmental assessments in social funds, currently
available only in English, will be translated into French and used as the reference document in
setting up the EMP.
17.   The CTNSC and its Executive Secretariat will be responsible for setting up the
institutional framework required to anticipate, attenuate, and monitor the potential impacts. The
permanent members present in the project impact zone will have primary responsibility for the
supervision of the detailed environmental analyses and environmental monitoring.  The
permanent members in N'Djamena, under the supervision of the National Technical Committee,
will be responsible for studying the detailed environmental analyses as well as the annual
environmental monitoring.
18.   The setting-up of the EMP will be carried out according to the following timetable:
*  Training of permanent members of the CTNSC in environmental analysis and monitoring
during the first six months of the project.
-  Undertaking of the first detailed environmental analyses in the first year of the project.
*  Beginning of environmental monitoring at the start of the second year of the project.
v  First summary report on the detailed environmental analyses and environmental
monitoring at the end of the second year.
19.   The financing currently envisaged will be sufficient to set up the above recommended
EMP.



75
Annex 6
Annex 6
CHAD: Petroleum Sector Management Capacity-Building Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
General
1.  A Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) for Chad was carried out in 1993,
showing that procurement procedures in Chad do not conflict with Bank Guidelines. No special
exceptions, permits, or licenses need to be specified in the Credit documents for International
Competitive Bidding (ICB), since Chad's procurement practices allow IDA procedures to take
precedence over any contrary provisions in local regulations.
2.  Civil Works and Goods financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with Bank's
Guidelines under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995 revised in January and August
1996, September 1997, and January 1999), and Bank Standard Bidding Documents, and Standard
Evaluation Report will be used for ICB. National Competitive Bidding (NCB) advertised locally
would be carried out in accordance with Chad's procurement laws and regulations, acceptable to
IDA provided that they assure economy, efficiency, transparency, and broad consistency with key
objectives of the Bank Guidelines. Under NCB, the procedures should ensure that: (i) methods
used in evaluation of bids and the award of contracts are made known to all bidders and not be
applied arbitrarily; (ii) any bidder is given adequate response time (four weeks) for preparation
and submission of bids; (iii) bid evaluation and bidder qualification are clearly specified in
bidding documents; (iv) no preference margin is granted to domestic manufacturers; (v) eligible
firms are not precluded from participation; (vi) award will be made to the lowest evaluated bidder
in accordance with pre-determined and transparent methods; (vii) bid evaluation reports will
clearly state the reasons to reject any non-responsive bid; and (viii) prior to issuing the first call
for bids, draft standard bidding documents prepared as annexes to the Procedures Manual are
submitted to IDA and found acceptable.
3.  Consultant Services contracts financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for the Selection of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997
revised in September 1997, and January 1999). The standard Request for Proposal, as developed
by the Bank, will be used for appointment of consultants. Simplified contracts will be used for
short-term assignments, i.e. those not exceeding six months, carried out by firms or individual
consultants. The Government has been briefed during project appraisal and has received any
additional clarification during negotiations about the features of the new Consultants Guidelines,
in particular with regards to advertisement and bid opening.
4.  Civil works, goods and services for infrastructure sub-projects financed by FACIL
involving the construction, repair, rehabilitation and equipment of community infrastructure such
as health centers, public markets, cattle markets, slaughterhouses, etc. for the social and rural
development component shall be governed when applicable by the Guidelines for Simplified
Procurement and Disbursement for Community-Based Investments (February 1998) and the
Manual of Procedures of the Social Development Fund.



76
Annex 6
5.  A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be prepared and issued in the United Nations
Development Business to advertise for major consulting assignments and any ICB. Publication
of a GPN in the national press or official gazette is also required for NCB. The program elements
by disbursement category, their estimated costs, and procurement methods are summarized in
Table A below. Consultant selection methods and thresholds for procurement methods and prior
review are summarized in Tables Al and B below.
Civil Works and Goods
6.  Civil Works contracts financed by IDA are estimated at US$7.6 million. They will cover
the construction and rehabilitation of offices, and construction of small public and municipal
facilities, such as wells, public markets, and social infrastructure. There will not be any large
contracts exceeding US$500,000, otherwise contracts would be subject to ICB procedures.
Therefore, all civil works contracts, costing less than US$500,000 per contract, up to an aggregate
amount of US$3.5 million (or 75% of total amount) would be procured through NCB in
accordance with national procedures acceptable to IDA. Civil works contracts will be managed
by the PCU and the PIUs using open competition, subject to post-qualification procedure.
Contractors classification will be made known to all bidders. All responsive bids will be
evaluated and only the qualification of the lowest evaluated bidder will be reviewed before
contract award.
7.  Contracts for small civil works estimated to cost less than US$50,000 each, up to an
aggregate amount of US$4.1 million (most of these works will be financed by FACIL ) would be
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from
at least three qualified domestic contractors invited to bid by way of discounts either on the total
price or on the unit prices. The invitation to bid shall be addressed to registered contractors
meeting qualification criteria for the geographical zone considered. Invitation to bid shall include
a bill of quantity, reference unit prices established by an engineer or an architect, a detailed
description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion period, a basic
form, relevant drawings, where applicable, and a model for submission of bid. The award would
be made to the contractor with the lowest price quotation for the required work, provided he
demonstrates he still has the experience and resources to execute the contract successfully. These
small contracts will be mainly for works relating to construction or repairs of health centers, rural
water-wells, public markets, etc.
8.  Contracts for Goods financed by IDA (totaling US$2.1 million) relate to furniture, office
equipment, specific technical equipment, computers, and vehicles. ICB procedures would apply
to vehicles for an amount of US$1.0 million. The remaining contracts for goods, costing less
than US$200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate of US 1.1 million -- which are not likely to be
suitable for ICB because of their small size, and correspond to goods available locally at
economical prices to be delivered over a period of three years -- would be procured through NCB.
Small items which cannot be grouped into contracts of US$20,000 equivalent per contract, up to
an aggregate of US$0.8 million, might be procured through prudent local shopping, on the basis
of quotations obtained from at least three reputable suppliers.



77
Annex 6
Consultant Services
9.  Consulting services financed by IDA would be for: (i) studies, architectural design, civil
work supervision, preparation of bidding documents, accounting systems, financial management
support, and financial audits; and (ii) consultancies on technical matters and training -- skills gap
analysis and skills development. Consultants financed by IDA, totaling US$7.6 million, would
be hired in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of
Consultants (January 1997 revised in September 1997, and January 1999). Selection would be
based on competition among qualified short-listed firms through Quality-and Cost-Based
Selection (QCBS) by evaluating the quality of the proposals before combining quality and cost
evaluation by weighting and adding the quality and cost scores. The implementation unit would
ensure widely publicized procurement notice to get candidacy from consultants. Based on agreed
upon criteria, the implementation unit will maintain and update a list of consultants which will be
used to establish short-lists.
10. Other methods would also apply. For audits and other services of a standard nature, up to
an aggregate amount of US$0.8 million, the Least-Cost Selection (LCS) would be the most
appropriate method -- the firm with the lowest price being selected provided its technical proposal
received the minimum qualifying mark.
11. Consultants services for small and simple services, and for social infrastructure (estimated
to cost less than US$30.000 per contract and up to an aggregate amount of US$300,000) would
be based on Consultants' Qualifications (CQ), based on the consultants' experience and
competence relevant to the assignment.
12. Services for lectures and small studies, which can be delivered by individuals, would be
selected through comparison of qualifications among Individual Consultants (IC) expressing
interest in the assignment or approached directly.
13. Single Source Selection (SSS) will be exceptionally used provided the aggregate amount of
such contracts does not exceed the equivalent of US$200,000 over the project life.
14. Short-lists of consultants for contracts estimated under US$50,000 may be comprised
entirely of national consultants, if a sufficient number of qualified firms (at least three) are locally
available at competitive costs. This would particularly apply to contracts for architectural and
engineering services. However, if foreign firms have expressed interest for those contracts, they
will not be excluded from consideration.
IDA Reviews
15. Contracts financed by IDA above the threshold value of US$100,000 equivalent for works
and goods will be subject to IDA's prior review procedures. The review process would cover
about 45% of the contract amounts for works, goods, and consultants -- see Table B below.
Selective post-review of contracts awarded below the threshold level will apply to about one in
three contracts and will be carried out by Bank staff -- using audits, and other consultants, as
necessary.



78
Annex 6
16. Bank staff will also review the selection process for. the hiring of consultants proposed by
the Borrower. Prior IDA review for the selection of consultants will include the review of
budgets, short-lists, selection procedures, requests for proposals, evaluation reports, contract
awards, and negotiated contracts. Prior IDA review will not apply to contracts for the recruitment
of consulting firms and individuals estimated to cost less than US$100,000 and US$50,000
equivalent, respectively. However, the exception to prior IDA review will not apply to the Terms
of Reference of such contracts, regardless of their value, to single-source hiring, to assignments
of a critical nature as determined by IDA, or to amendments of contracts raising the contract
value above the above-mentioned prior review thresholds. For all consultant contracts subject to
prior review (estimated above US$100,000), opening the financial envelopes will not take place
prior to receiving the Bank's no-objection to the technical evaluation.
17. Documents related to procurement below the prior review thresholds will be maintained by
the borrowers for ex-post review by auditors and by IDA supervision missions.
18. For training abroad and in-country, the program -- containing names of candidates, costs
estimates, content of courses, periods of training and selection of training institutions -- will be
reviewed by IDA annually.
19. Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed. One supervision mission every
twelve months will include special procurement supervision for post-review/audits.
20.  Modification or waiver of the scope and conditions of contracts. Before agreeing to any
material extension, or any modification or waiver of the conditions of contracts that would
increase aggregate cost by more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower should specify the
reasons thereof and seek IDA's prior no-objection for the proposed modification.
Procurement Status of Ongoing Projects and Proposed Arrangements
21. National bidding procedures for public procurement in Chad have not improved. Staff still
need training and guidance by consultants and by the Resident Mission. Procurement would be
managed by two Project Implementation Units (PIU) (Direction du Petrole et CTNSC)
supervised and supported by the Cellule Economique in the Ministry of the Economic Promotion,
Development and International Cooperation for a maximum of one year. Each PIU will include
a procurement specialist and would use consultants as necessary to carry out specific tasks. An
assessment of the capacity of the PIUs was carried out during the appraisal mission, and
strengthening needs have received special attention. Basically, the PIU will be created through:
(i) the transfer of personnel who acquired experience by working in previous operations; (ii) the
recruitment of qualified staff and ad hoc short-term consultant services, as required; and (iii) a
specialized private firm -- to be selected and hired to train staff as necessary. The recruitment of
a key positions in the two PIUs, to be acceptable to IDA, has been done prior to negotiations.
Selection of candidates with qualifications acceptable to IDA for those key positions and
signature of their contracts, will be done shortly, thereafter.



79
Annex 6
Procedures Manuals
22. PIU and Social Funds' procedures manuals and internal organization would include: (i)
eligibility criteria for selecting sub-projects submitted by local and central administrations for
implementation under the proposed project; (ii) procedures for calling for bids, selecting
contractors, consultants, and vendors, and awarding contracts; (iii) internal organization for
supervision and control of works; (iv) disbursement procedures; and (v) procedures for handing
over completed works. These two Procedures manuals were initiated during project appraisal and
confirmed during negotiations. In any case, a version acceptable to IDA will be a condition of
credit effectiveness.
23. Selection of sub-projects. The Government agreed during negotiations that the portfolio of
selected sub-projects be submitted by the PIU to the Government and IDA for approval, in annual
batches no later than June 30 of each year. After that, consulting firms will be hired to prepare
bidding and technical documents to call for bids.
24. Payment to Contractors. The Government has agreed with IDA to open two special
accounts in a commercial bank.
25. As a condition of credit effectiveness, the Government will submit and agree with IDA on:
(i) a draft procurement plan for the first two program years; (ii) a version of the Procedures
Manual; (iii) a proposal to select a firm to provide training and guidance to the PIUs in the area
of procurement and financial management; (iv) a proposal to select a firm to establish the
financial and contract management system of PIUs. It has also agreed to submit : (i) standard
bidding documents to be used under NCB procedures for civil works and goods; and (ii) a plan
for training the PIUs' staff. The Government has also given assurance that it will: (i) use the
Procedures Manual; (ii) use the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for ICB, the Standard
Request for Proposals for the selection of consultants, and the Standard Bid Evaluation reports;
(iii) apply the procurement procedures and arrangements outlined above;  (iv) update the
procurement plan' on a regular basis during annual reviews with IDA and other donors, to
compare target times and actual completion, and transmit it to IDA, during implementation, with
all procurement-related documents; and v) carry out, during annual reviews, an assessment of the
effectiveness of  bidding procedures and performance, as they relate to the program's
procurement experience, and propose for IDA and other donors' consideration any modification
to the current procedures to the extent that would accelerate procurement, while still maintaining
compliance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines and adequate control over contract awards
and payments.
26. The Government also gave assurances at negotiations that it will take the necessary
measures to ensure that procurement phases do not exceed the following target time periods:
' Indicating compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement, revised cost estimates for
individual contracts and the total program, including best estimates of allowances for contingencies, as well as
revised timing of estimated procurement actions.



80
Annex 6
Preparation of bidding documents    4 (6 for large contracts)
Preparation of bids by bidders        4 (6-10 for ICB)
Bid evaluation              2 (4 for large contracts)
Signature of contracts                   2
Payments                            3



81
Annex 6
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category             PROCUREMENT METHOD               Total Cost
(including
contingencies
ICB      NCB        Other    N.B.F
1. Micro-Projects (FACIL)                        3.5                  3.5
(3.5)           _    (3.5)
2. Works: Office                      4.1                  0.8        4.9
Rehabilitation, wells, public        (4.1)                 (--)      (4.1)
markets, etc
3. Goods                    1.0       0.5        0.6                  2.1
(1.0)     (0.5)     (0.6)                 (2.1)
a. Office Supplies              0.5        0.6                  1.1
and Equipment                        (0.5)      (0.6)                 (1.1)
b. Vehicles           1.0                                        1.0
(1.0)                                     (1.0)
4. Consultant Services                           7.6       1.5        9.1
(7.6)     (--)       (7.6)
5. Operating Costs                               4.4       0.2        4.6
(4.4)     (--)       (4.4)
6. Refinancing of PPFs                           2.0                  2.0
(2.0)                (2.0)
Total:                   1.0        4.6       18.1      2.5        26.2
Of which financed by IDA   (1.0)     (4.6)      (18.1   )            (23.7)
Note: a.  Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit
b. ICB = International Competitive Bidding
c. NCB = National Competitive Bidding
d. Other procurement methods include shopping, selection of consultants following IDA
guidelines, expenditures following Government's administrative procedures acceptable to
IDA, and direct purchasing of goods.
e. N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
f.  "Goods" includes purchase of equipment, related supplies, and vehicles.
g. Operating costs include incremental operating costs incurred on account of project
implementation, management and supervision, including office supplies,
communication costs, and travel allowance of project staff, but excluding salaries of
the Borrower's civil servants.



82
Annex 6
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
A. Firms                    5.6                    0.8    0.7     0.1                   7.2
B. Individuals                       -              -     0.3     0.1                   0.4
Total   5.6    -        -       0.8    1.0     0.2       -           7.6
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection; QBS = Quality-based Selection; SFB = Selection under a
Fixed Budget; LCS = Least-Cost Selection; CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications; Other =
Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial Practices, and Single
Sourcing.
N.B.F.       = Not Bank-financed.



83
Annex 6
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
(Amount in US$)
Expenditure     Contract Value    Procurement       Contracts Subject to
Category        (Threshold)      Method        Prior Review / Estimated Total
Value in US$ million Subject to
Prior Review
1. Works        Above             ICB           US$0.0
US$500,000
Between          NCB           US$3.5
US$50,000 and
US$500,000        Quotations    US$0.0
Below US$50,000
2. Goods         $200,000 and     ICB           US$1.0
above
Between $20,000   NCB          US$0.0
and $200,000
Below $20,000     3 quotations   US$0.0
(national
shopping)
3. Consulting   $100,000 and      QCBS +        US$4.0
Firms            above             Short List   Technical evaluation receives IDA
non-objection before opening
financial proposals. Issue an
advertisement in the B.D. to get
expressions of interest.
Below             QCBS +       US$0.0
US$100,000        Short List
Below US$50,000  QCBS +        US$0.0
Short List   Short lists may be comprised
entirely of national firms if there are
at least three reliable national firms.
4. Individual    $50,000 and above  Comparison   US$0.1
Consultants                        of at least 3
CVs
Below $50,000     Comparison   US$0.0
of at least 3
CVs
5. Miscellaneous  NA              NA            NA
Total Value of                                  US$7.6 million (or 45% of the total
Contracts Subject                               value of contracts)
to Prior Review:



84
Annex 6
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category     Amount in           Disbursement
(US$ million)
1. Micro-Projects (FACIL)       3.5                  100%
2. Works                        4.1                  90%
3. Equipment, vehicles, and     2.1      100% of foreign expenditures and
supplies                                 90% of local expenditures
4. Consultant Services, Audits,  7.6                 100%
and Training
5. Operating Costs              4.4                  90%
6. PPF Refinancing              2.0
Total     23.7
27. Disbursement Procedures: Disbursements will be made in accordance with the procedures
and policies outlined in the Bank's Disbursement Handbook.
28. Use of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs): Expenditures under contracts for goods and
consulting firms valued at less than US$ 100,000; individual consulting services valued at less
than US$ 50,000; training and all operating costs will be claimed for financing using SOEs.
Documents verifying expenditures under SOE procedures shall be retained, for review by IDA
Supervision Missions and independent audit, at project offices. Since all works contracts require
IDA's prior review and approval, all expenditures for civil works must be fully documented and
the SOE procedure cannot be used for the Civil Works category.
29. Special Accounts: There will be two special accounts opened at commercial banks
acceptable to IDA, as follows:
30. Special Account "2" for the Doba Petroleum Project Management Component and for the
Petroleum Sector Management Component to be implemented by the MMEP: US$ 600,000.
Upon effectiveness, 50% of the authorized allocation (US$ 300,000) can be advanced to MMEP.
Once disbursements on MMEP's categories total US$ 250,000, the balance of the initial advance
will be made. The MMEP special account will finance expenditures under categories 1, 2, 3, and
4.
31. Special Account "1" for the Doba Petroleum Project Management Component to be
implemented by the MEWR: US$ 500,000. Upon effectiveness, 50% of the authorized
allocation (US$ 250,000) can be advanced to the Ministry of Environment and Water Resources.
Once disbursements on the MEWR's categories total US$ 200,000, the balance of the initial
advance will be made. This special account will finance expenditures under categories 1, 2, 3,
and 4.
32. For both special accounts, replenishment applications must be prepared on a monthly basis,
regardless of the level of activity during the month.



85
Annex 6
33. Minimum Value for Direct Payments and Issuance of Special Commitments (SCs): Direct
payment requests and applications for issuance of special commitments must be valued at least
20% of the special account advance outstanding at the time of submission. Therefore, when
MMEP's special account is US$ 500,000, the minimum application value for direct payments and
SCs will be US$ 100,000 which will increase to US$ 200,000 once the entire authorized
allocation is advanced to the MMEP special account. For the MEWR, the thresholds are
US$ 50,000 and US$ 100,000 correspondingly.
34. Flow of Funds: No subsidiary accounts or use of the special 90-day advance procedure will
be authorized. Government's share of expenditures will be financed at the time of payment to
suppliers and only the IDA-eligible portion will be withdrawn from the special accounts.
35. Financial Management: Satisfactory assessment is a condition of credit effectiveness.
Annual audits will also be carried out.
Estimated IDA Disbursements (US$ million)
Annual             7.0       6.0       5.7       3.0      2.0
Cumulative         7.0       13.0     18.7      21.7      23.7



86



87
Annex 7
Annex 7
Government Letter of Petroleum Sector Policy
[Unofficial Translation]
Republic of Chad
Ministry for Economic Promotion,
Development and Cooperation
Cabinet of the Minister                          N'Djamena, February 25, 2000
No. 167/MPEDC/DG/00
THE MINISTER FOR ECONOMIC PROMOTION, DEVELOPMENT AND COOPERATION
TO
MR. SERGE MICHAILOF
DIRECTOR FOR CHAD
AFRICA REGION
WASHINGTON - DC
Subject: Letter of Petroleum Sector Policy
Mr. Director,
Please find attached the Chad petroleum sector development policy letter.
Please accept my regards.
MAHAMAT ALI HASSAN



88
Annex 7
Republic of Chad
Government Letter of Petroleum Sector Policy:
for the period 2000-2004
(September 21, 1999)
Introduction
Chad is one of the poorest countries on the African continent, with limited resources and
agricultural production at the mercy of the climate. The country is not bordered by any ocean,
the closest maritime port, Port Hlarcourt in Nigeria, being 1800 km away. The fact that it is
without direct access to an ocean port means that petroleum companies have not been able to
carry out and develop large-scale hydrocarbon exploration.  Moreover, this fact, and the
logistical difficulties it presents, makes the supplying of refined petroleum products in Chad very
unreliable and costly.
Hydrocarbon Exploration and Production
Petroleum exploration within Chadian territory for industrial and commercial purposes
did not begin until 1969, when a permit was awarded to Conoco for the exploration of the Doba,
Doseo, Bongor, and Lake Chad basins. About 40 wells produced a dozen discoveries, of which
three are now part of a project to export crude oil through Cameroon from Southern Chad. This is
the Doba Petroleum Project.
These exploration and production activities are being undertaken by foreign companies
without direct state participation, whose role consists in monitoring, supervising, and enforcing
regulations and signed accords.
It is important to note that despite its important potential of hydrocarbon resources, Chad
remains confronted by major difficulties, notably lack of access to an ocean port, lack of private
investment, and lack of basic infrastructure.
Supply of Refined Petroleum Products
As for the availability of refined petroleum products, Chad is totally dependent on
imports coming through third-party countries, in particular from Nigeria and Cameroon. This
dependence means that the availability of petroleum products is not reliable, which leads to very
serious crises, like the one in 1998, along with very high costs. Products imported from
Cameroon at a unit price of 100 FCFA/liter are sold at the pump in Chad at 380-450 FCFA per
liter.
Objectives of the Government's Energy Policy
The objectives of the Government's Energy policy, and specifically for the petroleum
sector over the 2000-2004 period, are to: (a) increase revenues available to the population of
Chad in a way that reduces poverty significantly; (b) provide economic agents and Chadians with
quality energy at the lowest cost possible in a way that puts Chad at the best possible level in



89
Annex 7
terms of economic competitiveness; (c) reduce the country's complete dependence on petroleum
products imports.
Government Objectives and Policy for the Petroleum Sector
The Government's objectives and policy during the 2000-2004 period for the upstream
and downstream petroleum sector are the following:
Government's Objectives and Policy in the Upstream Petroleum Sector
The Government's objectives and policy in the upstream petroleum sector are the
following:
*  Promote the hydrocarbon sector, in order to unlock new public resources
*  Open up the country from the interior as well as to the exterior.
*  Valorize, as soon as possible, the reserves already discovered, and implement as soon as
possible the Doba export project.
*  Put in place a petroleum legislation favorable to private investment in exploration and
production, and adopt a new petroleum code.
-  Safeguard the environment.
*  Provide the specialized services of the Government in terms of expertise and working
conditions in order to allow them to fully realize their missions.
*  Improve regional and sub-regional cooperation by the exchange of data and geological
information.
The implementation of the Government's policy will be based on the following six areas
of action: (a) roles of the state and of the private sector; (b) State institutions; (c) transparency of
activities; (d) environmental management; (e) regulatory framework; (f) regional cooperation.
Roles of the State and Private Sector
Because of the significant technical and financial risks tied to upstream petroleum
activities, the Government of Chad will delegate the responsibility for the exploration,
production, and transport of hydrocarbons to the private sector. This partnership, already in the
works, should permit Chad to: (a) benefit from the expertise of the private sector in the
conception and implementation of the required investments and of their operation; (b) mobilize
the private financing possibilities and the guarantees required by these projects. This partnership
should also allow the State to implement its objectives as defined in its economic strategy and
policy, to define and to monitor the enforcement of the regulatory framework, monitor the
implementation of the undertakings corresponding to this partnership and should ensure a
transfer of technology and expertise.
This policy, however, recognizes that the implementation in Chad of certain petroleum
projects could make it necessary for the State to provide guarantees to the private sector,
especially in order to cover non-commercial risks and to accept minority participation in order to



90
Annex 7
allow projects of a high developmental benefits to be carried out and partially financed by the
private sector or to ensure a transfer of technology and expertise.
Regulatory Framework
In order to stimulate the financing and the interest of the private sector and to ensure the
protection of the environment, the Regulatory Framework of the upstream petroleum sector
(Petroleum  Code and implementing regulations), will be updated, the petroleum  data
accumulated by Chad since the beginning of petroleum exploration will be organized and
archived and the Chadian personnel will be trained in environmental and petroleum matters.
State Institutions in the Petroleum Sector
In order to facilitate the partnership between the private and public sector and take into
account the necessity of a global and balanced energy policy among the different sources of
energy, and the current weaknesses of the limited technical, economic, and financial capacities of
Chad, the Government is committed to simplifying and modernizing, to the greatest extent
possible, the institutional organization of the public sector by pursuing its policy of gradually
placing all the responsibilities for the promotion, development, and management of the
petroleum sector in the Direction du Petrole within the Ministry responsible for the energy
sector. In that context, the Government does not plan to create a public enterprise responsible for
petroleum activities and intends to give the responsibility for the sale of the hydrocarbon
resources of Chad to the private sector.
The Government will also implement an aggressive training policy for government
employees in technical, financial, legal, and environmental matters, and to improve their working
conditions.
Transparency of Petroleum Activities
The Government will follow the policy implemented during the preparation of the Doba
Petroleum Project of consultation with and information of the institutions of civil society and in
particular those benefiting from or likely to be directly affected by the petroleum activities. It
will ensure that poverty reduction is a priority for the use of petroleum revenues by using these
revenues to benefit the health, education, transport, rural development and environment sectors.
In that context, the Government intends to apply its policy on petroleum management and the use
of petroleum revenues, developed in the framework of the Doba Petroleum Project, to all
petroleum development activities and to make these revenues part of the National Budget.
Moreover, in order to obtain the best conditions for the exploration and development of
Chad's petroleum resources, the Government intends, to the extent possible, to put into play the
forces of competition by promoting the areas available for exploration and by soliciting technical
and financial offers from partners having expressed an interest.



91
Annex 7
Environmental Management of Petroleum Activities
As it has shown in the Doba Petroleum Project, the government is committed to ensuring
the implementation of petroleum projects in a manner confonning to the environmental and
social norms and policies of the international petroleum industry and, if required, of the financing
agencies that may participate in these projects. These environmental and social policies and
norms must in particular ensure the development of petroleum resources in a way that attenuates
negative environmental impacts on Chadian society. In this perspective, and following the
approach used for the Doba and Sedigi projects, the Government will carry out, or allow its
private partners to carry out, in consultation with people apt to be effected by these projects, the
required environmental and social impact evaluations, and will prepare, approve, and monitor
closely the implementation of the environmental management plans. This policy will apply in
particular to the other development sites located in Perimeter H.
Regional Cooperation
The Government wishes the development of regional and sub-regional cooperation with
respect to petroleum resource development. Such a cooperation should in particular permit the
exchange and sharing of technical (including geological) and economic data and the monitoring
of regional projects.
Government Objectives and Policy in the Downstream Sector (Import, Refining, Storage,
and Distribution of Refined Petroleum Products)
The Government's objectives and policies in the downstream petroleum sector during the
2000-2004 period are the following:
*  Update the regulatory texts for the import, storage, distribution, and sale of petroleum
products.
- Diversify supply sources and increase storage capacity.
*  Reinforce the quality control of petroleum products.
*  Fight against the fraudulent import of petroleum products.
*  Safeguard the environment.
The implementation of the Government's policy for downstream activities will be based
on the following four areas of action: (a) Chad's petroleum product supply policy; (b) increasing
the independence in the supply of petroleum products; (c) petroleum product pricing policy; (d)
adaptation of the regulatory framework.
Petroleum Product Supply Policy
All downstream petroleum activities - import, transport, storage and distribution of
petroleum products in Chad - are currently carried out by the national and international private
sector. The Government of Chad intends to continue this policy and to stimulate enhanced
competition by urging new private enterprises to participate in these activities. To guarantee a



92
Annex 7
transparent and equitable framework for these activities, the government intends to actively fight
against fraudulent imports which hamper private sector activity and harm public finances.
Increasing the Independence of the Supply of Petroleum Products
To avoid complete dependence on petroleum product imports, the Government intends to
develop its national capacity in the refining of petroleum products. Within this framework, it
intends to carry out as soon as possible with its partners the Sedigi/Seerat project or any other
project to develop the Sedigi fields near Lake Chad. This and other projects should significantly
reduce petroleum product imports. Moreover, the Government intends to make its traditional
imports from Nigeria and Cameroon more reliable by ensuring direct access to the Atlantic coast
of Nigeria and Cameroon and by the possibility of the direct import of petroleum products.
This independence will also be ensured by increasing storage capacity and by modifying
the policy of strategic stocks and of operational stocks.
Establishment of Petroleum Product Prices
The Governnent will put in place a new petroleum product price setting policy, in order
to: (a) clarify, rationalize, and make transparent the basic principles for the establishment and
periodic revision of prices that reflects as much as possible the true cost of each petroleum
product, while taking into account social objectives; (b) ensure the private operators interested in
the import, storage, and distribution of petroleum products a transparent, reliable and equitable
framework for the setting-up of prices and profit margins; (c) ensure the storage of petroleum
products under adequate conditions.
New Regulatory Framework for the Downstream Sector
The search for the supply of petroleum products at the lowest cost to the consumer, the
improvement in the reliability of this supply, and the increase in the transparency of the diverse
actions by all interested parties, require the adaptation of the current regulatory framework.
Besides the implementation of a new petroleum pricing policy, the Government will adopt, in
consultation with the downstream professionals, a new regulatory framework that will be
transparent for all parties involved



93
Annex 8
Annex 8
CHAD: Petroleum Sector Management Capacity-Building Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                  Planned             Actual
(At final PCD stage)
B. Project Schedule                         Planned             Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     24                 30
First Bank mission                            6/97               6/97
Pre-appraisal mission departure               3/98               3/98
Appraisal mission departure                   7/99               7/99
Negotiations                                  8/99            11/99-02/00
Board                                         9/99               04/00
Planned Date of Effectiveness                12/99              9/30/00
Prepared by: the Ministry of Mines, Energy, and Petroleum and the Ministry of
Environment and Water Resources
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                 Specialty
Michel Layec                           Team Leader
Ignatius A. Menezes                        Economist
Philippe Benoit                   Pipeline/Country Support
Jean Roger Mercier              Environment, Biophysical aspects
Tom O'Connor                          Senior Geologist
Francois Rantrua                 Rural Development Specialist
Dimitri Kanounnikoff                      MIS Specialist
Eric Chinje                  Information and Communication
Pushpa Schwartz                      Information Analyst
Charles Donang                        Resident Mission
Luc Lapointe                           Procurement
David Freese                          Disbursements
Isabella Micali Drossos                      Lawyer
Betrand de Chazal                    Financial Management
Chantal Uwanyiligira
Quality Assurance Team:
Name                                 Specialty
Chakib Khelil                           Petroleum
Bernard Abeille                         Procurement
Cynthia Cook                           Environment






95
Annex 9
Annex 9
CHAD: Petroleum Sector Management Capacity-Building Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Preparation Documents
1. Back-to-office Report of December 21, 1995, with three terms of reference for
petroleum management component
2. Project Concept Document of March 12, 1997
3. Minutes of the PCD Review meeting of April 8,1997
4. Report of Forest Resource Management, s entitled: Assessment of Capacities and of
Needs for Environmental Management.
5. Regional Development Plan by US consultants Development Alternatives (DAI)
dated March, 1999.
6. 19 Volume ENVIRONMENTAL Assessment and Environmental Management
prepared with the assistance of Dames and Moore
7. Draft Petroleum Law
8. Decree No. 298/PR/MTE/97 creating CTNSC
9. Decree No. 321/PR/99 creating the office of the National Coordinator
10. Decree No. 391/PRJMMEP/ 97 making Direction de Petrole responsible for the
petroleum sector component
11. Quality Review Panel Report on the Chad - Cameroon Pipeline and Related Capacity
Building Projects (April 6, 1999)
12. Review of Chad's Fiscal Administration (IMF, Fiscal Affairs Department, December
1998).
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Implementation Completion Report, Economic and Financial Management Project
(CR. 1872-CD)
2. Chad - Country Assistance Strategy (Report No. 19365 - CD)
3. MOP Capacity Building Project for Economic Management (report No. P-6729-CD)
C. Other
1. Tchad - Strategie de gestion de l1'conomie a l'ere petroliere, Government of Chad
2. Loi portant gestion des revenus petroliers, Government of Chad
3. Programme d'appui au renforcement des capacites de gestion, Government of Chad
(Ministry of Planning)
4. Plan d'operations du programme de renforcement des capacites nationales du Tchad,
Government of Chad (SENAREC)
5. La reforme de l'administration publique au Tchad, Government of Chad (CESRAP)



96



97
Annex 10
Annex 10
Status of Bank Group Operations in Chad
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Closed Projects 25
Difference Between
expected
Board Date        Active                                              Original Amount in US$ Millions                      and actual                   Last PSR
Fiscal         Projects                                                                                              disbursements a/         Supervision Rating b/
Year                                   Purpose
IBRD        IDA       Cancel.       Undisb.        Orig     Frm Rev'd       Dev Obj       Imp Prog
Active Projects
1991               P000528      ENGINEERING                           0.00         10.78        0.00          4.02          4.11         4.23         S               S
1993               P000517      BASIC EDUCATION                       0.00         19.03        0.00          6.40          6.38         0.00         S               S
1993               P000530      TRANSPORT SECTOR II                   0.00         47.77        0.00          1.37        -12.34        -0.09         S               S
1994               P000509      HEALTH & SAFE MOTHER                  0.00         29.16        0.00          6.55         -4.97         4.08         S               S
1995               P000501      AG SERVICES                           0.00         22.91        0.00          8.06          1.49         0.00         U               U
1995               P035601      POP. & AIDS                           0.00         19.11        0.00          7.71          2.92         0.00         S               S
1996               P035623      CAPACITY BUILDING                     0.00           8.79       0.00          0.15          0.79         0.00         S               S
1998               P000532      HOUSEHOLD ENERGY                      0.00           5.50       0.00          4.90          1.97         0.00         S               S
2000               P062840      MANAGEMENT OF THE PET.                0.00          17.19       0.00         17.19          0.00         0.00         S               S
ECONOMY
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS = highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U =
unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23,
1994.



98
Annex 10
Chad
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of
(US$ Million)
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval             Company          Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
Total Portfolio:                    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
Total Pending Commitment:           0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00



99
Annex 1 1
Annex 11
Chad at a glance
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Saharan      Low-
Chad      Africa   Income      Development diamond*
1S98
Population, mid-year (millions)                         7.3       628      3,515                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atdas method, US$)                     230        480       520
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                        1.7       304      1,844
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Population (%)                                          2.5        26        1.7
Labor force (%)                                         2.5        2.6       179     GNP                              Gross
per                  -.        primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1992-98)                                capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of populatin below national poverty line)     80        40
Urban population (% oftotalpopulation)                   23        33        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         49        51        63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                100        91        69
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               39         ..        ..                Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                   24        47        74
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                    52         42        32
Gross prinary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)    55         77       108       -Chad             Low-income group
Male                                                  74         84       113
Female                                                36         69       103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       1997      1998 
Economic ratios*
GDP (USs billions)                           0.94       1.2        1.5       1.7
Gross domestic investment/GDP                 18.5      9.1       16.9      16,9                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP             15.4     15.4       19.1      19.2
Gross domestic savings/GDP                      ..       ,.       0.1        1.9
Gross natinal savings/GDP                       ..       ..        2.8       4.0                        T
Current aecount balance/GDP                  -14.0    -13.0       14.1     -12,9     Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                          0.1      0.3        1.0       1,0                          /       Investment
Total debtGDP                                 15.8     27.9       54.9      51.6     Savings
Total debt servicelexports                     2.7      4.0       12.2      13.7
Present value of debUGDP                        ..
Present value of debtexports                    ..
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98     1997       1998   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  2.1       2.0      4.1        5.1       3.4         -Chad           Low-income group
GNP per capita                      -0.2      -0.8      3.5        2.8         -
Merchandise exports                  0.8       3.0     20.7        8.0       8,0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997      1998      Growth rates of output and investmentt(%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                   35.2     33.1       37.4      38.6     60 .
Industry                                      13.6     14.6       14.7      13.9     40..
Manufacturing                               10.8      11.4      12.4      11.7      20
Services                                      51.5     52.3       47.9      47.5      9
Private consumption                           77.7     95.8       88.9      88.7    940
General government consumption                16.9     15.8       10.9       9.4               _G DI    -o--GDP
Imports of goods and services                 28.4     36.4       35.9      34.3    _
(average annual growth)                   1977-87  1988-98       1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                    0.1      4.4        5.1      11.2    30
Industry                                       2.1      1.6        9.4      10.4    20.
Manufacturing                                  ..      ..       12.5      10.9     1
Services                                       3.0     -0.2        1.5       4.0
Private consumption                            4.1      0.6        1.7       8.6 919                                97
General government consumption                -1.3     -4.3       -6.1      -8.8
Gross domestic investment                     -8.0      0.1         ..      -2.9   -20
Merchandise imports                           4.3      -2.5        5.4      -7.8              - Exports   t.0  Imports
Gross national product                         2.1      1.7        4.3       8.4
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



100
Annex 11
Chad
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestiic  e1977                                        1987       1997      1998      feilation(%)
(% change)                                                                             40
Consumer prices                                  ..    -6.0         5.9        4.4     30
Implicit GDP deflator                           8.6     -3.1        2.8       4.1      20 +
19
Government finance                                                                     0O
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                    AS            94  95    96  37    9
Current revenue                                  ..      5.6        8.4       7.6    -20
Current budget balance                           ..    -2.3         0.2        0.1                _GDP deflator  -.-CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                          ..   -18.0        -9.5       -7.7
TRADE
1977     1987       1997      1998        p-
(US$ millions)                                                                         E*port
Total exports (fob)                              ..      109        243       267
Cotton                                         ..       41        115        146
Meat                                                    42         61        64      324
Manufactures                                   ..        4
Total imports (cif)                              ..      366        424       454
Food                                           ..  18   18  19  162iJE iid
Fuel and energy                                 ..      38         18        33
Capital goods                                   ..      90        158        169
Export price index (1995=100)                    ..       81         96       100
Import price index (1995=100)                             74        104       110           92   93   94   95   93   97   sa
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                109         92        91               Exports         Imports
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                 1977     1987       1997      1998      Ijren
Exports of goods and services                   131      198        293       326       2
Imports of goods and services                  246       424        550       582                      U
Resource balance                               -115     -244       -257      -256   |       E         *          *     *
Net income                                       -2      -11        -35       -32         .fl
Net current transfers                            ..        ..        76        69                             -            t
Current account balance                        -131     -151       -216       -219                                           U
Financing items (net)                           127      180        172       197      -14                                   -
Changes in net reserves                           4      -30         44        22      -l6
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)           20       57        145       124
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)                246      301        583       589
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987       1997      1998      Compostion of
(UJS$ millions)                                                                        Cmoiino
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            148      325        842       876                     F: 15   G: 7
IBRD                                            0        0          0         0          E 6
IDA                                           24        61        457       472
Total debt service                                4        7         35        47
IBRD                                            0        0          0         0
IDA                                             0        1          5         7
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                ..        ..        ..         ..                                          B: 472
Official creditors                             30       38         42        94      D:169
Private creditors                               7        3          0        -1
Foreign direct investment                      ..       ..         -6        23
Portfolio equity                                0        0          0         0
World Bank program
Commitments                                     2       19         25        16                c: 50
Disbursements                                   8       13         48        29      A - IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Principal repayments                            0        1          2         3      8 - IDA   D - Other multilateral   F - Prvate
Net flows                                       8       12         46        26
Interest payments                               0        1          3         4
Net transfers                                   8       12         43        22
Development Economics                                                                                                      12/9/99



MAP SECTION






150
CHAD / CAMEROON                                                                        oNobo.
PETROLEUM DEVELOPMENT                                    N I G E R   fl,
AND PIPELINE PROJECT                                                                                Om..
PROJECT FACILITIES
- - - - PIPELINE ROUTE
PUMPING STATIONS                   -       -f          Lake
M MAIN RIVERS                                             Chad
o    SELECTED TOWNS
PAVED ROADS
RAILROADS                                                                           N'DJAMENA
*    NATIONAL CAPITAL
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
,,'  toc      $VR C  H  A  D
o  F    80   120  160 OiLOMETERS                                                                                     B
0   20  45   60   80   .00 MILES
fbis nap was prod-ucd by tha Mop Design Unit f lIe World Bank.        (      s_,   -*
Th. boendar is, colors, dsnninnoons and onynrhoc coorio- shoc        f_
on rhis mop do not imply, an h porFI of .h. World oa.k Groupn, ny
fsdgarnr an tho lego-oros  nyany   -r- -ornyadorsrrn  ort'
rco p    -ooceofsuch bo-ndri-K
100        eoco                             f~ 6t (cgr   X          t<\Dvlpe
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1~~~~~~~~
NIGERIA                                               P'           a   Guilibn    TahUrri        \      Mocadass
n-- ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ Tuoc                        -        jGr
+6<                                       \1  (                 -'                                    9    r
N ....adEhsb PvrsP Stalb # 7 
It    ,/,,L,,                     5,', ,.f S                                    <
FNk
j --  0N_1C                                   l /ror  or                   Megna !9 z  
4-/                 KWmbo               A         t44AdnIO f  \                                  CENTRAL
Denboa M.AC M E.                         R 0     N <               /dra| LV'                AFRICAN
Jo                   Apgombo                                                             /  j            N>>8A,s
K..b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
-u                                                                     LIB,eYA> tEau  Ba
- X  *  l\>   AIGEg  '-r-A       . -  \  s    SUDAN
c,Jki,iI    Arac at
/CONGO                        IAFRICAN REP.
------~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~OB                                     DCNG         EM. SEP.   0
N  ~~~~-                             AO~~               OF
10,   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~S~~~,-,il.                                CONGO 



