Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3373 CD
Development Credit Agreement
(Petroleum Sector Management Capacity-Building Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated   July 7, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3373 CD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 7, 2000, between REPUBLIC OF CHAD (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the 
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of 
the Project; 
(B)  the Association has received a letter (the “Letter of 
Government Policy for the Petroleum Sector”), dated September 21, 1999, 
from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and 
policies designed to clearly define the role of the Borrower and the 
private sector, respectively, in the development of petroleum resources 
(the Program) and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of 
the Program; 
(C)  by agreement of even date herewith (the Loan Agreement) 
between the Borrower and International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Page  2
Development (the Bank), the Bank has agreed to make a loan to the 
Borrower in an aggregate principal amount of $39,500,000 to assist in 
financing Parts B and C of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the 
Loan Agreement on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of 
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development 
Credit Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997), with the modifications set forth below (the 
General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (c) is added to Section 3.04 to read :
“If the Association shall at any time receive less than the 
full amount then due and 
payable to it under the Development Credit 
Agreement, the Association shall have the right 
to allocate and 
apply the amount so received in any manner and for such purposes under 
the 
Development Credit Agreement as the Association shall in its sole 
discretion determine.”; 
and
(b)
Section 11.01 is modified by replacing, in the second 
sentence, the word “radiogram” with the word “facsimile” and adding a new 
sentence at the end of the said Section to read:
“Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be 
confirmed by mail.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Beneficiary” or “Beneficiaries” means village groups, local 
authorities, micro- and small enterprises and professional associations 
or other organizations determined to be eligible for a Microproject Grant 
or Loan (as hereinafter defined) in accordance with the eligibility 
criteria specified in Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and in 
the FACIL Manual (as hereinafter defined) and to whom or for whose 
benefit a Microproject Grant or Loan is made or proposed to be made;
(b)
“Contract” or “Contracts” means the agreement(s), in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Association, to be entered into by 
CTNSC (as hereinafter defined) and Project Operators (as hereinafter 
defined) pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement and Schedule 6 to 
this Agreement, setting forth the terms and conditions related to the 
execution of Part A.5 of the Project as the same may be amended from time 
to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental 
to the Contract or Contracts;
(c)
“Cellule Economique” means a body within the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Economic Promotion, Development and Cooperation which 
operates under the dispositions of Decree No. 523/PR/99 dated December 
Page  3
operates under the dispositions of Decree No. 523/PR/99 dated December 
20,1999;
(d)
“CFCA” or “CFA Franc” means Franc de la Coopération 
Financière en Afrique Centrale, the currency of the Borrower;
(e)
“Chad Export Project” means the project described in 
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement (as hereinafter defined); 
(f)
“CTNSC” means “Comité Technique National de Suivi et de 
Contrôle”, an inter-ministerial committee created by Decree No. 
298/PR/MTE/97 dated July 10, 1997, responsible for monitoring, 
controlling and implementing Parts A.2, A.4 and A.5 of the Project (as 
hereinafter defined);
(g)
“Coordination Nationale” means the administrative body, 
referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, established 
by Decree No 321/PR/99 dated August 10, 1999, and which is in charge of 
coordinating the implementation of the Project (as hereinafter defined);
(h)
“Direction du Pétrole” means an administrative body within 
MMEP established by Decree No 391/PR/MMEP/97 dated September 8, 1997 
responsible for monitoring, controlling and implementing Part A.2, B.1 
and B.2 of the Project (as hereinafter defined);
(i)
“EMP” means “Environment Management Plan”, as defined in the 
Loan Agreement;
(j)
“FACIL” means “Fonds d’Actions Concertées d’Initiative 
Locale”, a financing structure (a pilot fund) which channels funds under 
the management of CTNSC and whose purpose is to improve, through direct 
financing of eligible Beneficiaries, the living conditions of the local 
population by helping to provide them with better access to basic 
socio-economic infrastructure and services and promote income-generating 
and capacity building activities;
(k)
“FACIL Administrator” means a person referred to in 
paragraph 1, Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, appointed by the 
Borrower with terms of reference acceptable to the Association;
(l)
“FACIL Manual” means the manual related to Microprojects (as 
hereinafter defined), in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, referred to in paragraph 1, Section II of Schedule 4, 
containing, inter alia, the terms and conditions under which CTNSC will 
enter into Contracts with Project Operators (as hereinafter defined) and 
outlining the procurement, disbursement, administrative, financial and 
other arrangements for the implementation of Part A.5 of the Project, as 
the same may be amended from time to time in consultation with and to the 
satisfaction of the Association, and such term includes any annexes to 
the FACIL Manual;
(m)
“fiscal year” means the Borrower’s fiscal year which begins 
on January 1 and ends on December 31 each year;
(n)
“IAP” means International Advisory Panel, an external expert 
panel appointed by CTNSC, composed of external experts, and who shall 
assist the Borrower with technical, social and environmental issues;
(o)
“Microproject” means one or more activities financed or to 
be financed in part out of the proceeds of the Credit under Part A.5 of 
the Project (as hereinafter defined);
(p)
“Microproject Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be 
made by CTNSC to a Beneficiary for the purpose of financing a 
Microproject under Part A.5 of the Project;
(q)
“Microproject Loan” means a loan made or proposed to be made 
by CTNSC to a Beneficiary for the purpose of financing a Microproject 
Page  4
by CTNSC to a Beneficiary for the purpose of financing a Microproject 
under Part A.5 of the Project;
(r)
“Microproject Grant Agreement” means an agreement between 
CTNSC and a Beneficiary setting forth the terms and conditions under 
which a Microproject Grant shall be made available to the Beneficiary for 
the purpose of financing a Microproject under Part A.5 of the Project;
(s)
“Microprojet Loan Agreement” means an agreement between 
CTNSC and a Beneficiary setting forth the terms and conditions under 
which a Microproject Loan shall be made available to the Beneficiary for 
the purpose of financing a Microproject under Part A.5 of the Project;
(t)
“Midterm Review” means the midterm review referred to in 
paragraph 10 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(u)
“MIS” means monitoring information system, the procedures, 
data and software package which enable the financial and technical 
planning, monitoring and evaluation of activities under the Project;
(v)
“MEW” means the Borrower’s Ministry responsible for 
Environment and Water;
(w)
“MMEP” means the Borrower’s Ministry responsible for Mines, 
Energy and Petroleum;
(x)
“NGO” means a non-governmental organization;
(y)
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 
3.04 (a) of this Agreement;
(z)
“Project Area” means an area within the boundaries 
delineated on the map which appears in Schedule 8 to this Agreement; 
(aa)
“Project Implementation Manual” means the manual referred to 
in paragraph 6.01 (b) of Article VI and paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement containing, inter alia, disbursement and procurement 
arrangements, work plans, training plans, monitoring and performance 
indicators referred to in paragraph 8 of Schedule 4 and procedures to be 
used for the purposes of implementation of the Project, as they may be 
amended from time to time, in consultation with and to the satisfaction 
of the Association, and such term includes any schedules to the Project 
Implementation Manual. For the purpose of this Agreement, it is 
understood that the FACIL Manual shall be deemed to be a schedule to the 
Project Implementation Manual and an integral part thereof;
(bb)
“Project Management Report” means a report prepared 
quarterly by the Borrower as set forth in Section 4.02 (a);
(cc)
“Project Operators” means any operator or person, including 
NGOs, civil society associations, private contractors and consulting 
firms which meet the eligibility criteria set forth in the “Guidelines 
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” (paragraph 1.8) and in 
the “Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” (paragraph 1.10) and which shall execute Microprojects on 
behalf or in the interest of the Beneficiaries;
(dd)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation 
advances granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to letters 
agreement number PPF-Q062-0 (US$1,000,000) dated August 20, 1997 and 
number PPF-Q0621 (US$1,000,000) dated August 6, 1998;
(ee)
“Revenue Management Program” means a program set out in 
Schedule 5 of the Loan Agreement;
(ff)
“SOE” means Statement of Expenditures;
(gg)
“Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Section 
Page  5
(gg)
“Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(hh)
“Upstream Consortium” means the upstream consortium, as 
defined in the Loan Agreement. 
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development 
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to seventeen 
million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 17,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for: (i) expenditures made (or, if the Association shall 
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit; and (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so 
agree, to be paid) by CTNSC on account of withdrawals made for the 
benefit of a Beneficiary under a Microproject Grant or Loan Agreement to 
meet the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for 
Microprojects under Part A.5 of the Project, and in respect of which the 
withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in FCFA two separate special deposit accounts (“Special Account 
I” in respect to Parts A.2, A.4 and A.5 of the Project and “Special 
Account II” in respect of Parts A.1, A.3, B.1 and B.2 of the Project) in 
a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, each respective Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to 
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project 
Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay 
all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized 
amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005 or such 
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall 
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of 
each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty 
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the 
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from 
the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 
30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may 
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
Page  6
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as 
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of 
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in 
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be 
payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, 
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each March 15 and September 15 commencing 
September 15, 2010 and ending March 15, 2040. Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on March 15, 2020 shall be one percent 
(1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national 
product (GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for 
three consecutive years the level established annually by the Association 
for determining eligibility to access the Association's resources; and 
(ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, 
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by 
them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment 
of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower 
to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the 
principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring 
the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount of the Credit 
as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) 
above falling six months or more after the date on which the Association 
notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph (b) have 
occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a 
minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu 
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the 
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision 
shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's 
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, 
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Page  7
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through Coordination 
Nationale, CTNSC and the Direction du Pétrole, with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
engineering, public utility, environmental and social practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall carry out Part A.5 of the Project through 
CTNSC and, to that end, the Borrower shall, without any limitation or 
restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, cause 
CTNSC to perform, in accordance with the provisions of the FACIL Manual, 
all the obligations of CTNSC therein set forth, take and cause to be 
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services 
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable CTNSC to perform 
such obligations; and shall not take or cause to be taken any action 
which would prevent or interfere with such performance of CTNSC.
(d)
The Borrower shall cause CTNSC to enter into Contracts with 
Project Operators, under which it shall make the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated from time to time to Category (1) of the table in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement, available to Project Operators for the purposes of 
carrying out Microprojects under terms and conditions which shall have 
been approved by the Association.
(e)
The Borrower shall cause CTNSC to exercise its rights and 
perform its obligations under the Contracts in such manner as to protect 
the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Credit and, except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
Contracts or any provision thereof.
(f)
The Borrower shall carry out the Revenue Management Program 
as set out in Schedule 5 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future 
operation and continued achievement of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
Page  8
views with the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to its obligations under Section 
3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a)
open and maintain an account (the Project Account) in FCFA 
in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association;
(b)
promptly thereafter, make an initial deposit into such 
account, in an amount equivalent to US$60,000 to finance the Borrower’s 
contribution to the Project;
(c)
deposit into the Project Account by January 15, April 15, 
July 15 and October 15 in each year, until the completion of the Project, 
such amounts as shall be required to replenish in a timely manner, the 
Project Account to equal the amount of the initial deposit referred to in 
paragraph (b) above; and
(d)
use the Project Account funds exclusively to finance 
expenditures under the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect 
the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements 
referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the 
records and accounts for the Special Accounts for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to 
the Association, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but 
in any case not later 
than six months after the 
end of each such fiscal year: (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
such year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on 
such statements, records and 
accounts and report 
of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning such records and 
accounts, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the 
Association may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports 
or statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
Page  9
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and separate 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association 
has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine 
such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Project 
Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action 
plan acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of the financial 
management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in 
order to enable the Borrower, not later than December 31, 2001, or such 
later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of 
funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period 
following 
the period covered by said report; and (B) 
shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month 
period following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered 
by said report, and (B) explains variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; and
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the 
Project and expenditures under 
contracts financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance 
with guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the 
Association not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter 
a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Page  10
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that a 
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional 
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement 
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has adopted a project implementation manual 
(including the FACIL Manual) in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association;
(b)
the Borrower has established a computerized accounting and 
financial system for the Project, satisfactory to the Association;
(c)
the Borrower has opened the Project Account and has 
deposited therein the initial deposit referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(d)
the Borrower has submitted to the Association the 
procurement plan for the twenty-four month period after the Effective 
Date in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible 
for economic promotion, development and cooperation is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economic Promotion, Development and Cooperation
B.P. 286
N’Djamena
Republic of Chad
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
5329 KD
(235) 
51 51 85
Page  11
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477 6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in N’Djamena, Chad, as of the day and year first 
above written.
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
By /s/ Ahmed Lamine Ali
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Mary Barton Dock
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa 
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so 
to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Microprojects under
   2,350,000
100%
Part A.5 of the Project
of amounts disbursed
(2)
Works
   2,715,000
90%
(3)
Goods and vehicles
   1,395,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
Page  12
(4)
Consultants’
   5,065,000
100%
Services, Audits
and Training
(5)
Incremental Operating
   2,935,000
90%
Costs
(6)
Refunding of
   1,490,000
Amount due pursuant
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (c) 
of
Advance
this Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
   1,450,000
TOTAL
  17,400,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower; provided, however, that, if the currency of 
the Borrower is also that of another country from the territory of which 
goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such 
goods or services shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”; and
(c)
the term “incremental operating costs” means the incremental 
expenses incurred on account of Project implementation, including office 
equipment and supplies, vehicle operation and maintenance, communication 
and insurance costs, rental expenses, office administration costs, 
utilities, Special Account banking charges, travel and supervision costs 
but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower’s civil service.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of: (a)   payments made for expenditures prior 
to the date of this Agreement: and (b)  payments made for a Microproject 
Grant or Loan unless such Microproject Grant or Loan has been made in 
accordance with the criteria and procedures and under the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in Section II, paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement and in the FACIL Manual.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (a) 
under contracts for goods and works costing less than $100,000 equivalent 
each; (b) under contracts for the employment of consulting firms costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent each; (c) under contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent 
each; and (d) for training and incremental operating costs, all under 
such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to strengthen the capacity of the 
Borrower to: (i) better manage the development of petroleum resources in 
an environmentally and socially sound manner; and (ii) increase the use 
Page  13
The objectives of the Project are to strengthen the capacity of the 
Borrower to: (i) better manage the development of petroleum resources in 
an environmentally and socially sound manner; and (ii) increase the use 
of petroleum resources generated from the Chad Export Project.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon 
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Chad Export Project Management
1.
Strengthening the capacity of Coordination Nationale to coordinate 
the supervision of the Project, including the coordination of MIS 
activities carried out by CTNSC and Direction du Pétrole and the 
implementation and follow-up of an information, education and 
communication campaign for the Chad Export Project through the provision 
of technical advisory services, training, audits, the acquisition of 
equipment, vehicles and supplies.
2.
Strengthening the capacity of CTNSC under the supervision of MEW to 
monitor the environmental and social aspects of the Chad Export Project 
and in particular, the EMP, through the provision of technical advisory 
services, training, audits, the acquisition of equipment, vehicles and 
supplies, and the construction of civil works (rehabilitation and 
construction of office spaces and laboratories).
3.
Strengthening the capacity of Direction du Pétrole to monitor the 
technical, economic, contractual and fiscal aspects of the Chad Export 
Project through the provision of technical advisory services, training, 
audits, the acquisition of equipment, vehicles and supplies, and the 
construction of civil works (rehabilitation and construction of office 
spaces and laboratories).
4.
Implementing social impact mitigating measures by adopting 
emergency actions in the Project Area through: (a) the acquisition of 
equipment and the construction of civil works (including health and 
education facilities, public infrastructures, water supply and sanitation 
facilities, markets and slaughterhouses); and (b) the provision of 
technical advisory services for the improvement of fuelwood supply 
management, urban planning and the carrying out of a population census in 
the Project Area.
5.
Providing grants or loans for the financing through FACIL of 
Microprojects submitted by Beneficiaries in the Project Area for 
small-scale community activities related to: (i) social and economic 
demand-driven infrastructure, including health, education, sanitation, 
water supply, markets and access infrastructures; (ii) income and labor 
generating projects; and (iii) specialized training of NGOs, civil 
society associations, communities and municipalities.
Part B:
Petroleum Sector Management
1.
Carrying out a program to improve the environmental, social, legal 
and regulatory framework of the Borrower’s petroleum sector through the 
provision of technical and financial advisory services, training, the 
acquisition of equipment, vehicles and supplies, and the construction of 
offices.
2.
Improving the management of geophysical and geological data through 
the provision of technical, economic, contractual and fiscal advisory 
services and the carrying out of geophysical and geological studies.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Page  14
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and 
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 
thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in 
bid packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic 
contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of 
the Borrower and works to be carried out by domestic contractors.
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost $100,000 
equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $4.5 million 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1.5 million 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $800,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
Page  15
Goods estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $800,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works under the Project including those under Part A.5 of the 
Project, estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1.5 million equivalent, may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of 
quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in 
response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed 
description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, 
and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, 
and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully.
4.
Community Participation
Goods and works required for Part A.5 of the Project may be 
procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association and 
specified in the FACIL Manual.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the provisions 
of the following Parts of this Section II.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
Page  16
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph.  The short list of consultants for services for 
architectural and engineering services, estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for audits and other services of standard nature estimated 
to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 
3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for social infrastructure and services estimated to cost 
less than $30,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount of 
$300,000 may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Single Source Selection
Services for Consultants which are estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount of $200,000 
may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
4.
Procurement for Small Services
Services to assist Beneficiaries in carrying out Microprojects 
under Part A.5 of the Project and estimated to cost less than $20,000 
equivalent may be procured in accordance with commercial practices 
acceptable to the Association, i.e., under fixed-price contract awarded 
on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall 
include a detailed description of the services, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date and a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association. The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required 
service, and who has the experience and resources to complete the 
contract successfully.
5.
Individual Consultants
Services for lectures and small studies shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
Page  17
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for 
its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after 
the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Section I :
General
1. Coordination 
Nationale
The Borrower shall maintain, until the completion of the Project, 
the office of the Coordination Nationale with three competent key staff, 
all with terms of reference, qualifications and experience, acceptable to 
the Association. Coordination Nationale shall be responsible for 
supervising and coordinating the day-to-day management of the Project, as 
a whole and in close co-operation with CTNSC, the Direction du Pétrole, 
the Cellule Economique and the Upstream Consortium. 
2.
CTNSC
The Borrower shall maintain CTNSC, in a form and with functions 
satisfactory to the Association, until the completion of Parts A.2, A.4 
and A.5 of the Project.
3. 
Direction du Pétrole
The Borrower shall maintain the Direction du Pétrole, in a form and 
with functions satisfactory to the Association, until the completion of 
Parts A.3, B.1 and B.2 of the Project.
Page  18
4. Cellule 
Economique
The Borrower shall maintain the Cellule Economique in a form and 
with functions satisfactory to the Association, until the completion of 
the Project. The Cellule Economique shall, inter alia, assist the 
Borrower in the carrying out of the obligations set forth in Section 4.01 
(a) of this Agreement.
5.
Project Implementation Manual
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with 
procedures set out in the Project Implementation Manual and, except as 
the Association shall otherwise agree, shall not amend or waive any 
provision thereof, if such amendment or waiver may, in the opinion of the 
Association, materially or adversely affect the implementation of the 
Project.
6.
Auditing
The Borrower shall appoint the independent auditors referred to in 
Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, by June 30, 2001 in accordance with 
the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
7.
Environment Management Plan
The Borrower shall apply the EMP satisfactory to the Association by 
December 31, 2000.
8.
Performance Indicators and Program Reports
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
satisfactory to the Association set forth in Schedule 7 to this 
Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association, no later than January 31 and 
July 31 of each year, a report integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following 
such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, not later than 4 weeks after 
the submission of the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, or such later date as the Association shall request, the said 
report, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report 
and the Association’s views on the matter.
9.
Midterm Review
The Borrower shall:
Page  19
(a)
carry out, jointly with the Association, not later than 
December 31, 2002, the Midterm Review which shall cover, among other 
things: (i) progress made in meeting the Project’s objective; (ii) 
overall Project performance against Project performance indicators; and 
(iii) the quality of the advisory services under the Project;
(b)
furnish to the Association, at least three (3) weeks after 
the Midterm Review, a report describing the status of the items listed in 
paragraph 3 (a) above and of Project implementation generally; and
(c)
prepare, not later than four (4) weeks after the Midterm 
Review, an action program, acceptable to the Association, for further 
implementation of the Project having regard to the findings of the 
Midterm Review and, thereafter, implement such action program.
Section II:
Part A.5 of the Project/Microprojects
1.
FACIL Manual and FACIL Staff 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project and cause CTNSC to carry 
out Part A.5 of the Project in accordance with procedures set out in the 
FACIL Manual and the Contracts and, except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, shall not amend or waive any provision thereof, if such 
amendment or waiver may, in the opinion of the Association, materially or 
adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
The Borrower shall cause CTNSC to maintain, until the completion of 
the Project, within FACIL competent staff in adequate numbers, including 
the FACIL Administrator who shall be appointed not later than 60 days 
after the Effective Date of the present Agreement, all such staff to be 
employed in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement and with terms of reference, qualifications, and 
experience acceptable to the Association.
2.
Eligibility Criteria for Microprojects
No Microproject shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds 
of the Credit unless CTNSC has determined, on the basis of an appraisal 
conducted in accordance with the guidelines set forth in the FACIL 
Manual, that the Microproject satisfies the eligibility criteria 
specified in the FACIL Manual, including, inter alia, the following:
(a)
the Microprojects shall be for basic infrastructure services 
and public facilities (including water supply, access infrastructures, 
sanitation systems, rehabilitation of schools, health centers, and 
markets), as well as community demand-driven, small-scale social 
infrastructure, including training of NGOs, civil society associations, 
communities, and municipalities in participatory approaches, Microproject 
preparation, and management;
(b)
the Microproject shall be initiated by Beneficiaries;
(c)
the Microproject shall be targeted at lower income group 
Beneficiaries;
(d)
the Microproject shall be designed in such a way that its 
mode of implementation is labor-intensive and provides maximum employment 
opportunities within sound economic parameters;
(e)
the Microproject shall be designed in such a way that its 
operation and maintenance shall be sustainable; and
(f)
the Microproject shall be in compliance with the standards 
set forth in the applicable laws of the Borrower, relating to health, 
safety, and environmental protection.
Page  20
3.
Terms and Conditions Regarding Microprojects
Microprojects shall be carried out pursuant to Microproject Grants 
or Microproject Loan Agreements, to be concluded between CTNSC and the 
legally established and authorized representative or representatives of 
the Beneficiaries, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, which, inter alia, shall include the following:
(a)
financing through the FACIL, except as previously agreed 
with the Association: (1) for a Microproject Grant for (i) social, 
agricultural or access infrastructures and environmental protection; (ii) 
training and capacity-building of local personnel; (iii) emergency 
measures not provided for in the EMP, inter alia, in the health sector; 
and (2) for a Microproject Loan for: (i) diversification activities, 
transformation and commercialization of agricultural and food products; 
and (ii) other trade, industrial and service activities.  All 
Beneficiaries shall make a contribution of 10% minimum as provided for in 
the FACIL Manual, except as previously agreed with the Association;
(b)
each Microproject Grant and Loan Agreement shall not exceed 
the aggregate amount of CFAF 30,000,000, except as previously agreed with 
the Association;
(c)
the obligation to (i) carry out the Microproject in 
accordance with the FACIL Manual, with due diligence and efficiency and 
in accordance with sound technical, financial, environmental/social, and 
managerial standards; and (ii) maintain adequate records to reflect, in 
accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources, 
and expenditures in respect of the Microproject;
(d)
the requirement that: (i) the goods, works, and services to 
be financed from the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in 
accordance with the procedures set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement; 
and (ii) such goods, works, and services shall be used exclusively in the 
carrying out of the Microproject;
(e)
the right of CTNSC to inspect by itself, or jointly with the 
Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods, works, 
sites, plants, and construction included in the Microproject, the 
operations thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(f)
the right of CTNSC to obtain all information as CTNSC or the 
Association shall reasonably request regarding the administration, 
operation, and financial condition of the Microproject; and
(g)
the right of CTNSC to suspend or terminate the right of the 
Beneficiaries to use the proceeds of the Microproject Grant or Loan upon 
the failure by the Beneficiaries to perform any of their obligations 
under the relevant Microproject Grant or Loan.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through 
(5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
in respect of Parts A and B of the Project;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts A 
and B of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with 
Page  21
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent 
to $600,000 in respect of Special Account I for Parts A.2, A.4 and A.5 of 
the Project and an amount equivalent to $500,000 in respect of Special 
Account II for Parts A.1, A.3, B.1 and B.2 of the Project to be withdrawn 
from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to an amount equivalent to $300,000 in respect of Special Account 
I and to an amount equivalent to $250,000 in respect of Special Account 
II during the first 12 months after which this Agreement shall enter into 
effect.
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions 
of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that 
the respective Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the 
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
respective Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into 
the respective Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not 
exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of 
such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the 
respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall 
have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, 
the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association 
requests for deposits into the respective Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association the 
documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in 
respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, 
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the respective Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to 
have been paid out of the respective Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the 
Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special 
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall 
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and other 
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into any 
Page  22
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into any 
Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that 
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the 
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) 
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to 
the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the 
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to 
the eligible Categories for the respective Special Account I (for Parts 
A.2, A.4 and A.5 of the Project) and Special Account II (for Parts A.1, 
A.3, B.1 and B.2 of the Project), minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to Parts A.2, A.4 
and A.5 on one hand and A.1, A.3, B.1 and B.2 on the other hand, shall 
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories for 
Parts A.2, A.4 and A.5; A.1, A.3, B.1 and B.2 of the Project shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any payment out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure 
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or 
(ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide 
such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit 
into the respective Special Account (or, if the Association shall so 
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association 
into any Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any amount outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to 
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to 
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account 
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the 
Page  23
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account 
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the 
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Terms and Conditions of Contracts Required 
Pursuant to Section 3.01 (c), (d) and (e) of this Agreement
The terms and conditions of the Contracts shall include, inter 
alia, the following obligations of CTNSC to:
(a)
carry out Part A.5 of the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency, in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and 
engineering practices, with due regard to environmental/social factors, 
and in accordance with the FACIL Manual; and provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the facilities, services, and other 
resources required for Part A.5 of the Project;
(b)
comply with the procedures for the procurement of goods and 
works set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(c)
comply with record keeping, auditing and report requirements 
set forth in Section 4.01 of this Agreement, with respect to Part A.5 of 
the Project, including the annual auditing of its accounts and financial 
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses, and 
related statements);
(d) 
carry out its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, environmental/social, 
and engineering practices;
(e)
take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against 
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate 
practice;
(f) 
carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of 
Part A.5 of the Project;
(g)
participate in the Midterm Review related to the carrying 
out of Parts A.5 of the Project, and thereafter prepare and implement an 
action plan, satisfactory to the Association, for the further 
implementation of Part A.5 of the Project;
(h)
at the request of the Borrower or the Association, exchange 
views with the Borrower and the Association with regard to the progress 
of Part A.5 of the Project and the performance of its obligations under 
the Contracts,
(i)
promptly inform the Borrower and the Association of any 
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of 
Part A.5 of the Project, or the performance by the Project Implementation 
Agencies, of their obligations under the Contracts; and
(j)
except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, neither take nor concur in any action which would have the effect 
of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Contracts or any 
provision thereof. 
SCHEDULE 7
Performance Indicators
The indicators for monitoring and evaluating the carrying out of 
the Project referred to in paragraph 8 (a) of Schedule 4 to this 
Page  24
The indicators for monitoring and evaluating the carrying out of 
the Project referred to in paragraph 8 (a) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement are the following:
(PLEASE SEE ORIGINAL FOR PERFORMANCE INDICATORS)
SCHEDULE 8
Project Area
