                                  The Inspection Panel

                                Report and Recommendation
                                                    on
                                     Request for Inspection


                                                 Chad:
   Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project (Loan No. 4558-CD);
Management of the Petroleum Economy Project (Credit No. 3316-CD);
           Petroleum Sector Management Capacity-Building Project
                                      (Credit No. 3373-CD)


1.       On March 22, 2001, the Inspection Panel (the "Panel") received a Request for
         Inspection (the "Request") related to the above-referenced Projects (hereinafter
         referred to as the Projects). (Annex 1). On April 11, 2001 the Panel notified the
         representative of the Requesters, the Executive Directors and the Bank President of the
         registration of the Request.1 On June 7, 2001, in the light of the electoral and post-
         electoral process in Chad, the Panel proposed to the Executive Directors to delay the
         issuance of this eligibility report for a period of about ninety days. On June 19, 2001 the
         Executive Directors recorded their approval to such proposal, allowing the Panel to
         delay this report until September 17, 2001.


A. FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS

2.       The Request makes reference to issues related to three closely related Bank-supported
         Projects in Chad. 2 These Projects and related financial arrangements are:3

                  (a)      The Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project (hereinafter referred
                  to as the "Pipeline Project" or the "Project"), approved on June 6, 2000, is
                  financed by both the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
                  (IBRD) under a loan in an amount equal to US$39.5 million,4 and the


1See The Inspection Panel, Operating Procedures (August 1994), at § 17.
2 This Report covers only allegations pertaining to the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (IBRD) and the International Development Association (IDA). For the purposes of this
Report, IBRD and IDA are collectively referred to as "the Bank".
3All legal documents entered into by the Bank for the three Projects related to the Request have been
declared effective.    Also, a "Project Appraisal Document" or "PAD" has been prepared for each of the
three related projects.
4IBRD Loan Number 4558-CD. The relevant Loan Agreement was signed on March 29, 2001.

                                                      ii


                 International Finance Corporation (IFC) under a loan in the amount of US$100
                 million.    The IFC loan is expected to mobilize up to US$100 million in
                 commercial bank lending. The Pipeline Project has also substantial financial
                 participation from three private sector petroleum companies (also called the
                 "Consortium");5

                 (b)       The Management of the Petroleum Economy Project (hereinafter
                 referred to as the "Petroleum Economy Project"), approved on January 27,
                 2000 and financed by the International Development Association (IDA) under a
                 credit in an amount equivalent to SDR 12,600,000 (about US$17.5 million);6
                 and

                 (c)       The Petroleum Sector Management Capacity-Building Project (the
                 "Capacity Building Project"), Approved on January 6, 2000 and financed by
                 IDA under a credit in an amount equivalent to SDR 17,400,000 (about
                 US$23.7 million).7

B. THE PROJECTS

3.       The overall development of oil fields in Chad's Doba Basin and its subsequent
         transportation through Cameroon, involves the construction of infrastructure and the
         provision of capacity-building assistance in two countries: Chad and Cameroon.8
         However, since the Request was submitted on behalf of individuals living in Chad, this
         Report focuses exclusively on the portions of the Projects located or to be carried out in
         Chad.

4.       Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement for the Pipeline Project (IBRD Loan Number 4558-
         CD), states that the "objective of the Project is to assist in the development and
         export through Cameroon of the petroleum reserves of the Doba Basin Oil Fields9
         in an environmentally and socially sound manner and thereby, inter alia, increase
         the Borrower's resources and expenditures for poverty alleviation." The Project


5Total Project costs are estimated to be US$3.7 billion. The revised financing plan included in page 7 of the
"Chad/Cameroon Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project ­ Semi-Annual Report to the Executive
Directors" dated January 31, 2001 (SecM2001-0081), presents the following distribution (in %): (a) Private
Sponsors' Equity (Exxon 40% - Petronas 35% - Chevron 25%): 80.7%; (b) US EXIM ­ and COFACE
supported loans: 10.7%; (c) IFC A-Loan: 2.7%; (d) IFC B-Loan: 2.7%; (e) IBRD financed Cameroon equity:
1.2%; (f) IBRD financed Chad equity: 0.9%; (g) European Investment Bank (EIB) financed Cameroon equity:
0.7%; and (h) EIB financed Chad equity: 0.4%.
6IDA Credit Number 3316-CD. The relevant Credit Agreement was signed on March 20, 2000.
7IDA Credit Number 3373-CD. The relevant Credit Agreement was signed on July 7, 2000.
8Financial arrangements are similar for Cameroon. As part of the overall framework, Cameroon has agreed to
carry out a Bank-supported environmental project (Petroleum Environment Capacity Enhancement
(CAPECE) Project - IDA Credit Number 3372-CM). The relevant Credit Agreement was signed on July 14,
2000.
9Section 1.01 (y) of the same Loan Agreement defines Doba Basin Oil Fields as the "Komé, Bolobo and
Miandoum oil fields in the southern part" of Chad.

                                                  iii


         description in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement includes three components that may
         be summarized as follows: (a) construction of the "Field System," which is essentially
         the development of the Doba Basin oil fields ; (b) construction of about 170 km buried
         pipeline and 1 pumping station and other ancillary facilities and infrastructure in Chad;
         and (c) construction of about 880 km buried pipeline, 2 pumping stations, other
         ancillary facilities and infrastructure in Cameroon (components (b) and (c) are also
         called the "Export System").

5.       The Pipeline Project Appraisal Document (the "Pipeline PAD") states that component
         (a) of the Project is to be carried out by Esso Chad (also called "Project Manager" and
         "System Operator"10), and that two joint-venture companies, TOTCO11 and
         COTCO,12 formed by the Consortium and the Governments of Chad and Cameroon
         would be responsible for components (b) and (c) in their respective countries.

6.       Regarding governance and resource allocation in Chad, the Pipeline Project requires the
         implementation of a Petroleum Revenue Management Program (the Program) which is
         described extensively in Annex 11 of the Pipeline PAD.          13   Supported by specific
         legislation, this Program, according to the Pipeline PAD, is essentially a framework for
         the allocation of authorized expenditures of the prospective oil revenues, with the main
         priority being activities aimed at reducing poverty.

7.       An international advisory group (the "IAG") was appointed by Bank Management on
         February 21, 2001 to "advise the World Bank Group and the Governments of
         Chad and Cameroon with respect to its observations about overall progress in
         implementation of the Projects and in achievement of their social, environmental,
         and poverty alleviation objectives, as well as with the broader goals of poverty
         alleviation and sustainable development in Chad and Cameroon."14

8.       The other two Projects that, together, form the overall package of assistance for the
         development of oil fields in southern Chad and offer institutional support for the
         implementation of the Pipeline Project, may be briefly described as follows:

                  (a)      The Petroleum Economy Project: According to the project's Credit
                  Agreement, the "objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in
                  building capacity to implement its petroleum revenue management
                  strategy to enable it to effectively absorb and allocate expected oil
                  revenue, and thus pursue the poverty-reduction objective of petroleum


10Project Appraisal Document, Report No. 19343 AFR, p. 13 at § 4.
11Tchad Oil Transportation Company S.A.
12Cameroon Oil Transportation Company S.A.
13The Petroleum Revenue Management Program is also supported by the Capacity Building Project (Credit
3373-CD).
14"Chad-Cameroon Pipeline and Related Projects ­ International Advisory Group ­ Terms of Reference," at
§ 5.

                                                          iv


                  resources development." This Project is divided into five components: public
                  financial management, poverty database and strategy, human resources
                  development, oversight and control, and monitoring economic reform. The
                  Project aims to assist Chad in improving its management of its public revenues
                  and expenditures, particularly in view of the expected availability of greatly
                  increased revenues resulting from the implementation of the Pipeline Project.

                  (b)       The Capacity Building Project: Schedule 2 to the project's Credit
                  Agreement states that the "objectives of the Project are to strengthen the
                  capacity of the Borrower to: (i) better manage the development of
                  petroleum resources in an environmentally and socially sound manner;
                  and (ii) increase the use of petroleum resources generated from the Chad
                  Export Project [the Pipeline Project]."              According to the relevant PAD, this
                  Project is primarily a technical assistance project designed to reinforce Chad's
                  institutional framework vis-à-vis the Pipeline Project, in the following areas: (i)
                  management and monitoring of social and environmental impacts; and (ii)
                  strengthening the Government's capacity to manage the petroleum sector. 15

C. THE REQUEST

9.        The Request was submitted by Mr. Ngarlejy Yorongar, acting for himself and on behalf
          of a number of residents of the Cantons of Miandoum, Komé, Béro, Mbikou, Bébédjia
          and Béboni in the southern region of Chad. Mr. Yorongar has submitted copies of
          authorization of representation signed by more than 100 individuals.                      They have
          requested that their names be made available only to the Panel members, but otherwise
          remain confidential. The documents attached to the Request also identify another group
          of over 150 individuals who may have or may have had their rights and interests
          affected by the referenced Bank-supported Projects.16

10.       Mr. Yorongar informed the Panel that the Request for Inspection was originally
          submitted to the Bank's office in N'Djamena in December 2000. Bank Management
          does not acknowledge ever having received the Request. As indicated in paragraph 1
          of this Report, the Panel received the Request on March 22, 2001.

11.       The allegations contained in the Request relate to seven broad areas of concern to the
          Requesters: environment, involuntary resettlement and compensation, indigenous
          peoples, cultural property, use of oil revenues, governance and human rights.




15PAD, Report No.19342-CD, at p. 6.
16During its recent field visit to the Project areas, the Panel received a number of additional individual
authorizations appointing Mr. Yorongar as their representative for the purposes of the Request. This brings
the total number of Requesters to 296.

                                                   v


12.    The Request generally claims that people living in the area of the Pipeline Project and
       their environment have suffered or are likely to suffer harm as a result of failures and
       omissions in the design, appraisal, and supervision by the Bank of the Projects. It states
       that:

                 "We consider that our rights and interest have been, or are likely to be,
                 directly harmed as a result of the Bank's action. This causes, or is likely to
                 cause, the following types of damage, among others: pollution and
                 degradation of the environment, expropriation without compensation,
                 lack of respect for our usages and customs, nature, etc., violation of our
                 human rights, bad governance reflected in the recent misappropriation of
                 a premium of US$25 million (CFAF 19 billion) and its use for the
                 purchase of weapons with which to massacre us (see related documents),
                 etc.

                 We hold the Bank accountable for what it has done and/or omitted to do in
                 this case. If the Bank had taken our observations into account, we would
                 not be in the present mess."17

13.    In addition to the above general claims, paragraph 4 of the Request presents the
       following more specific allegations:

                          (a)     Lack of compliance with OD 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement,
                 including: (i) allegations of fraud in the compensation process; (ii) disregard for
                 the expropriation legislation; (ii) lack of adequate sharing by the local population
                 of the prospective benefit of oil exploration (i.e., "small quota assigned to the
                 production zone bears little or no relation to the magnitude of the needs of
                 [the] region and the size of its population."; and (iii) Project's compensation
                 and indemnification plan does not include medicinal plants.

                          (b)     Lack of "environmental attention" to the "oil production zone."

                          (c)     Negative effects of probable pollution of surface water that will
                 lead to pollution of water tables, rivers, marshes, and watercourses down to
                 Lake Chad.

                          (d)     Due to lack of safety measures and an environmental impact
                 assessment, potential ruptures in the feeder lines and other pipelines will cause
                 damage not only to Chad but also to neighboring States.

                          (e)     Proper consultation with and disclosure of information to the
                 local communities did not take place. Neither for the purposes of compliance


17Request, at paragraphs 5 and 6.

                                            vi


            with OD 4.20 (Indigenous Peoples) nor during the environmental impact
            assessment process.

                    (f)    Non-compliance with Bank policy on Cultural Property.

                    (g)    Non-compliance with [Bank] "directives" on human rights and
            governance.


14. Furthermore, there are a number of specific claims regarding lack of, or inadequate,
    compensation for alleged harm or potential harm (e.g., loss of property, infrastructure,
    crops, cattle and medicinal plants) as a result of the Project.

15. Finally, the Request claims that Bank monitoring and supervision policies and
    procedures have been violated and that their innumerous attempts to bring the problems
    associated with the Projects before Bank Management has not produced any
    satisfactory results.

16. The Requesters' allegations could constitute violations of, inter alia, the following Bank
    Policies and Procedures:

    OD 4.01 on Environmental Assessment
    OP/BP 4.04 on Natural Habitats
    OP 4.09 on Pest Management
    OD 4.15 on Poverty Reduction
    OD 4.20 on Indigenous Peoples
    OD 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement
    OP 4.36 on Forestry
    BP 17.50 on Disclosure of Operational Information
    OP 10.04 on Economic Evaluation of Investment Operations
    OD 10.70 on Project Monitoring and Evaluation
    OPN 11.03 on Management of Cultural Property in Bank-Financed Project
    OD 13.05 on Project Supervision



D. THE MANAGEMENT RESPONSE



17. On May 10, 2001, the Panel received Management's Response to the Request (the
    "Response"). (Annex 2).

18. Management provides an explanation of the overall project framework (involving two
    sovereign countries, multiple government agencies and the private sector), and of the

                                                  vii


          role of the Bank Group in the preparation and supervision of the Pipeline Project and
          the associated Petroleum Economy and Capacity Building Projects.

19.       Management stresses the economic importance of the Pipeline Project to the region
          and, in particular, to Chad. It illustrates this importance by stating that "the Project
          could yield US$2 billion in revenues for Chad over the 25-year production
          period."18

20.       Management further explains that the Bank Group's involvement in the Project is
          predicated on: (i) the unique opportunity it presents for Chad in particular to
          generate additional revenues to combat poverty; and (ii) the need to implement
          the Project in a socially and environmentally sound manner. It also provides a
          unique opportunity for the Bank Group to play a significant role in reducing
          poverty in one of Africa's poorest regions. The Bank Group approach has been
          essential in integrating a range of relevant challenges into Project preparation,
          including social and environmental issues, and governance issues within the
          mandate of the Bank."19

21.       In its Response, Management maintains that the Bank has complied with its operational
          policies and procedures "in the context of the Project" with regard to the
          environmental, social, cultural, and procedural matters raised in the Request.
          Management submits that the Bank has taken the necessary measures to ensure that
          people in the Project area have not been directly and adversely affected as a result of
          Project design and its implementation to date. Nor does Management believe that the
          Requesters will be adversely affected by the implementation of the Project in the future,
          noting that systems are in place to ensure that their views and concerns are adequately
          identified and addressed.20



22.       Management rejects the allegations contained in the Request for Inspection. Regarding
          the environmental concerns presented in the Request, the Response explains that the
          Consortium, in collaboration with the Government of Chad prepared the environmental
          documentation required for the Project. The Response indicates that the environmental
          and social documentation prepared in connection with the Projects includes multi-
          volume Environmental Assessments and Environmental Management Plans.

23.       In the Response, Management maintains that all applicable Bank policies and
          procedures with regard to involuntary resettlement and compensation were respected
          and that involuntary resettlement and compensation issues were fully addressed as part
          of the Environmental Management Plan. Management asserts that the Project was

18Management Response to the Request for Inspection dated May 10, 2001 (hereinafter "Management
Response" or "Response"), at § 17.
19Id., at § 12.
20Id., at § 23.

                                                     viii


          designed to minimize impacts on the affected population and, when that was not
          possible to achieve, "full and adequate compensation for the individuals and
          groups affected is being implemented in accordance with the relevant policies and
          laws."21

24.       On indigenous peoples, while asserting that OD 4.20 (Indigenous Peoples) "is not
          applicable to the affected people in the Project area"22, Management states that an
          effort was made to ensure that "the customs of local people"23 and their cultural
          property are respected.

25.       Management contends that consultation was an integral part of project design and
          implementation. Management also illustrates several instances where consultation took
          place during the preparation of the environmental management plan.

26.       On compliance with the Bank's disclosure of information procedure (BP 17.50),
          Management asserts that all relevant project documents were made available to the
          local population, including the preparation of specially-tailored materials (e.g., CD-
          ROMs, graphic materials, etc.), and the development and operation of several
          websites.

27.       Concerning human rights and governance issues in Chad, Management argues that the
          Bank's Articles of Agreement "require the Bank to focus on economic
          considerations and not on political or other non-economic influences as the basis
          for its decisions. In evaluating the economic aspects of any project, human rights
          issues may be relevant to the Bank's work if they may have a significant direct
          economic effect on the project. Having carefully considered all aspects of this
          issue, Management's conclusion is that the Project can achieve its developmental
          objectives. The Project in many aspects has been instrumental in creating a
          space for dialogue for certain groups of Chadian citizens to exercise their rights."
          24  Management adds that the Project's institutional structure allows for human rights
          groups to voice their concerns.

28.       In Response to the Requesters' concerns about governance, Management states that
          "improving governance is one of the central objectives of the Bank's Country
          Assistance Strategy to Chad."25 Management also emphasizes the importance of the
          Petroleum Management Program supported by the Bank and implemented by the
          Government, heralding its laudable poverty alleviation objectives and accountability
          mechanisms.


21Id., [Executive Summary ] at § 11, and further elaborated in paragraphs 86 through 90 of the Response.
22Id., at § 137.
23Ibid.
24Id., at § 151.
25Id., [Executive Summary] at § 15.

                                                      ix



29.       Management disagrees with the Requesters that it has violated OP 10.04 on Economic
          Evaluation of Investment Operations claiming that "[t]he economic analysis
          confirmed that the economic returns to Chad would be significant."26

30.       As to the Bank policy on poverty reduction (OD 4.15), Management maintains that it is
          in full compliance with such policy, noting that "[t]he Country Assistance Strategy
          for Chad aims to implement many of the elements cited in OD 4.15. Also, the
          projects cited in this Request are aimed specifically and explicitly at poverty
          reduction, based on sound analytical work and technical expertise; have strong
          supervision plans (Capacity Building Project); and pay attention to beneficiary
          outcomes (EMP and Capacity Building Project) and poverty impact (Petroleum
          Economy Project)."27

31.       Bank Management denies any violation of Bank policies and procedures concerning
          monitoring and supervision of the Projects,           highlighting the existence of external
          monitoring mechanisms, as well as the amount of Bank resources allocated for Project
          supervision.28



32.       Finally, Management maintains that it has attempted to be as responsive as possible to
          the Requesters, specifying a number of meetings it had with Mr. Yorongar as well as
          other measures it undertook to clarify public concerns with this Project, prior to the
          submission of the Request.



E. ELIGIBILITY

33.       For purposes of determining the eligibility of the Request and the Requesters, the Panel
          reviewed the Request for Inspection and Management Response and visited
          N'Djamena and the relevant Project areas, including Komé Base, Doba, Bébédjia,
          Bero (I & II), Miandoum and Moundou. Before and after the visit to Chad, the Panel
          consulted with the Executive Director and Alternate Executive Director representing
          Chad and their staff.



26Id., at 121.
27Id., § 140.
28Paragraph 131 of the Response outlines "seven layers" of Project supervision: (i) the project operator
(EEPCI ­ Esso Export and Production Chad, Inc.) monitors compliance of the EMP by its own sub-
contractors and its own compliance; (ii) the External Compliance Monitoring Group ­ ECMG monitors
compliance with the EMP; (iii) Bank Group's direct monitoring of the implementation of the EMP; (iv)
implementation monitoring by the Government of Chad; (v) an international advisory panel of environmental
and social experts advises the Government of Chad; (vi) an international advisory group (IAG) advises the
Bank and the Governments of Chad and Cameroon on impacts on poverty reduction and on the
implementation of the Project; and (vii) the input and assessment provided by civil society and NGOs.

                                                      x


34.     During the field visit, Panel Members Edward S. Ayensu (Leader) and Maartje Van
        Putten met with Requesters and with a number of non-governmental organizations in
        Chad, as well as with local officials and individuals living in and around the relevant
        Project areas.29 These discussions confirmed that the Requesters generally supported
        the Pipeline Project within the context of their Request.

35.     The Panel met with Bank Management and staff at Headquarters and in N'Djamena
        and exchanged views with Chadian Government and Project officials in N'Djamena and
        in the relevant Project areas.30

36.     Paragraph 9 of the 1999 Clarifications mentions certain "technical eligibility criteria"
        that must be met by a Request for Inspection, and the Panel concludes as follows:

                  (a)       The Panel is satisfied that the affected party consists of two or more
                  persons with common interests or concerns and who are in the borrower's
                  territory.
                  (b)       The Request does assert in substance that a serious violation by the
                  Bank of its operational policies and procedures has or is likely to have a
                  material adverse effect on the Requesters.
                  (c)       The Request does assert that its subject matter has been brought to
                  Management's attention and that, in the Requesters' view, Management has
                  failed to respond adequately to it, thus demonstrating that it has followed or is
                  taking steps to follow the Bank's policies and procedures.
                  (d)       The matter is not related to procurement.
                  (e)       The related Loan and Credits have not been closed or substantially
                  disbursed.
                  (f)       The Panel has not previously made a recommendation on the subject
                  matter.



37.     The Panel's visit confirmed that the Requesters are eligible and that the representative of
        the Requesters was authorized to represent them.

F. CONCLUSION

38.     The Request and Response contain conflicting assertions and interpretations about the
        issues, the facts, compliance with Bank policies and procedures and possible harm.

29The Panel Members were assisted by Assistant Executive Secretary, Mr. Alberto Ninio.
30The Panel wishes to express its appreciation to the Executive Director and Alternate Executive Director
representing Chad and their staff for their assistance. It also wishes to thank the Government officials who
gave freely of their time in N'Djamena and in the Project areas, the Requesters, the representatives of NGOs
and other local people who met with the Panel. It also wishes to thank the staff of Esso Exploration and
Production Chad, Inc. and the World Bank Office in N'Djamena for their time and for providing logistical
support during the field visit.

                                                        xi


        The Panel is neither able to address these conflicting statements in the period available
        to it to prepare and submit this report on eligibility to the Board, nor is allowed to do so
        pursuant to the 1999 Clarifications of the Resolution.31 The Panel can only address
        these issues during the course of an investigation.

G. RECOMMENDATION

39.     In the light of the foregoing, the Panel recommends an investigation into the matters
        alleged in the Request.




Attachments




31According to the "Conclusions of the Board's Second Review of the Inspection Panel" dated April 20,
1999, when the Panel makes a field visit to establish eligibility it "will not report on the Bank's failure to
comply with its policies and procedures or its resulting material adverse effect..." See ¶ 7.

          xii




      ANNEX 1

REQUEST FOR INSPECTION

                                                   xiii


PURPOSE: CLAIM BY PERSONS ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY OIL FIELD
DEVELOPMENT IN THE DOBA BASIN WHO RESIDE IN THE CANTONS OF
MIANDOUM, KOMÉ, MBIKOU, BÉBÉDJIA, AND BÉBONI (SUB-PREFECTURE OF
BÉBÉDJIA), PRESENTED BY DEPUTY NGARLEJY YORONGAR, ASSISTED BY
ATTORNEY ZASSINO, A MEMBER OF THE BAR IN N'DJAMENA, AND HIS
PARTNERS, FOR THE ATTENTION OF THE INSPECTION PANEL OF THE WORLD
BANK.

1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
USA

I, Ngarlejy YORONGAR, Deputy to the National Assembly of the Republic of Chad, elected
from the Bébédjia district (Eastern Logone), telephone (000235) 51 91 12 841 44 63,
     Ø ActingasaresidentofthedistrictofBébédjia,
     Ø In my capacity as representative of the entire country (Article 116 of the Constitution of
        the Republic of Chad), and
     Ø On behalf of the persons listed in (Appendixes 1and 2) as having given their proxies, who
        are adversely affected by development of the Doba oil reserves and who live in the
        vicinity of three oil fields in the cantons of Miandoum, Komé, Béro, Mbikou, Bébédjia, and
        Béboni, in the sub-prefecture of Bébédjia, an area in which 300 sampling wells have been
        drilled by the Consortium as indicated on the map presented as Appendix 3,

Assisted by a team of lawyers, states the following:

1. The Bank is financing the design, appraisal, and/or execution of a project for the development
of three oil fields in Chad-Cameroon. The project calls for exploitation of 300 sampling wells
drilled by the Consortium as part of the development of three oil fields (Komé, Miandoum, and
Bolobo) in the Doba region.

An export pipeline more than 1,100 km long with a production capacity of 250 million barrels per
day will be built by the Consortium (Exxon, Chevron, and Petronas) through the sub-prefectures of
Bébédjia, Goré, Bessao, and Baibokoum (Eastern Logone) to the terminal of Kribi (Cameroon).
The total cost is estimated at US$3.5 billion.

In this scheme, the 300 oil wells will be connected to three pumping stations, also named Komé,
Miandoum, and Bolobo, via a complex of pipelines and feeder lines, the dramatic consequences of
such an operation being predictable.

2. We understand that the Bank has adopted the following policies and procedures:

     Ø Directive4.30,onenvironmentalimpactassessments;
     Ø OD4.20,onindigenouspeoples(notificationofnativeinhabitantsandtheir
        representatives);
     Ø OPN11.03,onmanagementofculturalproperty(OD4.50);
     Ø OP17.50,ondisclosureofoperationalinformation;
     Ø OD 4.30, on involuntary resettlement (the problem of involuntary displacement and
        resettlement of individuals adversely affected by laying of pipelines);

                                                  xiv


    Ø OD 4.04, on natural habitats (respect for the native peoples, their culture, usages and
        customs, sacred places, burial grounds, etc.);
    Ø OP17.57,onpublicconsultation;
    Ø OD 4.01, on assessment of environmental impact (study of the environmental impact on
        the production zone, respect for human rights, proper governance, and just and equitable
        compensation for persons adversely affected by pipeline routes);
    Ø OP10.04,oneconomicevaluationofinvestmentoperations;
    Ø OD13.05,onprojectsupervision;
    Ø OP4.36,onforestry;
    Ø OP4.09,onpestmanagement;
    Ø OPN 11.03, on management of cultural property in Bank-financed projects (to be issued
        as OD 4.50 [sic], "Cultural Property");
    Ø OD10.70,onprojectmonitoringandevaluation,etc.

3. Our rights and interests will be guaranteed if there is full respect for the directives, rules,
conditionalities, recommendations, resolutions, and observations of the World Bank, etc.

Among other rights and interests are the rights to life, to a healthy environment, to fair and
equitable compensation, to resettlement not far from our native soil, to work, to respect for our
customs and our burial places, to nature, to land ownership recognized by the laws in force, to
social well-being, to public consultation, to access to project-related information and the resources
of the Fund for Joint Action on Local Initiatives (FACIL), to compassionate treatment, to
consultation and coordination with our village associations and our representatives, to
representation on the entity responsible for monitoring and surveillance of petroleum resources,
etc.

4. The Bank has not followed its own rules and procedures, as indicated by the following acts. We
allege that the World Bank participates in, indeed even encourages, violations of its own policies
and procedures by the Consortium and the Government, as evidence of which we list certain
carefully selected facts:

    Ø It has ridden roughshod over legislation governing expropriation and the uprooting [of
        communities]; the laughably small quota assigned to the production zone bears little or no
        relation to the magnitude of the needs of this region and the size of its population. (A
        barrel of oil for a barrel of Chadian blood!)

    Ø Thecompensationandindemnificationplanfailstotakeaccountof[thelossof]medicinal
        plants. Directive 4.30, which deals with environmental impact assessments, ignores the
        300 sampling wells drilled all over the oil production zone (OD 4.01). As far as the
        environmental impact assessment is concerned, the World Bank, the Government, and the
        Consortium have focused all their attention on the Chad-Cameroon pipeline. Consider the
        plight of the Ogoni people of Nigeria: the problems they have been left to face are those
        created by pipelines that link oil wells to pumping stations. It is at this level, and only this
        level, that the human, material, and environmental damage has been least bearable. Since
        the World Bank, the Government, and the Consortium refuse to carry out an
        environmental impact assessment at this level, the danger is inevitable. Because the
        danger exists all along the entire 1,100-km route of the Chad-Cameroon pipeline, the
        environmental impact assessment is unsatisfactory. So far neither the Consortium nor the

                                           xv


  Government has said a word about how they intend to pump oil from 300 wells through
  the three pumping stations in Komé, Miandoum, and Bolobo (sub-prefecture of Bébédjia).
  No environmental impact assessment; no compensation plan. The geological map shows
  that petroleum in the Doba basin is found from the border of Cameroon to the borders of
  the Central African Republic and Sudan. It crosses seven prefectures in the southern part
  of Chad, namely Eastern Logone, Western Logone, Tandjilé, Mayo-Kebbi, Moyen-Chari,
  Chari-Baguirmi, and Salamat, home to more than 4.5 million of the country's total
  population of 6 million. This is precisely the region that feeds Chad and the frontier
  populations of the neighboring countries. The breadbasket of Chad, this zone is the most
  densely populated, etc. The slightest pollution of surface water sources will inevitably lead
  to pollution of water tables, rivers, marshes, and watercourses down to Lake Chad. The
  same is true of the Sédigui, Bongor, Kyabé, and Salamat oil deposits. However, this lack
  of transparency regarding the environmental impact of the 300 oil sampling wells drilled by
  the Consortium, which are to be connected to the three pumping stations of Miandoum,
  Komé, and Bolobo, and also regarding the Sédigui (Kanem-Lac) production region, does
  not conceal the great ecological danger posed by the exploitation of Chadian oil. But then,
  again, why have the World Bank, the Consortium, and the Chadian authorities not
  answered these fundamental questions? As you are aware, the Doba basin oil production
  zone extends over seven prefectures (Eastern Logone, Western Logone, Tandjilé, Mayo-
  Kebbi, Moyen-Chari, Chari-Baguirmi, and Salamat), inhabited by more than 4.5 million of
  Chad's total population of 6 million. This is an area of heavy rainfall, where the gallery
  forest is flooded six months of the year, where population density is high, and where
  farming is highly developed (it is the breadbasket of Chad), etc. If there are breaks in the
  feeder lines and other pipelines from the oil wells because of a lack of safety measures
  and an environmental impact assessment, imagine how much damage will be caused.
  Each well needs at least 10 feeder lines to carry the crude to the pumping stations or
  terminal. In the sub-prefecture of Bébédjia and its environs alone, for example, the
  Consortium has drilled 300 wells. If you multiply these 300 wells by 10 feeder lines for
  each one, you will have 3,000 feeder lines in this district. Are the 80,000 to 100,000 people
  inhabiting this district to be displace or not? And where are they to be resettled? A
  pipeline expert who belongs to an environmental protection group writes in the journal
  L'Autre Afrique, No. 31, that along the Chad-Cameroon pipeline "the capacity for
  detecting seepage with even the most sophisticated systems will still not prevent the
  escape of 10,000 liters of petroleum per day, undetected." If we multiply the 300
  pipelines leading from the 300 wells to the three pumping stations (Miandoum, Komé, and
  Bolobo) by 10,000 liters per day, we get three million liters of seepage of crude oil every
  day in this production region. In other words, its surface waters (consisting of flood
  waters and the waters of its rivers), polluted by three million liters of oil a day for six
  months, will empty into the Logone, the Pendé, the Nyan, the Mandoul, the Tandjilé, the
  Mayo-Kebbi, and the Chiari. These rivers, now polluted in their turn, will continue flowing
  into Lake Chad. As a result, not only Chad but also its neighboring States ­ Nigeria,
  Cameroon, Niger, etc. ­ will be contaminated.

Ø OD 4.20, on notification of native inhabitants and their representatives, was never
  complied with. Neither was OPN 11.03 (OD 4.50 [sic]), which deals with cultural
  property. The property referred to in this directive is not included in the categories eligible
  for compensation, although in the production region the property belongs to specific
  families who rent it, or make it available free of charge to third parties who farm it or use

                                            xvi


  it to pasture livestock. Moreover, for some time now, the Chadian authorities, with the
  complicity of Consortium officials, have practiced a settlement policy favoring cattle
  farmers, whom they arm so they can occupy indigenous lands.

Ø OP 17.50, on disclosure of operational information, has generated no more than a
  haphazard, uni-directional release of information, for the sole purpose of deceiving both
  the World Bank and international public opinion.

Ø Directive OD 4.30, on problems of involuntary displacement and resettlement of people
  who are adversely affected by projects, has not been complied with yet.

Ø Directive OD 4.04, on respect for native peoples, their nature, usages and customs,
  sacred sites, burial places, etc. has been completely ignored.

Ø Directive OP 17.57, on public consultation, has been honored only with a crude image
  (see film on the Chad-Cameroon Development Project: View and Voice, of May 25,
  1999, by Winner and Associates, Los Angeles). The requirement for participation by
  grass-roots NGOs in projects financed by the World Bank has not been met; the only
  NGOs consulted were, for the most part, either created for the purpose in hand or
  commanded no allegiance in the production region. The obligation to take into account the
  observations of the people affected by the project when preparing and carrying out the
  environmental impact assessment was never met, etc.

Ø Directives on assessment of environmental impact specific to the zone affected by a
  project, in this case the production zone, where the 300 oil sampling wells have been
  drilled (see ESSO maps).

Ø Directives on respect for human rights have been ignored since 1990, the year when Mr.
  Idriss Déby took power in Chad (see CD-ROM with evidence of the massive violations of
  human rights in the production zone).

Ø Directives on proper governance have been put aside indefinitely, as evidenced by: the
  IGET International affair; trafficking in counterfeit currency, drugs, and dummy invoices;
  misappropriation of foreign aid, including that provided by Taiwan; purchase of weapons
  with money obtained from oil production in Chad).

Ø Directives on compensation of persons adversely affected by pipeline routes havebeen
  treated as nothing more than an excuse for fraud (e.g., the dealing in compensation lists,
  among them Mr. Gabriel Ndodjingar's in the canton of Komé), etc.

Ø Yetotherdirectiveshavenotbeencompliedwith:OPN11.03,onmanagementofcultural
  property (OD 4.50 [sic]); OP 17.50, on disclosure of operational information; OD 4.30, on
  involuntary resettlement (the problem of involuntary displacement and resettlement of
  persons adversely affected by pipeline routes); OD 4.04, on native habitats (respect for
  native peoples, their nature, usages and customs, sacred sites, burial places, etc.); OP
  17.57, on public consultation; OD 4.01, on environmental impact assessment (specifically,
  an environmental impact study on the production zone), respect for human rights, proper
  governance, fair and equitable compensation for persons adversely affected by pipeline
  routes; OP 10.04, on economic evaluation of investment operations; OD 13.05, on project

                                                xvii


         supervision; OP 4.36, on forestry; OP 4.09, on pest management; OP 11.03, on
         management of cultural property in projects funded by the World Bank, which is to be
         issued as OD 4.50 [sic], "Cultural Property"; and OD10.70, on project monitoring and
         evaluation, etc.

5. We consider that our rights and interest have been, or are likely to be, directly harmed as a
result of the Bank's action. This causes, or is likely to cause, the following types of damage,
among others: pollution and degradation of the environment, expropriation without compensation,
lack of respect for our usages and customs, nature, etc., violation of our human rights, bad
governance reflected in the recent misappropriation of a premium of US$2.5 million (CFAF 19
billion) and its use for the purchase of weapons with which to massacre us (see related
documents), etc.

6. We hold the Bank accountable for what it has done and/or omitted to do in this case. If the
Bank had taken our observations into account, we would not be in the present mess.

7. We have submitted evidence in our regular correspondence addressed to the President of the
World Bank himself and various Bank departments to draw their special attention to the problems
described above (see examples of related correspondence and documentation).

Furthermore, Deputy Ngarlejy YORONGAR, our constitutionally elected representative, took part
in the following activities in 1999:

     Ø Seminars organized by the World Bank in Paris, chaired by Mr. Jean-Louis Sarbib, Vice
         President of the World Bank for Africa, and by Mr. Patrice Dufour, the Representative of
         the World Bank in Paris.

     Ø The meeting between World Bank President James D. Wolfensohn and NGO and media
         representatives in Paris. During this meeting, Mr. Wolfensohn invited Deputy Ngarlejy
         YORONGAR to visit the Bank's headquarters in Washington to discuss the case.
         However, there has been no follow-up on this invitation to date.

     Ø The teleconference, organized at the instigation of Deputy YORONGAR, with the seven
         World Bank directors in charge of the Chad petroleum matter, among them Mr. Serge
         Michailof, at that time the Country Director for Chad.

     Ø Meetings in N'Djaména with successive World Bank missions, whose different leaders
         included the Country Director for Chad and the Director General [sic] of the World Bank.

     Ø Seminars in Donia in January 1998 and Bébédjia in April 1999, with the participation of
         representatives of the World Bank, the Government, and the Consortium (see Resolutions,
         Recommendations, and Declaration), etc.

Except for vague responses from aides to World Bank President James D. Wolfensohn, all
memoranda, letters, observations, and evidence presented in the course of these seminars and
meetings were ignored. Instead, the World Bank concentrated on using its reputation and
influence to ensure the project went ahead, to the detriment of the local communities affected and
of Chad itself (see related letter from Mr. Jean-Louis Sarbib).

                                               xviii


8. We have received a number of evasive replies from Messrs. Serge Michailof and Jacques ????
Calderisi, who were in charge of operations for the World Bank, but we are not satisfied with
them. Besides being vague and evasive, they have not only produced no follow-up action but have
failed to influence the behavior on the ground of either the Government of Chad or the Consortium
(see samples of the replies received).

9. We have taken the following steps to resolve the problem:

Since the World Bank, the Government, and the Consortium have failed to recognize the validity
of our position, we have decided to appeal to the Inspection Panel so that justice will be done by
halting oil field development works in the Doba basin until all World Bank directives and policies
are put into effect and scrupulously respected by those responsible.




Bébédjia, December 15, 2000

On behalf of all persons adversely affected by oil field development at Doba and Sédigui,
by virtue of my mandate to represent the entire nation (Article 116 of the Constitution
of the Republic of Chad),

Ngarlejy YORONGAR (Signed)

For my constituents whose names appear on the attached list,

Deputy Ngarlejy YORONGAR (Signed)

        xix




     ANNEX 2


MANAGEMENT RESPONSE

                                            xx




                       BANK MANAGEMENT RESPONSE TO
              REQUEST FOR INSPECTION PANEL REVIEW OF THE
CHAD-CAMEROON PETROLEUM DEVELOPMENT AND PIPELINE PROJECT,
CHAD PETROLEUM SECTOR MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT,
   AND CHAD MANAGEMENT OF THE PETROLEUM ECONOMY PROJECT

Management has reviewed the Request for Inspection of the Chad-Cameroon Petroleum
Development and Pipeline Project, the Chad Petroleum Sector Management Capacity Building
Project and the Chad Management of the Petroleum Economy Project received by the
Inspection Panel on March 22, 2001 and registered on April 11, 2001. Management has
prepared the following response.

                                                                    xxi




CONTENTS
Abbreviations and Acronyms.....................................................................................................xxiii
Executive Summary.................................................................................................................. xxv
I............................................................................................................................... Introduction 29
II............................................................................................................................. The Request   29
III................................................................................................................Project Background         31
   Project Objectives and Description...........................................................................................31
       Background on Petroleum Revenue Management.............................................................33
IV..................................................................................Overview of Management Conclusions                        34
V..................................................... Alleged Violations of the Bank's Policies and Procedures                               35
   Claims related to Environmental Issues.....................................................................................35
       Background Information on the Project's
       Environmental Assessment Process ...................................................................................35
       Objective of Project EMPs................................................................................................37
       Execution of the EMP .......................................................................................................39
       Process of Public Consultation.........................................................................................40
       Specific Claims and Responses .........................................................................................43
   Claims related to Expropriation, Involuntary Resettlement, Compensation, Information,
   Consultation and Disclosure.....................................................................................................54
       Claims pertaining to Operational Directive 4.30 ­ Involuntary Resettlement....................54
       Claims pertaining to Operational Directive 4.20 ­ Indigenous Peoples............................59
       Claims pertaining to OPN 11.03 ­ Cultural Property........................................................61
       Claims pertaining to BP 17.50 ­ Disclosure of Operational Information..........................63
   Claims related to Other Bank Policies ......................................................................................65
VI....................................................................................... Claims Related to Adverse Impacts                   69
VII................................................................................Bank's Responsiveness to Requestors                        74
VIII.            Conclusion.............................................................................................................75

Annexes

Annex A.               Chronology of Events
Annex B.               Bibliography
Annex C.               Petroleum Revenue Management Program
Annex D.               Law on Petroleum Revenue Management
Annex E.               Environmental Comparison of the Chad-Cameroon Pipeline with Nigeria's
                       Ogoniland
Annex F.               Compilation of Compensation per Village for Phase I, to May 1999
Annex G.               Log of Public Meetings and Consultations
Annex H.               Correspondence with Mr. Yorongar

Figures

Figure 1.              Structure of EA and Supporting Documents
Figure 2.              Flowlines, the Production Pipeline, and the TOTCO Transportation System's
                       Pipeline

                                  xxii


Maps

Map 1.   Chad-Cameroon Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project

                                   xxiii


                      CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS

                  Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
                           US$1 = 730 CFAF


                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ACCORD      Association for Cooperation and Development Research
AFDI        French Association of International Development
API         American Petroleum Institute
ASOSRP      Area Specific Oil Spill Response Plan
ASSAILD     Association of Support to Local Development Initiatives
ASTM        American Society for Testing and Materials
bbl         Barrel
BEAC        Bank of Central African States
BELACD      Bureau for Studies and Liaison for Charitable and Development Activities
BP          Bank Policy
CAR         Central African Republic
CILONG      Information and Liaison Center for NGOs
CIRAD       Center for International Cooperation on Agronomic Research for
            Development
CTNSC       National Technical Committee for Monitoring and Evaluation of the
            Pipeline Project
COLONG      Local NGO Coordination
COTCO       Cameroon Oil Transportation Company, S.A.
EA          Environmental Assessment
EAS         Environmental Alignment Sheet
ECMG        External Compliance Monitoring Group
EEPCI       Esso Export and Production Chad, Inc.
EMP         Environmental Management Plan
EMR         Environmental Management Requirement
FACIL       Fonds d'Action Concerté d'Initiative Locale - Local Initiatives Social
            Fund
GIS         Geographic Information System
GOSRP       General Oil Spill Response Plan
HIPC        Highly Indebted Poor Country
HIV/AIDS    Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
IAG         International Advisory Group
IBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA         International Development Association
IFC         International Finance Corporation
IGET        IGET Consulting Company
IMF         International Monetary Fund
INADES      African Institute for Economic and Social Development
IPN         Inspection Panel Number
MIS         Management Information System
MW          Megawatt

                              xxiv


NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
OD       Operational Directive
OP       Operational Policy
OPN      Operational Policy Note
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PRGF     Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (of the IMF)
PROCC    Petroleum Revenue Oversight and Control Committee
PRSP     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
TOTCO    Tchad Oil Transportation Company, S.A.
UN       United Nations
UNDP     United Nations Development Programme
VITA     Volunteers in Technical Assistance
WHO      World Health Organization
WWF      World Wide Fund for Nature

                                           EXECUTIVESUMMARY

1.        On April 11, 2001 the Inspection Panel registered a Request for Inspection, IPN
Request RQ 01/1, concerning the IBRD-financed Chad-Cameroon Petroleum Development
and Pipeline Project (the "Pipeline Project," also the "Project"), the IDA-financed Chad
Petroleum Sector Management Capacity Building Project, and the IDA-financed Chad
Management of the Petroleum Economy Project.32

2.        The Requestors touch upon a broad range of issues concerning the local impacts of the
Project, as well as the broader impacts of oil development in Chad. These include (but are not
limited to):

          · Environmental degradation;

          · Resettlement and compensation;

          · Consultation;

          · Use of oil revenues; and

          · Human rights.

3.        The Request contains twenty-six specific allegations of non-compliance pertaining to the
applicable policies and procedures of IBRD and IDA (hereafter referred to as the "Bank") on
Environmental Assessment, Natural Habitats, Pest Management, Indigenous Peoples,
Involuntary Resettlement, Forestry, Economic Evaluation of Investment Operations, Cultural
Property, Disclosure of Operational Information, and Project Supervision.

4.        The Requestors allege that the Bank's failure to comply with the above-mentioned
policies and procedures has resulted and will result in direct and adverse impacts such as: (i)
pollution and degradation of the environment; (ii) expropriation of land and other assets without
proper compensation; (iii) lack of respect for indigenous customs and for the Requestors'
environment; (iv) lack of respect for the Requestors' human rights; and (v) poor governance
illustrated by the misuse of the US$25 million petroleum bonus paid by two Consortium
members to the Government of Chad.

5.        The Chad Petroleum Production and Export Project is the single largest private sector
investment in Sub-Saharan Africa. It is expected to cost about US$3.7 billion, of which about 4
percent is funded by the Bank Group. The private sponsors, ExxonMobil, Petronas and


32   The IFC is also participating in the financing of the Pipeline Project, alongside the Bank loan and IDA
credits. The Bank Group financing was processed concurrently by each of the participating institutions, and
IFC staff worked closely with Bank staff on this Project, especially in the environmental and social area. The
term "Bank Group" is used in this response where it is necessary to provide a factual description of the
environmental and social work carried out by the Bank and IFC staff working on the Project. It should be
noted that this response, however, deals with claims against the Bank only, and that the Inspection Panel's
jurisdiction does not extend to claims against IFC.

                                                 xxvi


Chevron, form a consortium that will develop the three oil fields of Kome, Miandoum, and
Bolobo in the region of Doba, southern Chad. The Project will also comprise the construction
of a 1,070-kilometer pipeline from the Doba oil fields to offshore oil-loading facilities in
Cameroon. Based on the appraisal assumptions and proven and probable petroleum reserves of
917 million barrels, the Project could yield about US$2 billion in revenues for Chad over the
25-year production period.

6.       The Bank Group's involvement in the Project is predicated on: (i) the unique
opportunity it presents for Chad in particular to generate additional revenues to combat poverty;
and (ii) the need to implement the Project in a socially and environmentally sound manner. It
also provides a unique opportunity for the Bank and IFC to play a significant role in reducing
poverty in one of Africa's poorest countries.

7.       The Project preparation process, which took several years, was undertaken by an
interdisciplinary team of specialists from the Bank and IFC working under the direction of
Senior Management. Extensive Bank review of environmental and social aspects of the Project
was conducted, with the participation of specialists drawn Bank-wide. This review led to
significant changes in Project design. In addition, public debate around the Project, its rationale,
its impacts, and its significance for the development of Chad, involved a broad spectrum of civil
society actors in Chad and abroad. This debate provided and continues to provide insights and
inputs to improve further on Project design and to identify issues during implementation.

8.       Management hereby responds to the Request on the subject of its compliance with the
operational policies and procedures applicable to the matters raised in the Request. In
Management's view, the Bank has complied with its operational policies and procedures in the
context of the Project with regard to the environmental, social, cultural, and procedural matters
raised in the Request. Management submits that the Bank has taken the necessary measures to
ensure that people in the Project area have not been directly and adversely affected as a result
of Project design and its implementation to date. Nor does Management believe that the
Requestors will be adversely affected by the implementation of the Project in the future, as
systems are in place to ensure that their views and concerns are adequately identified and
addressed as necessary, and extensive monitoring arrangements and supervision activities will
provide a channel for addressing implementation issues.

9.       Claims raised with regard to environmental matters concern the adequacy of the
Project's environmental assessment (Project EA), potential impacts from oil spills, project
design and location, drilling of oil wells and oil field development, consultation, forestry, natural
habitats and pest management.

10.      With regard to these claims Management believes that all the policies, guidelines and
procedures pertaining to the environmental matters raised by the Request were and continue to
be followed:

                                               xxvii


        · The Project was designed to minimize environmental impacts through an extensive
            Project EA;

        · The Project's design was significantly altered and improved by inputs from Bank
            Group staff (new technologies, international standards, environmental assessment,
            planning and mitigation, consultation) and through an intensive consultation process
            with affected populations; and

        · An extensive Environmental Management Plan will further avoid and mitigate
            impacts during implementation. This Plan includes a dynamic feedback mechanism
            based on monitoring of environmental impacts and consultation with affected
            populations during implementation.

11.     With regard to matters concerning resettlement and compensation, claims are
that national legislation was not respected and that medicinal trees were not adequately
compensated for; worries were expressed about the extent of resettlement and the non-
application of ODs pertaining to cultural property, respect of local people and public
consultation. Management believes that all the policies, guidelines and procedures pertaining to
the matters raised by the Request with regard to involuntary resettlement, including
compensation, were and continue to be followed:

        · The Project is designed to minimize impacts on affected populations, including with
            regard to resettlement;

        · Mitigation of any remaining impacts, including full and adequate compensation for
            the individuals and groups affected is being implemented in accordance with the
            relevant laws and policies;

        · Consultation is an integral part of the resettlement and compensation process and
            there is an adequate grievance process;

        · Medicinal trees will be valuated through a consultative process and will be
            compensated for when valuation is complete; and

        · The Project EA is designed to avoid impacts oncultural property and flexible
            feedback mechanisms are in place to re-route works away from sacred groves and
            gravesites during implementation.

12.     With regard to monitoring and evaluation and supervision, claims are that these
policies are not being respected. Management believes that this is not the case:

        · A dynamic process of monitoring, evaluation and feedback was put in place.
            Additional support for monitoring and evaluation under the Project is being
            provided by external groups such as the External Compliance Monitoring Group
            and the International Advisory Group;

                                                xxviii


        · Adequate supervision time and resources have been allocated. Supervision includes
            frequent field visits by a qualified team that meets with all parties to the Project,
            including affected populations;

        · Considerable resources will continue to be allocated to examination and validation
            by the Bank of the implementation of the EMP.

13.     The Requestors allege that the Bank's failure to comply with the policies and
procedures cited above has resulted and will result in direct and adverse impacts on them.
Many of the impacts cited by the Requestors, such as pollution and degradation of the
Requestors' environment, expropriation without proper compensation, lack of respect for local
people, their environment, usages and customs, are addressed under the twenty-six specific
claims on Environment, Resettlement, Indigenous People, Natural Habitats, etc.

14.     In addition, the Requestors allege that their rights and interests have been or are
likely to be harmed by the Bank's failure to apply its policies on governance. They cite
the recent misappropriation of a bonus of US$25 million (CFAF 19 billion) and its use for the
purchase of weapons as an example.

15.     With regard to this claim, Management underlines that improving governance is one of
the central objectives of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy to Chad. Management
emphasizes that the US$25 million petroleum bonus was not subject to any agreement
concluded between the Government of Chad and the Bank. Nevertheless, in line with its overall
policy of supporting the improvement of public financial management and governance in Chad,
the Bank, together with the IMF, took strong measures to ensure that unspent funds from the
petroleum bonus (approximately 40 percent) were budgeted, targeted to priority sectors for
poverty reduction, and overseen by the Petroleum Revenue Oversight and Control Committee;
and that an audit of spent funds would be carried out.

16.     Finally the Requestors allege that their human rights are violated as a result of the
Bank's failure to apply its policies. Management does not believe that this is the case. The
Bank is concerned by human rights in Chad as elsewhere, but its mandate does not extend to
political human rights. The Project has afforded affected people and the population of Chad at
large a forum and the opportunity to debate issues of public concern around the project. It has
also resulted in the representation of members of civil society on the Petroleum Revenue
Oversight and Control Committee. In Management's opinion, the Project preparation process
has contributed to opening and furthering the dialogue between Government and civil society in
Chad broadly speaking and has served as a precursor to an increasingly participatory approach
to public management, as illustrated by the Poverty Reduction Strategy process in Chad.
Management is open to collaboration with specialized agencies whose mandate explicitly
includes human rights, where complementary activities can be identified.

17.     In conclusion, Management believes that the Bank has made considerable efforts to
apply its policies and procedures and to concretely pursue its mission statement in the context of

                                                             xxix


       this Project and does not agree that, as a result, the Requestors' rights or interests have been, or
       will be, directly and adversely affected. Management remains committed to a process of regular
       consultation and disclosure to assure the environmental and social soundness of the Project
       during its implementation phase. Management intends to pursue the improvement of governance
       and the alleviation of poverty in Chad through this Project and other instruments of the Bank's
       Country Program for Chad.



                                                 1. INTRODUCTION

1.      On April 11, 2001 the Inspection Panel registered a Request for Inspection, IPN Request RQ 01/1
(hereafter referred to as "the Request"), concerning the IBRD-financed Chad-Cameroon Petroleum
Development and Pipeline Project (the "Pipeline Project," also the "Project"), the IDA-financed Chad
Petroleum Sector Management Capacity Building Project (the "Capacity Building Project"), and the IDA-
financed Chad Management of the Petroleum Economy Project (the "Petroleum Economy Project").33


                                                     THE REQUEST

2.      The Request for Inspection Panel review is submitted by Mr. Ngarlejy Yorongar (the "Requestor")
who is also acting on behalf of 120 residents (the "Requestors") of the Cantons of Miandoum, Kome, Bero,
Mbikou, Bebedjia and Beboni (all in the Sub-Prefecture of Bebedjia), Republic of Chad (see Map 1).

3.      Attached to the Request are:

        (i)      A letter to the Requestor from the private sector operator of the Project dated September
                 30, 1997 providing information on several aspects of the Project;

        (ii)     A letter to the Requestor from the private sector operator dated May 30, 2000
                 communicating copies of signed receipts for structures provided to resettled persons;

        (iii)    A fax to the Requestor from Bank staff dated May 21, 1999, communicating and translating
                 detailed information concerning the compensation received by a specific individual;

        (iv)     A letter to Mr. James D. Wolfensohn from the Requestor dated 30 November, 1999 in
                 response to a statement made by Mr. Wolfensohn concerning the Project and reported on
                 October 1, 1999 by the Chadian Press Agency;



33  The IFC is also participating in the financing of the Pipeline Project, alongside the Bank loan and IDA credits. The
Bank Group financing was processed concurrently by each of the participating institutions, and IFC staff worked closely
with Bank staff on this Project, especially in the environmental and social area. The term "Bank Group" is used in this
response where it is necessary to provide a factual description of the environmental and social work carried out by the
Bank and IFC staff working on the Project. It should be noted that this response, however, deals with claims against the
Bank only, and that the Inspection Panel's jurisdiction does not extend to claims against IFC.

                                                 30



         (v)    A copy of Chad's Law number 14/PR/98 defining General Principles of Environmental
                Protection; and

         (vi)   A document dated June 8, 2000 written by the Requestor entitled "One barrel of Chadian
                oil for one barrel of blood, pollution, corruption, drug trafficking, etc." addressed to Mr.
                James D. Wolfensohn and to the Prime Minister of Chad.

No further materials were received by Management in support of the Request.

4.       The Request alleges that the Bank has not complied with the following policies and procedures:

         OD 4.01        on EnvironmentalAssessment;

         OP/BP 4.04     on Natural Habitats;

         OP 4.09        on Pest Management;

         OD 4.20        on Indigenous Peoples;

         OD 4.30        on Involuntary Resettlement;

         OP 4.36        on Forestry;

         OP 10.04       on Economic Evaluation of Investment Operations;

         OPN 11.03      on Cultural Property;

         BP 17.50       on Disclosure of Operational Information; and

         OP 13.05       on Project Supervision.

5.       Although the Request does not explicitly mention OD 4.15 on Poverty Reduction, issues related to
compliance with this policy are addressed in Section VI of this Response. Paragraphs 138 to 146 describe
the Bank's approach, responsibilities and activities with regard to petroleum revenue management and
governance in Chad, the purpose of which is to assist Chad to target the bulk of direct oil revenues from the
Project to expenditures in priority sectors for poverty alleviation.

6.       The Request further alleges that the Bank's failure to comply with the above-mentioned policies and
procedures has resulted and will result in direct and adverse impacts on the Requestors such as: (i) pollution
and degradation of the environment; (ii) expropriation of land and other assets without proper
compensation; (iii) lack of respect for indigenous customs and for the Requestors' environment; (iv) lack of
respect of the Requestors' human rights; and (v) poor governance illustrated by the misuse of US$25 million
of oil revenues which were allegedly used to buy weapons to massacre the Requestors.

                                                       31



7.       Twenty-six specific allegations of non-compliance pertaining to the policies and procedures listed in
paragraph 4, as well as the five more general claims of adverse impact described in paragraph 6, are
contained in the Request.

8.       This response will address these concerns by responding directly to each specific claim of non-
compliance raised by the Requestors (Section V of this response), discussing claims of adverse impact
(Section VI of this response), and describing the Bank's responsiveness to the Requestors (Section VII of
this response). In light of the provisions of paragraph 12 of the Resolution establishing the Inspection Panel34
and of the fact that all allegations presented in the Request concern impacts in Chad only, the present
response focuses exclusively on the Project's preparation, appraisal and implementation in Chad. Potential
impacts in other countries are addressed only where raised explicitly in the Request.


                                             PROJECT BACKGROUND


PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION

9.       Chad is one of the world's poorest countries, with an estimated 80 percent of its population of 7.5
million living with less than one dollar a day. The depth and pervasiveness of poverty is striking, and only a
small fraction of the population escapes its consequences: poor nutrition and health, high child and adult
mortality, and limited access to basic amenities, educational opportunities and social protection. Chad's
rugged environment is also a major constraint to development, and a challenge for sustainable future growth.
Making a dent in poverty over the next years is the overriding objective for the country and its partners.

10.      Oil development provides a major opportunity for Chad to break free from a poverty trap of
enormous needs and very limited resources, to diversify its economy, and to increase its fiscal revenues. If
well-managed, additional revenues from oil can translate into significant poverty alleviation, through greater
availability of resources for priority sectors, improved infrastructure and wider delivery of better public and
social services. Estimates suggest that incomes could grow twice as fast, for about a generation, than under
a non-oil scenario, leading in all likelihood to a very significant improvement in welfare indicators. The
Bank's Country Assistance Strategy aims to help Chad prepare to make the best development use of its oil
resources, and avoid the pitfalls encountered by many other countries in the exploitation of natural
resources.

11.      The Chad Petroleum Production and Export Project is the single largest private sector investment in
Sub-Saharan Africa. It is expected to cost about US$3.7 billion, of which about 4 percent are funded by
the Bank Group. The private sponsors, ExxonMobil of the United States (the operator, with 40 percent of


34  "The affected party must demonstrate that its rights or interests have been or are likely to be directly affected by an
action or omission of the Bank as a result of failure of the Bank to follow its operational policies and procedures with
respect to the design, appraisal, and/or implementation of a project financed by the Bank (including situations where the
Bank is alleged to have failed in its follow-up on the Borrower's obligations under loan agreements with respect to such
policies and procedures) provided in all cases that such failure has had, or threatens to have a material adverse effect."
Resolution establis hing the Inspection Panel, para. 12.

                                                    32



the private equity), Petronas of Malaysia (35 percent), and Chevron of the United States (25 percent) who
form a consortium (the "Consortium"), will develop the three oil fields of Kome, Miandoum, and Bolobo
(the "Field System") in the region of Doba, southern Chad (see Map 1). The Project will also comprise the
construction of a 1,070 kilometer pipeline from the Doba oil fields to Cameroon's Atlantic coast at Kribi,
three related pumping stations, ancillary facilities, infrastructure improvements, and installation of off-shore
oil-loading facilities (the "Export System").

12.      The World Bank Group (IFC and the Bank, hereafter "the Bank Group") was originally
approached to participate in the Project in 1992. The Bank Group's involvement in the Project is
predicated on: (i) the unique opportunity it presents for Chad in particular to generate additional revenues to
combat poverty; and (ii) the need to implement the Project in a socially and environmentally sound manner.
It also provides a unique opportunity for the Bank Group to play a significant role in reducing poverty in one
of Africa's poorest regions. The Bank Group approach has been essential in integrating a range of relevant
challenges into Project preparation, including social and environmental issues, and governance issues within
the mandate of the Bank.

13.      The Project was prepared by the Consortium and the Governments of Chad and Cameroon, with
the help of the Bank Group, from 1993 to 1999. The Project was appraised by the Bank in late June and
early July 1999 and negotiated by the Bank from February to April 2000.35 An IBRD loan of US$39.5
million to the Republic of Chad that will finance part of the equity of the Government of Chad in the Tchad
Oil Transportation Company, S.A. (TOTCO) and the Cameroon Oil Transportation Company, S.A.
(COTCO),36 was approved by the Bank's Board on June 6, 2000. An IFC A Loan of US$100 million that
is expected to mobilize up to US$100 million in commercial bank lending to fund a portion of the project
costs of the Export System was approved by IFC's Board on June 6, 200037. The Project is accompanied
in Chad by: (i) the IDA-financed Management of the Petroleum Economy Project (US$17.5 million
approved on January 27, 2000) which aims to build Chad's capacity to manage oil revenues and to use
them efficiently for poverty reduction; and (ii) the IDA-financed Petroleum Sector Management Capacity
Building Project (US$23.7 million approved on June 6, 2000) which aims to assist the Government in
carrying out its responsibilities under the Pipeline Project EA and to establish an effective framework for
further sound private sector investment in the petroleum sector.

14.      As stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), in Chad the outputs of the Pipeline Project are
expected to be: (i) substantial fiscal revenues from the export of crude oil from the three oil fields to be
developed (Kome, Miandoum and Bolobo); (ii) the existence and operation of a Petroleum Revenue
Management Program; (iii) the development of the three oil fields and construction and operation of the
Export System by a private operator; and (iv) the environmentally and socially sound development of oil



35   IFC's detailed negotiations commenced in September 1997. Parallel loan negotiations, appraisal and field visit have
taken place since then.
36   IBRD funds will be disbursed against invoices for civil works on land pipeline installations. Chad Loan Agreement,
Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project, Schedule 1.
37   IFC's management has determined that the Project complies with the applicable IFC environmental and social
safeguard policies.

                                                    33


fields and construction and operation of the pipeline.38 To achieve these goals, a Petroleum Revenue
Management Program was developed for oil revenues accruing to Chad from the Project. A comprehensive
and detailed environmental assessment was carried out and environmental management plans drawn up.

15.      A special purpose company, Esso Export and Production Chad, Inc. (EEPCI), a wholly owned
subsidiary of ExxonMobil, was established to develop the Field System. The Consortium and the
Governments of Chad and Cameroon have established TOTCO and COTCO, two joint-venture
companies to own and operate, respectively, the Chad and Cameroon portions of the Export System. The
Government of Chad also owns a portion of COTCO.39 EEPCI is the Project's manager and operator,
responsible for overall coordination of the Project, including with TOTCO and COTCO, the two
Governments, the Bank, IFC, and other lenders.

16.      The Consortium and the Governments share the responsibility of implementing the Pipeline Project.
In Chad, the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) will be implemented by EEPCI and TOTCO, in
collaboration with the Government of Chad. EEPCI and TOTCO will take primary responsibility for
ensuring that contractors, workers and work sites comply with EMP provisions. The compensation,
resettlement, oil spill contingency and decommissioning plans will be implemented by EEPCI and TOTCO
in collaboration with the Government. EEPCI, TOTCO, and the Government of Chad will also monitor and
evaluate the EMP's implementation in Chad. In addition, the Government of Chad is responsible for
implementing the Capacity Building and Petroleum Economy Projects with the support of the Bank.

Background on Petroleum Revenue Management

17.      Revenues from the Project accrue to the Government of Chad in the form of royalties, taxes, and
dividends from its shareholdings in TOTCO and COTCO. Based on the appraisal assumptions of crude oil
prices (Brent) of US$15.25/bbl and proven and probable petroleum reserves of 917 million barrels, the
Project could yield about US$2 billion in revenues for Chad over the 25-year production period.

18.      The Bank Group's rationale for supporting the Pipeline Project is based on: (i) the conviction that
the Project affords Chad a unique opportunity to generate additional Government revenues to reduce
poverty; and (ii) the Government of Chad's commitment to allocating these revenues to poverty reduction
activities and achieving a concrete impact. In this context, a core issue addressed during Project preparation
was the design of and agreement upon a Petroleum Revenue Management Program for Chad, which would
ensure transparent management of oil revenues and the allocation of the bulk of revenues to priority sectors
for poverty reduction.

19.      The Government of Chad, working closely with the Bank, has articulated a Strategy for the
Management of the Petroleum Economy which seeks to reduce poverty by isolating petroleum revenues and
targeting their use to the priority poverty sectors in the context of sectoral programs. This Strategy is
supported by the Petroleum Economy Project.40 Chad has adopted a Petroleum Revenue Management


38  Pipeline Project, PAD, Annex1, pp. 43-44.
39  See Pipeline Project PAD, Annex 12, for a description of corporate relationships.
40  Pipeline Project, PAD, Annex 11, p. 111.

                                                  34


Law41 which targets the bulk of oil revenues from the fields to be developed under the Project for
incremental poverty alleviation activities in a transparent manner, under the supervision of a Petroleum
Revenue Oversight and Control Committee (PROCC) composed of Government and civil society
representatives.42

20.     A Petroleum Revenue Management Program (the Program) also has been agreed between the
Bank and Chad and incorporated into the Chad Loan Agreement for the Project. This Program expands
upon the provisions of the Petroleum Revenue Management Law. The overall objective of the Program is to
set aside the petroleum revenues received by the Borrower under the Project and target their use to priority
poverty sectors in the context of the Borrower's overall sectoral programs and global government
expenditure patterns, in a manner consistent with sound macroeconomic management. Petroleum revenues
to be spent on priority sectors are to conform to sectoral expenditure programs to be agreed to on an
annual basis with the Bank.

21.     The provisions of the Program:

        · Stipulate that the Borrower shall not amend or waive the Petroleum Revenue Management Law
            so as to materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Program;

        · Set out the flow of funds generated by the Project;

        · Stipulate the use of funds generated by the Project and the modalities by which they will be
            spent; and

        · Set out record keeping and auditing requirements for petroleum accounts.

22.     Improving governance has been an important issue in the Bank's dialogue with Chad. The
Petroleum Economy Project in particular, and other Bank-financed operations are in place and aim to
improve public financial management for all revenues by: (i) carrying out public expenditure reviews; (ii)
conducting surveys to trace public expenditures down to primary schools and health centers; (iii) developing
a medium term framework for public expenditure; (iv) simplifying the expenditure circuit; and (v) reforming
procurement practices. Support is also provided to further develop sectoral strategies in health, education,
rural development and infrastructure that will concretely benefit the poor. Finally, the Government is
preparing a Governance Strategy with the participation of civil society, a process that lends itself to
discussion of a range of governance issues.


                          OVERVIEW OF MANAGEMENT CONCLUSIONS

23.     Pursuant to paragraph 18 of the Resolution establishing the Inspection Panel, Management hereby
responds to the Request on the subject of its compliance with the operational policies and procedures
applicable to the matters raised in the Request. In Management's view, the Bank has complied with its

41  See Annex C for the Petroleum Revenue Management Law adopted by Chadian Parliament on December 30, 1998.
42  See Annex C, Petroleum Revenue Management Law.

                                                  35



operational policies and procedures in the context of the Project with regard to the environmental, social,
cultural, and procedural matters raised in the Request. Management submits that the Bank has taken the
necessary measures to ensure that people in the Project area have not been directly and adversely affected
as a result of Project design and its implementation to date. Nor does Management believe that the
Requestors will be adversely affected by the implementation of the Project in the future, as systems are in
place to ensure that their views and concerns are adequately identified and addressed. Extensive monitoring
arrangements and supervision activities will provide a channel for addressing any future implementation
issues.


          ALLEGED VIOLATIONS OF THE BANK'S POLICIES AND PROCEDURES


CLAIMSRELATEDTOENVIRONMENTALISSUES

Background Information on the Project's Environmental Assessment Process

24.      All Bank-financed projects classified as Category A require the completion of an EA under OD
4.01. The Pipeline Project was classified as a Category A project. Consequently, in accordance with the
provisions of this OD, and in collaboration with the Government of Chad, the Consortium has prepared an
environmental assessment and environmental management plans for the Project. In 1997, a Draft
Environmental Assessment (the 1997 Draft EA) was prepared and made publicly available in the Infoshop
in October 1997. In May 1999, an EMP was finalized and made publicly available in June 1999. Together
the 1997 Draft EA and the EMP constitute the Project EA. The accompanying Capacity Building Project
was classified as a Category B project and the Petroleum Economy Project as a Category C project.

25.      Draft environmental documentation was developed by the Consortium, in collaboration with the
Government of Chad, through a program of scientific studies and public consultations that began in 1993. A
Geographic Information System (GIS) map-based database was produced to aid in environmental
assessment of Project alternatives.43 The data for the GIS and other Project analyses were based on field
studies, published research data, satellite imagery, and high-resolution aerial photographic mapping
produced by the Consortium. Public consultations included meetings with numerous in-country non-
governmental organizations (NGOs) as well as nearly 200 village meetings held in the context of a Human
Environment Survey.

26.      These materials led to the preparation of the 1997 Draft EA44 and its accompanying plans and
studies, which included: (i) appendices describing the Human Environment and Health Surveys and
providing preliminary information on oil spill response planning, as well as a series of reference documents


43  Dames and Moore, February 1995, Route Selection Report, Environmental and Socioeconomic Services, Exxon Chad
Doba Development Project.
44  Dames and Moore, October 1997, Chad Export Project Environmental Assessment, Chad Portion; Dames and Moore,
October 1997, Chad Export Project Environmental Assessment, Cameroon Portion; Dames and Moore, November 1997,
Chad Export Project Environmental Management Plan, Chad Portion; and Dames and Moore, November 1997, Chad Export
Project Environmental Management Plan, Cameroon Portion.

                                                 36



describing biophysical and socioeconomic surveys; and (ii) a Compensation and Resettlement Plan for Chad
and a Compensation Plan for Cameroon. The documents covered both the production of crude oil in the
Doba Basin in Chad and the transportation of this crude from the Doba Basin in Chad to the coast in
Cameroon. All of the above documents were distributed for public review and comment in Chad and at the
Infoshop in the third quarter of 1997.

27.     Upon examining the released 1997 Draft EA and following IFC's appraisal mission in January
1998, Bank Group staff concluded that the initial design of the Project, the scope of the environmental
assessment, and the provided environmental documentation did not fully meet Bank requirements. Over
sixty areas of deficiency were found. For instance, the routing of the proposed pipeline in Cameroon was
not satisfactory, the impact assessments for infrastructure upgrades in support of the Project were
inadequate, induced impacts in Chad were not adequately addressed, and the 1997 Draft EA was deemed
to be too general. In addition, a vivid public debate led by international and local NGOs concerning the
environmental and social issues pertaining to the Project provided inputs for the analysis of this
documentation. On the basis of extensive Bank Group staff comments, discussions, and field visits, the
Consortium undertook considerable additional work and made key revisions to the EA.

28.     Key revisions included: (i) more detailed alternatives analysis of pipeline routing resulting in major
changes in alignment in three areas (the Mbere Rift Valley and the Deng Deng and Atlantic littoral forests in
Cameroon); (ii) EAs for infrastructure upgrades; and (iii) specific responsibilities for the implementation of
the EMP. Other improvements included the collection of additional biodiversity data; an Induced Access
Management Plan and a Decommissioning Plan for infrastructure facilities; an AIDS prevention component
to the Project; provisions to strengthen social infrastructure in the producing region; and a commitment to
elaborate a Regional Development Plan for this region. One of the Bank Group's further findings was that
the consultation process undertaken prior to 1997 needed to be strengthened. Extensive additional
consultation was undertaken during the public review period of 1997 to 1999 (see the Process of Public
Consultation, paragraphs 40-55).

29.     The environmental documentation which incorporated these changes and improvements became the
EMP. The Project EA, comprising the 1997 Draft EA and the EMP, was found to be in compliance with all
applicable safeguard policies of the Bank in May 1999. The updated, expanded and finalized Project EA
covered the Field System and the Export System. In accordance with Bank procedures, Bank appraisal did
not take place until the Bank had received the satisfactory Project EA and placed it in the Infoshop on June
25, 1999. The Project EA was made available in Chad on the same day.

                                                 37



30.     The Project EA was produced by the Consortium in collaboration with the two host Governments,
the Republic of Chad and the Republic of Cameroon (See Annex B for a complete list of the
documentation, which includes the documents related to the full Project EA). It describes the joint
investigations, analysis, environmental assessments and environmental management commitments of the
Consortium and of each of the host countries and is summarized in Figure 1 below.




                           Figure 1. Structure of EA and Supporting Documents

31.     In addition, in September 1999, the "Chad Export Project: General Oil Spill Response Plan"
(GOSRP) was completed, reviewed by Bank Group staff, and found to be in compliance with applicable
safeguard policies. It was released to the public and in country through the same channels as the Project
EA. It expanded upon the Chad Export Project Supporting Documents, Volume 4, Oil Spill Response,
Preliminary Approach, which was deemed sufficient for the purposes of appraisal. The production of the
GOSRP was a condition of Board presentation of the Project and constitutes the twentieth Volume of the
Project EA of which it is an integral part.

Objective of Project EMPs

32.     In the context of the Project EA, it is the objective of the EMP for Chad to describe measures and
actions that will be implemented by EEPCI, TOTCO, and Chad during the design, construction and

                                                  38



operation of the Field System and the Export System to eliminate, offset, or reduce key identified
biophysical, socioeconomic, and health issues/impacts to acceptable levels. Details on the mechanics of the
EMP are presented in Volume 1 of the EMP for Chad.

33.     For Chad, the "Handbook for Site-Specific Environmental Mitigation Actions" accompanies the
Environment Alignment Sheets (EASs) and Environmental Line List for the TOTCO Transportation
System's pipeline and the Project's oil field development area facilities.45 The pipeline route is shown on
twenty-six EASs and the oil field area on twelve EASs. These EASs will be used in the field to locate
sensitive and special interest habitats, as well as the locations at which specific Environmental Management
Requirements (EMRs) will be implemented. Aerial photographs and satellite imagery at 1:30,000 and
1:50,000 scale, respectively, were analyzed and interpreted. The information was enlarged to 1:10,000
scale (1:20,000 scale for the oil field development area) and presented on the EASs.

34.     The EMRs are designed to reduce construction and operation related impacts. In addition, other
resources of interest, such as vegetation/land use classifications, are shown. The EMRs are generally
consistent with the Project's biophysical, socioeconomic, health and technical requirements and
specifications in the EMP.46 In some situations, primarily in areas with sensitive species habitats, the EMRs
may modify these general requirements and specifications based on site-specific information. The categories
of resources and EMRs portrayed on the EASs are:

        · Vegetation/Land use classifications;

        · Vegetation and wildlife resources;

        · Vegetation and wildlife protectionmeasures;

        · Monitoring surveys and seasonal restrictions;

        · Fisheries protection measures;

        · Erosion and sediment control measures; and

        · Soil handling and special area reclamation.

35.     The Handbook, EASs and Environmental Line List have been developed based on information
gathered to date from numerous resource surveys, a detailed TOTCO Transportation System Centerline
Survey, and the Project EA. "These documents will be updated and expanded to include specific erosion
and sediment control measures once detailed construction planning is completed. New information and
processes also may result in changes to EMRs, and thus require revisions to the EASs, Environmental Line




45  EMP, Chad Portion, Volume 6; similar provisions are in place for Cameroon.
46  EMP, Chad Portion, Volume 2; similar provisions are in place for Cameroon.

                                                    39


List and Handbook."47 For example, during pre-construction surveys and construction monitoring the
EMRs for sensitive habitats may be revised based on consultations with local villagers.48

36.     The Handbook, EASs and Environmental Line List are the base implementation documentation of
the EMP. They are complemented by the Management Plan for Cultural Properties and the Environmental
Monitoring Plans.49 The Project technical specifications,50 the Compensation and Resettlement Plan,51 etc.
constitute the remainder of the EMP. Consultations are a key component of the EMP implementation
process.52

Execution of the EMP

37.     Successful execution of the EMP requires that the individual actions presented be appropriately
undertaken by the responsible Project participants. As indicated above in paragraph 11, the Project is
organized into two systems: the Field System (EEPCI's responsibility) and the Export System (TOTCO's
responsibility). However, EEPCI's EMP manager (who is also the TOTCO EMP manager) is ultimately
responsible for EMP execution for both systems.53

38.     The Project is being implemented by the Consortium through six major contractors: Doba Logistics
(Project Logistics); Sogea/Satom (Cameroon Infrastructure); David Terrassement (Chad Infrastructure);
Corris (Telecommunications); Kellog Bouygues Cegelec (KBC) (Field System); and Wilbros and Spied-
Capax (Export System). Each of these contractors must prepare EMPs for its specific work; these are to
be derived from the Project's EMP. Each of the EMPs prepared by the contractors must be reviewed and
approved by the EEPCI and TOTCO's EMP managers and by ExxonMobil in the United States prior to
the start of work by the subcontractor. Each activity during Project construction and operation, such as
road construction or upgrading for instance, is undertaken on the basis of an environmental and
socioeconomic study, including local consultation, to ensure that the activity complies with the contractor's
EMP and the broader Project EMP. These studies are to be reviewed by EMP monitors hired by each
contractor to ensure EMP compliance, and by EEPCI and TOTCO EMP monitoring staff.

39.     In addition to the above, the Bank Group has its own supervision/monitoring program. Bank Group
supervision is complemented by an External Compliance Monitoring Group (ECMG) and the International
Advisory Group (IAG).




47  EMP, Chad Portion, Volume 1, Appendix D.
48  EMP, Chad Portion, Volume 1, Appendix D, p. D-9.
49  EMPs, Chad portion and Cameroon portion, Volume 1.
50  EMP, Chad portion and Cameroon portion, Volume 2.
51  EMP, Chad portion and Cameroon portion, Volume 3.
52  EMP, Chad portion and Cameroon portion, Volume 1, Management Plan for Cultural Properties.
53  In Cameroon, the objectives of the EMP are identical and COTCO plays a role in Cameroon similar to the one TOTCO
does in Chad.

                                                     40



Process of Public Consultation

40.      Consultation is an integral part of the Project's design and implementation process, as is described
below. In fact, the broad consultation process for the Project was unprecedented in Chad and opened the
way for increased civil society participation in public debates over broad policy issues such as Petroleum
Revenue Management, governance, and social and environmental issues. This participation is today
consolidated in the context of the PRSP process and in the formal representation of civil society in several
official bodies, such as the Steering Committee for the ongoing PRSP and the PROCC. The consultation
process has known three phases, which are described below. Disclosed documentation was provided in
French throughout the consultation process. However, village meetings took place in the local language and
appropriate materials were used for non-readers and people of low literacy.

41.      Phase 1 - 1993­1997: Initiation of Dialogue. This is the period of initial contact with the
population aimed at sensitizing the population on the nature and impacts of oil production and exportation.
During this phase, EEPCI was carrying out its seismic surveys and paying compensation for crop damage.
The period is characterized by difficult conditions in the Project due to armed rebellion in the area and
mistrust between the population and the Government. Project-related consultations were undertaken in a
context of insecurity and Project teams were escorted into the villages by armed gendarmes to ensure their
safety.

42.      Despite these difficult conditions, EEPCI field staff maintained uninterrupted contact with
communities who were likely to be affected by the Project, carrying out a market survey to update the
official compensation framework, sensitizing the communities on Project design and potential impacts, and
paying compensation for crop damage. In mid-1995, consultations with local populations were launched.
Public information meetings were conducted in the Project area. These were followed by Human
Environmental Surveys carried out by social staff of EEPCI in the Cantons of the Requestors in 1995 and
1996 among others (Miandoum, Bero, Kome, Bebedjia, Mbikou, Mbaissaye, Beboni, and Doba).

43.      Consultations were conducted through the administration of individual questionnaires and/or focus
group discussions in those villages potentially affected by oil field and pipeline development. Meetings
included elders, women, youth, socially active and religious groups; open-forum discussions were held and
conducted in local languages. In parallel, consultations with local NGO groups continued throughout 1995
and 1997.54 A list of these meetings is provided in Annex G.

44.      The Bank Group's social and environmental teams started field visits in 1996, which were largely
unescorted, to assess: (i) potential impacts of the Project; and (ii) the nature and impact of public
consultation. The primary activities evaluated were the market survey, which would serve as a basis to
determine compensation rates, and the establishment of baseline data for the Project. The Bank Group


54  These meetings included locally active NGOs such as BELACD (a Catholic NGO), INADES formation (an NGO
focusing on grass-roots training and capacity building) and ACCORD (a local community-based NGO) as well as
internationally active NGOs such as World Vision, World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), Volunteers in Technical
Assistance (VITA) and national and regional NGO coordination bodies such as CILONG and COLONG (respectively local
and national umbrella organizations for NGOs in Chad).

                                                    41



suggested key improvements in the data collection and consultation process. These improvements were
introduced during Phase II.

45.      It is difficult to ascertain whether or to what extent the conditions under which these early
consultations were held (there were tensions between populations and Government in the Project area due
to prior civil strife) had an impact on the quality of the information provided to the participants and on the
participation of local people at that time. Over time, however, the atmosphere in the Project area grew less
tense because of improving political stability, especially after 1998, and the local consultation process
evolved.

46.      Phase II ­ 1997­1999: Consolidation Phase. The 1997 Draft EA was released in October and
discussions were carried out between the Bank Group, the Consortium and the Government on Project
impacts and mitigation planning. This phase of the consultation process witnessed greater involvement of
national and international NGOs as characterized by wide-ranging seminars organized by civil society and
broad revisions of the 1997 Draft EA.

47.      Bank Group reviews of the 1997 Draft EA suggested over sixty areas for further revision in the
design of the pipeline routing, compensation policy framework, and the broad ground rules for civil society
engagement; many of these suggestions benefited from civil societyinputs. The Bank Group social
specialists spent at least 173 person-days in the field during this period to verify and validate the findings in
the 1997 Draft EA reports and plans.

48.      After the 1997 Draft EA was publicly disclosed, the consultation process improved both as a result
of the availability of the environmental documentation and of the subsiding tensions in the Project area. Also,
as a result of Bank comments on the 1997 Draft EA, the consultation process was reviewed and
strengthened. An extensive public information and consultation campaign was launched during the summer
of 1997, which included a Public Information Campaign in two rounds:

         · From November 1997 to May 1998, meetings were held in fifty-one villages in the nine
              Cantons where the oil fields and pipeline would be located. These Cantons include those where
              the Requestors reside except the Canton of Beboni (where no oil fields are located and which is
              not traversed by the pipeline) in the Sub-Prefecture of Bebedjia. Questions and answers were
              documented and the meetings videotaped. Video presentations were shown on compensation,
              safety, business opportunities, employment, and technical aspects of the Project. Project
              documents were distributed to each village. A follow-up visit was held in sixteen of the fifty-one
              villages visited, from July to November 1998.

         · In September and November 1998 a second round of village meetings was held in twelve
              locations covering forty-eight villages. These meetings focused on compensation and survey
              issues. Maps and brochures were distributed. In 1998 and 1999, specialized consultation
              sessions were held focusing on directly affected people as stipulated in the EMP. For instance,
              consultations were carried out with people affected by resettlement or relocation, with land

                                                   42



             users eligible for individual compensation in cash and in-kind, and with resettlers to evaluate
             their status and decide on actions.55

49.     In addition, consultations included discussions with all regional and national stakeholders and
benefited from the increased involvement of Chadian authorities responsible for Project management. A
broad public seminar was organized in January 1998 in Dounia by CILONG, and was attended by village
chiefs and other representatives of the local population, local NGOs, local and national government officials,
religious authorities, the Consortium, and the Bank. Starting in November 1998 a series of meetings were
held with Chadian NGOs in various locations including Moundou and Doba. Issues of primary importance
at these meetings included consultation and compensation.

50.     Workshops were also held abroad with international NGOs, in the Netherlands and in Germany in
April 1998. In December 1998, at a Project meeting on environmental issues in Yaounde attended by
Project managers for the Governments of Chad and Cameroon and by the Consortium, Bank staff noted
the improvements made to the consultation process.

51.     Phase III - Broadening, Deepening and Upscaling the Consultation Process. Upon
dissemination of additional environmental and social documentation in early March 1999, a new round of
consultation was launched. During meetings in N'Djamena topics of discussion were consultation,
compensation, NGO involvement, and the Regional Development Plan for the producing region.

52.     When the full Project EA (including the 1999 EMP) was released in June 1999, its documents were
displayed in twenty-one locations in different parts of Chad, in particular in the Project impact area. These
documents were presented in thirteen-volume sets comprising the Overview volume or Volume 1, the six
volumes on Chad, and six volumes of supporting documentation. All documents placed in the public reading
rooms were in French. The technical documentation was not made available in local languages, however,
EEPCI's social science team is fluent in the predominant local language, which was used in village
information campaigns and consultations concerning this documentation. Graphic materials appropriate for
non-readers and people with low literacy were also used. CD-ROMs and sets of documentation were
distributed to groups and NGOs for dissemination. Documents were also disclosed to the public at large on
the Consortium's web site and through the Bank's Infoshop, and the public was invited to submit its
comments to the Consortium and the Bank.

53.     A broad public seminar was held in Bebedjia in April 1999 to review the Compensation and
Resettlement Plan. Representatives of twenty NGOs, human rights associations, trade organizations, the
Government of Chad, EEPCI and the Bank participated in the seminar. This consultation and public review
program resulted in further improvements to the Resettlement and Compensation Plan, such as a new
valuation of compensation for mango trees, and to the consultation process prior to Bank appraisal. By the
time the Project was appraised by the Bank, starting in June 1999, the consultation process was assessed
as meeting Bank requirements.


55  For an analysis of Resettlement and Compensation, see the Chad Compensation and Resettlement Plan
Implementation Report, Focus International, June 1999. Additional information on resettlement can be found in EEPCI's
Resettlement Phase I Report, May 2000.

                                                  43



54.       Since then, consultations have continued with affected populations in the field and with a broader
range of stakeholders through various meetings and discussions held by the Consortium, the Bank, and the
Government, in particular through regular field visits of its National Technical Committee for Monitoring and
Evaluation of the Pipeline Project (CTNSC).56 Village information campaigns concerning the design and
implementation of the Fonds d'Action Concerté d'Initiative Locale (FACIL), a local initiatives social fund,
were carried out in the nine Cantons of the Project area by the FACIL Steering Committee (composed of
representatives of the Government and of civil society), to inform local people about FACIL. Participatory
seminars were held in 1999 and 2000 to gather inputs for FACIL's implementation manual. Detailed
information concerning FACIL and local participation in its management can be found in the documentation
for the Capacity Building Project. The implementation manual for FACIL is also available. In September
2000, consultative meetings were held by Bank staff with civil society in Chad during which inputs were
solicited concerning the roles of the ECMG and the IAG.

1. 55. A concrete output of the consultation process is the rapid growth in civil society organizations.
There has also been a shift of focus from narrowly defined impact mitigation to the broader issue of regional
development. Civil society organizations are involved in the definition and future operation of the FACIL
and in the elaboration of the Regional Development Plan. Finally, civil society broadly speaking has played
an active role in discussing petroleum revenue management as a whole. In August 2000, civil society
representation on the PROCC was increased to four out of nine seats by amendment to the Petroleum
Revenue Management Law (the original law allocated two out of nine seats to civil society). NGOs, human
rights organizations, religious groups, and trade unions each hold one seat on the Committee.

Specific Claims and Responses


Claim #1

          "Directive 4.30 which deals with environmental impact assessments ignores the 300
          sampling wells drilled all over the oil production zone (OD 4.01). As far as the
          environmental impact assessment is concerned, the World Bank, the Government and the
          Consortium have focused all their attention on the Chad-Cameroon pipeline."


Response to Claim #1

56.       It appears the Requestors intend to refer to OD 4.01 on Environmental Assessment, rather than OD
4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement (for further discussion of Involuntary Resettlement see Claims #13 and
#14 below). OD 4.01 requires that projects proposed for Bank financing and classified as Category A be
subject to environmental assessment and states that "the EA covers project-specific and other
environmental impacts in the area of influence of a project."57 Management would like to indicate that the


56  This Committee is composed of representatives of concerned line Ministries such as the Ministries of Environment,
Health, Rural Development, Transport, and Mines and Energy, and is assisted by an Executive Secretariat funded by the
Capacity Building Project.
57  OD 4.01, Introduction.

                                                    44



Project EA, which is in the public domain, dealt with both the environmental impacts of the pipeline (Export
System) and of the oil production activities (Field System).

57.     Although the Bank Group does not finance the Field System, the Project EA defines the Project
and its zone of influence to include both the Field System and the Export System, as defined in the PAD,58
and evaluates both. The 1997 Draft EA examined design alternatives for the Field System and its biological
studies included the area covered by the Field System.59 In addition, the EMP60 covers the Field System,
meeting OD 4.01 requirements. For instance, it details the environmental mitigation and monitoring
provisions for the Field System.61 This documentation also includes the respective monitoring responsibilities
of the Consortium and the Government of Chad.

58.     Finally, the GOSRP, released to the public in September 1999,62 details oil spill response strategies
including those for the Field System. Prior to the first extraction of oil, six Area Specific Oil Spill Response
Plans (ASOSRPs) will be put in place. The ASOSRPs will be finalized after completion of detailed design
of the Field System and in a timely fashion prior to oil production, in order to utilize state of the art
equipment and response capacity. One of these ASOSRPs will pertain to the Field System.63 These
arrangements are in compliance with the applicable safeguard policies of the Bank.


Claim #2

        "Consider the plight of the Ogoni people of Nigeria:64 the problems they have been left to
        face are those created by pipelines that link oil wells to pumping stations. It is at this level,
        and only this level, that the human, material and environmental damage has been least
        bearable. Since the World Bank, the Government, and the Consortium refuse to carry out
        an environmental impact assessment at this level, the danger is inevitable. Because the
        danger exists all along the entire 1,100 kilometer route of the Chad-Cameroon pipeline,
        the environmental impact assessment is unsatisfactory."


Response to Claim #2

59.     Management assumes that this is a reference to the environmental assessment to be undertaken by
the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of OD 4.01. OD 4.01 states that "...the purpose of EA is
to improve decision-making and to ensure that the project options under consideration are environmentally
sound and sustainable. All environmental consequences should be recognized early in the project cycle and
taken into account in project selection, siting, planning, and design. EAs identify ways of improving projects


58  As defined in the Pipeline Project, PAD, p.10.
59  Project EA, Supporting Documents, Volume 2 and Volume 5.
60  Chad Export Project, Environmental Management Plan -- Supporting Documents, Volumes 1 to 6, May 1999.
61  EMP, Supporting Documents, Volume 1, Chapter 2, "Biophysical Topics," pp. 1 to 30.
62  Chad Export Project, General Oil Spill Response Plan, September 1999.
63  Chad Export Project, General Oil Spill Response Plan, September 1999, Table 1-1, p. 1-2.
64  Many differences are to be noted between the conditions in Ogoniland, where the people of Nigeria referred to in the
Request live, and those in Chad; see Annex E for comparison.

                                                      45


environmentally, by preventing, minimizing, mitigating, or compensating for adverse impacts."65 Management
notes that the Project EA for the Pipeline Project addresses all these issues.

60.       The no-project alternative was examined and ultimately rejected in the 1997 Draft EA. The Bank
Group reviewed this analysis and concurred with its findings. The 1997 Draft EA examined alternative
routings for the proposed pipeline and alternative locations for the marine terminal, with a view to minimizing
the potential impacts of the Project from oil leaks and spills. It also investigated alternative development
configurations for the Field System. The EMP for the Project includes significant mitigation for the remaining
oil spill risks including for the Field System, as detailed below. Upon review of this documentation, Bank
staff concluded that Project design and mitigation provisions complied with the requirements of OD 4.01.

61.       The capacity of the Export System is 250,000 barrels a day (the Request cites 250 million barrels a
day). The Project's design meets international industry standards, including World Bank environmental,
health and safety guidelines for onshore oil and gas development (including corrosion prevention and leak
detection), and guidelines developed by the American Petroleum Institute (API) and the American Society
for Testing and Materials (ASTM).66 These standards and guidelines aim to minimize the risk of leaks and
spills (feeder lines are made of non-corrosive fiberglass, the lines are buried, etc.) as is reflected in the 1997
Draft EA. In addition, the Project provides for continuous monitoring of the entire system and rapid
response in the event of an oil leak or spill. Preliminary oil spill response planning is foreseen as described in
the environmental documentation.67 Prior to Board presentation, the Consortium also prepared a GOSRP
that has been made available for public review and comment. The Bank has received numerous questions,
predominantly from environmental NGOs, concerning the timely implementation of ASOSRPs and the
capacity of the Government of Chad to play its role in these plans. The Bank has answered these queries
and indicated that more detailed ASOSRPs, which will operationalize the GOSRP across all sections of the
Project, including the Field System, will be put in place prior to start-up of pipeline operations. They will be
complemented by a national oil spill response plan to be developed under the Capacity Building Project.68

62.       One of the concerns raised by local people and others during the consultation process was the
potential impact of the Project on water resources.69 The fourth concern in order of importance,
representing 9 percent of views in the analysis of the overall consultation process for the Project, "expressed
concern about potential environmental impacts, mainly oil pollution, leaks and spills."70 The concern of
groundwater pollution was considered during the preliminary design process and was assessed in the 1997
Draft EA.71 The Project EA includes a Comprehensive Ground Water Quality Monitoring Program, which
will be in place before oil production starts. In the view of Management the Project EA is satisfactory and
complies with the requirements of OD 4.01.


65  OD 4.01, para. 1.
66  Chad Export Project, EA, Executive Summary and Update, May 1999, pp. 3-2, 7-3 to 7-5.

67  Chad Export Project, Supporting Documents, Volume 4, Oil Spill Response Preliminary Approach.
68  Pipeline Project, PAD, Annex 14, p. 149.
69  Dames and Moore, 1997, Chapter 9, p. 9-2.
70  Pipeline Project, PAD, Annex 14, p. 154, para. 71.
71  Dames and Moore, 1997, Section 7.3.1.5 "Aquatic Impacts," pp. 7-21 to 7-23, and Chad Export Project, EA, Executive
Summary and Update, May 1999, Chapter 9, p. 9-28.

                                                    46



Claim #3

         "So far, neither the Consortium nor the Government has said a word about how they
         intend to pump oil from 300 wells through the three pumping stations in Kome, Miandoum,
         and Bolobo (Sub-Prefecture of Bebedjia)."


Response to Claim #3

63.      OD 4.01 requirements stipulate that the environmental assessment must provide a description of the
proposed project. The Project EA specifically describes the proposed Project including development of the
three oil fields. It provides specific details on the Field System, including how oil will be produced and
delivered under the Project to the three pumping stations.72 The EMP details the alternatives considered and
the selected design.73 A summary of this process is presented in the first chapter of the EMP.74

64.      At this time, there are fifteen capped exploration wells in the oil fields. These wells were drilled to
delimit the oil reservoir. Approximately 300 wells will be drilled within the Field System over an area of
approximately 185 square kilometers. Drilling has not yet commenced. It is expected to start by November
2001 and to continue for approximately three years. Figure 2 is illustrative of how oil will be delivered.
Small diameter pipelines (flowlines) within the oil field will transport produced fluids from each well to a
gathering station (field "pumping stations" in the Request) located in each of three oil fields. Since the oil field
has little gas, a 120 MW power plant, which is also covered in the EA, will provide electricity for in-well
pumps to bring oil to the surface. The gathering stations will connect to a production pipeline (a pipeline that
transports all of the production from one or more oil field(s)) leading to the Central Treatment Facility,
where produced fluids are processed before being transferred to the Export System. For a discussion of oil
spill risks in the Field System, see Claims #2 and #5.




72  Dames and Moore, 1997, Chapter 3.
73  Chad Export Project, EA, Executive Summary and Update, May 1999, Chapter 3, "Oil Field Area," p. 3-3 to 3-4 and
Chapter 5, "Scale of Oil Development Alternatives" and "Oil Field Design Alternatives," pp. 5-4 to 5-8.
74  EMP, Chad Portion, Volume 1, Chapter 1, May 1999.

                                                47




                                                      Figure 2.


Claim #4

       "The geological map shows that petroleum in the Doba basin is found from the border of
       Cameroon to the borders of the Central African Republic and Sudan. It crosses seven
       prefectures in the Southern part of Chad, namely Eastern Logone, Western Logone,
       Tandjile, Mayo-Kebi, Monyen-Chari, Chari-Baguirmi, and Salamat, home to more than
       4.5 million of the country's total population of 6 million. This is precisely the region that
       feeds Chad and the frontier populations of the neighboring countries. The breadbasket of
       Chad, this zone is the most densely populated... This is an area of heavy rainfall, where
       the gallery forest is flooded six months of the year, where population density is high, and
       where farming is highly developed... If there are breaks in the feeder lines and other
       pipelines from the oil wells because of a lack of safety measures and an environmental
       impact assessment, imagine how much damage will be caused."


Response to Claim #4

65.    The 1997 Draft EA states: "The specific locations for each of the major field components (i.e.,
gathering stations, Operations Center, field flowlines, utility corridors, airfields, etc.) were selected and [will
be] configured in a cost-effective manner that optimizes technical efficiencies while considering potential

                                                    48



impacts to the local human, biological, and physical environments. Specifically, the individual field facilities
(with the exception of the well sites, whose exact locations have not yet been determined) have been sited
to avoid, to the extent feasible, the following:

         · Existing living space and areas of dense population;

         · Water resources, including existing wetlands and drainages in the field areas;

         · Known transhumant movement corridors;

         · Areas of vegetation with high conservation value (including gallery forest); and

         · Active agricultural areas.

In addition, acceptable balances have been sought between protecting areas of higher conservation value,
areas of fallow agricultural land that provide a variety of resources for the local population, and actively
worked agricultural land. As a result of these considerations, the overall field development facilities design
and configuration was developed as described in Section 3.0."75

66.      In addition to locating flowlines and production pipelines to avoid, where possible, water courses,
mitigation includes, among other measures, the burial of flowlines and production pipelines to safeguard
against third party damage and the use of fiberglass flowlines in the Field System for lines less than or equal
to 203 millimeters (8 inches) in diameter to avoid corrosion.76 Besides the design provisions, in the event of
an oil spill, an area specific oil spill response plan for the Field System will be in place (for a discussion of oil
spills see Claims #2 and #5).




75  Dames and Moore, 1997, p. 4-10.
76  EMP, Chad Portion, May 1999, Volume 1, "Biophysical Topic #4, Surface Water and Groundwater Protection: pp. 7-
10.

                                                   49



Claim #5

         "In the Sub-Prefecture of Bebedjia and its environs alone, for example, the Consortium
         has drilled [will drill] 300 wells. If you multiply these 300 wells by 10 feeder lines for each
         one, you will have 3,000 feeder lines in this district... A pipeline expert who belongs to an
         environmental protection group writes in the journal L'Autre Afrique, Nr. 31, that along
         the Chad Cameroon pipeline `the capacity for detecting seepage with even the most
         sophisticated systems will still not prevent the escape of 10 000 liters per day, undetected.'
         If we multiply the 300 pipelines leading from the 300 wells by 10,000 liters per day, we get
         three million liters of seepage of crude oil every day in this production region. In other
         words, its surface waters (consisting of flood waters and the waters of its rivers), polluted
         by three million liters of oil a day for six months, will empty into the Logone, the Pende,
         the Nyan, the Chari, the Mandoul, the Tandjile, the Mayo-Kebbi and the Chari. These
         rivers, now polluted in their turn, will continue flowing into Lake Chad. As a result, not
         only Chad but also its neighboring States ­ Nigeria, Cameroon, Niger, etc. -- will be
         contaminated."


Response to Claim #5

67.      OD 4.01 requires that the environmental assessment include "the set of measures to be taken during
implementation and operation to eliminate, offset, or reduce adverse environmental impacts to acceptable
levels...[and] the actions needed to implement them"77 specifically with regard to oil spill risk minimization,
managing, monitoring, and eventual remediation.

68.      At this time, there are fifteen capped exploration wells in the oil fields. These wells were drilled to
delimit the oil reservoir. Approximately 300 wells will be drilled within the Field System over an area of
approximately 185 square kilometers. Drilling has not yet commenced. It is expected to start by November
2001 and to continue for approximately three years. The specific location of the wells within the three oil
fields in the Doba Basin cannot be finalized in advance due to the nature of oil exploration activities; wells
are drilled in sequence and their location determined progressively. Early production results will provide
better definition of the producing reservoirs and there may be modifications to the final number of new wells
to be drilled. Each producing well will be connected through a single, buried, fiberglass feeder line, (rather
than the ten feeder lines per well referred to in the Request), to the field manifold (gathering station). From
the manifold, production from several wells will be combined in a production pipeline to the Central
Treatment Facility.

69.      As with the Export System, the Field System will be developed and operated from the perspective
that prevention is the best possible "response" to an oil spill. Hazop (hazardous operations) assessments and
risk assessments have been performed during the Project design phase. During operations, further risk
assessments will be performed at a minimum every five years as per industry practice. The facilities,
including oil field facilities, have been designed to conform to international standards including Bank


77  OD 4.01, Annex C, Environmental Mitigation or Environmental Management Plan, para.1.

                                                    50



environmental, health and safety guidelines for onshore oil and gas development (including corrosion
prevention and leak detection), and guidelines developed by the API and the ASTM.78

70.     Given the design of the feeder lines and the production pipelines, the most likely spills, based upon
risk analysis, would be limited to amounts in the order of 10 to 25 barrels from a single feeder line or 1600
to 4000 liters.79 The ASOSRP for the Field System will include immediate shut-off protection and
containment and cleaning provisions of a spill.

71.     In the event of an oil spill in the Field System, a spill response plan will guide the emergency effort.
This response plan (ASOSRP for the Field System) will conform to applicable international standards and
codes as well as the Project's Operations Integrity Management System's standards and guidelines.80 The
GOSRP describes typical response actions for spills. A hypothetical spill into the Nya River from the Field
System is included in the GOSRP to illustrate the Project's planned response to such an event.

72.     The Request mentions that Lake Chad could be polluted as a result of an oil spill. The Project is
designed (including physical design of the pipeline, strategic placement of block valves, monitoring and
response systems) so as not to cause appreciable harm to Lake Chad. This risk was also seriously
considered and taken into account under OP 7.50. In January 1998, with the consent of the Government of
Chad, the Bank notified the Central African Republic (CAR), Niger and Nigeria seeking their no-objection
to the Project. CAR and Niger endorsed the Project proceeding. As Nigeria did not respond to repeated
requests within the six-month period allocated for non-objection, Bank staff, in conformity with the
provisions of BP 7.50, sought approval from Management to proceed with the Project.81 All the Lake Chad
riparians are members of the Commission for the Lake Chad Basin, headquartered in N'Djamena, which
provides an existing vehicle to address potential impacts on Lake Chad. Chad also informed the
Commission of the proposed Project as recommended by OP 7.50.


Claim #6

        "The obligation of taking the local population's views into account in preparing and
        implementing the EA was never respected."


Response to Claim #6

73.      OD 4.01 states that "the Bank expects the borrower to take the views of affected groups and local
NGOs fully into account in project design and implementation, and in particular in the preparation of EAs.
This process is important in order to understand both the nature and extent of any social or environmental
impact and the acceptability of proposed mitigatory measures, particularly to affected groups...


78  Chad Export Project, EA, Executive Summary and Update, May 1999, pp. 3-2, 7-3 to 7-5.

79  Chad Export Project, General Oil Spill Response Plan, September, 1999, pp. Appendix B, B1 to B26, for example.
80  Chad Export Project, General Oil Spill Response Plan, September 1999; and Chad Export Project, EA, Executive
Summary and Update, May 1999, pp. 4-2 to 4-3.
81  BP 750, paras.4 and 5;OP7.50, para.4.

                                                                    51



Consultations...are a valuable way to improve decision-making, obtain feedback on the EA process and
draft report, and to increase community cooperation in implementing the recommendations of the EA."82 A
summary of the consultation process for the Project is set out below. For the pipeline as a whole over
seventy changes to the alignment were made as a result of consultations.83 The adaptive environmental
design process (described below) required by the Bank satisfies the OD 4.01 requirement that affected
parties be consulted throughout the process.

74.        In accordance with the relevant Bank safeguard policies, the Project has employed an adaptive
design process to meet one of the primary goals of the Project's environmental management effort--
developing optimum design for the Project by utilizing the latest input from extensive environmental studies
and public consultation. The adaptive design centers around an information feedback mechanism that
provides Project planners with an ongoing flow of up-to-date information throughout the design process.
The Project's environmental assessment and public consultation teams have been in continuous contact with
the planners and engineers designing the Project. As a result of this feedback mechanism, the Project design
has adopted many improvements over the six-year period since environmental studies and public
consultation first began in 1993, ultimately bringing the design to its present stage. This adaptive design
process is still in progress and it has been incorporated into the Environmental Management Plan for the
Project so that it can be utilized over the anticipated 25-year life of the Project.84

75.        The consultation process has also led to concrete modifications. For instance, the proposed
valuation for mango trees in the context of the compensation process was challenged and, following studies
in 1999, valuation for these trees was reviewed. In addition to the consultation process carried out by the
Consortium, the Bank Country Office has been active in soliciting civil society participation and inputs,
including from NGOs. For a summary of the consultation process, see the Process of Public Consultation
above. Full information on the consultation process is provided in Volume 3 of the supporting
documentation of the EA.85

76.        Consultation is an integral part of the compensation and resettlement process which is ongoing.
EEPCI continues to apply the process as described in the Project EA in this context. In addition, several
meetings with local NGOs and visits to the field by Bank Group staff have taken place since project
approval and broad based consultations with affected populations as well as a seminar involving
Government, the Consortium, local populations and other stakeholders and the Bank are scheduled to be
held in the coming months. The Capacity Building Project supports the conduct of consultations at least
twice a year.




82  OD 4.01, para. 19.
83 Chad Export Project, EA, Supporting Documents, Volume 3, p. 5-1.
84  Chad Export Project, EA, Executive Summary and Update, May 1999, p. 4-3.
85  Project EA, Chad Portion, Supporting Documentation, Volume 3.

                                                                                  52



Claim #7

         "Yet other directives have not been complied with: ... OP 4.36, on forestry..."


Response to Claim #7

77.      The provisions of OP 4.36 are addressed by the Project EA and forestry issues were thoroughly
examined and assessed during Project preparation in 1998 and 1999, through technical work and repeated
field visits by specialized Bank Group staff, who also surveyed the majority of the length of the pipeline
route and oil field area by low-level overflights in fixed wing aircraft, by vehicle and on foot. The Policy
applies to the use of sustainable forestry practices and does not allow the Bank to support logging in
primary moist tropical forest. Detailed field surveys conducted as part of the EA process indicate that there
is no primary moist tropical forest in Chad.86 The Project will not finance any commercial logging in moist
tropical forest nor will it purchase logging equipment for use in moist tropical forest. For a discussion of
riverine gallery forest that does exist in Chad see below the response to Claim #8.


Claim #8

         "Yet other directives have not been complied with...OD 4.04, on native habitats...."


Response to Claim #8

78.      The provisions of OP 4.04 pertaining to "Natural Habitats" are addressed by the Project EA.
Natural habitats are defined as "land and water areas where (i) the ecosystems' biological communities are
formed largely by native plant and animal species, and (ii) human activity has not essentially modified the
area's primary ecological functions."87 In other words, the term does not apply to farmland or grazing land.
The Bank does not support projects involving the significant conversion of natural habitats.88 In projects
affecting natural habitats, adequate design and mitigation measures are required.

79.      Vegetation in the Field System and the Chad portion of the Export System is almost exclusively
wooded savanna. Most of this has been grazed heavily or cultivated for cotton, sorghum, etc. Therefore it
does not meet the criteria for a "natural habitat." Along riverbanks and in damp watercourses, higher soil
moisture and fertility support a more luxuriant vegetation. These gallery forest strips are usually narrow,
except in some flood plains and constitute a natural habitat. Gallery forest exists along the Nya and Loule
rivers within the Field System and along the Export System in Chad at the Lim and Mbere Rivers, but they
are under heavy pressure from farming activity.

80.      Preliminary Project design minimized impacts to natural habitats and all final locations for river
crossings will be selected during detailed design to avoid or minimize the clearing of gallery forest. If each of


86  Chad Export Project, EA, Executive Summary and Update, May 1999, p. 4-10.
87  OP 4.04, Annex A.
88  Definedas the elimination or severe diminution of the integrity of a critical or other natural habitat caused by a major, long-term change in land or water use.

                                                   53



the four river crossings is conservatively assumed to result in the clearing of 1,200 square meters (0.12
hectares) of riverine vegetation, such a scenario would result in the temporary clearance of a total of 0.6
hectares of riverine vegetation, of which 0.3 hectares would subsequently be allowed to regrow (the
maximum potential loss of 0.3 hectares represents 0.06 percent of the closed [gallery] forest area of Chad).
Also large trees would not be removed, further preserving the integrity of the gallery forest.89


Claim #9

        "Yet other directives have not been complied with: ... OP 4.09, on pest management..."


Response to Claim #9

81.     OP 4.09 states that "In assisting borrowers to manage pests that affect either agriculture or public
health, the Bank supports a strategy that promotes the use of biological or environmental control methods
and reduces reliance on synthetic chemical pesticides. In Bank-financed projects, the borrower addresses
pest management issues in the context of the project's environmental assessment."90

82.     The Project does not intend to finance pesticides for public use. We understand that land clearance
for construction of the pipeline will not involve use of herbicides, and that herbicides will not be required for
pipeline maintenance. The only anticipated use of pesticides is that of insecticides under the Consortium's
corporate health plan to protect employees from contracting malaria or other prevalent vector-borne
diseases. These pesticides will mainly be used for treatment of clothing, indoor application, and limited
outdoor treatment in and around the premises of work camps for staff working on the construction of the
pipeline. This concerns temporary use within the scope of EEPCI's health plan for employees. Pesticide use
at a larger more structural scope is not foreseen.

83.     The main pesticide proposed for treatment of clothes and bednets (permethrin) is commonly used
for impregnation of bednets under WHO guided malaria control programs in Africa. The pesticide used for
indoor treatment contains an active component (deltamethrin) that is also commonly used for impregnation
of bednets. The health plan also includes simple environmental measures to reduce mosquito pressure, for
instance by filling puddles in tire tracks to reduce breeding possibilities.

84.     Because pesticide use is of limited scope and only concerns personal protection of the work force
against vector-borne diseases for the duration that the workforce is in the field, it is felt that it would not be
appropriate to apply the Bank's safeguard policy to the Consortium's health plan for workers. The
Consortium's health plan, however, does involve limited outdoor use of pesticides for treatment of the
premises and surroundings. Although we understand that this concerns temporary and marginal use, the
Bank will monitor the use of pesticides as part of regular Project supervision.




89  Dames and Moore, 1997, Section 7.3.1.2 and Section 8.3.1.
90  OP 4.09, para. 1.

                                                     54



CLAIMSRELATEDTOEXPROPRIATION, INVOLUNTARYRESETTLEMENT, COMPENSATION,
INFORMATION, CONSULTATION AND DISCLOSURE

85.      There are four policies and directives covered under this section: (i) Operational Directive 4.30 on
Involuntary Resettlement; (ii) Operational Directive 4.20 on Indigenous Peoples; (iii) Operational Policy
Note 11.03 on Cultural Property; and (iv) Bank Procedure 17.50 on Disclosure of Operational
Information.

Claims pertaining to Operational Directive 4.30 ­ Involuntary Resettlement

86.      The central tenet of this policy is that involuntary resettlement should be conceived and executed as
a development program, with resettlers provided sufficient investment resources and opportunities to share
in project benefits. Displaced persons should be: (i) compensated for their losses at full replacement cost
prior to the actual move; (ii) assisted with the move and supported during the transition period in the
resettlement site; and (iii) assisted in their efforts to improve their former living standards, income earning
capacity, and production levels, or at least to restore them.


Claim #10

         "Legislation governing expropriation and uprooting (of communities)" has not been
         complied with.


Response to Claim #10

87.      The claim is not specific about the way in which Chadian legislation has not been respected.
However, it is the policy of EEPCI and TOTCO to adhere to Chadian law in all matters, including land
acquisition. The key reference documents are the Consortium Convention and the Petroleum Code.91 Bank
Group field missions, to the best of their ability, have verified that EEPCI and TOTCO have followed these
national legal provisions and no issues related to breaches of Chadian legislation have been raised.
Nevertheless, social and environmental Bank Group staff will follow up on this issue during the next
supervision visit scheduled for late May 2001.

88.      Volume 3 of the EMP specifies Chadian requirements and the manner in which EEPCI and
TOTCO will meet them. None of the land compensated or to be compensated under the Project is held
under a private property regime, i.e. titled land. All land is administered under customary law regimes and
treated at the administrative level as National Lands. The customary law regime creates only user rights,
which are fully recognized in the context of the Project EA. EEPCI and TOTCO have followed required
expropriation procedures under Chadian Law. This procedure requires fair and adequate compensation of
all affected parties, as attested by a receipt of compensation before issuance of a "declaration de l'utilité
publique" (declaration of expropriation). In accordance with Chadian Law, compensation was and will be


91  Details of the Consortium's legal obligations under Chadian Law are provided in Section 4, Volume 3, of the Project
EA, Chad Portion.

                                                 55



paid prior to the "declaration de l'utilité publique." For a discussion of the compensation issues see
Claims #11, #13 and #14, and for a list of compensated individuals see Annex H.


Claim #11

        "The compensation and indemnification plan fails to take into account (the loss of)
        medicinal trees."


Response to Claim #11

89.     For Chad, the compensation plan is divided into two categories: (i) individual entitlements to
project-affected persons; and (ii) group compensation for loss of communal assets.92 The majority of
medicinal trees fall under the second category, although some trees are on plots used by individuals. The
EMP stipulates that wild productive trees belong to the community when they occur in the "true" bush as
opposed to a fallow field. With reference to permanent loss of communal land, the Compensation and
Resettlement Plan states that "Project land needs will impact community bush resources and decrease the
communal land pool. Bush is a vital economic resource for the community because it provides useful wild
trees and bushes, food and medicinal resources, construction materials, and a reservoir of potential
farmland."93 Therefore, trees that occur in the "true" bush will be compensated for under the umbrella of
village or community compensation.

90.     In the context of individual compensation, some affected persons were dissatisfied with the valuation
of three wild fruit trees, the Nyere, Karite and Tamarine. The Bebedjia seminar of April 1999 raised the
issue of the inadequacy of compensation for these trees, most of which are to be found on communal lands.
Further valuation studies are scheduled to be carried out in the coming year to resolve this issue both for
individually and collectively owned wild trees. Individual compensation is to be paid for wild trees "owned"
by individuals. The valuation studies are likely to draw upon consultations related to community
compensation, which are to take place over the next two years in affected communities. This time will allow
the communities to be consulted, and to collectively plan for the management and maintenance of common
purpose infrastructure to be chosen by the community (such compensation could include wells, schools,
community social centers, village warehouses, etc.). The Bank Group's supervision team and field staff will
monitor and, on occasion, participate in the consultation process.




92  Project EA, Chad Portion, Volume 3, Chad Compensation and Resettlement Plan, May 1999, Individual Compensation
Chapter 6, Community Compensation Chapter 7.
93  Project EA, Chad Portion, Volume 3, Chad Compensation and Resettlement Plan, May 1999, Community
Compensation Chapter 7, p. 7-1.

                                                    56



Claim #12

         "... laughably small quota assigned to the production zone bears little or no relation to the
         magnitude of the needs of this region and the size of its population."


Response to Claim #12

91.      Although not specifically related to resettlement (OD 4.30), the wider issue of benefits for the
population of the oil production area is addressed by the Project. A Regional Development Plan94
addresses issues related to in-migration, health and public hygiene and sanitation services, energy, water
supply, and food and housing in the initial years of the oil field development. In addition the FACIL has been
put in place under the Capacity Building Project to support local groups with development projects. Finally,
over the life of the oil field project, some 25-odd years, 5 percent of royalties from oil revenues have been
earmarked for development in the production region as per the provisions of the Petroleum Revenue
Management Law and the Petroleum Revenue Management Program. This is in addition to the contribution
of oil revenues to national development programs in which the inhabitants of the oil-producing region will
share (see additional details on this Claim under Section VII below, paragraphs 147 to 149).


Claim/Question #13

         "Are the 80,000 ­ 100,000 people inhabiting this district (Sub-Prefecture of Bebedjia and
         its environs) to be displaced or not? And where are they to be resettled?"


Response to Claim #13

92.      The vast majority of residents in and around the oil field areas will not be displaced and will not
need to be resettled, given the large surface of the oil field, its low population density and the high degree of
flexibility in siting well pads. Surveys of the oil fields indicate that resettlement could affect up to 80
households in the Cantons of Kome, Miandoum and Bero, less than 500 people or less than 2 percent of
the total population of these Cantons, which was estimated at 29,100 people in 1993.95 In response to
Bank Group advice, the Consortium has made budgetary allocations to resettle a high case scenario of 150
households. In addition, those who are affected by temporary disturbance to their cropland will be
compensated as per the Compensation and Resettlement Plan and will be able to resume normal farming
activities after one cropping season.

93.      Typically, precise locations of production wells are not known at the onset of oil field development.
In the case of this Project, the plan calls for the drilling of 300-odd wells over a period of about three years.
Early production results provide better definition of the producing subsurface reservoirs. Modifications are
made, not only to the number of wells, but also to their locations as field development progresses. EEPCI
expects to begin exploration and development activity in November 2001. The timing of resettlement and


94  Project EA, Chad Portion, Volume 4.
95  Project EA, Volume 4, p. H-10.

                                                   57



land compensation will be synchronized with the oil field development plan, in full compliance with the
provisions of the Compensation and Resettlement Plan. Among other things, the Plan is designed to
accommodate the farming cycle and economic strategies of affected households. Details of the land
acquisition procedure are given in response to Claim #14 below.

94.      Bank policy requires that involuntary resettlement be avoided or minimized where feasible, exploring
all viable alternative project designs. This policy was adhered to in the preparation of the Compensation and
Resettlement Plan. The oil field area is occupied by people practicing extensive rain-fed agriculture and
living in scattered settlements. Surveys show that the siting of well pads and routing of associated access
roads and flowlines can be carried out with minimal impacts on people's dwellings and fields. There is a high
degree of flexibility in siting well pads because of ample available space and flexibility of modern drilling
technology. There will be no resettlement needed in connection with the construction of the Export System
(pipeline) in Chad.

95.      At the time of writing, thirty-nine households have been affected by land acquisition for advanced oil
field infrastructure (airstrip, operations base, etc.). Some twenty-six of these thirty-nine households, affected
either by economic or physical displacement, have opted for resettlement.96 The twenty-six households
account for 185 persons, when all dependents are counted. These households have chosen to move back to
their villages of origin at Dildo and Bero II. Most of them still have homes in these villages and had only
relocated to their fieldhouses during the agricultural season. Nonetheless, since these fieldhouses will be lost
to the Project, EEPCI will replace them with better quality structures, including corrugated iron roofing in
the location of their choice. The delivery of replacement housing was contracted out to local NGOs. The
replacement houses for the twenty-six households have been completed.


Claim #14

         "Directives on compensation of persons adversely affected by pipeline routes have been
         treated as nothing more than an excuse for fraud (e.g. dealings in compensation lists,
         among them Mr. Gabriel Ndodjingar's in the Canton of Kome) etc. Directive OD 4.30 on
         problems of involuntary displacement and resettlement of people who are adversely
         affected by projects has not been complied with yet."


Response to Claim #14

96.      The Project established a 12-step land acquisition procedure, which was rigorously followed to
maximize transparency and avoid fraud:97

         · Public consultation;

         · Initial survey to identify land needs;


96  The Phase I Resettlement Report, EEPCI, N'Djamena, May 2000, p. 5.
97  Staff Report, July 14, 2000.

                                                    58


        · Identification of land use;

        · Identification of all resources affected and potential households to be resettled;

        · Verification/ratification of proprietorship of impacted assets;

        · Mutual agreement on the valuation of assets between EEPCI and beneficiary;

        · Consultation with households eligible for resettlement to discuss the menu of options;

        · Identification of possible resettlement sites with the beneficiaries;

        · Consultation to review in-kind compensation with the beneficiaries;

        · Cash compensation payments;

        · Post-payment survey of beneficiaries of cash compensation and explanation of grievance
             procedures; and

        · In-kind compensation payments.

97.     There are two categories of project affected people. The first category comprises those who are
affected by land acquisition and require compensation, but cannot be considered as economically displaced
and eligible for resettlement (Compensation Cases). The second category comprises those who will be
physically or economically displaced by the Project. The latter are eligible for involuntary resettlement
(Resettlement Cases; the current status of resettlement is discussed under Claim #13 above).

98.     Compensation Cases. Compensation for land acquisition for the Export System in Chad has been
completed; acquisition for infrastructure upgrades (mainly roads) is now underway. Phase I compensation
for advanced infrastructure and pipeline right-of-way, in the Sub-Prefecture of Bebedjia, has only affected
villages in the Cantons of Kome, Bero and Miandoum. The Phase I Compensation Report98 shows that 618
land acquisitions, belonging to 588 project affected persons, have been compensated. These acquisitions
account for a surface area of 828 hectares of land. Of the 828 hectares, 561 hectares (68 percent) was
assessed to be unoccupied territory (la brousse) and will be the subject of group compensation. The group
compensation concerns sixty-six villages affected by the Project. The breakdown of the Project impacts per
village for Phase I is as follows: (i) ten villages impacted by production installations; (ii) seven villages by
infrastructure development; and (iii) fifty-five villages affected by the pipeline. Although this gives a total
figure of seventy-two villages, some of the villages are affected by more than a single activity, hence the total
number of sixty-six villages. All compensated individuals were notified, consulted, and their compensation
choices (cash or in-kind) were documented. Receipts were signed for all compensation paid and a
grievance process was in place for affected people to voice their concerns. This process will continue in a
consultative manner and will be thoroughly documented as compensation proceeds.



98  Phase I, Compensation Report, Esso Chad, N'Djamena, June 1999, pp. 10-11.

                                                   59



99.      The list of all villages where cash or in-kind compensation was paid is presented in Annex F. A total
of 248 million CFAF (approximately US$350,000) has been paid out as compensation, 22 percent (54
million CFAF, or approximately US$78,000) of which was paid in-kind. The 472 articles distributed as
part of in-kind compensation are: 160 ploughs, 64 carts, 178 bicycles, 51 rickshaws, 14 sewing machines,
4 portable mills and 1 shelling machine. Even where cash compensation was paid out, a post-payment
survey of 120 beneficiaries shows that: 85 percent bought cattle for ploughing their fields or other material
goods to facilitate agricultural production; another 10 percent invested their cash in commerce; 4 percent
invested in transport; and 1 percent invested in animal husbandry.

100.     To ensure that compensation was paid at replacement cost, a detailed market survey was
undertaken from January 1996­April 1997. A follow-up validation study was carried out in 1998 by staff of
the CIRAD-CA Research Institute and of Focus International, to verify the findings of the initial market
survey carried out by EEPCI. Their findings concerning the valuation of mango trees and of the three wild
fruit trees mentioned above were challenged by civil society at the Consultation Seminar held in Bebedjia
during March 1999. As a result, supplemental valuation studies were undertaken for the valuation of mango
trees. These studies found that the value of producing mango trees, depending on their age, was significantly
higher than the value attributed to them in earlier studies. A discussion was engaged on the basis of these
findings with affected populations and NGOs. As a result, the compensation was revised, valuing producing
mango trees according to their age. A producing tree of over 6 years of age is being compensated at CFAF
500,000 (about US$700). The same consultative procedure is anticipated to take place for the three wild
fruit trees mentioned in the Request. The current status of resettlement is discussed under Claim #13 above.

101.     As a result of significant input from Bank Group staff, the EMP contains a thorough and rigorous
procedure for resettlement which is currently being implemented. Substantial effort has been and is being
made to gather and integrate the views and opinions of affected people into the Compensation and
Resettlement Plan; their inputs have also served to determine the siting of Project footprints. EEPCI
maintains a cadre of qualified environmental, social and operational staff who work daily in contact with the
affected local population. Compensation, resettlement in new housing, and issues related to restoration and
improvement of income streams are key elements in their work. In addition, the Government is hiring
environmental and social staff who will reside in the Project area and will monitor the EMP's
implementation, including compensation and resettlement.

Claims pertaining to Operational Directive 4.20 ­ Indigenous Peoples


Claim #15

         "OD 4.20 on Notification of native inhabitants and their representatives was never
         complied with."


Response to Claim #15

102.     OD 4.20 applies to "social groups with a social and cultural identity distinct from the dominant
society that makes them vulnerable to being disadvantaged in the development process... the objective at

                                                   60



the center of this directive is to ensure that indigenous peoples do not suffer adverse effects during the
development process... and that they receive culturally compatible social and economic benefits."99

103.      OD 4.20 applies to groups of people who qualify as indigenous by virtue of possessing specific
characteristics as set forth in paragraph 5 of OD 4.20. The population of the Project area shares the same
sedentary agricultural economy. These agriculturalists interact economically with nomadic herders who move
seasonally in and out of the Project area with their cattle. Management considered, in depth, the applicability
of OD 4.20 on Indigenous Peoples to the Project. After careful analysis of the OD's requirements in
relation to this Project, supported by field work conducted by social scientists with the requisite
qualifications, expertise and Project-related experience, Management concluded that the ethnic groups who
will be affected by the Project are not covered by the provisions of OD 4.20, and that therefore this OD
does not apply. Nevertheless, consistent with good project planning practice, substantive steps were taken
to review and mitigate potential impacts to ethnic communities. Effective instruments are available under the
Project to provide social safeguards and development benefits to the region's population: the Compensation
and Resettlement Plan, social sector investments and the Regional Development Plan.

104.      Notification of the affected population was undertaken extensively, in the context of the consultation
process, including in the Cantons of the Requestors. First, as part of the overall process for consultation
mandated for the preparation of the Environmental Assessment. Second, as part of the information sharing
and Project sensitization activities sponsored by EEPCI. Third, as part of the market surveys to update
Government valuation data sheets. Fourth, as part of the seismic surveys and exploration drilling. Finally to
establish entitlements and values for compensation and resettlement, at the individual and the group level.
For a description of the consultation process, see Process of Public Consultation above. A precise log of
public meetings and consultations by date, type and location is given in Volume 3, Table 4-1, pp. 1-12 of
the EMP and is also provided in Annex G.

105.      Since the outset, Bank Group staff have been fully aware of the critical importance of consultation in
the planning and implementation of the Project. In 1998 and 1999 before Board Presentation, Bank Group
social and environmental experts spent over 170 staff-days in country meeting with local people and
working with EEPCI, TOTCO and their consultants, the Government of Chad and local stakeholders.
Several specialized missions were undertaken which focused primarily on provision of information to
potentially affected people and consultation as related to compensation, resettlement and community
development issues. Since Board approval of the Project, Bank Group social and environmental staff spent
ninety staff-days on supervision of Project implementation. In addition to regular staff supervision, the
ECMG has been engaged to reinforce environmental and social compliance during implementation, with
quarterly monitoring visits, and has spent fifty person-days in the field to date.




99  Operational Directive 4.20, paras. 3 and 6.

                                                 61



Claim #16

         "Directive OD 4.04 on the respect of native peoples, their nature, usages and customs,
         sacred sites, burial places, etc. has been completely ignored."


Response to Claim #16

106.     The EMP, especially the consultation process, Compensation and Resettlement Plan, and
procedures for management of construction, pays particular attention to customs, sacred sites, and burial
places of the affected population. This is discussed further in Claims #18 through #20 below.

107.     The Requestors appear to have misinterpreted Operational Policy 4.04, mentioned in the claim,
which refers to natural habitats. Natural habitats are defined as "land and water where (i) the ecosystems'
biological communities are formed largely by native plant and animal species, and (ii) human activity has not
essentially modified the area's primary ecological functions." This policy does not apply to lands that have
been transformed by human activity such as farming and grazing.


Claim #17

         "Moreover, for some time now, the Chadian authorities, with the complicity of Consortium
         officials, have practiced a settlement policy (de colonisation) favoring cattle farmers
         (éleveurs), whom they arm so they can occupy indigenous lands."


Response to Claim #17

108.     Bank Group environmental and social staff have spent at least ninety staff-days on site verification
field trips since Project approval in June 2000. On no occasion during such visits was the issue of a
Government-sponsored settlement policy, or collusion by the Consortium, ever raised by the communities.

Claims pertaining to OPN 11.03 ­ Cultural Property

109.     The term "cultural property" includes sites having archaeological, paleontological, historical,
religious, and unique natural values. Cultural property, therefore, encompasses both remains left by previous
human inhabitants (e.g. middens, shrines, and battlegrounds) and unique natural environmental features such
as canyons and waterfalls. The Bank normally declines to finance projects that will significantly damage non-
replicable cultural property, and will assist only those projects that are sited or designed so as to prevent
such damage.

                                                  62



Claim #18

        "OPN 11.03 (OD 4.50), which deals with cultural property, was not complied with."


Response to Claim #18

110.    To ensure compliance with the cultural property policy (OPN 11.03, there is no OD 4.50), the
Project EA paid particular attention to sacred sites, graves, and other elements of cultural property. A key
principle of the policy is to avoid damage wherever possible, and only to undertake mitigating action or
compensation where damage is inevitable. Where consultation with local people led to identification of
sacred sites, graves, or zones of potential archaeological interest, the pipeline route was adjusted to avoid
loss of cultural property; this applied particularly to graveyards and important initiation sites in southern
Chad. A list of the modifications to the pipeline route made on the basis of socioeconomic findings until May
1999 can be found in Volume 3 of the Supporting Documents of the Project EA.100 The EMP also contains
detailed provisions for the management of chance archaeological finds that might be discovered during the
construction of the pipeline. The Consortium hired an archaeologist to review existing literature and
secondary sources to identify possible prehistoric sites along the right-of-way and to develop procedures
for avoiding or, if necessary, mitigating and/or compensating for any damage eventually done to such sites in
construction activity. A reconnaissance survey was carried out on the ground and identified zones of high
potential to hold sites of archaeological significance. A Handbook on Archaeological Sites in the Chad
Project Development Area was developed for Project environmental staff in the field.

111.    The EMP stipulates that affected communities are consulted before any works take place.
Precautions with regard to cultural property continue to be implemented through this system for consultation,
for example in connection with staking the right-of-way for road improvements. For instance, during the
Bank Group's Supervision Mission of February 2001, the issue of a road upgrade encroaching on a
graveyard was raised. After on site verification, the mission found that the implementing contractor had
adjusted the right-of-way plan to avoid the graveyard. However, EEPCI, whose responsibility it is to relay
this information, had neglected to inform the affected community. This was corrected. Bank Group staff
advised EEPCI to improve communication and organization and will continue to follow EEPCI's
communication with affected populations.




100 Project EA, Chad Portion, Supporting Documents, Volume 3, pp. 5-1 and 5-2.

                                                63



Claim #19

         The property referred to in this directive (OPN 11.03) is not included in the categories
         eligible for compensation, although in the production region the property belongs to
         specific families who rent it, make it available free of charge to third parties who farm it or
         use it to pasture livestock.


Response to Claim #19

112.     The Bank's policy on cultural property does not pertain to local land tenure systems or customary
arrangements for land allocation. Issues relating to land acquisition under eminent domain principles have
been discussed under Claim #14 above.


Claim #20

         "lack of respect for our usages and customs, nature, etc."


Response to Claim #20

113.     Considerable attention was paid to local customs by avoiding any impacts on graves, sacred sites,
and initiation sites (see Claim #18). Furthermore, ACCORD, a local NGO, was hired to deliver
replacement houses. ACCORD ensured that local sensitivities were taken into account in the design and
that appropriate building materials were used in the construction of these structures. In fact, apart from the
corrugated iron roofs, which are quite common in the locality, all building materials were sourced locally and
local labor was employed. The key objective was to avoid gross disparities in housing quality (between
resettlers and their neighbors) and to maintain social cohesion in the Project area.

Claims pertaining to BP 17.50 ­ Disclosure of Operational Information


Claim #21

         "OP 17.57 on disclosure of operational information has generated no more than a
         haphazard, uni-directional release of information, for the sole purpose of deceiving both
         the World Bank and international public opinion."


Response to Claim #21

114.     Management assumes that this is a reference to BP 17.50. OP 17.57 does not exist. In addition to
the consultation process described above (paragraphs 40 to 55), the Consortium implemented a
countrywide and global disclosure strategy. As they became available in late 1997 and in May 1999,
relevant Environmental Assessment documents and Environmental Management Plans were displayed in
twenty-one locations in different parts of Chad, in particular in the Project area. These documents were
presented in thirteen-volume sets comprising the Overview volume or Volume 1, the six volumes on Chad,

                                                   64



and six volumes of supporting documentation. All documents were in French and placed in twenty-one
public reading rooms. This technical documentation was not made available in local languages. However,
the chief social scientist for EEPCI and her team are fluent in the predominant local language, which was
used in village information campaigns and consultations concerning this documentation. Graphic materials
appropriate for non-readers and people with low literacy were also used. CD-ROMs and sets of
documentation were distributed to groups and NGOs for dissemination.

115.    Documents were also disclosed to the public at large on the Consortium's web site and through the
Bank's Infoshop and Project web site established in September 1997, and the public was invited to submit
its comments to the Consortium and the Bank. In fact a very substantial volume of two-way
correspondence (over 20,000 items in 1999 alone) was generated by these documents.


Claim #22

        "Directive OP 17.57 on public consultation, has been honored only with a crude image (see
        film on Chad-Cameroon development project: View and Voice, of May 25, 1999, by
        Winner and Associates, Los Angeles). The requirement for participation by grass-roots
        NGOs in projects financed by the World Bank has not been met; the only NGOs consulted
        were, for the most part, either created for the purpose in hand or commanded no
        allegiance in the region. The obligation to take into account the observations of the people
        affected by the project when preparing and carrying out the environment impact
        assessment was never met, etc."


Response to Claim #22

116.    Management assumes that this is a reference to BP 17.50 on Disclosure of Operational Information
as there is no OP 17.57. Also, guidelines on consultation are contained in OD 4.01 on Environmental
Assessment. Consultation is an integral part of the Project's design and implementation process, as is
described below. In fact, the broad consultation process for the Project was unprecedented in Chad and
opened the way for increased civil society participation in public debates concerning broad policy issues
such as Petroleum Revenue Management, governance, and social and environmental issues. This
participation is today consolidated in the context of the PRSP process and in the formal representation of
civil society in several official bodies, such as the Steering Committee for the ongoing PRSP and the
PROCC.

117.    During Project preparation, the broad range of interlocutors included many NGOs who were active
in the region and had been for several years, predating Bank involvement in the Project. Among others,
meetings were held with AFDI, ASDEC, ASSAILD, BELACD, CIRAD (a Research Institute based in
Bebedjia), COLONG and World Vision, as well as some international NGOs present in the region at the
time of Project preparation. A complete list of all meetings until 1999 is provided in Volume 3 of the Project
EA. Although the emergence of NGOs around a big project is not uncommon, the above-mentioned local
NGOs carry out development work and programs entirely unrelated to the Project in the producing region

                                                      65



today, as they have done for years. The contribution of NGOs to discussion concerning the Project has
been and continues to be important.

118.     Consultations with affected populations, however, constituted the core of the direct consultation
process. Repeated village consultations were carried out by social specialists from EEPCI and TOTCO, as
described under the process of public consultation in paragraphs 40-55 above. During supervision missions,
from 1998 onward, Bank Group staff held separate discussions with affected populations and participated
in consultation activities with populations and NGOs. In addition a series of broad public seminars were
held to seek inputs from local stakeholders. Local populations, local and national government staff, NGOs,
religious groups, EEPCI and TOTCO personnel, Bank Group staff and other interested parties, including
donor organizations, participated in these seminars in 1998 and 1999. It is planned that broad fora such as
these will continue to be organized by the Government's implementation team in collaboration with NGO
umbrella organizations and the Bank to ensure that local concerns can be voiced, heard and addressed.

119.     A public consultation and disclosure process was undertaken as part of the preparation of the 1997
Draft EA and the development of the 1999 EMP. The engagement with different stakeholders took on even
broader and deeper dimensions than is usually undertaken for Category A projects funded by the Bank.
This process gave rise to a wider debate on the development paradigm for Chad, including discussions
around the adequate use of petroleum revenues.


CLAIMSRELATEDTOOTHERBANKPOLICIES


Claim #23

         "Operational Policy 10.04 (dated September 1994) concerning Economic Evaluation of
         Investment Operations has not been complied with."

120.     The central tenet of this policy is to ensure that the economic analysis of a project is carried out
which confirms that the project creates more net benefits to the economy than other mutually exclusive
options for the use of the resources in question. The basic criterion for a project's acceptability involves the
discounted expected present value of its benefits, net of costs. In that context, the evaluation examines the
project's alternatives, its sustainability, its risks, and its externalities.


Response to Claim #23

121.     The criteria used include discounted present value of the Project's benefits, net of costs. The internal
rate of return criterion has also been estimated. Annexes 4 and 14 of the PAD--the latter summarizes the
Project EA and the EMP--discuss mutually exclusive alternatives both for the oil field development in Chad
and for the transportation of the oil. Other economic benefits and costs have also been assessed. In
addition, Bank staff carried out a sensitivity and risk analysis to check the robustness of the Project's
economic evaluation to crude oil price fluctuations and levels of oil reserves, to confirm that incentives
existed for the private sector to adequately execute and operate the Project (sustainability). The economic
analysis confirmed that the economic returns to Chad would be significant. On the basis of oil reserves of

                                                     66



917 million barrels and a price of US$15.25/bbl revenues for Chad would be US$1.7 billion. The economic
rate of return for Chad would be about 70 percent.


Claim #24

        "Operational Directive 10.70 ­ Project Monitoring and Evaluation (dated November,
        1989) has not been complied with."

122.    This directive relating to monitoring seeks a continuous assessment of project implementation in
relation to agreed schedule, and of the use of inputs, infrastructure and services by project beneficiaries, so
that continuous feedback on project implementation can be provided and actual or potential successes and
problems can be identified. The directive regarding evaluation seeks a periodic assessment of the
relevance, performance, efficiency and impact of the project in relation to stated objectives.


Response to Claim #24

123.    It is critical to note that the Project is being implemented by a private consortium who is directly
investing approximately US$3.5 billion. The Consortium has adopted a multi-tiered monitoring system and
has every incentive to ensure that the Project is implemented on schedule. As of now, the Project is ahead
of schedule and has not encountered any significant problems.

124.    Continuous monitoring of critical aspects of Project implementation in particular with respect to
environmental and social aspects is ensured by the following parties: the Consortium, the Bank Group, the
Government, the ECMG, the IAG, civil society and the NGO community. Significant public disclosure is a
key component in implementation, including Bank Group supervision. During the first four months of 2001
alone, the Bank Group along with the ECMG has spent 50 person-days in the field. From June 2000 to the
present another 30 person-days were spent by Bank Group environmental and social specialists, and 100
person-days by Project management staff on field-based Project supervision. The Consortium's and the
ECMG's first quarterly reports were disclosed on April 20, 2001. Bank Group staff will continue to ensure
that Project information for public review is disclosed in a timely fashion.

125.    The Government of Chad is implementing two accompanying projects, as mentioned above (see
Project Background), which both support the Project's monitoring and evaluation. Under the Capacity
Building Project US$0.5 million is being spent to develop a Management Information System (MIS) for the
Government's monitoring of the Pipeline Project.101 The MIS is further elaborated upon in the Project
Implementation Manual for the Capacity Building Project.




101 Capacity Building Project, PAD, Annex 2, Part I, p. 63.

                                                  67



Claim #25

         "Operational Directive 13.05 (dated March 1989) on Project Supervision has not been
         complied with."

126.     This operational directive indicates that, as project supervision is one of the Bank Group's most
important activities: (i) supervision activities must receive adequate priority in the allocation of Bank staff and
other resources commensurate with the nature, complexity, size of the project, the problems experienced
and the Borrower's institutional capabilities and needs; and (ii) efficient project execution and resolution of
implementation problems are the joint concern of the Bank and the Borrower.


Response to Claim #25

127.     Allocation of Bank Staff and Other Resources. The Project preparation process was undertaken
by an interdisciplinary team of specialists from the Bank and IFC working under the direction of Senior
Management. Prior to Board presentation an extensive internal review was conducted of the proposed
project with the participation of specialists drawn Bank-wide to assure proper internal quality control. In
addition, a special Board briefing was held on the Pipeline and related Projects and a large number of
individual meetings took place with individual Executive Director offices. Meetings were also held with
NGOs and religious leaders both in Chad and in other locations.

128.     Supervision of the Project is complex and challenging. However, the Bank Group has allocated time
and resources proportional to the Project's complexity. A team of specialized staff at Bank Group
headquarters is responsible for supervision. The team is composed of specialized operational staff and
includes staff expert in petroleum development, an energy economist, finance and investment specialists,
environmental and social specialists, legal specialists, a community development specialist, a rural
development specialist, operations specialists, an information management specialist, as well as a public
financial management specialists and a macroeconomist. An integral part of this team are the two field staff
based respectively in Chad and Cameroon who are responsible for the day to day supervision of the
Project.

129.     From its own resources, the Bank is allocating US$1.5 million to US$2 million/year to ensure
adequate supervision. Such resources are allocated to cover staff costs including costs related to resident
staff for the Project in Chad and in Cameroon and the work of the ECMG which touches upon the
implementation of the Capacity Building Project. The Chad and the Cameroon Country Offices are also
allocating an important part of their resources to the implementation of these projects by supporting the day
to day supervision of the projects and animating the ongoing dialogue with civil society

130.     Bank Group staff supervision missions take place quarterly in addition to bi-yearly missions, at least,
for the Management of the Petroleum Economy Project. Supervision always closely associates the
Government and the Consortium. Time spent by staff on Project supervision in the field since approval of
the Project and the Capacity Building Project in June 2000, totals over 140 staff-days on environmental and
social matters alone, including time spent by the ECMG. During preparation of the Project in 1998 and

                                                    68



1999, over 170 staff-days were spent in the field on social and environmental work. An additional 150
staff-days since Board presentation were spent on capacity building and accompanying measures, including
revenue management.

131.    Levels of Project Supervision. Implementation of the Project, with particular emphasis on the
EMP, consists of seven layers:

        · First, the operator, EEPCI, monitors compliance of the implementation of the EMP by its sub-
            contractors and its own compliance. Quarterly reports are furnished to the Bank Group and
            made available by the Bank Group to the public;

        · Second, the Bank Group and the other lenders to the Project have engaged the ECMG to
            monitor implementation of the EMP. Its reports are made public;102

        · Third, the Bank Group directly monitors implementation of the EMP by both the private sector
            operator and the Governments. This includes monitoring through periodic site visits by Bank
            Group staff and strengthening presence in the Country Offices. Bank Group staff have
            conducted two supervision missions since Project approval. Quarterly missions are planned,
            and the frequency is regularly reviewed depending on progress made in Project implementation
            and issues, if any, which are uncovered. The Bank Group continues to liaise with the
            stakeholders (including NGOs) to assess compliance;

        · Fourth, the Government of Chad monitors implementation. The Capacity Building Project
            provides support to increase the Government's capacities in this area. In addition, the
            Government monitors its own compliance and reports to the Bank;

        · Fifth, the Government of Chad is further assisted by an international advisory panel of
            environmental and social experts to advise it on issues arising during implementation of the
            EMP. Hiring of this panel by the Government is underway;

        · Sixth, an International Advisory Group (IAG) advising the Bank and the two Governments on
            impacts on poverty reduction and on implementation of the Project has been set up. The Group
            conducted its first mission to Chad and Cameroon in April 2001 and is preparing its work
            program. Its reports will be made available to the public on the same day they are submitted to
            the President of the Bank Group; and

        · Seventh is the input and assessment provided by civil society and specifically NGOs. To date,
            such inputs have been a significant source to identify areas for improvement in the design of the
            EMP and it is expected that civil society will continue to provide important input during
            implementation of the Project. For this reason, continued consultation with NGOs by Bank
            Group staff, the ECMG and the IAG are integral parts of Project implementation. In addition,



102 The ECMG's first report is available on the Project's web site.

                                                    69



             various actions under the capacity building operations and elsewhere contribute to increasing the
             capacity of local NGOs to play this role.


                              CLAIMS RELATED TO ADVERSE IMPACTS

132.     The Requestors allege that the Bank's failure to comply with the policies and procedures cited
above has resulted and will result in direct and adverse impacts on them.

133.     With regard to claims that Bank failure to comply with its policies and procedures will cause
pollution and degradation of the Requestors' environment, Management believes that it has followed
all the operational policies and directives aimed at protecting the Requestors' environment in the design,
appraisal and implementation of the Project. Early Project implementation experience has shown no
significant negative environmental impacts to date (see the first quarter ECMG report). Project design
reflects a dynamic view of the environmental and social issues to be addressed during Project
implementation and provides for mechanisms to ensure that the standards set out in the various Bank
policies are applied: (i) to all planned future activities undertaken in the context of the Project; and (ii) to
unforeseen activities required for Project implementation. In this context, Management is committed to make
every effort to monitor and supervise on the ground developments and has allocated adequate staff time and
resources to do so (for monitoring arrangements see Claims #24 and #25 above).

134.     The Request states that: "the slightest pollution of surface water sources will inevitably lead
to pollution of water tables, rivers, marshes and watercourses down to Lake Chad. The same is
true of the Sedigui, Bongor, Kyabe and Salamat oil deposits." The technical characteristics of the field
facilities and the potential for pollution of surface water are discussed above under Claims #3, #4, and #5,
which also discuss the mitigation measures taken against oil spill risk. In the present paragraph, Management
intends to address exclusively the claim that such pollution could result from activities in the "oil deposits of
Sedigui, Bongor, Kyabe, and Salamat." Management submits that activities with regard to these oil deposits
lie outside of the scope of any activities financed by the Bank in the context of the Pipeline Project and that
the Bank can therefore not be held accountable for the application of its policies in the context of any
activities related to these fields.

135.     As reflected in the provisions of the Bank's Chad Loan Agreement,103 the Government of Chad has
undertaken that "any oil developed outside the Doba Basin Oil Fields which is proposed to be transported
through any part of the Transportation System in Chad [will be] developed in accordance with the principles
set forth in the EMP with respect to environmental analysis and protection, consultation, information
disclosure, resettlement and compensation ... as applied with respect to the oil developed in the Doba
Basin Oil Fields."104 At the moment, it is not planned that any oil other than that of the fields of Kome,
Miandoum and Belobo, transit through the pipeline, nor will there be capacity to transport any additional oil
for some time. Furthermore, in the context of the Capacity Building Project, the Bank is supporting



103  Chad Loan Agreement, Article IV, Section 4.10, p. 20.
104  Chad Loan Agreement, Article IV, Section 4.10, p. 20.

                                                   70



regulatory reform and institutional development to enable the Government to enforce adequate
environmental and social guidelines for the petroleum sector as a whole.

136.     With regard to claims that the Bank's failure to comply with its policies and procedures have
led to expropriation without proper compensation, Management believes that the necessary actions
have been taken in the Compensation and Resettlement Plan of the Project EA105 to ensure that:

         (i)     Chadian law with regard to expropriation has been respected;

         (ii)    The compensation design and implementation is in compliance with applicable Bank policies
                 and procedures;

         (iii)   Any future compensation is designed to take place in a manner commensurate with the
                 standards set in OD 4.30 for compensation; and

         (iv)    An adequate consultation and grievance process is in place to address issues arising during
                 implementation.

Management is aware of the dynamic nature of the compensation process and of the need to ensure that
adjustments can be made where they are called for if local populations raise concerns. Any individual can
register a complaint or a concern about compensation or damages with the EEPCI/TOTCO designated
representative for resettlement and compensation, and with the local village chief, who will attempt to settle
the matter together to the satisfaction of all concerned. Grievances are receivable for compensation up to
the end of the next full agricultural cycle after the plaintiff surrenders assets. The designated representative
will record each complaint and its resolution and will periodically evaluate the pattern of complaints to see if
changes need to be made to the Compensation and Resettlement Plan. The Bank Group will also monitor
implementation of this Plan as part of Project supervision.

137.     With regard to claims that the Bank has failed to respect native people, their nature, usages
and customs, although it has found that OD 4.20 is not applicable to the affected people in the Project
area, the Bank Group has endeavored to ensure that the customs of local people are respected, as well as
their sacred groves and grave sites, by making certain that their views and concerns have been fully
identified and taken into account in the design of the Project. Through supervision and consultation,
Management will monitor the process by which customary practices and sacred places of the population are
identified and respected during the implementation of the Project. Local populations will continue to be
consulted during Project implementation and Bank Group supervision missions will ascertain whether
Project design needs adjustment to meet specific local concerns. Should inhabitants have grievances, they
can be brought forward through a grievance procedure for damages (where the aggrieved is not a party to
compensation and resettlement) or through a grievance procedure for Compensation and Resettlement as
set out in the Project EA. These processes will allow for their views to continue to be sought and taken into
account during Project implementation. The Project EMP protects the natural environment and provides for
mitigation of any significant negative impact on it.


105 Project EA, Chad Portion, Volume 3.

                                                     71



138.    With regard to claims concerning governance, the Request states: " Directives on proper (good)
governance have been put aside indefinitely, as evidenced by the IGET International affair,
trafficking in counterfeit currency, drugs, and dummy invoices; misappropriation of foreign aid,
including that provided by Taiwan; purchase of weapons with money obtained from oil production
in Chad."

139.    Improving governance is one of the key objectives of the Bank's Assistance Strategy to Chad and
instances of poor governance are of great concern to the Bank. The Bank has therefore been proactive in
pursuing this objective: (i) at the level of its Country Assistance Strategy, by promoting the implementation
of a variety of measures to improve transparency and accountability in public financial management; and (ii)
at the Pipeline Project level, by introducing a Petroleum Revenue Management Program in the Pipeline
Project design and by supporting the building of public financial management capacity through the Petroleum
Economy Project.

140.    The provisions of OD 4.15 aim to ensure that Country Assistance Strategies and projects are
poverty oriented and that their outputs benefit the poor. The Country Assistance Strategy for Chad aims to
implement many of the elements cited in OD 4.15. Also, the projects cited in this Request are aimed
specifically and explicitly at poverty reduction, based on sound analytical work and technical expertise; have
strong supervision plans (Capacity Building Project); and pay attention to beneficiary outcomes (EMP and
Capacity Building Project) and poverty impact (Petroleum Economy Project).

141.    In the context of their broader dialogue with the IMF and Bank, the Government of Chad is
implementing a comprehensive set of governance measures including: (i) implementation of a Governance
Strategy and action plan; (ii) functional expenditure tracking system for primary education and basic health
expenditures; (iii) implementation of a simplified and computerized expenditure circuit; (iv) adoption of a
new public procurement code and its application decrees; (v) regular publication of a bulletin on public
procurement; (vi) yearly adoption of the Financial Settlement Law; and (vii) nomination of commercial court
judges in the five largest cities. A first draft of the Governance Strategy and action plan has been produced
through a participatory process, involving a broad spectrum of representatives of civil society.

142.    With regard to the statement: "We consider that our rights and interests have been or are
likely to be harmed as a result of the Bank's action. This causes or is likely to cause the following
types of damage, among others: ....bad governance, reflected in the recent misappropriation of a
premium of US$25 million (CFAF 19 billion) and its use for the purchase of weapons with which to
massacre us."

143.    Although the US$25 million signing bonus received in April 2000 from the two Consortium
members, Petronas and Chevron, was not covered by any agreements with the Bank Group, the President
of Chad announced publicly in June 2000 that the resources would be used in the spirit of the Petroleum
Revenue Management Law. A similar commitment was made by the Government in its letter of intent under
its program with the IMF. The Petroleum Revenue Management Law calls for all oil revenues to be
reflected in the budget and for the bulk of such resources to be allocated to priority sectors for poverty
reduction under supervision of the PROCC composed of Government and civil society representatives. At

                                                    72



the end of September 2000, however, the Bank learned that some US$15 million (60 percent) of the bonus
funds were spent. According to the Government, expenditures included some US$4.5 million for military
purposes, US$3.7 million on water and electricity subsidies, US$3.6 million on road maintenance, and the
remaining US$3.2 million on other activities (including construction for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and a
mental health center). Moreover, these resources were spent outside established budget procedures, and
before the PROCC, foreseen by the Petroleum Revenue Management Law, had been established (see
Annex C).

144.    The Requestors allege that the use of a US$25 million oil bonus for the purchase of weapons with
which to harm the Requestors resulted from the Bank's action. This is certainly not the case. The funds in
question are and were not subject to any agreement between the Bank Group and the Government of Chad
in the context of the Project. These agreements pertain exclusively to "royalties," "dividends" and "taxes" as
defined in the Chad Loan Agreement.106 Of the US$25 million in question, sixty percent were spent.
According to the Government US$4.5 million were used for defense expenditures. Despite the fact that no
contractual agreement covered the use of these funds, the Bank, together with the IMF, took decisive action
to ensure that unspent funds would be used for poverty reduction in a transparent manner and that spent
funds would be audited and the results of the audit made public. It was decided to delay the presentation of
Chad's case for debt relief under the HIPC Initiative until the Government had complied with these
measures (see below).

145.    The Bank, together with the IMF, expressed its strong dissatisfaction with the practice of extra-
budgetary spending generally and, in particular, with the manner in which bonus funds were spent. Jointly,
the Bank and the Fund decided that presentation of the HIPC Decision Point Document to their respective
Boards should be postponed and requested that a priori measures be taken before proceeding any further
with the HIPC process. These measures were: (i) freezing the remainder of the bonus until the PROCC was
put in place and committing to spending the rest of the bonus on priority sectors; (ii) issuing a public report
on the spending of the oil bonus to the Chadian Parliament and to the PROCC, including a commitment to
conduct an audit on the use of the bonus; (iii) fully disclosing to the Bank and the IMF all existing
Government accounts and committing to providing monthly information on their balances; and (iv)
committing not to approve and execute any Government spending outside existing budgetary procedures.

146.    The Government agreed to these measures in December 2000 and had implemented them all by
early April 2001. The PROCC has been established and is in the process of adopting its by-laws.107 The
bonus issue was debated in Parliament in the context of a vote of no-confidence requested by an opposition
party. The Government has frozen the remainder of the bonus and agreed to an audit of spent bonus funds
to be carried out before September 2001. It has disclosed a comprehensive list of Government accounts to
the Bank and the Fund and committed to not approving and executing any Government spending outside
existing budgetary procedures. Compliance with all requested measures and sufficient progress in improving


106 Chad Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, article 1 (a)-(c), p. 40.
107 The nine members of the PROCC are the Director of the Treasury, the Director of the Central Bank, a member of the
Supreme Court, two representatives of Parliament (including one from an opposition party), and four civil society
members representing the trade unions, the human rights organizations, the faith community, and the umbrella
organization of women's NGOs.

                                                             73



macroeconomic performance has led to the scheduling of a review of the IMF's PRGF program and of the
presentation of the HIPC Decision Point Document to the Bank and Fund Executive Boards in mid-May
2001.

147.      The Requestors state that: "The laughably small quota assigned to the production zone bears
little or no relation to the magnitude of the needs of this region and the size of its population."
Management understands that "small quota" refers to the percentage of oil revenues foreseen, in the
Petroleum Revenue Management Law and Petroleum Revenue Management Program, to be directly
managed by the producing region.108 The Requestors find that this percentage is not proportional to the
region's population, nor is it sufficient to cover the region's needs.

148.      The percentage referred to by the Requestors only represents a small portion of the value of the
expenditures which will benefit the people of the producing region. It is additional to: (i) the share of
revenues that will serve to finance expenditures for priority sectors in the producing area through Chad's
regular budget; and (ii) the rapid intervention measures and community-based investments financed in the
region under the Capacity Building Project. No Bank policies or procedures exist which set standards for
the direct attribution of revenues to producing regions in the context of projects supporting natural resource
exploitation. However, as international experience has shown the importance of ensuring that palpable
benefits accrue to people in the producing area and of sharing revenues with the producing area, the
Government of Chad has allocated an additional share of approximately 5 percent of royalties to the
producing area to be managed locally as is stated in the Petroleum Revenue Management Program109 and
the Petroleum Revenue Management Law.

149.      With regard to human rights, the Request expresses the Requestors' concern over human rights in
Chad in general and over the loss of lands by force to herders who are allegedly being armed by the
Government in complicity with the Consortium.

150.      The Request states that: "Directives on respect for human rights have been ignored since
1990, the year when Mr. Idriss Deby took power in Chad (see the CD-ROM with evidence of the
massive violations of human rights in the production area)." Management notes that no CD-ROM
was provided with the documentation.

151.      The Bank is concerned about violations of human rights in Chad as elsewhere while respecting the
Bank's Articles of Agreement which require the Bank to focus on economic considerations and not on
political or other non-economic influences as the basis for its decisions. In evaluating the economic aspects
of any project, human rights issues may be relevant to the Bank's work if they may have a significant direct
economic effect on the project. Having carefully considered all aspects of this issue, Management's
conclusion is that the Project can achieve its developmental objectives. The Project in many aspects has
been instrumental in creating a space for dialogue for certain groups of Chadian citizens to exercise their
rights. An important consultation process has been taking place during the preparation of the Project to: (i)
share Project information with affected communities; (ii) determine Project land needs, establish entitlements

108  See Petroleum Revenue Management Program, Annex D.
109  Chad Loan Agreement for the Project, Schedule nr. 5.

                                                                                      74



and agree on a valuation system with affected peoples; (iii) agree on mitigation of adverse effects; and (iv)
elaborate a Regional Development Plan for the Project area.

152.          Also the Bank actively supports the work of two mixed bodies (consisting of Government and civil
society representatives, including human rights organizations): the PRSP Steering Committee and the
PROCC. Human rights organizations have formal seats on these bodies and vocally participate in both fora.
As members of the PRSP Steering Committee, they have had the opportunity to raise human rights issues in
the context of work on the Governance Strategy that is being prepared by the Government. A
representative of human rights organizations occupies one of the nine seats on the PROCC,110 which is
responsible for approving and authorizing expenditures from oil revenues and for overseeing the use of
remaining funds from the US$25 million oil bonus.

153.          By supporting the Poverty Reduction Strategy process and the improvement of public financial
management, including of oil revenues, and through other instruments, the Bank supports open dialogue
between Government and civil society with regard to all matters of public interest. The Bank also keeps
informed of the initiatives of other donors such as the UN High Commission for Human Rights and UNDP
who run a joint Technical Assistance Program for Human Rights in Chad. Within the context of its mandate,
the Bank is open to collaboration with these specialized agencies of the United Nations.

154.          The Request also states that: "For some time now, the Chadian authorities, with the
complicity of Consortium officials, have practiced a settlement (de colonisation) policy favoring
cattle farmers (éleveurs), whom they arm so they can occupy indigenous lands."

155.          Bank Group staff encourage individuals and organizations in Chad to keep the institution informed of
human rights developments, while pointing to the limits of the Bank's mandate as set out above. However,
staff have received no evidence of or information concerning a Government policy to settle herders on the
land of local people as is referred to by the Requestors. Should specific information be available and
provided to Management, it would, as is its practice in such cases, take up the matter with senior members
of Government.


                                              BANK'S RESPONSIVENESS TO REQUESTORS

156.          The Requestors state that the Bank has not been responsive to their concerns.

157.          Over the past few years, one of the chief concerns of the Bank Group has been to provide accurate
and timely information to the public concerning this Project to populations in the field as well as to the public
at large. A very large volume of correspondence has been exchanged with a range of interlocutors and
interested parties. Mr. Yorongar, who has brought this Request on behalf of people of the Project area, has
written repeatedly to the Bank's President, Vice-Presidents and Directors concerning this Project. A list of


110 The nine members of the PROCC are the Director of the Treasury, the Director of the Central                                                       Bank, a member of the Supreme Court, two

representatives of Parliament (including one from an opposition party), and four civil society members representing the trade unions, the human rights organizations, the faith community, and the

umbrella organization of women's NGOs.

                                                  75



correspondence between Mr. Yorongar and the Bank is provided in Annex H. Senior Bank Management
has also met him in person, and listened and responded to his concerns on several occasions. Many of the
claims raised in the Request were raised in the context of Mr. Yorongar's previous correspondence. One
occasion where a question of adequate compensation arose is cited and documented by the Requestors in
the Request. In this case, information on the compensation process was provided to Mr. Yorongar
promptly and accurately and included proof of the choice of compensation by the individual in question and
copies of his signed receipt of compensation. Project staff, Country Office staff and several Country
Directors have addressed Mr. Yorongar's requests for information and for clarification many times in
person, in writing and by telephone. In the context of these contacts, staff and Management have provided
clear information concerning the Project, offered to provide any additional materials requested, listened to
concerns, and taken action where needed to pursue any unresolved concerns within the scope of the Bank's
mandate.

158.    Affected persons in the Project area, specifically in the Cantons inhabited by the Requestors, have
brought their observations to bear on the Project in the context of the consultative process which has
included consultations with the populations of their Cantons. Particularly in the Cantons of Kome, Bero and
Miandoum, consultations with the local population have been frequent. Bank Group staff, including Senior
Management, have met personally with villagers in these and other localities in the Project area and along
the pipeline route, listened to their concerns and answered their questions. Where appropriate, Bank Group
staff have taken action to communicate concerns of the local population to EEPCI and COTCO as well as
to the Government of Chad at the highest levels to ensure that these concerns were appropriately taken into
account. These processes are extensively described above.

159.    Bank staff have informed the public of the ongoing policy discussions with Government, on issues
which are addressed in the context of the Bank's country dialogue--for instance on issues such as
governance and economic policy--but which are outside the purview of the Project. On issues outside the
purview of Bank activities, in particular issues of human rights, the Bank has continued to state to the
Requestors and to the Government that it is concerned over human rights violations in Chad as elsewhere,
to encourage all interlocutors to communicate information on these issues to staff, and to clearly state that
while these are matters of great concern, it is not within the Bank's mandate to act in this sphere. In these
matters, Bank staff's experience is that fruitful working relationships have been established with a broad
range of stakeholders in Chad on a variety of salient issues and that dialogue is constructive and forward-
looking with civil society as well as with Government interlocutors.


                                                CONCLUSION

160.    The present response has aimed at providing accurate information and detailed accounts of how the
Bank, in the context of the Pipeline Project, the Capacity Building Project and the Petroleum Economy
Project, has applied its policies and procedures concerning the environment, expropriation, resettlement and
compensation, consultation and disclosure of information, indigenous peoples, natural habitats, pest
management, cultural property, forestry, economic evaluation, monitoring and evaluation and Project
supervision. In Management's view, the Bank has followed the guidelines, policies and procedures

                                                   76



applicable to the matters raised by the Request. The Request expresses concern over a number of salient
challenges in the context of the Project. Management concurs with the Requestors that some of these areas
of concern require sustained attention and effort in the context of implementation and supervision and will
continue to ensure that they are properly addressed. With regard to the issues related to environmental and
social safeguards, the Project EA provides a road map for dealing with environmental and social issues as
they arise in the context of the Project. Management believes that this process has yielded measurable
results to date and is sufficiently flexible to adapt to new challenges in the future. Management does not
believe that the Bank has failed to apply its policies and procedures and that, as a result, the Requestors'
rights or interests have been, or will be, directly and adversely affected.

                                               77



                               BANK MANAGEMENT RESPONSE TO
                         REQUEST FOR INSPECTION PANEL REVIEW OF THE
           CHAD-CAMEROON PETROLEUM DEVELOPMENT AND PIPELINE PROJECT,
      CHAD PETROLEUM SECTOR MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT, AND
                CHAD MANAGEMENT OF THE PETROLEUM ECONOMY PROJECT


                                                 ANNEXA

                                        CHRONOLOGYOF EVENTS

                      Chad/Cameroon Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project

 (1) March 24, 1992          Exxon and Bank of America first visit the Bank to discuss the project

 (2) July 27, 1993           Issues Paper sent to Regional Management

 (3) November 28, 1994       Issues Paper sent to Central Loan Committee which met on
                             December 13, 1994

 (4) January 24, 1995        Bank first expressed interest in the project provided several issues
                             were resolved

 (5) April 4, 1995           PID sent to Documentation Center

 (6) April, 1995             IEPS circulated and discussed

 (7) May, 1995               Several meetings on procurement, with GPN sent on May 16, 1995

 (8) May-December, 1995      Several meetings held to discuss oil revenue management

 (9) November, 1995          First Bank mission in the field

(10) January 1996-           Extensive work on engineering, environment and revenue
     December 1998           management

(11) October 1997            Environmental Assessment distributed for Public review and sent to
                             InfoShop

(12) April 7, 1999           Report from the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) issued

(13) May 1999                Environmental documentation finalized

(14) June 25, 1999           Environmental documentation disclosed and released to the Info
                             Shop and in-country

(15) June 26, 1999           Departure of Bank Appraisal Mission

(16) January 11, 1999        Revenue Management Law enacted

(17) February to April, 2000 Loans and Credits Negotiations

(18) June 6, 2000            Board Approval

(19) March 29, 2001          IBRD Loan and Project Agreements Signing

                                              78




                     Chad Petroleum Sector Management Capacity Building Project

(1)  March 24, 1997          PCD Meeting

(2)  March 1998              Bank Pre-appraisal Mission

(3)  May 3, 1999             Project Information Document (PID) Received by the InfoShop

(4)  May 25, 1999            Environmental Data Sheet Issued

(5)  June 3, 1999            PAD Reviewed

(6)  June 23, 1999           Departure of Bank Appraisal Mission

(7)  February 7-10, 2000     Credit Negotiations

(8)  June 6, 2000            Board Approval

(9)  July 7, 2000            Credit Signing

(10) December 26-28, 2000    Project Launch Workshop

(11) March 23, 2001          Credit Effectiveness


                        Chad ­ Management of the Petroleum Economy Project

(1)  January 11, 1999        PCD Review Meeting

(2)  February 1, 1999        First Bank Mission

(3)  June 18, 1999           Departure of Bank Appraisal Mission

(4)  December 12,1999        Credit Negotiations

(5)  December 29, 1999       Distribution of Board Documents

(6)  January 27, 2000        Board Presentation

(7)  March 20, 2000          Credit Signature

(8)  September 20, 2000      Credit Effectiveness

                       BANK MANAGEMENT RESPONSE TO
             REQUEST FOR INSPECTION PANEL REVIEW OF THE
 CHAD-CAMEROON PETROLEUM DEVELOPMENT AND PIPELINE PROJECT,
CHAD PETROLEUM SECTOR MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT,
   AND CHAD MANAGEMENT OF THE PETROLEUM ECONOMY PROJECT


                                          ANNEXB

                                      BIBLIOGRAPHY

Project Preparation Documents

· Project Appraisal Document ­ Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project (April 13,
  2000)

· Project Appraisal Document ­ Petroleum Sector Management Capacity Building Project
  (March 30, 2000)

· Project Appraisal Document ­ Management of the Petroleum Economy Project (December
  29, 1999)

· Chad-Petroleum Sector Capacity Building Project ­ Detailed Project Description

· Chad-Management of the Petroleum Economy Project ­ Summary

· Chad-Cameroon Pipeline project ­ Frequently Asked Questions and Answers-

· Panel Report ­ Quality Assurance Group (April 17, 1999)

· Description of Cluster of Pipeline-related Projects

· Memorandum to the Executive Directors, Questions and Answers, Chad Cameroon
  Pipeline Project (June 1, 2000)

Project Implementation Documents and Progress Reports

· Project Implementation Manual for the Petroleum Sector Management Capacity Building
  Project (February 2001)

· Project Implementation Manual for the Management of the Petroleum Economy Project
  (September 2000)

· World Bank Press Release on IAG (incl. Panel Members and Terms of Reference)
  (February 21, 2001)

· External Compliance Monitoring Group (ECMG)-Terms of Reference (September 21,
  2000)

                                          80


· Chad Cameroon Pipeline Project and related Projects - Semi-Annual Report of the Bank
  Group to the Board (January 31, 2001)

· First Report of the External Compliance Monitoring Group (March 28, 2001)

· ExxonMobil Annual Report on the Project (December, 2000)

· ExxonMobil Quarterly Report No. 1 ­ Fourth Quarter 2000

Legal Documents

· Loan Agreement (Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project) between Republic of Chad
  and IBRD (March 29, 2001)

· Project Agreement (Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project) between IBRD and
  Tchad Oil Transportation Company S.A. (March 29, 2001)

· Project Agreement (Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project) between IBRD and Esso
  Exploration and Production Chad Inc. (March 29, 2001)

· Project Agreement (Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project) between IBRD and
  Chevron Petroleum Chad Company Limited (March 29, 2001)

· Project Agreement (Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project) between IBRD and
  Petronas Carigali (Chad EP) Inc. (March 29, 2001)

· Development Credit Agreement (Petroleum Sector Management Capacity-Building
  Project) between Republic of Chad and IDA (July 7, 2000)

· Development Credit Agreement (Management of the Petroleum Economy Project) between
  Republic of Chad and IDA (March 20, 2000)

Environmental and Social Documentation

· Chad Export Project - - Environmental Assessment and Appendices (Chad Portion)
  (October 1997)

· Chad Export Project - - Environmental Management Plan and Appendices (Chad Portion)
  (February 1998)

· Chad Export Project - - Compensation and Resettlement Plan, Chad (February 1998)

· Chad Export Project ­ Environmental Assessment, Management Plan and supporting
  Documents (19 volumes), May 1999

· Chad Export Project ­ General Oil Spill Response Plan (September 1999)

                                           81


· Dounia Conference ­ Minutes and Declaration (January 20-25, 1998)

· Bebedjia Conference ­ NGO Declaration (April 1999)

· Resettlement Phase 1 - Report (Esso Exploration and Production Chad, Inc.) (May 2000)

· Chad Compensation and Resettlement Plan Implementation Report (Focus International)
  (July 2, 1999)

Country Assistance Strategy for Chad; Revenue Management Program

· Chad CAS and CAS Update (May 28, 1999 and April 13, 2000)

· Project Appraisal Document ­ Management of the Petroleum Economy Project (December
  29, 1999)

· Law no. 001-PR-99 concerning Oil Revenue Management (Chad) (January 11, 1999)

· Amendment to Oil Revenue Management Law (August 18, 2000)

· Law No. 25 of the Republic of Chad limiting land rights (July 22, 1967)

· Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP) for Chad and Joint Staff Assessment
  (July 25, 2000)


                          BANK MANAGEMENT RESPONSE TO
                REQUEST FOR INSPECTION PANEL REVIEW OF THE
 CHAD-CAMEROON PETROLEUM DEVELOPMENT AND PIPELINE PROJECT,
CHAD PETROLEUM SECTOR MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT,
    AND CHAD MANAGEMENT OF THE PETROLEUM ECONOMY PROJECT


                                               ANNEXC

                               PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

           CHAD/CAMEROONPETROLEUMDEVELOPMENTANDPIPELINEPROJECT

                       PETROLEUMREVENUEMANAGEMENTPROGRAM:

                                        REPUBLICOF CHAD

Part A: Summary

161.    Petroleum revenues would present Chad with a unique opportunity to reduce poverty,
but with tangible risks. Drawing on international experience, Chad is aware of the systemic
transformation of the economy frequently brought about by injection of substantial petroleum
resources and the need for a longer term perspective for poverty reduction. To achieve its
objective of poverty reduction given these factors, the Government has worked closely with the
Bank to delineate a petroleum revenue management program (the Revenue Management
Program) and has articulated a Strategy for the Management of the Petroleum Economy.
The Program seeks to reduce poverty by isolating the petroleum revenues and targeting their
use to the priority poverty sectors in the context of Chad's overall sectoral programs and global
Government expenditure patterns.

162.    The thrust of the Government's strategy is to target the bulk of oil revenues for
incremental poverty alleviation activities in a transparent manner. It relies on several key
features.

        · A framework guiding the use of oil revenues (namely royalties on the sale of oil,
            dividends from GoT's equity investment in the project, and income taxes on the
            pipeline and oilfield activities), which provides, inter alia, for quantitative targets for
            the allocation of the bulk of oil revenues to priority poverty reduction activities,
            mandatory long-term savings of a portion of the revenues, explicit commitment and
            disbursement norms, and oversight and monitoring mechanisms, including non-
            Governmental mechanisms.

        · Initiatives to build Government's capacity to use oil revenues effectively within key
            sectors and to manage their impact on the economy, including the development of
            sectoral expenditure programs. These include the IDA operation for revenue
            management (approved by the Executive Directors of IDA on January 27, 2000,
            and summarized in Annex 18, Part B).

                                                   84


        · Bank support and monitoring throughout implementation to promote the allocation
              of resources to effective development activities, as well as reporting/auditing
              requirements.

163.    The Government is strongly committed to broadening and deepening economic reforms
and strengthening financial discipline; strengthening sector strategies and designing and
implementing effective poverty reduction programs and activities; and developing national
implementation capacities. The Government's strategy enjoys broad political support from the
country's leadership and legislature, attempts to address various concerns raised by civil
society, and hinges on the support of Chad's external partners. It is consistent with and builds
on the ongoing economic reform objectives.

164.    The Program: The Revenue Management Program agreed with the Bank contains the
following detailed elements:

        (i) petroleum revenues (net of financing costs for the IBRD and EIB loans ­ see
        discussion above in sections C.6 and C.8) will be channeled through project off-shore
        escrow accounts, which will be audited;

        (ii) royalties and dividends (representing about 85 percent of expected revenues over
        the first ten years of production) will be invested as follows:

                  (a) 10 percent of this revenue stream will be invested with an external financial
                  institution in long-term investment instruments, and upon liquidation would be
                  used to benefit poverty reduction objectives of future generations (the "Future
                  Generations Fund"); and

                  (b) 90 percent of these revenues will transit through special Treasury accounts
                  held in one or two private commercial banks in Chad (the "Special Petroleum
                  Revenues Accounts") to be used to finance incremental expenditures in the five
                  specified priority sectors relating to poverty alleviation, distributions to the
                  producing region and Government recurrent expenditures as described below;
                  and

        (iii) income taxes on the oilfield operations (which begin accruing around the seventh
        year of production or thereafter, depending in part on oil prices) and on the pipeline
        company TOTCO will be used to support increased development expenditures
        generally.

165.    The Special Petroleum Revenue Account(s) will operate under the following modalities:

    · 80 percent of royalties and 85 percent of dividends deposited into the Special
        Petroleum Revenue Accounts will be devoted to expenditures in key poverty reduction
        sectors (education, health and social services, rural development, infrastructure, and
        environment and water resources).

                                                            85


   · Expenditures from oil revenues in these sectors will be incremental to Government
      spending in these sectors prior to the arrival of oil revenues.
   · In addition, 5 percent of royalties deposited into such accounts will be allocated as a
      supplement to the oil producing region to be programmed by local authorities.
   · During an initial five-year period (i.e., before oilfield income taxes provide another
      possible source of revenues), the residual 15 percent of royalties and dividends can be
      used to finance general Government expenditure in the civil sectors to help meet
      pressing Government operational needs; after this initial period, this portion will be
      added to the 80 percent of royalties and 85 percent of dividends used to finance the
      priority poverty reduction sectors.
   · Revenues which cannot be used efficiently for the agreed objectives, or the mobilization
      of which would jeopardize macroeconomic stability, will be sterilized under
      arrangements acceptable to the Bank).

                                                      Chad RevenueFlows


                                          Gross Revenues To Chad: Royalties, Taxes, Dividends




    IBRD/EIB Debt
       Service                                                    Net Revenues To Chad


                        10% of Royalties/Dividends                90% of Royalties/Dividends                       Income Taxes


                                                   Dedicated Special Account, 90% of Royalties and Dividends
                     Savings Fund



                                   15% of Royalties/Dividends       80% Royalties/85%Dividends and         5%of
                                             for 5years        95% Royalties/100%Dividendsafter5 years    Royalties




       Central Government
      Budgetary Expenditures
                                     Govt.Operating Costs         Allocation for Priority Sectors    Doba Region IncomeTaxes




166.  Control and audit mechanisms include the following:

   · The Future Generations Fund will be held with a financial institution acceptable to the
      Bank and the Special Petroleum Revenue Accounts will be held in private commercial
      banks in Chad acceptable to the Bank.
   · Disbursements from the special petroleum accounts will be made only on the basis of
      detailed annual expenditure programs designed to reduce poverty, agreed upon with the
      Bank and approved by the Parliament as part of the budget.

                                                  86


    · Disbursements will be made following review by an independent oversight committee
        including representatives of the Government, Parliament and civil society (an NGO and
        a trade union representative) to determine their conformity with the agreed expenditure
        program. The oversight committee will authorize and verify disbursements and issue
        quarterly reports, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
    · Ex-post controls will include annual audits of the Petroleum Revenues Accounts and of
        the Future Generations Fund by auditors mutually acceptable to Chad and the Bank
        operating under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
    · The audits and reports of the oversight committee will be published.
    · The Bank will support Chad in monitoring the effectiveness of its programs, including
        through periodic public expenditure reviews to be carried out jointly with the
        International Monetary Fund.
    · The Government will, in conjunction with the Bank, develop investment criteria for the
        Future Generations Fund.

167.    Link to Bank Portfolio. Government performance under this Petroleum Revenue
Management Program will be a central criterion in determining future levels of World Bank
support to Chad. In addition, implementation of this Revenue Management Program will be a
key contractual undertaking of the Chad Government under the proposed IBRD loan to be
provided to Chad for the project (see Part C of this Annex for terms and conditions), as well as
under: (i) the proposed EIB financing for the pipeline, (ii) the IDA credit for the parallel
Management of the Petroleum Economy Project, and (iii) the IDA credit to be provided for the
parallel Petroleum Sector Management Capacity-Building Project. Breach of this covenant will
permit suspension of disbursements under these four loans/credits, and would also permit
acceleration of these four loans/credits, with repayment to be made directly from the project's
oil revenues through the escrow account securing the IBRD loans (described in Section C.6
above).

168.    The Law: As a first step, the Chad Parliament approved, on December 30, 1998, a
law that sets out the key elements of the Revenue Management Program. It contains provisions:
(a) allocating 10% of royalty and dividend revenues to the future generations fund; (b) directing
the balance of royalties and dividend revenues to special accounts to be held in local banks;
(c) allocating 80% of these funds to the above enumerated 5 priority sectors in accordance with
Parliamentary approved budgets; (d) allocating 5% of royalties to the producing region;
(e) allocating during the first five years 15% of royalties and dividends to financing Government
expenditures; (f) establishing the Government/civil society oversight committee; and (g) various
auditing and reporting mechanisms, including audits of the special accounts and the future
generations fund.

169.    Producing Region. International experience has indicated that the sound operation of
oil and other large scale projects depends in large part on ensuring that local populations see
tangible benefits and are treated equitably. To this end, special attention has been given to the
treatment of local populations in the Doba producing region and to the elaboration of

                                                      87



mechanisms to increase local capacity, to enhance development in the region and to increase
local participation in the development process.

    · Revenue Sharing. The revenue management law earmarks 5 percent111 of royalties to
         be programmed by local authorities in the producing region; this is contemplated by
         Article 212 of the Chad Constitution. This would be provided as a supplement to the
         portion of revenues the producing region would receive through usual government
         allocations (including its share of the portion of oil revenues allocated to the priority
         poverty sectors under the Revenue Management Program). These 5 percent are not
         expected to constitute the main source of financing for development activities in the
         producing region, but, based on international experience, are expected to become a
         visible and symbolic attribute of the Revenue Management Program. Accordingly,
         transparency in the use of these funds and their effective utilization for the benefit of
         populations in the producing region will be an important part of the Revenue
         Management Program and the Bank will support GoT in developing sound accounting
         and distribution systems.

    · Project Improvements. The pipeline project and other activities of the oil consortium in
         the project area would generate benefits for the producing region, including road
         improvements, employment generation, and local procurement of food and other
         services. The oil companies are also financing additional activities, such as a community
         outreach health activities and the drilling of water wells for use by local communities.

    · Social Development Fund and Emergency Measures under IDA Capacity Building
         Project. The Bank is working with Chad under the planned petroleum/environmental
         capacity building operation (see Annex 18, Part A) to help it: (a) to address the short to
         medium-term impacts of the pipeline project (including the impact of expected in-
         migration of workers); (b) set the foundation for a sound longer term development
         program; and (c) to increase NGO capacity and participation in the delineation of
         development activities in the region. Specific activities include:

         Ø Supportinganinformationcampaigntolimittheamountofinflowofmigrantstothe
              region.

         Ø Preparingtheregionforasuddenincreaseinpopulationbyupgradingessential
              infrastructure and services at the greatest pressure points before the migration flow
              gathers momentum (about US$ 5 million from IDA).

         Ø Establishmentofadecentralizedandparticipatorypilotdevelopmentfund(FACIL
              - Fund for Actions based on Consensus and Initiated Locally) to finance local
              projects, proposed and to be implemented by communities and NGOs, in the fields



111The 5 percent as specified in the law represents, without rounding, 4.5 percent since the "5 percent of
royalties" is based on royalties after deducting the 10 percent to be deposited into the Future Generations
Fund.

                                                      88



                of social infrastructure, income-generating activities and capacity building (about
                US$ 3.5 million from IDA).

        · Regional Development Plan. The government has initiated a process, working with civil
           society in the project area, to develop a regional development plan that would help
           prepare the region for the impacts during the construction period, as well as ultimately
           when revenues flow. This is being undertaken in a participatory manner. Local NGOs
           have expressed concern that the plan was being developed too quickly; the government,
           in part in response to these concerns, is ensuring that the development of the plan is an
           iterative process that is expected to extend over several years; the above-cited IDA
           capacity building project will support this effort.

   170.    Revenue Estimates and Allocations. The following table sets out Chad's expected
   revenues on an annual basis over the first ten years of production in the Base Case (i.e.,
   development of 917 million barrels and Brent oil price of US$ 15.25/bbl in 1999 US$ ­ see
   discussion in Annex 4) and under various alternative scenarios. The subsequent table illustrates
   how Chad's revenues are allocated to the various sources under the Revenue Management
   Program. All revenue figures are provided in nominal terms.

                      Table 1: Chad--Nominal Revenues: Scenario Analysis
                           (US$ millions; Based on Oil Prices in 1999 US$,
                                    and Bank Inflation Projections)
Case                        2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013           Total      Total
                                                                                      (2004-13) (2004-32)


917 mm bbls, US$ 12.00         17    47     55  62    67   92   82      65   48    40        575      1033
917 mm bbls, US$ 15.25         31    80    88   96 100 125 110         87    65   54        837       1818
917 mm bbls, US$ 18.50         46   113    122 130    135  269 350     110   83   239       1597      3229
1038 mm bbls, US$ 15.25        43    85     94 101    106  135 147     119   96   156       1083      2510


                    Table 2: Chad Revenues: Royalties, Taxes and Dividends
                    (Nominal, in US$ Millions; Based on Oil Prices in 1999 US$
                                    and Bank Inflation Projections)
Scenario                595 mln bbls,   917 mln bbls, US$ 15.25 1038 mln bbls, 917 mln bbls,  917 mln bbls,
                          US$ 15.25                               US$ 15.25      US$ 12.00     US$ 18.50

                           2004-13       2004-13      2004-32       2004-13       2004-13       2004-13


Royalties                     245          624         1017            788           362           896
Taxes                         103          136          719            217           136           625
Dividends                      70           77           82             78           77             76
Total                         419          837         1818           1083           575          1597
Estimated Debt Service         60           60           60             60           60             60
to WB/EIB
Net Revenues                  359          777         1758           1023           515          1537

                                                  89



                               Table 3: Distribution of Net Revenues
                            as per the Revenue Management Program
                                          (in US$ millions)
Scenario                 595 mln bbls, 917 mln bbls, US$ 15.25 1038 mln bbls, 917 mln bbls, 917 mln bbls,
                          US$ 15.25                             US$ 15.25      US$ 12.00     US$ 18.50
                           2004-13      2004-13      2004-32     2004-13        2004-13       2004-13


Priority Sectors             191         490          830          625            290           696
Doba Region Supplement       11           29           47           36            17             41
Gen. Budget Expenditures     131         194          778          281            170           708
Savings Fund                 26           64          104           81            38             91
Total                        359         777         1758         1023            515          1537


                          BANK MANAGEMENT RESPONSE TO
                  REQUEST FOR INSPECTION PANEL REVIEW OF THE
  CHAD-CAMEROON PETROLEUM DEVELOPMENT AND PIPELINE PROJECT,
CHAD PETROLEUM SECTOR MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT,
    AND CHAD MANAGEMENT OF THE PETROLEUM ECONOMY PROJECT

                                                                               (TRANSLATION)

                                              ANNEXD

                         LAW ON PETROLEUMREVENUEMANAGEMENT

                               ACTNO. 001/PR/99 CONCERNING

                                 OILREVENUESMANAGEMENT

Having regard to the Constitution,                  - Ninety percent shall be deposited in
                                                         special treasury accounts situated in one
    The National Assembly discussed and                  or two local banks;
adopted the above-cited Act on December 30,
1998;                                               - The remaining ten percent shall be
                                                         deposited in a savings account opened in
    The President of the Republic hereby                 accordance with the provisions of
promulgates this Act, which reads as follows:            Article 9 of this Act.

CHAPTER I: GENERAL PROVISION                      Article 4: Indirect income, namely taxes,

Article 1: The objective of this Act is to        charges, and customs duties, shall be deposited

establish the procedures for managing oil         directly with the Treasury.

revenues from the exploitation of three (3)       Article 5: The various types of income
fields, namely Kome, Miandoum, and Bolobo.        referred to in Article 2 of this Act shall be

Article 2: Oil revenues shall consist of direct   accounted for in their entirety in the general

and indirect income.                              state budget.

    Direct income shall consist of dividends      Article 6: Revenues shall be allocated in

and royalties;                                    accordance with the criteria set out in Chapter
                                                  II of this Act.
    Indirect income shall include taxes,
charges, and customs duties levied in             CHAPTER II: ALLOCATION OF

connection with oil exports.                      REVENUES

Article 3: The direct income referred to in the   SECTION 1: PRIORITY SECTORS AND

second paragraph of Article 2 shall be            REGIONAL DISTRIBUTION:

deposited in an offshore escrow account           Article 7: Direct income shall be allocated
opened specifically for this purpose by the       primarily to priority sectors.
Government of Chad at an international
financial institution.                                The following are considered priority
                                                  sectors: public health and social affairs,
    The funds shall be divided as follows:        education, infrastructure, rural development
                                                  (agriculture and livestock), environment, and
                                                  water resources.

                                                  92



Article 8: Direct income comprising dividends       approval, disbursement, monitoring, and control
and royalties which have been deposited in the      of the general state budget.
special accounts referred to in the second
paragraph of Article 3 above shall be allocated     Article 11:      The special accounts shall be
as follows:                                         established in one or two primary local
                                                    commercial banks certified by COBAC, the
    (a)    Eighty percent (80%) for                 regional bank supervision agency. They shall
expenditures in the priority sectors listed in the  be funded directly from the escrow account
second paragraph of Article 7 above;                referred to in the first paragraph of Article 3
                                                    of the present Act.
    (b)    Fifteen percent (15%) for current
Government operating and investment                 SECTION 2:       DISBURSEMENT
expenses for a period of five years as from         CRITERIA
the date of production;
                                                    Article 12:      Funds deposited in special
    (c)    Five percent (5%) of royalties shall     accounts to defray expenditures in priority
be allocated to decentralized communities in        sectors shall be earmarked in accordance with
the producing region in accordance with the         the public expenditure program prepared
provisions of Article 212 of the Constitution;      annually by the Government.

    This amount may be changed by decree at             The program is one element of a triennial
five-year intervals in the light of available       development process and is a reference point
resources and the needs and absorptive              for the Finance Act. The Government shall
capacity of the region;                             review the program annually.

    Procedures for management and                       In accordance with the principle of
monitoring of these funds shall be developed in     additionality, expenditures from oil revenues
accordance with existing instruments                paid in respect of priority sectors shall be
regulating Government accounting.                   additional to items in the general budget for the
                                                    fiscal year preceding the initial oil receipts.
SECTION 2:        SAVINGS
                                                    Article 13:      Requests for disbursements
Article 9: Ten percent (10%) of the direct          from the approving officer of the general state
revenues, i.e., the royalties and dividends         budget shall be made in accordance with the
referred to in Article 3 of the present Act,        procedures set out in the Finance Act and
shall be deposited in a savings account opened      shall require the express authorization of the
in an international financial institution for the   Oil Revenues Control and Monitoring Board
benefit of future generations, in accordance        (CCSRP).
with the regulations of the Bank of Central
African States (BEAC).                              CHAPTER IV: SUPERVISORY
                                                    INSTITUTIONS
CHAPTER III: MECHANISMS FOR
MANAGING SPECIAL ACCOUNTS                           Article 14:      The mobilization and use of oil
                                                    revenues shall be monitored separately or
SECTION 1:        OPERATIONS                        jointly by the Comptroller of the Ministry of

Article 10:       The mechanism for managing        Finance and Economy, CCSRP, the Audit

special accounts shall conform to the               Office of the Supreme Court, and Parliament.

conventional budget wisdom of the State,
namely respect for procedures relating to

                                                 93



SECTION 1:      OIL REVENUES                       Article 20:       Parliament shall control the
CONTROL AND MONITORING BOARD                       allocation of oil revenues by adopting and
(CCSRP)                                            monitoring the implementation of the general
                                                   state budget.
Article 15:     An Oil Revenues Control and
Monitoring Board (CCSRP) is hereby                 Article 21:       The Audit Office of the
established.                                       Supreme Court shall monitor the legality of
                                                   state expenditures by reviewing official
Article 16:     CCSRP shall include the            revenue accounts and monitoring legislation
following members:                                 concerning the allocation of resources

- one magistrate serving on the Supreme            between the general state budget and the

   Court                                           decentralized communities as well as

- one deputy                                       provisions governing the establishment of

- one senator                                      reserves or the placement of surplus income

- the national director of BEAC                    overseas.

- the Central Treasurer                            SECTION 3:        MONITORING
- the Director of Issues Relating to Oil           PROCEDURES
   Revenues
- the Director of Planning and Development         Article 22:       The mobilization, allocation,
- one representative of local NGOs                 and use of oil revenues shall be monitored via
- one trade union representative.                  periodic audits and reports prepared for the
                                                   Government, including:
Article 17:     Members of CCSRP
representing Parliament, the Supreme Court,        - annual audits of special accounts and the
national NGOs, and trade unions shall be                   savings account for future generations;
designated and appointed for a term of three
(3) years which shall be renewable once.           - periodic management reports on the
                                                           savings account for future generations
Article 18:     It shall be the responsibility of          and savings accounts for possible
CCSRP to:                                                  surplus income;

    (a)   ensure that commitments for              - periodic reports by CCSRP;
funding from the special accounts meet the
requirements of the Finance Act;                   - reports and audits by COBAC of primary
                                                           banks responsible for managing
    (b)   authorize and monitor disbursements              specific special accounts;
from the special accounts and the
appropriation of funds.                            - annual audits of general state budget
                                                           performance prepared by the Audit
Article 19:     The operational and                        Office.
organizational procedures of CCSRP and the
conditions governing its control and               The Government shall publish these reports
supervisory functions shall be set out by          and audits annually.
decree.
                                                   CHAPTER V: FINAL PROVISIONS
SECTION 2:      ADDITIONAL
INSTITUTIONS EXERCISING CONTROL                    Article 23:       The present Act shall be duly
                                                   recorded, published in the Official Gazette of

                                           94



the Republic, and implemented as an Act of
the State.

    Done in N'Djaména on January 11, 1999.

                                BANK MANAGEMENT RESPONSE TO
                     REQUEST FOR INSPECTION PANEL REVIEW OF THE
   CHAD-CAMEROON PETROLEUM DEVELOPMENT AND PIPELINE PROJECT,
 CHAD PETROLEUM SECTOR MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT,
      AND CHAD MANAGEMENT OF THE PETROLEUM ECONOMY PROJECT


                                                      ANNEXE


                                 ENVIRONMENTALCOMPARISON OF THE
                        CHAD-CAMEROONPIPELINEWITH NIGERIA'S OGONILAND

 NIGERIA: Ogoniland                             Feature                          CHAD-CAMEROON
Almost entirely private sector.   Main Actor in Social and              Full partnership between private and public
Federal environmental agencies    Environmental Management              sectors
remote; locally absent
None                              Revenue Management Plan               International best practice & precedent-
                                                                        setting in Chad; Civil society represented on
                                                                        offshore escrow royalty account Board
Federal influence scarcely        Regional Development Plan &           Well planned; CAPECE & TAPECE inst.
reaches project area              Capacity Strengthening                strengthening underway
None                              Participation Of Local Civil Society  Well underway; compensation reaching
                                                                        agreement; NGO's actively involved
None                              Indigenous Peoples (Vulnerable        Bakola fully participating with Trust Fund
                                  Ethnic Minorities) Plan               development; implementation (e.g., TB)
                                                                        started
Contemplated                      Community Health Outreach             Started; rural clinics build; AIDS, TB, STD,
                                                                        malaria etc included; Medecins sans
                                                                        Frontieres supported
None                              Environmental Offsets                 $3 million endowed Trust Fund; c.6000sq km
                                                                        mainly forest, conserved in two officially
                                                                        gazetted National Parks
Above ground                      Pipeline Specifications               Buried 1 m deep; mechanically compacted
                                                                        underground
Date from 1958 onwards            Age of Pipe                           New


None; advanced corrosion          Corrosion Prevention                  Separation of crude from brines before
widespread; natural leaks                                               entering steel pipe; fiberglass piping used
excessive                                                               before separation plant; Ablative sacrificial
                                                                        cathode; heavy-duty resin/tar coatings
Thin and uniform                  Thickness Of Pipe                     Minimum of 5/8" carbon steel; thicker in
                                                                        critical sites such as river crossings and after
                                                                        pump stations
Thin, highly flammable crude;     Viscosity Of Oil                      Crude is thick, tarry, non-flammable; no
refined products also piped in                                          refined products
vulnerable exposed lines
Originally lacking; retrofitting  Environmental Management              Comprehensive; international standards,
started                           Precautions, Safety, & Spill          independent monitoring; meets ISO 14001
                                  Contingencies: ISO 14001
1100mcf of associated gas         Gas Flaring                           None

                                                     96



flared/day causes acid rain, soot,
noise & respiratory stress
Not all reinjected.                Associated Water        All reinjected into original strata

                               BANK MANAGEMENT RESPONSE TO
                   REQUEST FOR INSPECTION PANEL REVIEW OF THE
   CHAD-CAMEROON PETROLEUM DEVELOPMENT AND PIPELINE PROJECT,
 CHAD PETROLEUM SECTOR MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT,
       AND CHAD MANAGEMENT OF THE PETROLEUM ECONOMY PROJECT


                                                     ANNEXF

         COMPILATIONOF COMPENSATIONPERVILLAGEFORPHASEI, TO MAY1999112

                                                                  In Kind (equivalent
Sub-Prefecture                Cantons/Villages                          CFAF)113                 In Cash (CFAF)
Baibokoum                                                          3,198,790                  18,542,470
                   Baibokoum-Urbain                                  230,470                   5,910,165
                                         Combattant                                  70,470                      296,900
                                         Divers                                                                    44,745
                                         Kabba                                                                   437,930
                                         Kato I                                                                    89,650
                                         Mbaïdogolo                                                            1,536,475
                                         Mbogomian                                                                 44,745
                                         Mbou                                        85,000                      526,645
                                         Mboum II                                    75,000                      414,455
                                         Sara                                                                  2,518,620
                   Mbayssaye                                       2,968,320                  12,538,305
                                         Belaboko                                   171,000                      425,715
                                         Bingo                                      262,000                      470,640
                                         Bitoye I                                   167,000                      941,280
                                         Bitoye II                                                               174,630
                                         Gorro                                      172,000                      369,660
                                         Koumao                                      92,000                        43,725
                                         Mbayssaye                                  919,910                    3,057,895
                                         Mbikoné                                     92,000                      297,555
                                         Mboh                                       162,470                      210,960
                                         Mboura                                     276,000                      317,255
                                         Ngot                                        85,000                    5,215,535
                                         Sakara                                     568,940                    1,013,455
                   Mont de Lam                                                                    94,000
                                         Diba I                                                                    94,000
Bébédjia                                                         31,273,500                  136,526,345
                   Béro                                          22,758,540                  109,873,415
                                         Béro I                                     160,000                      999,835
                                         Béro II                                 12,866,110                   61,326,270
                                         Dokaïdilti                               1,005,380                    2,553,610
                                         Madjo                                      597,940                      975,180
                                         Mbanga                                     861,940                    3,368,500
                                         Ndaba Dildo                              7,247,170                   40,650,020
                   Komé                                            8,147,960                  24,434,155
                                         Bébédjia                                                                  89,485



 112Data compiled from the Phase I Compensation Report, Esso Chad, N'Djamena, June 1999.
 113In kind compensation included such items as ploughs, carts, bicycles, rickshaws, sewing machines, portable mills and
 shelling machines.

                                             98



                                                In Kind (equivalent
 Sub-Prefecture         Cantons/Villages             CFAF)113             In Cash (CFAF)
                                Bégada                       1,056,000               2,353,205
                                Béla I                         436,470               4,823,480
                                Béto II                                                 44,745
                                Bolobo II                    2,851,820               4,843,695
                                Danmadja                       145,470                 455,605
                                Kayaral                      1,682,820               1,780,190
                                Komé                           145,470               6,527,235
                                Maïnani                        454,000                 656,045
                                Mayongo                        933,440               1,675,260
                                Moukassa                       442,470               1,175,210
               Miandoum                            367,000              2,218,775
                                Ngalaba                        367,000               2,218,775
Bessao                                           9,930,215             23,371,100
               Bessao                            5,739,455             17,223,730
                                Békao I                        430,000                 995,125
                                Békao II                     1,124,410               3,431,735
                                Békao-Ferme                    177,000                 301,920
                                Bembar                         164,000                 699,140
                                Bengadoua                                               14,950
                                Bessao                         396,940               5,240,250
                                Dodang I                       522,000                 301,095
                                Gamadji                      1,857,225               2,133,940
                                Laoukoye Masse                                       1,864,915
                                Laoukoye
                                Toungou                                                 44,745
                                Mabi                           534,880               1,950,770
                                Sao                            533,000                 250,145
               Gadjibian                         4,190,760              6,642,370
                                Bégon I                        867,000                 934,610
                                Bégon II                       443,500                 769,520
                                Béguelka                       696,470               1,311,595
                                Gadjibian                      355,000                 331,380
                                Kouloulou                      579,440               1,824,545
                                Mempon                          70,470                 371,635
                                Toura I                        525,000                 505,075
                                Toura II                       653,880                 594,010
Goré                                             9,510,820             15,134,805
               Bekan                             1,335,470              1,423,575
                                Bémoulati                    1,335,470               1,423,575
               Timbéri                           8,175,350             13,771,230
                                Bédia                        2,931,270               3,459,615
                                Bida                         1,044,440               1,765,305
                                Kaba                           724,880               1,178,765
                                Kagopal                         78,470                 856,395
                                Kolé                         1,823,850               3,260,845
                                Koundja II                     734,000               1,802,550
                                Ouao                           858,440                 897,755
Sarh                                                                       44,745
               Sarh                                                        44,745
                                Sarh                                                    44,745
TOTAL                                           53,913,325            193,619,465

99


               BANK MANAGEMENT RESPONSE TO
         REQUEST FOR INSPECTION PANEL REVIEW OF THE
CHAD-CAMEROON PETROLEUM DEVELOPMENT AND PIPELINE PROJECT,
CHAD PETROLEUM SECTOR MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT,
  AND CHAD MANAGEMENT OF THE PETROLEUM ECONOMY PROJECT


                             ANNEXG

             LOG OF PUBLIC MEETINGS AND CONSULTATIONS

                     (AVAILABLE UPON REQUEST)

                                              102



                              CIVILSOCIETYCONSULTATIONS
                             WITH WORLD BANK PARTICIPATION

In Chad

April 23, 1997 - Meeting with NGOs under the auspices of La Coordination des ONGs,
attended by 17 NGO representatives and 2 international NGOs
        World Bank officials present: Cyprian Fisiy

January 20 -25, 1998 - Dounia conference with 120 organizations
        World Bank officials present: Charles Donang

February 4, 1998 - Meeting with 25 NGOs and 3 international NGOs
        World Bank officials present: Michel Layec, Philippe Benoit, Charles Donang

May 15, 1998 - Meeting with 23 local NGOs and 5 international NGOs
        World Bank officials present: Michel Layec, Lucienne M'Baïpor

November 11-12, 1998 - Meeting with representatives of 31 local NGOs and 5 international
NGO representatives

        World Bank officials present: Philippe Benoit, Michel Layec, Charles Donang,
        Mary Barton-Dock, Lucienne M'Baïpor
April 7 - 11, 1999 - Bebedjia, Chad organized by CILONG
        World Bank officials present: Lucienne M'Baipor, Philippe Benoit

October 5 - 7, 1999 - Meeting with NGOs and Government of Chad on the FACIL
Procedures Manual
        World Bank officials present: Francois Rantrua, Renato Nardello

November 1999 - Meeting with NGOs and Government of Chad, Bebedjia
        World Bank officials present: Shengman Zhang, Serge Michailof, Robert
        Calderisi, Michel Layec, Mary Barton-Dock, Michelle Keane, Lucienne M'Baipor

September 5, 2000 - Meeting with Civil Society to gather inputs concerning the roles of the
External Compliance Monitoring Group and the International Advisory Group, N'Djamena

        World Bank officials present: Mary Barton-Dock, Michel Layec, Lucienne
        M'Baipor
November 27-29, 2000 - Launching Seminar with Civil Society and the Government of Chad
for the Pipeline Project and Capacity Building Project, N'Djamena
        World Bank officials present: Michel Layec, Mary B arton-Dock, Michelle Keane,
        Renato Nardello, Dimitri Kanounnikof

December 4, 2000 - Meeting with NGOs and Government of Chad, Moundou

                                             103



        World Bank officials present: Michelle Keane, Lucienne M'Baipor

February 22-28, 2001 - Various Meetings with NGOs (Moundou); Local Government
Officials (Bebedjia, Doba and Mbaiboukoum); and villagers (Kome, "Quartier Satan")

        World Bank officials present: Cynthia Cook, Michel Pommier, Michelle Keane,
        Lucienne M'Baipor
In Cameroon

September 19, 1997 - Bank/NGO Collaboration Meeting with various NGOs
        World Bank officials present: Robert Lacey, Michel Layec, Philippe Benoit

September 23, 1997 - Meeting with 13 environmental NGOs
        World Bank officials present: Robert Lacey, Michel Layec, Philippe Benoit

August 25-27, 1998 - Meeting organized by Groupe de Concertation et d'Action (GCA)
attended by many NGOs
        World Bank officials present: Georges Minang

November 6, 1998 - Meeting with several local environmental NGOs under the umbrella of the
GCA
        World Bank officials present: Michel Layec, Philippe Benoit, Robert Lacey

January 20, 1999 - Meeting at COTCO's request organized by GCA attended by 15 NGOs
        World Bank officials present: Robert Lacey, Cyprian Fisiy, Eric Brusberg,
        Georges Minang

February 25-26, 1999 - Meeting with WWF and CARE to solicit opinions on establishing an
Environmental Foundation
        World Bank officials present: Georges Minang

Washington

September 30, 1999 - Meeting with various members of Chad and Cameroon Civil Society
        World Bank officials present: Jean-Louis Sarbib, Michel Layec, Philippe Benoit,
        various other project team members

May 16-19, 2000 - Meetings at World Bank headquarters with representatives of Chad and
Cameroon Civil Society
        World Bank officials present: Shengman Zhang, Jean-Louis Sarbib, Peter Woike,
        Mary Barton-Dock, Michel Layec, Cyprian Fisiy, Eugene Scanteie, Renato
        Nardello, Luc Lecuit, Eric Chinje, Jean Roger Mercier, Cynthia Cook, Ignatius
        Menezes, and various other project team members

                                                 104



Other

July 15, 1997 - Paris, France - Meeting with Agir Ici, Friends of the Earth, and various other
NGOs
         World Bank officials present: Philippe Benoit, Michel Layec, Cynthia Cook, Jacob
         Kolster, Sophie Bascoulard

March 1998 - Wurzberg, Germany - Meeting with Friedrich-Ebert Siftung, a research
institute associated with the SPD political party
         World Bank officials present: Philippe Benoit

March 5, 1998 - Paris, France - World Bank/NGO Working Group Meeting
         World Bank officials present

April 22, 1998 - Bonn, Germany - Seminar on Africa oil in general, attended by 12 SPD MP's,
with various NGOs in attendance
         World Bank officials present

February 25, 2000 - The Hague, The Netherlands - Workshop on the Chad-Cameroon Oil
and Pipeline Project and its regime on liability for environmental damage.
         World Bank officials present: Jean-Charles de Daruvar, Mohammed Bekhechi

March 31, 2000 ­ New York, New York ­ Columbia University Center for the Study of
Human Rights ­ Seminar on the Pipeline Project
         World Bank officials present: Michelle Keane, Michel Layec

                                                     105




                               BANK MANAGEMENT RESPONSE TO
                      REQUEST FOR INSPECTION PANEL REVIEW OF THE
       CHAD-CAMEROON PETROLEUM DEVELOPMENT AND PIPELINE PROJECT,
  CHAD PETROLEUM SECTOR MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT, AND
              CHAD MANAGEMENT OF THE PETROLEUM ECONOMY PROJECT


                                                ANNEXH

                                CORRESPONDENCEWITH MR. YORONGAR

Letters to Mr. Wolfensohn

1. Letter to Mr. Wolfensohn: Who profits from Chadian Petroleum? (August 29, 1997)
2. Letter to Mr. Wolfensohn in response to October 7, 1997 letter (October 17, 1997)
3. Letter to Mr. Wolfensohn: Genocide upon deep oil continues in the south (February 2, 1998)
4. Letter to Mr. Wolfensohn concerning the skedaddling of people in the project area (October 3, 1998)
5. Letter to Mr. Wolfensohn concerning his invitation to visit him at the World Bank headquarters (June
    30, 1999)
6. Letter to Mr. Wolfensohn concerning Human Rights violations in Chad (September 6, 1999)
7. Letter to Mr. Wolfensohn concerning Human Rights violations in Chad (October 30, 1999)
8. Letter to Mr. Wolfensohn regarding October 31, 1999 meeting (undated)
9. Letter to Mr. Wolfensohn: New stomping noise of thrust and genocide on petroleum sites in Doba
    (March 18, 2000)
10. Letter to Mr. Wolfensohn concerning President Idriss Déby's visit to Turkey to buy chemical weapons
    (March 30, 2000)
11. Letter to Mr. Wolfensohn concerning World Bank agreement on exploitation of Doba oil (June 8,
    2000)
12. Letter to Mr. Wolfensohn concerning the massacre of populations on the petroleum site (August 11,
    2000)
13. Letter to Mr. Wolfensohn concerning the supervision and financing of the elections in Chad (November
    9, 2000)
14. Letter to UN Secretary General, President of the World Bank, IMF, EU, European Parliament, etc.
    concerning the supervision and financing of elections in Chad (November 9, 2000)
15. Letter to Mr. Wolfensohn asking him to summon back Madam Mary A. Barton-Dock from Chad
    (December 19, 2000)

Letters to Other Bank Staff

16. Letter to Representative of the World Bank in N'Djamena transmitting copies of letters to Prime
    Minister, etc (July 23, 1997)
17. Letter to Mr. Jean-Louis Sarbib following their conversation on May 10, 1999 (May 16, 1999)
18. Letter to Mr. Serge Michailof (July 3, 1999)
19. Letter to Mr. Jean-Louis Sarbib, following their conversation of July 16, 1999 (July 20, 1999)

20. Letter to Mr. Jean-Louis Sarbib responding to letter of September 13, 1999 (October 12, 1999)
21. Letter to Representative of World Bank in N'Djamena (March 10, 2000)
22. Letter to Madam Mary Barton-Dock (September 15, 2000)
23. Letter to Resident Representative of the World Bank in N'Djamena (October 17, 2000)
24. Letter to Madam Mary Barton-Dock transmitting 1704 signatures to FIDH petition (November 3,
    2000)
25. Letter to Representative of World Bank in N'Djamena requesting information (January 7, 2001)

Letters to Other Officials with Copy to World Bank

26. Letter to President-CEO of Esso transmitting July 17, 1997 letter on the adoption of law amending
    article 43 of the Petroleum code and adoption of amendment 2 (July 18, 1997)
27. Letter to President of Appellate Court in N'Djamena from Cell No. 32 in the Central Prison of
    N'Djamena (December 8, 1998)
28. Letter to Mr. Idriss Déby, Chief of State on tour in Logone (May 2, 1999), unsigned
29. Letter to various people concerning the populations affected by Chad-Cameroon Petroleum Project
    (May 6, 1999)
30. Letter to friends concerning the note from OSANI (August 15, 1999), unsigned
31. Email to friends (September 29, 1999)
32. Email to little brother Timothée Donangmaye (September 30, 1999)
33. Email to Mr. Jean Karim Fall (October 1, 1999)
34. Press Release concerning threats to those who will say no to the World Bank delegation (October 24,
    1999)
35. Letter to (his?) parents (October 26, 1999)
36. Letter to Minister of the Interior and Decentralization in N'Djamena (November 4, 1999)
37. Letter to all participants in the meeting on January 14, 2000 at 3pm (January 15, 2000)
38. Letter to the President of the National Assembly in N'Djamena (January 20, 2000)
39. Letter to Minister of the Interior and Security (January 27, 2000)
40. Press Release concerning the conditionalities of the World Bank (April 2, 2000)
41. Letter to Prime Minister in N'Djamena concerning the situation created by sous-préfet of Bébédjia and
    Sarh (September 5, 2000)
42. Press Release (September 12, 2000)
43. Letter to Mr. Nour Eddine Driss, Advisor to the UN Secretary General for Elections (October 26,
    2000)
44. Letter to UN Secretary General concerning the supervision and financing of elections in Chad
    (December 19, 2000)
45. Letter to President of National Assembly and Collègues (February 5, 2001)
46. Letter to Prime Minister in N'Djamena concerning persistent human rights violations in Tapol (Logone
    Occidental) and Bebedjia (Logone Oriental) (February 12, 2001)
47. Letter to President of CNRE and Minister of the Interior (Undated, received February 22, 2001)
48. Letter to unknown concerning petroleum war, religious war, or ethnic purification (Undated and
    unsigned)




                                                      106

World Bank Responses to Mr. Yorongar

1. Letter from Serge Michailof in response to August 29, 1997 letter (October 7, 1997)
2. Letter from Jean-Louis Sarbib in response to October 3, 1998 letter (November 19, 1998)
3. Letter from Serge Michailof in response to October 23, 1998 letter (November 19, 1998)
4. Letter from Serge Michailof in follow up to meeting in Paris and fax of July 3, 1999 (July 8, 1999)
5. Letter from Robert Calderisi in response to August 2000 letter (October 30, 2000)
6. Letter from Robert Calderisi in response to November 3, 2000 letter (December 19, 2000)
7. Letter from Robert Calderisi in response to November 9, 2000 letter (March 12, 2001)




                                                 107

