Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19424
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
OFFICE DU NIGER CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
(CREDITS 1906-MLI AND A0350)
June 14, 1999
Rural Development III
Country Department 15
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
CFA francs (CFAF) per US$
:1988  =  314
1989  =  316
1990  =  319
:1991  =  282
1992  =  264
1993  =  283
1994  =  547
1995  =  500
1996  =  511
1997  =  583
1]998  =  590
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BNDA       Banque nationale de developpement agricole
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CCCE       Caisse centrale de cooperation economique (French Aid Agency)
CFAF       Currency of the Monetary Union of West African States
CIDR       Centre international du developpement et de la Recherche (International Center for Development
and Research)
ERR        Economic Rate of Return
FDV        Fonds de developpement villageois (Farmers Development Fund)
FED        Fund for Economic Development (European Unions)
GOM        Government of Mali
ICR        Implementation Completion Report
KfW        Kreditanstaltfur Wiederaujbau (Federal Republic of Germany Loan Agency)
IER        Rural Economics Institute (Institut de lI 'conomie rurale)
MDRE       Ministry for Rural Development and Water (Ministere du Developpement rurale et de l'eau)
NGO        Non-Governmental Organization
ODR        Operation de developpement rural
ON         Office du Niger
ORM        Operation Riz Mopti
ORS        Operation riz S6gou
PNVA       National Agricultural Extension Program (Programme national de vulgarisation agricole)
SAR        Staff Appraisal Report
SDID       Societe du developpement international Desjardins (Desjardins International Development Firm)
USAID      United States Agency for International Development
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1     December 31
Vice-President            Jean-Louis Sarbib, AFRVP
Country Director          Hasan Tuluy, AFC 15
Sector Manager            Jean-Paul Chausse, AFTR3
Task Team Leader          Eustacius Betubiza, AFTR3



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
OFFICE DU NIGER CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
(CREDITS 1906-MLI AND A0350)
Table of Contents
Preface ..........................................................I
Evaluation Summary .........................................................                                  11
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  REVIEW  .                                 .......................................................1
A. Statement and Evaluation of Objectives .                    ......................................................... 1
A. I Statement of Objectives ..........................................................1
A.2  Evaluation of Objectives ..........................................................2
B. Achievement of Objectives .......................................................2
B. 1 Degree of Achievement of Objectives ..........................................................2
B.1.1  PolicyReforms ..........................................................2
B.1.2  Institutional Reform  Objectives ..........................................................3
B. 1.3  Investment Program ..........................................................7
B.2 Project Costs, Financing, and Economic Evaluation                               .       .     10
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project                             ... 10
C.1 Factors not Generally Subject to Government Control .................................. 10
C.2  Factors Generally Subject to Government Control .                      ....................................... 10
C.3  Factors generally Generally Subject to Implernenting Agency Control ........ 11
D. Project Sustainability .........................................................11 
E. Bank Performance .........................................................                           12
F. Borrower Performance .........................................................                       12
G. Assessment of Outcome .........................................................                      12
H. Future Operation .........................................................                           13
I. Lessons Learned .........................................................                            13
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION .........................................................                    15
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .........................................................               15
Table 2: Related IDA  Credits .........................................................                 16
Table 3: Project Timetable .........................................................                    17
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual                              . .   17
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation .                       .................................................. 18
5A. Rice Price and Trade Liberalization .........................................................      18
5B. Different Types of Land Tenure Arrangements at ON .................................. 18
SC. Evolution of Female-Head Households Allocated Land at ON ...........                      .......... 19
SD: Number of Savings and Loan Associations at ON .                         ....................................... 19
5E: Evolution of BNDA  Loans to ON  Farmers .................................................... 19
5F: Evolution of FDV  Loans to ON  Farmers ..............................                          20
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



iv
5G: ON's Financial Performance .......................................................                           20
5H. Water Fee Amount and Recovery Rate .......................................................   21
51: Donor Financing for Severamce Pay of ex-ON  Staff ....................................... 22
5J: Project financed Training in Extension Service Methods ............................... 22
5K: Project Financed Training in Procurement and Financial Management ......... 23
SL. Government Contributions to ON, 1990-1998 ............................................... 24
SM. Proposal from  the Taxation Study .......................................................                     24
SN. Projected and Actual Production .......................................................                      24
50: Evolution of Average Net Farm  Revenue per Household .............................. 25
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation .......................................................                     25
Table 7: Studies Included in Project .......................................................                          26
Table 8. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................                          27
8A. Project Costs - IDA .......................................................                                  27
8B. Project Financing ..............                                                                              27
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits ............................................                                     27
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ............................................                                      28
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ...................................... 33
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .............................................                                  33
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions .............................................                                      34
ANNEXES .............................................             .                                                         35
Annex  1: Aide Memoire of the ICR  Mission                                ....................................... 35
Map: IBRD No. 20622



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
OFFICE DU NIGER CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
(CREDITS 1906-MLI AND A0350)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Office du Niger Consolidation
Project, for which an IDA credit (Cr. 1906-MLI) in the amount of SDR 31.0 million (US$39.8
million equivalent) and a Special Fund for Africa credit (Cr. A0350) in the amount of SDR 7.1
million (US$9.0 million equivalent) were approved on May 17, 1988.
Credit A0350 was closed as planned on June 30, 1992. The final disbursement took place on
August 19, 1993, at which time the undisbursed balance of SDR 32,420.03 was cancelled. No
separate ICR was done for Cr. A0350 since project activities were jointly funded by both credits.
Credit 1906-MLI closed on November 30, 1998 as compared to a planned closing date of June
30, 1997. The credit was fully disbursed and the last disbursement took place on April 15, 1999.
The ICR was prepared by a team led by Eustacius Betubizal, AFTR3, of the Africa Region and
reviewed by Jean-Paul Chausse, Sector Manager, AFTR3, and Hasan Tuluy, Country Director,
AFC15.
Preparation of the ICR was begun during a mission in March 1999. It is also based on material in
the project file. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by commenting on the
draft report.
Other team members, Agadiou Dama, Francois Gadelle, Abdoulaye Coulibaly, Youssouf Thiam,
Alexandra Goffin and Lucie Tran



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
OFFICE DU NIGER CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
(CREDITS 1906-MLI AND A0350)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    Faced with deteriorating irrigation infrastructure, rock-bottom paddy yields of only 1.6 tons/ha, very
disgruntled farmers, mounting subsidies, and the need for greater food security and self-sufficiency
following the devastating 1972/74 drought, the Malian government (GOM), together with its partners,
embarked on a reform process of the Office du Niger (ON) starting in 1982. This project, which was
approved in July 1988, was designed to support this reform effort.
Project Objectives
2.    The reform process consisted of (i) providing strong incentives to farmers for increased agricultural
production through rice price/market liberalization, and greater land tenure security; (ii) improving ON's
efficiency in irrigation infrastructure management through: (a) divestiture of its commercial activities and
refocusing it on a narrower mission of water and infrastructure management and providing agricultural
services; (b) forging stronger ON/GOM/farmer partnerships by negotiating and signing periodic
performance contracts; (c) enhancing ON staff and farmer skills through training; and (d) improving ON's
financial management;  and (iii) creating mechanisms for sustainable irrigation development by
rehabilitating key infrastructure and instituting greater farmer involvement in water fee determination and in
the management of the maintenance program.
3.    Evaluation of Objectives. Overall, the objectives were realistic, important for the agricultural sector,
and in line with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). Rice price and trade liberalizationwas
needed to stimulate production, as was the refocusing of the then do-it-all/lose-it-all ON on key
responsibilities. It was equally important to accompany these reform measures with investments in physical
infrastructure and agricultural services in order to maximize the expected supply response.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    Project's success in achieving its objectives, and sustainability. On the whole, the project's
performance was satisfactory as it achieved most of its stated objectives. Rice trade and market prices were
liberalized, ON was successfully restructured, its mission refocused, its financial health restored, and the
investment program successfully implemented, with actual output exceeding projected output by 37%. The
divestiture of ON's threshing and milling activities saved government CFAF 80.0 million in annual subsidies,
and resulted in a reduction in threshing and milling charges paid by farmers. At the current level of rice
production, these savings to farmers and consumers are valued at CFAF 3.6 million (US$ 6.0 million) per
year. Average paddy yields went up from 1.8 tons/ha to 5.5 tons/ha, an increase of 300% (up to 7.0 tons/ha
on some rehabilitated perimeters), total paddy production increased from 98,000 tons in 1987/88 to 271,000
tons in 1997/98, the water recovery rate for operation and maintenance of secondary infrastructure increased
from 60% to 97% (primary infrastructure maintenance is financed by GOM). Horticultural production
which was virtually non-existent at project appraisal has now become a major industry (1998 production was



iii
71,000 tons of onions, 2,700 tons of tomatoes, 2,800 tons of potatoes, 800 tons of maize, 800 tons of garlic,
and 600 tons of pepper). Farmers were empowered and now participate in all decision making at ON (land
allocation, infrastructure maintenance programming and management, a seat on the oversight committee for
the ON-GOM-Farmers performance contract, as well as one on ON's Board of Directors). Between 1988
and 1998, annual net farm income increased by an average of FCFA 480,000 in real terms, corresponding to
a real per capita income increase of 36,800 for a population of 182,000. Other benefits not quantified in the
ICR include increased employment in rice and vegetable processing and marketing, farm input supply,
transportation, hired farm labor, maintenance of equipment and irrigation infrastructure, which one source
has estimated in the upwards of 50,000. Although the project did very well in recovering water fees for
operation and maintenance, no capital cost recovery occurred (against a 20% target), and the project could
have done more to support village associations.
5.    Project sustainability is likely because of: (i) high borrower commitment to the rice sector reforms
undertaken under the project and the strengthened management effectiveness of ON; (ii) a policy
environment that is now fully anchored on complete market liberalization; (iii) the irreversibility of some of
the reforms themselves (divestiture of ON's commercial activities which are now better handled by the
private sector to the benefit of all - GOM, farmers, and consumers); (iv) greater farm productivity
permitting the levying of water fees sufficient for infrastructure maintenance; (v) strong farmer involvement
in water fee determination and infrastructure maintenance which has resulted in record water fee recovery
rates, (vi) increased use of the private sector in canal maintenance which has led to the emergence of local
expertise and competition that is expected to exert downward pressure on maintenance costs; and (vi)
follow-up projects (the Rural Sector Support Project covering agricultural services and support to farmers'
organizations, and the National Rural Infrastructure Project that covers irrigation, rural roads and rural water
supply, both for FY00) that will continue to reinforce and consolidate these gains.
6.    Costs and financing. In addition to the IDA/SFA, investment activities were financed by the
German, French, Dutch, American, and Malian governments, and the beneficiaries for a total of US$296.3
million (US$48.8 million for IDA), compared to the appraisal estimate of US$83.6 million.Encouraged by
(a) the far reaching economic reforms undertaken by GOM which were aimed at restoring Mali's
competitiveness in rice production, (b) GOM's commitment to carrying out profound institutional reforms at
ON, (c) the rapid supply response manifested by the high yields obtained by farmers, (d) the great donor
coordination that generated a lot of synergy and complementarity, and (e) the restructured ON's capacity to
manage a large investment program, most donors increased their commitment to ON by financing the
rehabilitation of even more perimeters in successive tranches, which explains the 3.5 times increase in actual
investment costs over the project period. Details for project costs and financing are shown in Tables 8.A and
B. For comparative purposes, project activities for the narrower program as initially envisaged were used as
the basis for updating the Economic Rate of Return (ERR).
7.    Key factors. A part from the price and market liberalization undertaken by GOM, the devaluation of
the CFAF in Janruary 1994 contributed greatly to the restoration of Mali's competitiveness on the domestic
rice market. Whereas production costs went up by only 25% in the wake of this devaluation, paddy prices
went up by more than 50%, resulting in a net increase in real farm income. A delay in preparing bidding
documents for Markala Dam's rehabilitation caused a one year delay in project completion.
8.    Bank/Borrower Performance. Overall, the Bank's performance at preparation and appraisal was
highly satisfactory: project activities constituted a good blend of sector policy and institutional reforms,
investments in physical infrastructure and agricultural services, and technical assistance; donor coordination
was very strong right from the start, which helped establish and maintain a strong joint partnership with
government in carrying out very difficult institutional reforms (massive divestiture program and staff lay-



iv
offs). The project's means of achieving its objectives were clearly described in the Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR), as was the project's expected outcome. Possible risks were clearly identified, and risk minimization
measures put in place. Although the projected quick turn-around in ON's financial performance was rather
optimistic, ON's financial health was indeed restored, albeit with some delay. The Bank's performance
during supervision was overall satisfactory with regard to supporting GOM in executing the policy and
institutional reformns, and monitoring the investment program, although support to farmers' organizations
could have benefited from greater attention given their importance in input purchase, credit management,
and marketing, among other things. Borrower performance in preparing and executing the project was
satisfactory because of its commitment in preparing and carrying out socially difficult reforms, like laying
off 70% of ON's staff; and in successfully implementing performance contracts, including making regular
counterpart funding for the investment component. However, the borrower could have done more to ensure
some capital cost recovery as stipulated under the project (in addition to the water fees for the maintenance
of the secondary irrigation network). ON's performance as the main implementing agency was generally
satisfactory, despite some minor delays in preparing bidding documents for the investment program, offering
less than optimal attention to some components (support to farmers' organizations) and frequent delays in
submitting audits to the Bank, most of which can be explained by the disruption of the institutional reform
process.
9.    Assessment of Outcome. The overall outcome is satisfactory as the project achieved most of its
stated institutional reform  objectives and projected agricultural output levels.  A conducive policy
environment, including the 1994 CFAF devaluation, improved ON management, better farm productivity
thanks to the rehabilitation of some irrigation perimeters and better agricultural services, all had a
pronounced effect on annual net farm income, and national food security. At appraisal, the ERR had been
estimated at 16 percent. After project completion, the ERR was re-estimated at 30 percent. The actual rate
of return is expected to be even higher if other agricultural commodities produced in the zone, particularly
vegetables, are included in the analysis.
Future Operation, and Key Lessons Learned
10.   Future Operation. The restructured and strengthened ON works in close partnership with farmers
through joint management committees, ranging from irrigation maintenance to overseeing the execution of
performance contracts, to serving on ON's Board of Directors. This shared responsibility, plus good water
fee recovery mechanisms for infrastructure maintenance, should guarantee the continued smooth operation
of project investments. However, issues that need attention in the future include: (i) increased cost recovery
to ensure the maintenance of all infrastructure, including primary infrastructure (whose maintenance is
currently financed by GOM), and payment of all or part of the investmnent cost, given the increased
profitability of investments at ON; (ii) devising mechanisms for availing long term financing to would-be
private investors in the ON zone; (iii) continued investment in rural roads to facilitate input purchase and
distribution, and output evacuation, and (vi) strengthening farmers' organizations for better proficiency in
input purchase and output marketing strategies.
11.   Key Lessons Learned. Policy: (i) for greater impact, sector reforms and investments should be
placed within a conducive macro framework such as the proper valuation of the national currency and a low
inflationary environment;  (ii) in addition, sectoral reforms should be accompanied by adequate
complementary sectoral investments in order to have a major impact; Institutional: (i) difficult institutional
reforms, particularly those that go beyond a single ministry, should be headed by an independent agency
outside the concerned ministries/agencies; (ii) farmer empowerment and transparency is essential for
greater water fee recovery and sustainability in irrigation schemes; (iii) greater transparency in land
management increases farmers' land security even in the absence of official land titles; in the absence of



v
long-term financing and appropriate technology, land security is a necessary but not sufficient condition for
private sector investment in irrigated farming;  (iv) the water fee setting mechanism  should be an
independent and transparent negotiated process that is based on clear needs; Implementation: a well-
coordinated, multi-donor effort is essential fcor greater impact of sector investments because of the resulting
synergy and complementarity ; Technical: (i) the design of canals has to be adapted to the maintenance
regime utilized; (ii) farmer involvement in digging tertiary requires thorough organization and monitoring by
a consulting company for quality assurance.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
OFFICE DU NIGER CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
(IDA CREDIT 1906-MLI AND SFA CREDIT 0350)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION REVIEW
Introduction
1.    In pursuit of food self-sufficiency after the 1972/74 devastating drought, substantial public
investments were made in irrigation, mostly in low-cost schemes with limited water control for rice
production. Public regional development agencies (ODRs), most notably the three largest irrigation
agencies, the Office du Niger (ON), the Operation Riz Mopti (ORM), and the Operation Riz Segou
(ORS) were given far-reaching responsibilities including the implementation of Government of Mali
(GOM) policies on subsidized inputs and equipment distribution, controlled producer prices, and
commodity marketing. However, the effectiveness of these policies remained limited as productivity
in these irrigation schemes remained low, thereby contributing little to the self-sufficiency objective.
Inadequate funding for recurrent expenditures resulted in poor infrastructure maintenance, and the
overstaffed, inefficient irrigation authorities became an increasing burden on the government budget.
Starting from 1981, the Government began to initiate policy reforms to reduce the size of the public
sector, increase its efficiency, and liberalize marketing and pricing. A study of all the ODRs was
carried out under an IDA-financed Technical Assistance Project (1984-1985) that resulted in the
preparation and appraisal of this project (approved in July 1988).
A. Statement and Evaluation of Objectives
A.1 Statement of Objectives
2.    The broad objective of the project was to reduce poverty, particularly in the ON zone, to
increase national food self-sufficiency and reduce the drain on the govermment budget by (i)
providing strong incentives to farmers for increased agricultural production, (ii) improving ON's
efficiency in irrigation infrastructure management, and (iii) creating mechanisms for sustainable
irrigation development. To achieve this broad objective, the project supported the following policy
measures, institutional reforms, and investments in irrigation infrastructure and agricultural services.
3.    Policy reforms, designed to create a conducive environment for greater farm productivity and
ensure the viability of the institutional reforms and investment program consisted of: (i) liberalizing
rice pricing and marketing, and (ii) establishing land tenure security for ON farmers. Ins-titutional
reforms, designed to ensure the rational use of scarce resources entrusted to ON and improve the
maintenance and productivity of the existing physical infrastructure consisted of: (i) progressively
divesting ON of its commercial activities, (ii) streamlining ON's relationship with the government
through performance contracts ("contrats-plans"), (iii) reorganizing ON and strengthening its
material and human resource capacity, and (iv) restructuring ON's finances to eliminate its chronic
deficits. Physical investments included (i) the rehabilitation and modernization of part of the
irrigation network and perimeters, and (ii) a pilot scheme to test farmers' capacity to participate in
irrigation rehabilitation and development. The project was also supposed to support improvements in



2
the delivery of agricultural services, namely applied research, improved resource management,
agricultural training and extension, and promotion of village associations. These investments were
supposed to constitute the first phase of a long-term rehabilitation and development program for the
ON. With these measures in place, incremental paddy production directly attributed to project
investments was projected at 40,000 tons, and at 100,000 tons for ON's entire multi-donor investment
program. It was also expected that ON would start breaking even on its financial operations within
three years.
A.2 Evaluation of Objectives
4.    Overall, the objectives were realistic, important for the agricultural sector, and in line with
the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). It was important to liberalize rice prices and trade in
order to stimulate production. It was also important to refocus the then do-it-all/lose-it-all ON on key
responsibilities, particularly the maintenance of the irrigation infrastructure. It was equally important
to accompany these reform measures with investments in physical infrastructure and agricultural
services in order to maximize the expected supply response. The project's means of achieving its
objectives were clearly described in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), as was the project's expected
outcome. The two major risks identified at appraisal, i.e. the possible failure of ON's restructuring
and GOM's inability to fulfill its financial obligations in the context of ON-GOM performance
contracts, never materialized.
B. Achievement of Objectives
B.1 Degree of Achievement of Objectives
5.    On the whole, the project's performance was satisfactory as it achieved most of its stated
objectives. Rice trade and market prices were liberalized, ON was successfully restructured and its
financial health restored, and the investment program successfully implemented, with actual output
exceeding projected output by 37%. The assessment of individual components is described below.
B.1.1 Policy Reforms
Rice Price and Trade Liberalization
6.    In successive decrees (1987, 1988, 1989, and 1997), GOM implemented a cereal market
reform program ("Programme de Reforme des March*s Creialiers") under which all rice price and
trade controls were liberalized, and the import tax was progressively reduced from 49% to 11% (see
Table SA in the annex for details). In 1992, GOM adopted a rural development master plan affirming
its resolve to withdraw from all commercial activities, thus setting the stage for ON's March 1994
restructuring (discussed further down). The January 1994 CFAF devaluation contributed to making
Malian rice more competitive on the local market. In one year alone (1993/94 - 1994/95), paddy
prices went up by 70%, although inflation was up by only 33.2%.



3
Land Tenure
7.     The legal status of farmers who had settled in the ON zone had never been clearly defined
since ON's creation in 19321. However, the March 1989 and July 1996 land decrees instituted a
system of agricultural production permits with transmissible rights to permit-holders (see Table SB in
the annex for a detailed description of the different land tenure types). In addition, the statuses of
women and men were equated in land allocation and granting permits, resulting in an increase in the
number of female headed households allocated land, from 20 to over 200 (see Table 5C in the annex
for the evolution of women farmers at ON). However, land cannot be legally sold or used as credit
guarantee as it still belongs to the State. Although there are more than 12,900 farmers at ON who
qualify for the permits, only 840 farmers have so far obtained them. There seems to be a perceived
lack of added security bestowed by a permit upon its holder since a permit holder would be evicted
the same way as a non-holder in case of failure to respect the land allocation terms and conditions,
mainly paying the water fee, a useful tool for ensuring payment compliance. On the other hand, the
involvement of farmers in making land allocation decisions and the transparency in eviction cases
have both increased land security even to non-permit holders since the rules of the game are known
by all. In this regard, therefore, the land reforms, including the added transparency and farner
involvement in land allocation have indeed enhanced farmers' land tenure security. Debate is
ongoing regarding possible ways of enhancing this security even further, including (but not
necessarily limited to) the possibility of granting full land titles to farmers. This is still an open
question and GOM has commissioned a study to examine all possible options and their ramifications.
8.     The decrees also created two types of leases intended for private investors settling on
undeveloped land, the "ordinary lease" (30 years) and an "empheteotique lease" (50 years), both of
which are renewable indefinitely. So far, only 8 ordinary leases and 2 "emphyteotique" leases, for a
combined total of 1,120 ha, have been issued. However, only some very limited work has started on
2 of the 10 leases issued. In the absence of long term financing (it costs between CFAF 2-3 million
to develop a hectare), and limited knowledge about the most appropriate technologies regarding large
scale mechanized irrigated agriculture, it is unlikely that a large amount of land will be developed
under these two lease arrangements. It appears, therefore, that whereas land security (in form of long
term leases in this case) might be a necessary condition for attracting private sector investment at ON,
it is by no means sufficient in and of itself, and there might as well be other equally (or more) binding
constraints, most notably long term credit and appropriate technology.
B.1.2 Institutional Reform Objectives
(a) Divestiture Program
9.     Rice Milling. Faced with stiff competition from the mobile and cheaper private mills
(charging 56% less), ON's industrial mills, which had been making an annual loss of CFAF 800
lA 1935 decree had stipulated that all unoccupied land, which included the Central-Niger Delta, belonged to
the (French) state. A 1937 decree conferred the management of irrigable land in the zone to ON, also
asserting that settlers could, after 10 years, obtain occupation pernits, none of which was ever issued.
Upon independence, the new land code affirmed the state's ownership of that land, with its management
conferred to ON.



4
million, were privatized in September 1996 but are currently idle having failed to raise enough
operating capital and to be competitive. At today's level of paddy production, the switch from ON's
industrial mills to private mills is worth CFAF 2.3 billion per year in net savings for farmers and
consumers. In addition, the switch from ON's threshers to small privately operated threshers that
charge one third less is worth an additional CFAF 1.3 billion per year, for a total savings of CFAF 3.6
billion/year (US $6.0 million equivalent).
10.    Infrastructure Maintenance and Custom Plowing. Office du Niger used to carry out all
irrigation infrastructure maintenance by force account through its civil works unit, the "Centre des
Travaux" (see paragraph 23). Since its privatization in 1996, the renamed Societe des Travaux du
Delta is now profitable, and has over the past 3 years paid a total of CFAF 32 million or $ 62,000 in
profit taxes to the government. Similarly, ON used to plow farmers' fields with its tractors for a fee,
which was not only costly, but involved major delays in land preparation resulting in great losses to
farmers. However, with loans from the IDA and Dutch credits and other sources, and from their own
savings, farmers have been able to purchase their own equipment and oxen and now do all their
plowing themselves, which is cheaper and faster.
11.    Agricultural Credit and Input Distribution. Because of continued losses suffered by ON and
its affiliated Agricultural Input Fund, later renamed the Village Development Fund (FDV), losses that
stood at CFAF 2 billion by 1990, the project facilitated, through studies, the transferring of the credit
delivery function from ON to BNDA. In addition, given the scarcity of loanable funds at the time, a
line of credit of CFAF 672.2 million eqluivalent was made available to BNDA for onlending to
fanners for agricultural inputsl.2 There was a 92% recovery rate on the loans and BNDA is still
deploying efforts to recover the remaining debts. As of December 31, 1998, BNDA had reimbursed
to GOM CFAF 369.7 million, the rest being due within the next five years. In addition to BNDA,
credit in the ON zone is now offered through a network of savings and loan associations whose
reimbursement rates vary from 93% to almost 100%, making this approach the most suitable
mechanism for granting loans in the zone (see Tables 5D, 5E, and 5F in the annex for details).
Currently, there are no significant agricultural input credit constraints for farmers that honor their
debt obligations, although long term investment funds remain largely unavailable. However,
mismanaged village associations have difficulties obtaining institutional credit.  The credit
component fully satisfied its objectives of transferring the credit responsibility from ON, and
providing supplemental resources to the ON zone at a time when they were greatly needed.
However, there is still need for supporting the evolution of this service that is so crucial for irrigated
farming, particularly by supporting village associations that are largely responsible for this function,
together with local savings and loan associations (see paragraph 30).
12.    Other Divested Units. Other small units in the divestiture program included a seed farm, an
agricultural materials fabrication workshop, and a series of guest houses, all of which were privatized
or are under contract management, and are performing very well.
l GOM terms to BNDA: 3% interest, 5 year grace period, 15 year repayment period. BNDA terms to farmers:
8% interest, repayment period - 4 years for medium term loans, 18 months for short term loans. After the
initial wave of loans to farmers, the repaici funds enter into BNDA's general pool of loanable funds, and
are no longer targeted to ON farmers or monitored separately.



5
(b) Streamlining the GOM/ONRelationship
13.   Under the project, the relationship between GOM and ON was to be defined in the context of
performance contracts or "contrats-plans", the first of which was signed in January 1988 for the
period 1989-1991 (later extended for one year), covering ON's restructuring and divestiture plans as
well as GOM's policy measures. However, the reorganization measures were insufficient for
improving ON's financial performance as its operating deficit continued to worsen, averaging CFAF
1.4 billion over the period (see Table 5G). In December 1992, the government suspended the
preparation of the second contrat-plan and created instead a special commission attached to the
Prime Minister's office ("Delegation Generale") to first complete the reforms within 3 years before a
new contrat-plan could be signed. The first post restructuring contrat-plan covered the period 1996-
1998, and had farmers as signatories as well members of the contrat-plan's oversight committee, the
"Comite de Suivi". The provisions of this contrat-plan were generally respected by all the signatories
and ON's financial situation had greatly improved following the 1994 restructuring. However, the
committee supposed to supervise this contrat-plan was rather ineffective, having met only once out
of the six times it should have met. Fortunately, this had little impact on thecontrat-plan's execution
as regular joint project supervision missions byall donors financing activities at Office du Niger (two
to three times a year) were very effective monitoring tools. However, for the contrat-plan system to
be sustainable, this weakness has to be addressed by GOM. The most recent tri-partite contrat-plan
was signed in December 1998, and covers the period 1999-2001.
(c) Reorganizing and Strengthening ON
14.   Reorganization. Although some reforms were initiated during the implementation of the
1989-91 contrat-plan, major reform only started when GOM issued a policy letter for the
development of the national rice sector in January 1993, calling for ON's withdrawal from all
commercial activities, and the creation of a "new" ON with its main mission reduced to the
management of water and irrigation infrastructure, extension services, technical studies and
rehabilitation activities. A new organizational structure was adopted in March 1994 with a much
reduced head office, and very decentralized, semi-autonomous zones with the authority to manage
their own budget. Water fees collected from farmers are exclusively managed by the zones, which
are required to utilize at least 50% of it for the maintenance of secondary canals in their zones. Only
some 10-12% of the water fees collected are transmitted to the head office for general use. In
addition, farmers are represented on water fee management committees (assessing rehabilitation work
to be done, awarding contracts, receiving finished work from contractors, etc..), land allocation
committees, and the Board of Directors of ON. This has helped farmers to see where their money
goes, which has contributed to high water fee repayment rates that now stand at a record 97%. They
also participate in joint donor consultative meetings with GOM and ON. In total, more than 1,150
employees left ON's service, reducing ON's staff strength to 365, with their severance pay and re-
insertion training financed by other donors (Table 5I).
15.   Strengthening ON's Management Systems.  A system  for general, budget, and cost-
accounting was set-up in 1988 with support from the French cooperation.  With the 1994
restructuring, under which each zone constituted an autonomous accounting unit, IDA financed the
decentralization of the accounting system, including training and the elaboration of a procedures
manual (see Table 5J in the annex for training details). Although ON's accounting system has greatly
improved, ON still needs support in internal audit capacity, cost accounting, and computer equipment
to replace their aging and low capacity machines (this need for external support is partly due to ON's
poor amortization policy at the beginning).



6
16.   Strengthening ON's Human Resource Management. ON's staff profiles and training needs
were assessed with financial support from the French Cooperation. IDA supported several training
programs in financial and water management, and extension methods (see Tables 5J, and 5K in the
annex). Although ON continues to finance short term training programs annually, covering, among
other things, information/data management water management, and extension service, it still needs
donor support in certain fields, particularly environmental monitoring, internal audit and controls, and
cost accounting. ON needs to consider its training needs when determining and negotiating the water
fee with farmers.
(d) ON's Financial Restructuring
17.   Clear Partition of Financial Responsibility. In the past, all irrigation infrastructure, land, rice
mills, and buildings were owned by the state but managed by ON, with no clear definition of ON's
responsibility regarding their financial management.  Under ON's institutional reforms, the
maintenance of primary irrigation infrastructure, as well as the provision of agricultural services
(extension and research) became government responsibility, in the form of annual payments from the
State budget to ON. Maintaining secondary canals became the responsibility of ON using funds from
water fees paid by farmers which are assessed in such a way as to be sufficient for the corresponding
maintenance needs, whereas maintaining tertiary canals became a direct responsibility of the farmers.
So far, GOM has honored all its financial obligations (Table 5L).
18.   Increased Cost Recovery. At appraisal, it had been projected that a charge of CFAF 28,000
(US$80) per hectare, equivalent to 400 kg of paddy or 25% of farm income after credit payment,
would be established on any perimeter the first year after rehabilitation. Water charges would then be
increased, in line with expected yield increases, i.e. 25% in the first three years and 70% in the next
three years, to reach CFAF 60,000 (US$175) per ha, after six years. This water charge was expected
to cover ON's water delivery costs, including: (i) the share of operating costs for the Markala Dam
attributable to the rehabilitated perimeters; (ii) the maintenance of the secondary network; and (iii) a
20% contribution to capital expenditures on rehabilitation. This was deemed justified given the large
potential income from irrigated perimeters as compared to rainfed agriculture. An additional share of
capital expenditures would be recovered through direct and indirect taxation of farmers and other
economic agents benefiting from the increase in economic activity triggered by the project.
Recurrent costs for the maintenance of the Markala Dam and the primary network would be paid for
from the Government's budget initially, with the possibility of increasing direct cost recovery from
farmers once the fiscal study was completed (see paragraph 31).
19.   However, the water fee for rehabilitated land remained at CFAF 28,000/ha for 6 years, until
1994/95 when it increased to CFAF 32,000/ha and gradually to 43,000/ha by 1997/98, which was a
decline of 14 % in real terms over the preceding 10 years (see Table 5H for details). In rice terms,
this was a decline from 400 kg/ha to 374 kg/ha paid out as a water fee. When expressed as. a
percentage of yield, this represents a decline, from 18% of yield to 6% of yield (i.e. at project's end,
farmers were paying 6 kg only for every :100 kg of paddy produced, down from 18 kg ten years
earlier). Nevertheless, ON was able to have a positive cashflow because of the reduction in its
operating costs following the massive staff reduction and the privatization program. It should be
noted that although integrating farmers at all levels of decision making at ON (see paragraph 14) was
a very welcome development, it has also made negotiating increases in water fees, particularly capital
cost recovery, much more difficult. Secondly, whereas indicative water fee rates are set in the
contrats-plans and are subject to negotiation with farmers annually (to account for any major past or



7
expected developments), the final rate is set by order of government (<< Arrete ministeriel >>). In the
1997/98 crop year, government yielded to what appeared to be political considerations (election
period) and decided against increasing the water fee, contrary to the provisions in the contrat-plan
(which required an increase from CFAF 43,000/ha to CFAF 48,000/ha). Although this occurred once
during project implementation, at great displeasure of GOM's financial partners, it remains a
potential threat to increased cost recovery efforts in the future.
20.   Debt Restructuring. ON's long-term debt was renegotiated with the national debt agency
(Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement) and cancelled under cross-debt cancellation arrangements with
other government agencies.
21.   ON did not break-even in three years (1986/87-1988/89) as projected because of continued
losses on commercial activities, and the stagnant water fee rates. It was not until 1994/95, i.e. after
the restructuring, that ON was able to break even on its operations.
B.1.3 Investment Program
22.   It should be noted that the IDA/SFA funded project investments were part of a much larger
investment program funded by several donors (see Table 8B in the Annex for details).
(a) Irrigation Infrastructure
23.   Consolidation of Maintenance Program. In the absence of private domestic firms with
experience in, and specialized equipment for, carrying out irrigation maintenance works, and the
difficulties of attracting foreign firms at a reasonable price, the project had opted for the least-cost
solution for maintaining the irrigation network by consolidating ON's poorly equipped and scattered
maintenance units. The Niono unit was strengthened and equipped (by the Dutch Cooperation) to
carry out primary and secondary canal maintenance in the entire ON zone. The Markala unit was
closed, and the other units at Macina (supported by the FED), Molodo and Kouroumari (IDA), and
N'debougou (KfW), were also strengthened and made responsible for small emergency repairs that
would not wait for a competitive biding process for selecting a private contractor. As part of the
1994 reforms, the Niono unit, which had been renamed the Works Center ("Centre des Travaux")
was privatized.
24.   Repairs/Rehabilitation. Repairs were carried out on the most deteriorated sections of the
Sahel and Molodo canals as planned. Markala Dam's pillars, which had been repaired downstream in
1977 and 1982, were repaired upstream, the electro-mechanical equipment, including the generators,
were overhauled and/or replaced for the first time since 1948, the maintenance workshop was
repaired and re-equipped, the technical documentation for the equipment was updated, and an
operation and maintenance system designed, and staff trained on the systems (co-financed with
KfW). To ensure dam safety, GOM signed contracts with international firms for bi-annual
inspections. The Gruber-Nord (15.1 kin) and Siengo (13.9 kmn) canals, and the Siengo main drain
(28 km) were rehabilitated and modernized, and the 3,100 ha Siengo irrigation perimeter was
rehabilitated. The Niono-Ringandeh road (14km) was rehabilitated, and roads were also built along
the rehabilitated canals. Overall, the execution of this component was fully satisfactory.
25.   Rural Works Pilot Scheme. In the areas where major rehabilitation was not going to be
carried out under the project, ON was supposed to undertake rural works on the tertiary/quaternary
irrigation system and peripheral bunds at the rate of about 500 ha per year, which would reduce



8
subsequent rehabilitation cost. Farmers would be trained on canal and drain maintenance, and
provided with necessary equipment. Although no such activity was carried out on existing perimeters
under IDA financing, the Dutch cooperation financed such pilots on 1,019 ha in Molodo. On the
other hand, IDA financed a 475 ha pilot on totally undeveloped land at M'Bewani to test the
beneficiaries' capacity to dig tertiary canals and corresponding drains, and level land by hand, both as
a cost cutting measure, and for increased ownership. The results demonstrated that irrigation
development costs could be reduced by up to 20%. This approach has been adopted for all future
irrigation development at Office du Niger.
(b) Agricultural Services
26.   Applied Research. The project was supposed to contract IER to carry out applied research on
short-cycle/short straw rice varieties, fertilization, cultural practices and implements, crop
diversification, irrigation technologies, and pasture regeneration and development. A protocol for
collaboration (a disbursement condition) was signed and a research program drawn in 1990, although
no research activity was carried out under IDA financing. Instead, research activities were financed
by the Dutch and French cooperation programs, which refined several important technologies that
were later widely adopted and contributed to the rapid increase in paddy yields at Office du Niger
(rice transplanting techniques, the new high performance variety BG-90-2, optimal planting dates,
natural and artificial fertilizer dosages, and diversification of mainly horticultural crops). Research
on pasture regeneration was not carried out as planned at appraisal. However, there is still need for
further research on this and on virus resistant rice varieties, indigenous tree and fodder crops, better
utilization of crop residues (as organic manure and animal feed), agricultural mechanization
(particularly medium and to some extent large scale equipment), underground water quality (salinity,
fertilizer pollutants) and use, drainage, and public health.
27.   Improved Resource Management. In order to improve land management, land-use maps
were updated using aerial photography. Hlowever, the update of soil maps was only carried out on
36,300 ha, out of the 60,000 ha under use in the ON zone. Given the utility of these maps, they
should be extended to all the ON zone in the next operations. An EXCEL based water management
system was put in place with financial support from the French cooperation which, together with
increased rehabilitation and ON staff and farmer training, and the installation of modulated slice gates
("modules a masques ") in some of the irrigation perimeters which facilitate greater control of the
water flow, has led to some improvements in water management. However, there is need to test the
possibility of using this type of slice gates not only for regulating the water flow, but as a basis for a
volume based water billing system as opposed to the current "flat-rate" system that has no in-built
incentives for water use efficiency at the faLrm level. Regarding environmental protection, the project
had envisaged a tree-planting program along the canals close to the villages, and on plots unsuitable
for crop production. Some 21 ha of collective and individual tree lots were planted in the Siengo
area. However, no trees were planted along canals. The Dutch cooperation financed equipment for
water quality monitoring, and some monitoring occurred for a while, but it has since stopped,
although there is still need for regular monitoring. In the future, ON needs to involve the Center for
Irrigation Systems Research (Pole de recherche des systemes irrigues - PSI), and the Niono primary
health unit in its environmental programs. This component's execution was, therefore, partially
satisfactory.
28.   Agricultural Extension and Traiing.  In 1992, the separate, donor funded extension
approaches in the ON zone were harmonized and greater emphasis placed on the bottom-up approach
in identifying themes, a stronger link with research, specialization among its agents - but with strong



9
coordination among them, better purposeful and activity related training, better use of monitoring and
evaluation in guiding extension programs, and regular evaluation of extension themes and methods.
Although collaborative agreements were signed between ON and the Livestock and Forestry
Departments as called for at appraisal, the two departments did not benefit from the project's funding
as ON's management never approved their proposed programs. The project financed training for
extension staff and farmers, equipment (motorcycles) and some operating costs. It should be noted
that there was also funding from other donors and the government (the latter as part of the
performance contract provisions).
29.   The extension service has had great successes, particularly as regards rice transplantation -
which increased from 4% in 1987/88 to 97% in 1997/98, field compartmentalization for better weed
control and water management and use of improved seed, leading to an almost tripling of paddy
yields, even on non-rehabilitated fields, and increased horticultural production.  Promising
technologies/techniques that need further extension effort include use of inorganic manure, virus
resistant varieties, increased water management, conservation and transformation of horticultural
crops, fish-farming, poultry, and diversification (maize and potatoes). However, there is need for a
more coherent training program and a career plan.
30.   Promotion of Village Associations. In the wake of ON's withdrawal from all commercial
and industrial activities, village associations assumed responsibility for input purchase, obtaining and
managing agricultural input credit, and marketing farm output, and so they needed a lot of capacity
building. Under the project, ON was supposed to be assisted by the specialized government literacy
programs and experienced Malian consultants in the promotion and training of village associations.
Protocols of collaboration were signed between ON and the National Directorate for Functional
Literacy and Applied Linguistics, and programs were drawn up, but were never executed. Although
the Dutch cooperation financed the strengthening of village associations at Office du Niger, there is
still great need for training and supporting these associations in functional literacy, book keeping,
input purchase and output marketing strategies, among other things. The project could have done
more in support of these activities. Therefore, the level of execution of this sub-component wasnot
satisfactory.
(c) Studies
31.   An analysis of the rice sector at ON and the medium and long term perspectives was carried
out in 1996 which treated the possibility of imposing taxes on the supplemental income in the zone.
This was supposed to be one more way (albeit indirect) of recovering project investment costs from
beneficiaries (in addition to imposing a 20%  direct capital cost recovery).  Based on very
conservative assumptions, the study estimated that in the medium term, some CFAF 436 million -
CFAF 736 million could be collected in fees, taxes and licenses (imposed on livestock,rice mills,
trading, individual tax). Although additional taxes and fees have not yetbeen imposed as proposed in
this study, they still remain a viable proposition, particularly in light of the ongoing decentralization,
whereby the newly local authorities will be in need of resources to provide badly needed social
services (schools, health centers, roads, drinking water, etc.). Details on this tax proposal are in
Table 5M.  Other planned studies concerning farmers' associations, ON's social economic
environment, diversification, and possible private sector intervention at ONwere not carried out (see
Annex 7) because of the tremendous attention that ON's restructuring commanded. However, these
studies are still pertinent, in particular those regarding diversification possibilities, and the potential
for private sector investment at ON, and should, therefore, be carried out in future operations.



10
Instead, some agronomic, morphologic, marketing and farmer indebtedness studies were financed
through IER. Thus, the execution of this sub-component was partially satisfactory.
B.2 Project Costs, Financing, and Economic Evaluation
32.   In addition to the IDA/SFA, investment activities were financed by the German government,
the French cooperation, the Dutch government, USAID (not in the SAR), the Malian government,
and the beneficiaries. At appraisal, total project costs were estimated at US$83.6 million. Actual
costs are estimated at US$296.3 million, with IDA disbursing the entire US$48.8 million projected at
appraisal. Encouraged by (a) the far reaching economic reforms undertaken by GOM which were
aimed at restoring Mali's competitiveness in rice production, (b) GOM's commitment to carrying out
profound institutional reforms at ON, (c) the rapid supply response manifested by the high yields
obtained by farmers, (d) the great donor coordination that generated a lot of synergy and
cornplementarity, and (e) the restructured ON's capacity to manage a large investment program,
most donors increased their commitment to ON by financing the rehabilitation of even more
perimeters in successive tranches, which explains the 3.5 times increase in actual investment costs
over the project period. Details for project costs and financing are shown in Tables 8.A and B.
Project activities and corresponding (actual) costs for the narrower program as initially envisaged
were used as the basis for the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) estimation for comparative purposes.
At appraisal, the ERR had been estimated at 16 percent. After project completion, the ERR was re-
estimated at 30 percent. The actual rate of return is expected to be even higher if other agricultural
commodities produced in the zone, particularly vegetables, are included in the analysis. The actual
paddy yield was higher than projected by 22 percent, and paddy production was higher by 37% (see
Table 5N).
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
CA Factors not Generally Subject to Government Control
33.   The devaluation of the CFAF in January 1994 helped restore the competitiveness of Malian
rice on the domestic market. Whereas production costs went up by only 25%, paddy prices went up
by more than 50%, resulting in a net increase in farm income.
C.2 Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
34.   First, the committee supposed to supervise the 1996-1998 contrat-plan ("Comite de Suivi du
Contrat-Plan") was rather ineffective, having met only once out of the six times it should have met.
The govermment staff nominated for its leadership (adviser to the Minister of Finance) was too busy
to attend to this very important pillar of the institutional reforms. Second, whereas indicative water
fee rates are set in the contrats-plans and are subject to negotiation with farmers annually (to account
for any major past or expected developments), the final rate is set by order of government (<< Arrete
ministeriel >>). However, this order is normally issued late, thus delaying the billing cycle, which
further disrupts ON's cashflow and its accounts. Government needs to improve on the speed with
which this order is issued, or this requiremenft needs to be removed. On one occasion, GOM did not
permit an increase in the water tariff in what seemed to have been an election-year consideration, thus
casting a shadow on its hitherto unwavering commitment to a sustainable irrigation network. Third,
the project had envisaged a 20% capital cost recovery on rehabilitated perimeters (in addition to
charging water fees sufficient for secondary canal maintenance), to be phased in gradually in tandem
with increases in farm productivity and farm, income. At project close, water fees were calculated in
such a way as to be sufficient for covering maintenance needs for all secondary canals, although



11
GOM still pays for the maintenance of primary infrastructure (in addition to paying for agricultural
services). However, no recovery is made toward capital costs. Although yields had been steadily
increasing even before the 1994 CFAF devaluation, the post devaluation price effect greatly
contributed to a big jump in farm incomes which should have permitted the introduction of capital
cost recovery from that moment on. However, this coincided with the 1994 ON restructuring andthe
first post-restructuring contrat-plan, which should have been the occasion to introduce capital cost
recovery, was mainly focussed on making sure that the reforms succeed. In addition, since water fees
for secondary canal maintenance had just been substantially increased (by 71% over four years), it
would have been difficult to pass through an additional increment. Given the continuing increase in
net farm income, fuelled by off-season vegetable gardening, government should consider pressing for
some capital cost recovery.
C.3 Factors generally Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control
35.   First, a delay in preparing bidding documents for Markala Dam's rehabilitation caused aone
year delay in project completion. Second, ON was consistently late in submitting its audit reports,
blamed on the time it took to restructure and reinforce ON's capacity. Third, ON could have done
better on certain components, particularly functional literacy programs, support to farmers'
organizations, tree planting and environmental monitoring (water quality).  Nonetheless, its
performance on the monitoring and evaluation was generally good, but needs to be reinforced to
produce consolidated and systematic data.
D. Project Sustainability
36.   The policy and institutional reforms are sustainable.  After almost ten years now, a
liberalized trade environment has taken root, making policy reversal to controlled rice prices and
regulated rice trade highly unlikely. With better water management, high yielding varieties, and
better cultural practices, rice productivity at ON has increased drastically, which, coupled with Mali's
landlockedness, makes protective rice import tariffs (beyond the current 11%), a policy that would
risk turning Mali into an inefficient producer, unnecessary. However, under the current policy, GOM
still reserves the right to impose countervailing duties in case of international dumping. With regard
to ON's institutional reforms, the leaner and meaner ON is more efficient and less costly to the
government and the producers, making it unlikely that government would return to the do-it-all/lose-
it-all ON of the past. Moreover, the private sector takeover of the processing and marketing
functions has taken firm root, and any unwarranted involvement by ON would be resisted by the
private sector and farmers. The involvement of farmers at all levels of decision making will ensure
that ON does not engage in costly and unfruitful ventures.
37.   Similarly, the sustainability of the physical investments is highly likely. First, the restored
productivity and profitability of irrigated farming in the zone has made it potentially possible to
impose a water fee that is adequate for infrastructure maintenance, while leaving farmers with a
reasonable net farm  income.  Second, farmer involvement in water fee determination and
infrastructure maintenance has motivated them to pay up the water fee, resulting in record water fee
recovery rates. Third, increased use of the private sector in canal maintenance is leading to the
emergence of local expertise and competition, thus exerting downward pressure on maintenance
costs. Farmers are currently responsible for the manual maintenance of tertiary canals, which
represent some 10% of total canal maintenance work volume. Although they are not yet perfect at it,
they have been displaying steady improvement in its mastery, both in timing and quality of work. In
any case, integrating tertiary canal maintenance in the overall maintenance program carried out by
contractors, which would occur at very little additional cost, remains an option. Although



12
alkalinity/salinity is not yet a serious threat at ON, it is important that ON's environmental monitoring
capacity, and environmental protection programs be strengthened. ON maintains an amortization
account for future replacement of the eqluipment purchased either under projects or with its own
resources (vehicles, computers, and other office equipment). Although the amortization policy had
not been rigorously adhered to in the past, there have been some recent improvements, but ON needs
to integrate more fully all its amortization requirements in the water fee.
E. Bank Performance
38.   Overall, the Bank's performance at preparation and appraisal was highly satisfactory: project
activities constituted a good blend of sector policy and institutional reforms, investments in physical
infrastructure and agricultural services, and technical assistance; donor coordination was very strong
right from the start, which helped establish and maintain a strong partnership with government in
carrying out very difficult institutional reforms (massive divestiture and staff lay-offs). The project's
means of achieving its objectives were clearly described in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), as was
the project's expected outcome. Possible risks were clearly identified, and risk minimization
measures put in place. Although the projected quick turn-around in ON's financial performance was
rather optimistic, ON's financial health waLs indeed restored, albeit with some delay.
40.   The Bank's performance during supervision was satisfactory with regard to supporting GOM
in executing the policy and institutional reforms, and monitoring the investment program. There was
adequate skill mix and sufficient field time, particularly in the crucial early years of project
implementation. The two to three times a year joint donor supervision missions were particularly
exemplary, as they facilitated close coordination of the different interventions, with a lot of
complementarity. In relative terms, some of the agricultural services components (e.g. support to
village associations) seem to have received less than optimal attention, which could be explained by
the enormous attention commanded by ONl's restructuring.
F. Borrower Performance
41.   Borrower performance in preparing and executing the project was satisfactory. There was
high ownership in preparing and carrying out socially difficult reforms like down-sizing ON by over
1,000 staff, and ridding ON of its commercial entities, and successfully executing performance
contracts with ON and farmers, particularly with regard to paying for primary infrastructure
maintenance, research and extension.
G. Assessment of Outcome
42.   The overall outcome is satisfactory as the project achieved most of its stated institutional
reform objectives and projected agricultural output levels. A conducive policy environment,
including the 1994 CFAF devaluation, improved ON management, better farm productivity thanks to
the rehabilitation of some irrigation perimeters and better agricultural services, had a pronounced
effect on farm income, and national food security. Average paddy yields went up from 1.8 tons/ha.to
5.5 tons/ha, an increase of 300% (up to 7.0 tons/ha on some rehabilitated perimeters), water recovery
increased from 60% to 97%. Annual horticultural production increased from insignificant amounts to
thousands of tons by 1998, becoming a major industry in their own right (e.g. 71,000 tons of onions,
2,700 tons of tomatoes, 2,800 tons of potatoes, 800 tons of maize, 800 tons of garlic, 600 tons of
pepper, etc. ). Between 1988 and 1998, annual net farm income increased by an average of FCFA
480,000 in real terms, corresponding to a real per capita income increase of 36,800 for a population
of 182,000. Other benefits not quantified in the ICR include increased employment in rice and



13
vegetable processing and marketing, farm input supply, transportation, hired farm labor, maintenance
of equipment and irrigation infrastructure, which one source has estimated in the upwards of 50,000.
H. Future Operation
43.   The restructured and strengthened ON works in close partnership with farmers through joint
management committees, ranging from irrigation maintenance to overseeing the execution of
performance contracts, to serving on ON's Board of Directors. This shared responsibility, plus good
water fee recovery mechanisms, should guarantee the smooth operation of project investments.
However, issues that need attention in the future include: (i) increased cost recovery to ensure the
maintenance of all infrastructure, including primary infrastructure, and payment of all or part of the
investment cost, given the increased profitability of investments at ON; (ii) devising mechanisms for
availing long term financing to would-be private investors in the ON zone; (iii) continued investment
in rural roads to facilitate input purchase and distribution, and output evacuation, and (vi)
strengthening farmers' organizations for better proficiency in input purchase and output marketing
strategies.
I. Lessons Learned
Policy Lessons
(i)    Sectoral reforms should be accompanied by adequate complementary sectoral investments in
order to have a major impact. The effect of the price and trade measures, and institutional
reforms at ON was amplified by the investments in irrigation infrastructure and agricultural
services.
(ii)    For greater impact, sector reforms and investments should be placed within a conducive
macro framework such as the proper valuation of the national currency and a low
inflationary environment. The successful transformation of ON was greatly aided by the
devaluation of January 1994 and the low inflationary environment maintained after
devaluation. It is imperative, therefore, that proper valuation of the CFAF be maintained in
order for Malian agriculture to grow and remain competitive, and for investments, including
those under Bank financed projects, to be successful.
Institutional Lessons
(iii)   Difficult institutional reforms, particularly those that go beyond a single ministry, should be
headed by an independent agency outside the concerned ministries/agencies. The creation
of a special commission ("Delegation Generale") attached to the Prime Minister's office and
headed by experienced staff was instrumental in shepherding the reform process.
(iv)   Greater farmer empowerment and involvement is one good way to ensure greater
sustainability of irrigation investments.  The farmers' presence at all levels of ON
management has greatly facilitated water fee recovery. To be effective, this needs to be
accompanied by programs in functional literacy, in order for farmers to be formidable
partners capable of effectively defending their interests. There is also need for greater
transparency to facilitate the flow of information.
(v)    Greater transparency in land management increases farmers' land security even in the
absence of official land titles;   in the absence of long-term financing and appropriate



14
technology, land security is a necessary but not sufficient condition for private sector
investment in irrigatedfarming;.
(vi)   The water fee setting mechanism should be an independent and transparent negotiated
process that is based on clear needs, andfree from government interference. As the case of
ON demonstrates, the water fee is negotiated between ON and the farmers on the basis of
independently assessed maintenance and operating cost needs. Whereas deferring the final
setting of the rate to the government might serve to give itsome sort of legitimacy, delays in
obtaining this ratification and the possibility of suspending needed increments, might put the
sustainability of the irrigation infrastructure in danger. Once agreed upon by the two parties,
no changes should be made to the rate, ex.cept within the same ON-fanner partnership.
Implementation Lessons
(vii)  A well-coordinated, multi-donor effort is essential for greater impact of sector investments
and sectoral policy reforms because of the resulting synergy and complementarity. The close
donor coordination was exemplary, both in the context of facilitating reforms in the cereal
market and at ON, and in financing physical investments and capacity building at ON. This
donor coordination was facilitated by the existence of a coherent sector strategy (the Rural
Development Master Plan or the "Schema Directeur du Developpement Rural" of 1992, its
action plan of 1993, and the Sector Policy Letter of 1993) and GOM's commitment to sector
and institutional reforms.
Technical Lessons
(viii)  The design of canals has to be adapted to the maintenance system. Canals that are to be
maintained once every five years should be built wider than is usually the case (at little
additional cost), which also has the additional benefit of allowing greater flexibility in water
management.
(ix)   Farmer involvement in digging tertiary requires thorough organization and monitoring by a
consulting company for quality assurance, as demonstrated by the M'Bewani pilot.



15
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
OFFICE DU NIGER CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
(CREDITS 1906-MLI AND A0350)
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives                     Substantial      Partial      Negligible      Not applicable
Macro policies                                     L                L             L                    E
Sector policies                                                     L  a                               Li
Financial objectives                               L               [              L                    L
Institutional development                                           L             L                   IZ
Physical objectives                                W                L             L                    L
Poverty reduction                                                   L             L                    Li
Gender issues                                     CC                L            Z                     L
Other social objectives                            Li               L             L                    Li
Environmental objectives                            C                             L                    Li
Public sector management                          |                 L             L                    Li
Private sector management                           L               L              L                   L
Other (support to village associations)           [                    ]          Li                  (
B. Project sustainability                            Likely                Unlikely               Uncertain
Highly
C. Bank performance                                satisfactory           Satisfactory            Deficient
Identification                                                               Li                         Li
Preparation assistance                                 E                     L                          L
Appraisal                                              [I                                              Li
Supervision                                                                     ]                      Li



16
Highly
D. Borrower performance                     satisfactory       Satisfactory         Deficient
Preparation                                    [l                [Z                     [
Implementation                                  i                [Z]
Covenant compliance                            LI                  Ei]
Operation (if applicable)                                                               LI
E. Assessment of outcome                    Highly                                    Highly
satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactory
Table 2: Related IDA Credits
Loan/credit title         Purpose                                              Year of      Status
approval
Preceding operations
1. Mali Sud lI (Cr. 1415-  A combined sector adjustment/investment project to increase  1984  Closed
MLI)                      agricultural production and farn incomes by stabilizing and
increasing cotton production.
2. Mopti Area Development  Increasing crop production through improved flood control   1985  Closed
(Cr. 1597-MLI)            cultivation of rice, and increasing the off-take from the
livestock herds and protecting pasture lands in the pastoral
areas.
Following operations
1. Agricultural Sector    A hybrid adjustment/investment operation. The adjustment   1990  Closed
Adjustment/Investment     reforms were aimed at further deepening liberalization
(Credit 2163-ML)          measures initiated in 1988 and reforms in the cotton sector;
the investment component aimed at strengthening the
expected supply response in the Mali-Sud region.
2. Agricultural Extension  Strengthening of agricultural and livestock extension  1992      Closed
(Cr. 2235-MLI)            services to generate increased agricultural productivity.
3. Natural Resources      To introduce a rational land use system which will halt, and   1992  Ongoing; closing
Management (Cr. 2370-     then reverse the process of degradation of the natural            6/30/2000
MLI)                      resource base.
4. National Agricultural  Improving the performance of the national agricultural  1993      Ongoing; closing  l
Research Project (Cr. 2557-  research system, by improving research coherence, quality,     12/31/2001
MLI)                      relevance, and accountability for results.
5. Agro-processing (Cr.   Addressing key sector constraints to private investment in    1995  Ongoing; closing
2737-MLI)                 agricultural processing and marketing, and focus primarily        6/30/2001
on capacity-building and on the transfer of know-how to the
private sector through information networks, training,
specialized TA, and study tours.
6. Pilot Private Irrigation  Improving and inducing an expansion of investments in  1997    Ongoing; closing
Promotion(N021 MLI)       small-scale irrigation, which would contribute to increased       12/31/2001
on-farm diversification of investments, productivity, and
food security.



17
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                      Date Planned          Actual Date
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                        08/08/83
Preparation                                                       1981-1986
Appraisal                                                         06/86
Negotiations                                                      04/87
Letter of development policy (if applicable)  N.A.                N.A.
Board presentation                                                05/17/88
Signing                                                           07/11/88
Effectiveness                               10/09/88              03/03/89
Project completion                                                12/31/96 1
Credit Closing
AF Cr. 35-MLI                               06/30/92              06/30/92
Cr. 1906-MLI                                06/30/97              11/30/98
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual2
(US$ millions)
FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95  FY96  FY97  FY98  FY99
Appraisal       0.8   9.8  16.4  22.6  30.4  37.8  43.2  46.6  47.7   48.7  48.7  48.7
estimate
Revised        0.0   0.0   0.0   6.7  18.3  22.9  27.9  35.8  41.7   48.1  48.1  48.1
Actual          0.0   1.0   3.7   6.8  18.3  24.2  31.9  41.2  47.0   50.5  52.4  52.9
Actual as % of   0.0   8.5  22.6  30.1  60.2  64.0  73.8  88.4  98.5  103.7  107.6  108.6
estimate
Date of Last
Disbursement  April 15,1999
IEstimated completion date from Development Credit Agreement.
2 Disbursements are the combined total for the SFA and IDA credits.



18
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
5A. Rice Price and Trade Liberalization
Decree        Date           Description
Number
319/PG-RM     November       Liberalizing of trade in paddy and rice throughout the country,
1987          although exports remained subject to prior authorization. Farmers
were guaranteed a floor price of CFAF 70/kg in major production
centers, although prices remained totally liberalized elsewhere. In
such cases, prices of milled rice remained controlled, with a 10%
distribution margin.
323/PG-RM     November       Price regime modified: distribution margin increased to 15% (10%
_  1988            for wholesalers, and 5% for retailers).
89/PG-RM      November       rice exports were liberalized on condition that national needs were
1989          fully covered
June 1996     Import tax reduced from 49% to 22%
97-136        March 1997    Import tax reduced from 22% to 11%
5B. Different Types of Land Tenure Arrangements at ON
Annual Contract       The annual contract is for new farmers settling on developed irrigated land.
After two years, farmers in good standing (respecting settlement conditions,
which include carrying out intensified agriculture, paying the water fee
regularly, and maintaining their tertiary canals) can obtain the agricultural
exploitation permit (Permit d'Exploitation Agricole, PEA).
Agricultural          The PEA confers upon the farmer a right of use for an indeterminate period
Exploitation Permit   as long as settlement terms and conditions continue to be respected.
(Permit d 'Exploitation
Agricole, PEA
Ordinary lease        The ordinary lease is a renewable 30 year contract between ON and a
physical or moral person to whom non-developed land has been allocated for
purposes of carrying out agricultural production, transformation or
agricultural related marketing activities.
"Emphytdotique" Lease  The "emphyteotique" lease confers simnilar rights and privileges to its holder,
but for a renewable 50 year period.
Habitation Lease      The habitation lease is ifor residential purposes, the holders of which will not
be evicted even if their agricultural land is retrieved from them for not
respecting applicable lease terms and conditions. However, the habitation
lease is not explicitly recognized in the land code and needs to be converted
into the equivalent "habitation pernit" with corresponding settlement terms
and conditions.



19
5C. Evolution of Female-Head Households Allocated Land at ON
1.  Macina           10       13       14       16      19       21       29      35       59       62
2.  Niono            10       10       17       22      25       25       36       40      43       51
3.  Molodo            0        0       0        1        4        0       2        2       22       27
4.  N'Debougou        0        0        0       2        5       10       15       19      30       47
5.  Kouroumari        0        0       0        0        0        0       2        10     15        24
rO~ R        WOO                       31                            Bfi 4,4               A       2
Source  La restructuration de l'Office du Niger: Contribution de ARPON III, 1997
5D: Number of Savings and Loan Associations at ON
(1997/1998)
Zone                                CIDR                  FDV                 SDiD                  Total
Macina                                  5                    8                                        13
Niono                                   5                    7                    5                   17
Molodo                                  2                    2                                         4
N'Debougou                             12                    7                                        19
Kouroumari                              8                   10                                        18
Total                                  32                   34                    5                   71
5E: Evolution of BNDA Loans to ON Farmers
(Millions of CFAF)
Year  Fertilizer   Trans-    Harvest  Vegetable Equipment Collective  Marketing  Others  Total Reimbur
planting   Advance  Gardening              Materials                           sement
Rate (%)
1989                                                   15                     2             16
1990      108                    10                    41                    11            169
1991      280                    32                     5         12         51            379       93
1992      668                   419                    21         64        215       9  1,396       80
1993      249        162         19          3         12         75        175      27    722       70
1994      869        224          1          7         10         25         54      30  1,219       67
1995         1       136                    13          1         54        71       27    304       68
1996         1        59                    12         12         12         26      33    156       94
1997      590         98                    14                                        4    706       97
1998      835         93                     2                                        8    938       98



20
5F: Evolution of FDV Loans to ON Farmers
(Millions of CFAF)
Year                             Total Loan Amount      Amount Reimbursed       Reimbursement Rate
199111992                                   1,158                     826                       71
199211993                                    788                      538                       68
1993/1994                                    914                      693                       76
1994/1995                                   1,132                    1,043                      92
1995/1996                                   1,272                    1,072                      85
1996/1997                                   1,537                    1,402                      91
1997/1998                                   1,176                    1,094                      93
1998/1999                                    876
SG: ON's Financial Performance
1986-87- 1997/98 (Millions of CFAF)
86/87  87/88   88/89   89/90  90/91  91/92  92/93  93/94  94/95  95/96  96/97  97/98
Water Fees   1,098.6 1,143.4 1,120.5 1,115.3 1,011.4 1,127.8 1,071.6 11,032.1 1,196.1 1,701.5 1,895.7 1,871.9
GOM             0.0  828.9  828.9  788.2  788.2  909.8  784.8 1,009.1  758.9  758.9  531.3  548.9
Comm. Act   -403.7  318.5 -1,145.4 -1,504.6 -1,289.6  -129.1   54.5    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Total         695.0 2,290.7  804.0  399.0  510.0 1,908.5 1,910.9 2,041.2 1,955.0 2,460.4 2,427.0 2,420.7
Revenue
Irrig. lnfrastr.   141.1   74.7   71.9  125.8   16.9  138.2  819.3 1,250.0 1,036.8 1,423.2 1,356.3 1,266.5
Maintenance
Extension     309.7  256.8  256.8  241.3  234.7  234.7  574.0  208.8  238.8  174.7  185.6  192.4
Operating    1,530.9 1,450.8 1,750.8 1,638.4 1,448.6 1,752.9 1,397.8  559.0  637.3  810.4  856.3  890.7
expend.
Total       1,981.7 1,782.3 2,079.4 2,005.5 1,700.1 2,125.8 2,791.2 2,017.8 1,913.0 2,408.2 2,398.2 2,349.6
Expend.
Net Revenue -1,286.7  508.5 -1,275.4 -1,606.6 -1,190.1  -217.2  -880.3   23.3   42.0   52.2   28.8   71.2



21
5H. Water Fee Amount and Recovery Rate
1986/87 - 1997/98
1986/87 1987/88 1998/89 1989/90 1990/91  1991/92 1992/93 1993/94 1994/95 1995/96 1996/97 1997/98
Projected Water Fees (CFAF/Ha) - Class 1  28,000  30,200  32,500  35,000  42,000  50,000  59,500
Actual Rates CFAF/Ha) -   Class 1  28,000  28,000  28,000  28,000  28,000  28,000  28,000  28,000  32,000  40,000  43,000  43,000
Paddy Prices (CFAF/Kg)    70      70      70      70       70      70      70       70     120      115     115     115
Actual Rates, Paddy Equiv. (Kg/Ha)    400  400    400     400      400     400     400      400     267     348      374     374
Yield (Kg/Ha)   2,205   2,331   2,256   2,409   3,281   4,071   4,650   4,899   4,700   4,800   5,800   5,800
Act. Rate as % of Yield    0.18    0.17    0.18    0.17    0.12    0.10    0.09    0.08    0.06    0.07    0.06    0.06
% Change in GDP Deflator          0.05   -0.01    0.02    0.03    0.02    0.03    0.33    0.12    0.06    0.02    0.03
Actual Rates (CFAF/Ha) Real prices (Baseyr=1987/88)-     28,000  28,354  27,839  27,121   26,615  25,941   19,475  19,802  23,285  24,589  23,989
Class 1
% Change in water fees, in real terms (Base yr=1987/88)    0.00   +0.01   -0.01   -0.03   -0.05   -0.07   -0.30   -0.29   -0.17   -0.12   -0.14
Projected Revenue from Water fees    1.00    1.10    1.27    1.54    1.97    2.24    2.41    2.51    2.61    2.61    2.61    2.61
ActualRevenuefromWaterfees    1.10    1.14    1.12    1.12    1.01    1.13    1.07    1.03    1.20    1.70    1.90    1.87
Water Fee Recovery Rate                             60      70      70       80      95       98      98      98       98



22
51: Donor Financing for Severance Pay of ex-ON Staff
(Millions of CFAF 1)
Agency                                             Amount Paid Out (CFAF, Millions)
Dutch Cooperation                                             623.8
French Cooperation                                            602.1
CCCE                                                          348.6
USAID                                                         300.0
Total                                                        1,874.5
iln addition, ex-employees who fulfilled land allocation criteria and who so desired were given priority in
allocating irrigated land, an offer that was taken up by some 222 ex-employees, with the others opting for
other activities.
5J: Project financed Traiining in Extension Service Methods
86n6fidaires                  ThNmes                     Ueux       Ann6es       Coots
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  . _ _ _ _ _ _  (F C F A )
1. Agents de       Vulgarisation agricole               Centre de        1990      214 810
1'encadrement                                        Formation de
agricole                                             Niono
2. Agents de       Vulgarisation agricole                Centre de       1990    1 534 650
1'encadrement                                        Formation de
agricole                                             Niono
3. Cadres de       Ateliers de mise en place! du systeme  Centre de      1990   5 690 465
1'encadrement   harmonise de vulgarisation           Formation de
de l'ON                                              Niono
4. Cadres de       Seminaire sur                         Centre de       1990      580 720
1'encadrement  le sondage statistique                Formation de
Niono
5. Agents de       Formation sur les schistosomiases     Centre de       1990      874 420
1'encadrement                                        Formation de
de base                                              Niono
6. Agents de       Seminaire sur la politique semenciere a    Centre de  1991    1 749 460
1'encadrement  l'ON                                  Formation
de bas                                               Niono
7. Cadres et       a) Seminaire atelier d'orientation du  Centre de      1991    3 797 020
agents du      programme de vulgarisation;           Formation de
conseil rural    b) Seminaire pour le lanoement de la  Niono
campagne de repiquage 91/92;
c) Seminaire sur l'Wlaboration de projets
villageois et le renouvellement triennal des
semences;
8. Agents de la    Seminaire sur I'harmonisation des regimes Centre de   1991      898 030
Gestion Eau    de redevance                          Formation
9. Agents conseil  a) Seminaire liaison recherche-formation-  Centre de  1991    4 817 555
rural,         vulgarisation;                        Formation de
enqueteurs et   b) Seminaire sur ia diversification des  Niono
responsables    cultures;
suivi/evaluation  c) Seminaire sur le suivi/dvaluation
11. Enqueteurs et    Seminaire sur le suivi/evaluation   Centre de       1992    1 207 900
responsables du                                          Formation de
suvi/6valuation                                          Niono
12. Agro-irriguant et  Stage en maitrise de l'eau en agriculture et      1992   5 700 000
1 chef d'unite     realites africaines



23
entretien
13. Conseiller     Seminaire sur les aspects juridiques de la  Italie     1992   2 000 000
juridique          gestion de l'environnement et des
ressources naturelles dans les pays en
voie de developpement
14. Cadres et      a) Voyage d'etude a la vallee du Kou;  Centre de       1992   9 342 431
agents du conseil   b) Seminaire sur les resultats de l'etude    Formation de
rural; paysans     morphopedologique;                    Niono
c) Seminaire de programmation du PNVA;
d) Seminaire d'orientation du PNVA en
92/93;                                             .
15. Conseiller     Seminaire sur la decentralisation     USA              1992   2 826 500
juridique
16. Technicien (1)   Stage de perfectionnement           Burkina Faso     1992      825 000
du Service des
Travaux
Source: Office du Niger
5K: Project Financed Training in Procurement and Financial Management
1.  Comptables (6) Gestion                               France          1990    19 269 000
des approvisionnements
2.  Cadres (13)    Seminaire sur la passation des marches    Centre      1994       624 960
de Formation
3. Agents          Seminaire sur                         CF Niono        1992       600 000
De l'ON        les decaissements
4. Cadres (2)      Seminaire sur                         Dakar           1993     4 783 000
les passations
des marches                         ____
5. PDG (1)         Seminaire sur                         Abidjan         1994     1 017 500
les procedures
6. DAF (1)         Seminaire sur                         Abidjan         1994     1 127 800
Les procedures
7. Agent           Seminaire sur le                      Cameroun        1994     1 423 300
Comptable (1)   Top Management
8. Auditeur (1)    Audit interne approfondi              C6te d'lvoire    1995    1 880 850
9. DADR/SF         Seminaire sur la                      Dakar           1996     3 564 000
Passation des marches
10. Ingenieurs (2)   Seminaire sur ia passation des marches    Dakar     1997     5 523 600
de travaux
11. Comptables  et Formation sur le SYSCOA               Niono et        1998    12 100 900
financiers                                           Segou         _         _
12. Cadres (15)    Seminaire sur                         CF Niono        1991       216 450
la reconversion
13. Cadres DADR    Stage de formation en                                 1991     1 835 000
Outils informatiques
Avances
14. Operateur   de Formation continue en                 Burkina Faso    1992     2 030 000
saisie (1)     Informatique                                                I



24
5L. Government Contributions to ON, 1990-1998
(Millions CFAF)
Year      Operating Exnse    MaiDtenariceof Praniy           Total
:(Extenson,tudie,    rlgion InfrastruCtUre
.. -g" , .Rehabiltation... ....-  .
____            Management -:___.___-__i
1990                    395 829                392 417                 788 246
1991                    395 829                392 417                 788 246
1992                    805 931                478 867                1 284 798
1993                    667 361                176 621                 843 982
1994                    274 920                734 193                1 009 113
1995                    197230                 561 670                 758900
1996                    197 230                561 670                 758 900
1997                    246 582                284 706                 531 288
1998                    268 817_               280 038                 548 855
5M. Proposal from the Taxation Study
Item                                                                     Tax amount
(CFAF)
New rate for the local and regional development tax (per person)           2,500
Cattle tax (per cow)                                                         500
Small Ruminant tax (per animal)                                              100
License fee on small private rice mills (per mill)                        150,000
A profit tax per ton of rice marketed by traders (per ton)                  3,600
VAT on processing and marketing activities                                   10%
5N. Projected and Actual Production
Projectedl                          Actual
Year              Total Production    Cultivated Area    Total Production  Yield
(Tons)
1985/86               80,600           39,433           82,957             2.1
1986/87               86,600           39,910           88,011             2.2
1987/88               90,400           42,125           98,194             2.3
1988/89               95,400           43,352           97,796             2.3
1989/90              115,200           44,251           106,593            2.4
1990/91              136,200           43,872           143,938            3.3
1991/92              164,800           44,435           180,909            4.1
1992/93              185,800           44,843           208,541            4.7
1993/94              198,600           45,442           222,634            4.9
1994/95              198,600           44,964           206,835            4.6
1995/96              198,600           46,410           232,206            5.0
1996/97              198,600           47,984           253,835            5.3
1997/98              198,600           49,313           271,221            5.5
Projected cultivated area and yields could not be reconstructed from SAR data.



25
50: Evolution of Average Net Farm Revenue per Household
(CFAF)
Crop Year (CY)        88189   89/90   90191   91/92   92193   93/94   94195   95/96   96/97    97198
GDP Deflator, CY basis,    100    100    103    105    107    126    155    170    177          181
Base 88/89
Nominal Income       83,937 110,800 146,259 193,067 286,317 325,933 445,417 586,200 773,803 1,021,445
Real Income          83,937 110,468 142,683 184,201 267,158 257,950 287,062 345,175 437,487  565,342
Change from 88/89         -  26,531  58,746 100,264 183,221 174,013 203,125 261,238 353,549  481,404
Change from 88/89, %           0.32    0.70    1.19    2.18    2.07    2.42    3.11    4.21    5.74
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
I.  Key operating indicators in the President's Report               Estimated    Actug
Although no indicators had been explicitly identified in the SAR, some
targets had been set on certain activities and expected outputs.
- Yield (tons/ha)                                                  4.5             5.5
- Total incremental production (tons) [entire ON]                  100,000         172,000
- Cropping intensity                                               1.20            1.06
- Staff productivity                                               10%             Could not be
measured
1 Could not be measured as methodology was not presented in the SAR.



26
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                                    Impact of Study
Evolution of village associations            Not done. There is still need for a study on how
village associations' roles and responsibilities
could evolve in the future and how their capacity
should be strengthened in support of this expected
evolution.
A socio-economic study on the labor distribution    Not done. The great importance of such a study
in the farming system and the health and education  not withstanding, the tremendous attention
situation, with special emphasis on the role of  commanded by the restructuring did not leave
women                                        much time for studies of a much broader nature,.
However, such a study if opportune and should be
considered in the next operations.
Study of farm incomes and taxation           Done, but results not implemented, although they
should be useful once decentralization takes root
and local authorities beginning searching for ways
of mobilizing resources for much needed social
services.
Promotion of commodity diversification, by   Not done. However, this remains an important
identifying products and markets, and production   study, particularly in light of the proposed
and processing technologies                  recovery of part or all irrigation investment costs,
which will require greater farm productivity and
diversification in order to raise the needed extra
cash.
Potential private investors in irrigated agriculture   Not done. The study remains pertinent, more so
development and agro-industries would be     now that increased focus is being paid to this
consulted to identify constraints, possible remeclies  subject.
and incentives sought for private domestic and
foreign investment: an incentive package was to |
be designed and investments encouraged and
monitored under the project
Feasibility studies for the subsequent phases of lthe  Not done under the project, but rather with
rehabilitation program, and possibly for private    separate PPF financing.
sector investments in Office du Niger, and other
water development investments.



27
Table 8. Project Costs and Financing
8A. Project Costs -IDA
(US$ Millions)
Appraisal estimate   Actual/latest
Item                                                                       estimate
1. Agricultural credit                                     2.3                 9.0
2. Maintenance                                             9.4                35.4
3. Urgent repairs on irrigation infrastructure             2.9                147.4
4. Rehabilitation Markala Dam                              9.3                 24.5
5. Rehabilitation and modernization of Gruber/Siengo       11.7                 1.8
canals
6. Rehabilitation Siengo perimeters                        11.4                13.5
7. Rural works                                             4.1                37.8
8. Support to ON (R&D, water management and extension)     2.4                 18.0
9. Financial restructuring ON                              3.7                  1.4
10. Consultants, technical assistants and training         4.3                 3.6
11. Studies                                                0.5                 0.5
12. Preparatory works                                      1.7                 0.7
13. Other                                                                       1.8
Base Costs                                                 63.8
Physical contingencies                                     8.1
Price contingencies                                        11.7
Total Costs                                                83.6              295.6
8B. Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate          Actual/latest Estimate
Source                                (US$ million)                 (US$ million)
IDA                                       48.8                          48.8
Government of Germany                     19.0                          28.9
FAC                                        2.0                          1.7
CCCE                                       0.4                          33.1
Government of the Netherlands              1.3                          87.2
Govemment                                  4.1                          16.1
Beneficiaries                              8.0                          28.2
TOTAL                                     83.6                         295.6
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Benefits                                                    Appraisal      ICR
Incremental production
- tons of rice starting in year 10                           40,000      48,000
- monetary value US$, millions                                  8.5      13.4
Increase in net on-farm income (percent)                          45
ERR for Gruber canal (includes part of costs of other project and  13-16
plan activities)
Fiscal benefits US$, millions (reduction in Government subsidies to  0.7
rice sector)



28
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Credit Agreement   Covenant  Current                               Description of covenant                                     Comments
section (CI9060)   type      status
Credit
Section 3.01 (a)     5, 10       C      The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth in  No comments
Sch. 2 to this Agreement, &, to this end, shall carry out Part A. I of the Project through
its Ministry of Agric. with due diligence & efficiency & in conf. with appropriate admn.,
fin. & techn. practices, &shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, fac.services &
other resources required for the Proj.
Section 3.01 (b)     5, 10       C      Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the DCA,    No comments
the Borr. shall cause ON & BNDA to perform in accordance with the provisions of the
Proj. Agrt all the obligations of ON & BNDA therein set forth, shall take & cause to be
taken all action, inc. the provision of funds, fac., services & other res., nec. or appto
.__________  ____enable ON & BNDA to perform such obligations...
Section 3.01 (c)(i)    5, 10     C      The Borrower shall: (i) relend the proceeds of the Credit which may from time to time    By their letter of Feb. 8, 1996,
be allocate to Cat 1 (a)&(b), 2(a)&(b), 3(c)&(d) & 4 of the table set forth in Sch. I to this  govt requested for, and by an    cn
Agrt to ON under a subsidiary loan agrt to be entered into between the Borrower &  amendment dated April 15,
ON,under terms & conditions approve by the Assoc.& which shall inc. interest @ a rate   1997 the Bank agreed to, the
of 30/Op.a. & 30 yr repaymt with a 10 yr grace period.                         conversion of the loan to ON
into a grant due to ON's new
non-commercial mission.
Section 3.01 (c)     5, 10       C      The Borrower shall: (ii) relend the proceeds of the Credit which may from time to time    No comments.
(ii)                                    be allocated to Cat 5 of the table mentioned above to BNDA under a sub.loan agrt to be
entered into between the Borrower & BNDA, under terms & cond. approved by the
Assoc, & which shall inc. interest @ a rate of 30/op.a. & a 15 yr repayment period inc.a
grace period of five years; and
Section 3.01 (c)     5, 10       C      The Borrower shall: (iii) make the proceeds of the Credit which may from time to time    No comments.
(iii)                                   be allocated to Cat I (c), 2(c), 3(a) & (b) of the table mentioned above, & an amount
equivalent to that allocated to Cat 6 of the same table, available to ON on a grant basis.
Section 3.01 (d)     5, 10       C      The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subs. Loan Agrt in such manner as to  By an amendment dated April
protect the interests of the Borrower & the Assoc. & to accomplish the purposes of the  15, 1997, the loan retroceded
Credit, & except as the Assoc. shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,  to ON was converted into a



29
amend, abrogate or waive the Sub. Loan Agreements or any provision thereof.       grant due ON's new non-
commercial mission.
Section 3.02          5, 9        C      Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works &  No comments.
consultants' services required for the Project & to be fnanced out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule I to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.02 (a)       9          CP     The Borrower shall take all necessary measures required on its part to: (a) ensure that  3.02 (a) (i) - No longer ON's
(i) (ii) (iii)                           ON: (i) at all times buys paddy & sells rice in accordance with the provisions of the  responsibility 3.02 (a) (ii) The
Contract-Plan; (ii) charges custom-mill services @ full cost @ all time(iii) collects water  rice mills are no more under
charges @ the rate of CFAF 28,000/ha on all rehabilitated perimeters commencing with   ON's control and have been
the 1st crop harvested after their rehab;                                         privatized; 3.02 (a) (iii)-CP-
Water charges revised
annually to cover maint. costs
for secondary canals &
Operating Costs of ON.
Section 3.03 (a)       9          CP     (iv)increases water charges each yr by a % agreed upon with the Ass. so as to achieve:    Since 1991 water charges are
(iv)                                     (A) on any rehab. perimeter 3 yrs after its rehab an overall increase of 25% over &  negotiated with ON
above the level of charges collected on such perimeter as of the 1st yr of its rehab., + the   producers; current principles
required adjustment for inflation as determnined by the Borrower's CPI or any other  of annual review of water
measure of infl. satisfactory to the Assoc.;                                      charges agreed with producers
in a 3 yr contrat-plan (Jan 96 -
Dec 98).
Section 3.03 (a)       9          CP     (B) on any rehabilitated perimeters 7 years after its rehabilitation an overall increase of    Since 1991 water charges are
(iv)(B)                                  70% over and above the level of charges collected on such perimeter as of the I st year of  negotiated with ON
its rehabilitation plus the required adjustment for inflation determined as provided in  producers; current principles
subparagraph (A) above;                                                           of annual review of water
charges agreed with producers
in a 3 yr contrat-plan (Jan 96 -
Dec 98).
Section 3.03 (b)      2, 9        CP     (b) further to the prov. of para (a)(iv) above, cause ON to increase water charges no later  Since 1991 water charges are
than 1/1 of each subsequent yr so as to generate funds sufficient to cover ON's cost  negotiated with ON
attributable to water distribution operations;                                    producers; current principles
of annual review of water
charges agreed with producers
in a 3 yr contrat-plan (Jan 96 -
Dec 98).



30
Section 3.03 (c)      I          C      The Borrower shall: (c) not later than 9i30188 conclude with ON an agreement    No comments.
satisfactory to the Assoc. to determine the legal, financial & acctg regime of fixed assets
belonging to the public domain but whose operation & maintenance is entrusted to ON
including a detailed inventory of such assets;
Section 3.03 (d)     10, 9       C      The Borrower shall:(d) cause ON to: (i) implement the Contract-Plan; (ii) review w/  3.03(d)(i)-CP & (ii)-C. A
(i) (ii) (e)                            Borrower & Ass. no later than 11/30 of each yr the progress achieved in executing said   policy letter has replaced 2nd
Contract-Plan; & (e) without any limitation to the prov. of para(a)(i) above, from time to  per cont. by early 93 & term
time, @ the request of either party, exchange views w/Assoc. on the Bor's rice pricing  of policy Itr complied with.
policies & its plans re. overall rice sector dev.                              New c-p between much
smaller ON, Mali Gvt & ON
producers signed 12/27/ 95;
3.03(e)-C: major studies &
debates conducted.
Section 3.04 (a)      9                 Not later than 9/30/88 the Borrower shall cause: (a) ON, DNACOOP, DNFLA, & DNE    3.04(b) Official 1992. All
(b)                                     to conclude an agrt satisfactory to the Assoc. to integrate their activities in the Project  cross-debts ON/Gvt of
Area in the training & extension program devised by ON; and (ii) ON & CAA to   Mali/CAA reconciled.
conclude an agrt satisfactory to the Assoc. to restructure ON's long-term debt due to the
Borrower.
Section 3.05 (a)     9, 10       C      The Borrower shall: (a) not later than 12/31/88 or any other date agreed upon w/the  3.05 (a) - Status C - Studies  o
(b)                                     Assoc., on the basis of a plan proposed by the Borrower, review w/the Assoc. all ways &   done 3.05 (b) - Status CD /
means appropriate for privatizing I or several rice mills; and (b) take all measures  All rice mills have been
required on its part to implement the results & recommendations derived from the  privatized.
review referred to in para (a) above.
Section 3.06        9, 10        C      The Borrower & the Assoc. hereby agree that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03,   No comments.
9.04, 9.059.06, 9.07 & 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of
goods & serv., plans & sch., records & rpts, maintenance & land acquisi tion, resp.) re.
Parts A.2,B,C & D of the Project shall be carried out by ON & in respect of Part E by
BNDA pursuant to Section 2.04 of Project Agrt.
Section 3.07         9, 10       C      Without limiting the generality of S.3.06 above, the Bor. shall under arrangements  No comments.
satisfactory to the Ass. cause the Markala & Selimgue Dams & all electro-mechanical &
regulating structures thereof to be periodically inspected in acc. w/sound engineering
practice to determine any deficiencies in the condition of such structures or in the quality
& adequacy of maintenance or methods of ops.
Section 3.07         10, 9       C      To this end, the Borrower shall propose to the Association appropriate arrangements for   No comments.
(cont'd)        I_                     I the Association's review no later than 12/31/88.



31
Section 4.01 (a)       1           C      (a) ON and BNDA shall maintain separate records & accounts adequate to reflect in  No comments.
accordance with sound accounting practices their operations and financial condition.
Section 4.01 (b)       I        SOON    (b) ON & BNDA shall: (i) have their records, accts & fin. statements (balance sheets,  On audits expected June 30,
(i)                                       statements of income & expenses & related statements) for each fiscal yr audited, in  1999
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association
Section 4.01 (b)       I        SOON    (b) ON & BNDA shall: (ii) furnish to the Assoc. as soon as available, but in any case not  On audits expected June 30,
(ii)                                      later than 4 months after the end of such year: (A) certified copies of their fin. statements  1999
for such year as so audited; and (B) the report of such audits by said auditors, of such
scope & in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
Section 4.01 (b)        I          C      (b) ON and BNDA shall: (iii) furnish to the Association such other information     No comments.
(iii)                                     concerning said records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit thereof, as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably request; and
Section 4.01 (b)       I           C      (b) ON & BNDA shall: (iv) without any limitation to the provisions of subpara (i) above   No comments
(iv)                                      ON shall during the Ist 2 yrs of Project implementation have the accounts referred to in
said subpara (i) audited semiannually & shall submit the report of such interim audit to
the Association not later than I month after its completion.
Section 4.01 (c)        1          C      (c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit Account were  No comments.                 w
(i)                                       made on the basis of statements of expenditure, ON shall: (i) maintain or cause to be
maintained, in accord.with para (a) of this Section, records & accounts reflecting such
l _______________                         expenditures;
Section 4.01 (c)       1           C      (c) ON shall: (ii) retain, until at least 1 yr after the completion of the audit for fiscal year  No comments.
(ii)                                      in which the last withdrawal from the Credit Acct was made, all records (contracts,
_________________ ___________          orders, invoices bills, receipts & other docs.) evidencing such expenditures;                                    l
Section 4.01 (c)        1          C      (c) ON shall: (iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; and    No comments.
(iii)
Section 4.1 (c)         1          C      (c) ON shall: (iv) ensure that such records & acts are included in the annual audit  No comments
(iv)                                      referred to in para (b) of this section & that the rpt of such audit contains a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the stat. of exp. submitted during such fiscal yr,
together w/the procedures & internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
on to support the related withdrawal
Section 4.02 (a)       1          CD      (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ON shall maintain, for each of its  This covenant was met during
fiscal years after its fiscal yr ending on 4/30/90, a ratio of total operating expenses to  1994 by the newly
total operating revenues not higher than 0.85:1.                                   restructured ON
Section 4.02 (b)        1         CD      (b) Before May I in each of its fiscal yrs, ON shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by   Done in 1994.



32
ON & satisfactory to the Association, ascertain whether it would meet the requirements
set forth in para (a) in respect of such yr & the next following fiscal yr, and shall furnish
to the Association the results of such review upon its completion.
Section 4.02 (c)         1          CD      (c) If any such review shows that ON would not meet the requirements set forth in para    No comments.
(a) for ON's fiscal yrs covered by such review, ON shall promptly take all necessary
measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its
prices) in order to meet such requirements.
Section 4.02 (d)         I           C      (d) For the purposes of this Section: (i) The term "total operating exp" means all      No comments.
(i) (ii)                                     expenses related to ops, inc. administration, adequate maintenance, taxes & payments in
lieu of taxes, & prov. for depreciation on a basis acceptable to the Assoc., but excluding
interest & other charges on debt. (ii) The term "total operating revenues" means
revenues from all sources related to operations.
Section 4.03 (a)         1          CD      (a) Except as the Assoc. shall otherwise agree, ON shall not incur any debt, unless the  This covenant was met by the
net revenues of ON for the fiscal yr immediately preceding the date of such incurrence  newly restructured ON in
or for a later 12-month period ended prior to the date of such incurrence whichever is the   1994.
greater, shall be @ least 1.5 times the estimated max. debt service requirements of ON
for any succeeding fisc. yr on all ON's debt
Covenant types:                                                       Present status:
I = Accounts/audits               8  =  Indigenous people
2 = Financial performance/ revenue   9  =  Monitoring, review, and    C   = covenant complied with
generation from beneficiaries        reporting
3 = Flow and utilization of project    10=  Project implementation not    CD = complied with after delay
funds                                covered by categories 1-9
4 = Counterpart funding            I I=  Sectoral or cross-sectoral   CP    complied with partially
budgetary or other resource
allocation
5 = Management aspects of the      12 =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral   NC = not complied with
project or executing agency          policy/ regulatory/
institutional action
6 = Environmental covenants        13=  Other
7 = Involuntary resettlement



33
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title                        Describe and comment on lack of compliance
All relevant manual statements were adhered to.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs'
Planned                      Revised                       Actual
Stage of project
cycle         Weeks         US$ '000        Weeks        US$ '000        Weeks         US$ '000
Preparation up                                                                267.6         349.62
to Appraisal                                                                                          l
Appraisal                                         _                            103.8         123.2
From Appraisal                                                                 27.0           46.8
to Board                                                                                               l
Supervision    X              _       _ X    = =___X                ___       237.0          557.2
Completion                                                                      14.0          30.0
TOTAL
No complete information is available on the planned or revised nuTmber of staffweeks and associated
budgets.



34
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Stage of project    Month/year  Number of     Days in  Specialized staff    Implemen   Develop-   Types of
cycle                         persons           field   skills represented   tation      ment    problems
status    objectives                I
Through
appraisal
Board approval
through
effectiveness
Supervision 1     10/88       4               10        DC, Econ, FA and   2           I
IE
Supervision 2    05/89        2               5         Econ and IE        3           2           M
Supervision 3     11/89 and    2 and 1        7 and 8   Econ and AS, and    2          I
12/89                                 IE
Supervision 4    03/90        2               6         FA and IE          2           1           Env
Supervision 5     11/90       2               10        Econ and IE        2           2           FM
Supervision 6     12/91       2               N.A.      Econ and IE        2           2           ST
Supervision 7    08/92        2               N.A       Econ and IE        3           2           FM, M and CT
Supervision 8     12/92        1              14        Econ               3           2           LC, FM, M and
CT
Supervision 9    04/93         1              N.A.      Econ               3           2           LC, FM, M and
___ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   C T
Supervision 10   07/93         1              N.A.      Econ               2           2           LC, CT and
_________ _   FM
Supervision 11    12/93        1              N.A.      Econ               2           1
Supervision 12   04/94        2               N.A.      Econ and IE        2           I
Supervision 13   07/94         1              N.A.      Econ               S           S                          l
Supervision 14    11/94        1              N.A.      Econ               S           S
Supervision 15   03/95        2               N.A.      AE and Econ        S           S
Supervision 16   07/95        2               N.A.      AE and Econ        S           S
Supervision 17    11/95        1              N.A.      Econ               S           S
Supervision 18   03/96         1              N.A.      Econ               S           HS
Supervision 19
Supervision 20
Supervision 21
Supervision 22                        _  _    _   _                                                               I
Completion        02/99
Specialized skills: AE = Agricultural Economist; AS = Agricultural Services Specialist; DC = Division
Chief; Econ = Economist; FA = Financial Analyst; IE = Irrigation Engineer; OA = Operations Analyst;
00 = Operations Officer; RAS = Regional Agricultural Services Advisor; Soc. = Sociologist; and TS
Training Specialist
Types of problems: CT = Counterpart Funding; Env = Environmental Aspects; FM = Financial
Management; M = Management; P = Procurement; ST = Studies Progress



35                                  Annex 1
ANNEXES
Annex 1: Aide Memoire of the ICR Mission
Consolidation de l'Office du Niger (Cr. 1906-MLI)
Mission d'Evaluation d'Achevement du Projet
(22 - 25 mars 1999)
Aide-Memoire de la Mission
1. Une mission de l'IDA comprenant MM. Eustacius Betubiza (Charge de projets), Francois
Gadelle (Specialiste principal en irrigation), Agadiou Dama (Speciliste en services
agricoles),Youssouf Thiam (Economiste), Abdoulaye Coulibaly (Specialiste en gestion
comptable) et Melle Alexandra Goffin (Assistante de programme) s'est penchee (du 22 au 25
mars 1999) sur l'evaluation A posteriori de la performance d'execution du Projet de
Consolidation de l'Office du Niger (Cr. 1906-MLI), projet clos depuis le 31 novembre 1998. La
mission exprime ses plus vifs remerciements au gouvernement malien pour l'excellence de son
accueil, et pour l'entiere disponibilite et la totale cooperation que les cadres du MDRE et a
l'Office du Niger lui ont reservees.
Rappel des Objectifs du Projet
2. L'objectif general du projet consistait A restructurer l'Office du Niger de maniere A accroitre
la productivite et la production agricole, et A creer A long terme un systeme de production viable
et durable. Les objectifs A court terme portaient sur: (i) le renforcement de la capacite de gestion
de l'Office du Niger; (ii) la restructuration de ses finances; (iii) I'amelioration de l'entretien et la
productivite des infrastructures existantes, y compris les perimetres irrigues; (iv) la remise en
6tat d'une partie du r6seau et certains perimetres. Le projet constituait la premiere phase d'un
programme a long terme de reorganisation et d'amenagement de l'Office du Niger.
Description du Projet
3. Le projet dont la mise en cnuvre s'est etendue sur dix ans, comprenait les elements suivants:
a) Reformes Sectorielles. La poursuite du processus de reforme sectorielle visant A assurer
l'utilisation et le developpement rationnels des ressources confi6es A l'ON. Ces reformes
comprenaient: (i) le desengagement progressif de l'ON des ses activites commerciales et le
transfert de celles-ci A d'autres agents economiques; (ii) la promotion de politiques des prix et de
commercialisation axees sur le marche, la creation de droits fonciers sfirs; et (iii) la promotion de
l'intermediation financiere. b) Reformes Ins'titutionnelles. Les reformes institutionnelles
comprenaient: (i) la simplification des relations entre le Gouvemement et l'Office du Niger a
travers des mecanismes de contrats-plans, (ii) le renforcement de la direction et du personnel de
l'Office du Niger, et (iii) la promotion des associations villageoises. c) Restructuration
Financiere de l'Office du Niger. d) Investissements. Le projet a finance les investissements
permettant d'entretenir et de remettre en etat une partie du reseau et des perimetres d' irrigation, y
compris: (i) la reorganisation de l'unite d'entretien, (ii) la remise en etat du barrage de Markala,



36                                 Annex 1
(iii) la rehabilitation et la modemisation des canaux Gruber Nord et Siengo; (iv) la rehabilitation
du perimetre irrigue de Siengo, et (iv) 1'ex6cution d'un programme pilote des travaux ruraux. e)
Services Agricoles, A savoir: (i) la recherche appliquee, (ii) amelioration de la gestion des
ressources naturelles, (iii) formation et vulgarisation agricole. f) Consultants pour l'appui
technique et etudes.
Execution du Projet
Reformes Sectorielles
4. Abandon progressif de certaines des responsabilites de l'Office du Niger au profit d'autres
agents economigues. Toutes activites commerciales ont ete transferees de l'Office du Niger aux
autres intervenants: la commande des intrants est assuree par les associations villageoises, le
labourage est assure par les exploitants eux memes, le decorticage et la commercialisation sont
presentement assures par le secteur prive.  Promotion d'une politique de prix et de
commercialisation liee au marche pour le paddy et le riz. Les textes de base suivants, adoptes par
le Gouvernement, ont servi A la formulation de la nouvelle politique de prix et commercialisation
du paddy et du riz: a) les decrets No. 319/PG-RM du 21 novembre 1987, No. 323/PG-RM du 4
novembre 1988, et No. 89/PG-RM du 30 decembre 1989, qui ont progressivement liberalise la
commercialisation du riz; b) le Schema Directeur du Developpement du Secteur Agricole de
1992 qui a consacre la responsabilisation du paysans dans les processus de production et de
commercialisation de ses produits, c) la Lettre de Politique de Developpement de la Filiere
Rizicole Nationale de Janvier 1993 dans laquelle le Gouvernement a affirme sa volonte de
desengagement de l'Office du Niger de toutes les activites A caractere commercial; d) la Loi No
94-004 du 9 Mars 1994 portant Creation du nouveau Office du Niger qui a fixe la principale
mission de l'Office du Niger A savoir la gestion des eaux et la maintenance des am6nagements;
e) le Contrat Plan Etat-Office du Niger-Producteurs du 27 Decembre 1995 dont l'un des objectifs
etait la consolidation de la liberalisation de la filiere rizicole a l'Office du Niger et un autre etait
l'engagement de l'Etat a garantir l'assurance de la competitive de la production nationale par la
mise au point d'un systeme tarifaire adequat; f) le decret No 97-136/P-RM du 25 mars 1997
portant modification de la taxation du riz A ll'importation (le taux a l'importation etant ramene de
22% A 11%). Le prix d'achat moyen annuel du paddy offert au producteur est passe de 70
FCFA/kg a 120 CFAF/kg. R6gime Foncier. Un nouveau decret de gerance des terres A l'Office
du Niger specifiant (i) les droits et les obligations du Gouvernement et de l'Office du Niger
concemant les terres, batiments, et les installations, et (ii) que les agriculteurs recevront un droit
d'occupation permanent et hereditaire, apres une periode probatoire a ete promulgu6 par le
gouvernement le 11 juillet 1996. Promotion de l'interm6diation financiere. Dans le processus de
transfert de la responsabilite de I'administration du credit rural de l'Office du Niger A la Banque
nationale de developpement agricole (BNDA), une etude A e  menee pour faire le point de
l'encours des pr8ts aux producteurs et etablir des plans d'amortissement des dettes des
agricultures. Cette etude a e  entreprise par l'Institut de l'economie rurale (IER). Neanmoins,
les dettes n'ont pas e  remboursees, ce qui a engendr6 des mauvaises habitudes de ne pas
rembourser les dettes octroyees. La ligne de credit de 3 millions de dollars placee a la BNDA
pour lui permettre d'augmenter les prets aux agriculteurs a e  entierement mobilisee. Sur cette
ligne de credit, 46 millions FCFA ont ete octroyes A pret de premier equipement (moyen terme de
4 ans, a 12%) de 1989 A 1991, et le reste en pr8ts intrants (a court terme, A 11%). Le taux de
recouvrement etait de 92%. Les recouvrements d'impayes sont en cours. De nos jours, le besoin
en credit a court terme de la zone ON est couvert par les paysans, les rdseaux de caisses
mutuelles, certaines banques primaires organisees en centrale de risque et les foumisseurs



37                                   Annex 1
d'intrants (dont le remboursement s'effectue en nature). Les besoins semblent couverts et ne
necessite pas la mise en place d'une ligne particuliere de credit. Mais la gestion du credit
demeure en difficulte A cause de la mauvaise gestion de certaines des associations villageoises.
Reformes Institutionnelles.
5. Les relations entre 1'ON et le Gouvernement Ces relations sont reglees A travers des contrats-
plans, dont les signataires sont l'Etat, l'ON et les producteurs. En general, les dispositions des
contrats-plans sont respectdes par les signataires. Mais il faut signaler que les comites de suivi
des contrats-plans sont tres faibles et nejouent pas leur r6le. Ils devraient donc etre renforces.
Mesures visant A l'organisation et au renforcement de la gestion et des systemes operationnels de
l'ON. Le nombre et la taille des organes administratifs ont etd reduits et les organes fonctionnels
regroupes; la structure des zones de production rationalisee de facon a mettre l'accent sur
l'entretien du reseaux d'irrigation, la vulgarisation, la formation et la promotion des associations
villageoises; et les systbmes de gestion financiere ontAete renforces avec l'assistance technique
financee par le FAC et l'IDA. IDA a finance egalement l'achat d'ordinateurs et de la formation
du personne. Renforcement de la gestion des ressources humaines. L'evaluation du profil et des
besoins de formation du personnel existant en vue de lui permettre de remplir la nouvelle mission
de l'ON' a e  realisee et le personnel a ete form6. Promotion des associations villageoises (AV)
Des protocoles de collaboration ont ete etablis entre l'ON et la direction nationale de l'action
coop6rative et la direction nationale de I'alphabetisation, et des programmes d'activites ont ete
elabores mais non mise en ceuvre sur le credit 1906 . La cooperation neerlandaise A soutenu les
actions de l'ON en direction des AV.
6. Restructuration Financiere de l'Office du Niger
7. Les biens appartenant A l'Etat ont ete soit integrds dans les comptes de l'ON de facon a ce
que l'Office du Niger puisse etre entierement responsable de leur gestion, de leur entretien et de
leur utilisation, soit privatises; L'ON equilibre ses comptes d'exploitation grace A la redevance
pay6s par les producteurs et les paiements du budget d'Etat pour les missions de service public
assurees par l'ON. La dette A long terme de l'ON avec la Caisse autonome d'amortissement
(CAA) a et annulee.
8. Investissements relatifs aux infrastructures et auxperi1mtres d'irrigation
9. Consolidation du programme d'entretien Actuellement, 1'entretien courant (reparation des
breches) est assure au niveau des zones par les unites d'entretien dont la capacite a e  assure par
ce projet et d'autres bailleurs de fonds. L'entretien periodique simple (faucardage) est assure par
des tacherons locaux apres consultation. L'entretien pdriodique, en principe tous les cinq ans,
des reseaux secondaires et primaires est assure par des entreprises, dont souvent la STD privee,
apres appel d'offres. Ce systeme fonctionne bien sauf que 1'entretien du reseau tertiaire A la
charge des agriculteurs est souvent mal assure. Afin de promouvoir les petites entreprises
locales, un systeme de contrats pluri-annuels de maintenance pourrait etre envisage, ce qui
permettrait A des entreprises locales d'obtenir des credits bancaires pour s'equiper en materiel.
Un autre point a signaler est que l'entretien periodique du reseau principal est effectue tous les
cinq ans. Cela entraine que les canaux sont souvent enherbes, ce dont on n'a pas tenu compte



38                                   Annex 1
dans les calculs hydrauliques r6cents.I R6parations urgentes d'infrastructures d'irrigation.
Les travaux concemaient des reparations aux canaux du Sahel et de Molodo. Ces travaux, qui
concemaient la consolidation des digues dle berge et l'ouverture d'une piste de service le long du
canal du Sahel, ont ete executes correcternent. II faut noter que l'AFD finance d'autres travaux
confortatifs sur ces canaux ainsi que sur leurs ouvrages. Reparation et entretien du barrage de
Markala. Les travaux de reparation du barrage de Markala ont ete executes en deux phases:
Dans la premiere, ont ete revises les equipements electro-mecaniques du barrage de Markala et
de l'ecluse de Thio. Les travaux ont ete executes et surveilles de maniere satisfaisante.
Cependant, le magasin de pieces de rechange et la reparation de l'atelier de r6paration n'ont pas
e  realises. Dans la deuxieme phase, la structure du barrage a e  revue apres une mission
d'inspection. Ont ete ainsi reparees les 4883 hausses du barrage, change les equipements de
l'ecluse de Thio (portes, batardeaux, grilles) et rehabilite les structures de genie civil du barrage
et de l'ecluse. Les travaux ont donn6 satisiaction. Rehabilitation et modernisation des canaux
Gruber-Nord et de Siengo et du drain de Siengo. Les travaux correspondants consistant A
refaire les berges et mettre des vannes A niveau aval constant ou avec modules A masque aux
ouvrages n'ont pas ete tres correctement realises. Les remarques sur les resultats des travaux sont
les suivanfes: a) un contr6le visuel en 1997 a montre que le canal Gruber est sans doute trop petit
(modules denoy6s). Cela s'explique sans doute par le mode d'entretien (cf plus haut); b) les
vannes A modules a masque qui permettent de mesurer les volumes d'eau d'irrigation ne sont pas
utilisees dans ce but; le drain de Siengo ne debouche pas dans un drain relie au reseau
d'evacuation du Kala inferieur. Une partie des parcelles du perimetre reste donc noyee en saison
des pluies. RWhabilitation du casier de Siengo. Les travaux de rehabilitation des 3000 ha du
casier de Siengo ont ete tres correctement realises et les paysans en sont contents. Les travaux qui
posent de petits problemes sont: les passages A betail qui ne sont pas utilises; les 8 etangs
piscicoles dont la gestion a finalement e  confiee A des agriculteurs prives qui se plaignent de
difficultes de vidange. En supplement, le projet a finance la route en terre lateritee N'Debougou-
S8 sur 14 km au droit du casier de Siengo. La realisation de cette route, partie de la route Niono-
Dogofry, a ete satisfaisante. Cependant, comme elle est classee route nationale, son entretien doit
etre assure par la Direction Nationale des Travaux Publics. Aucun engagement n'a e  obtenu de
cette Direction avant les travaux. Cependant, A l'occasion des travaux d'achevement de la route,
finances par les Pays Bas, cet engagement a e  obtenu. Travaux pilotes ruraux et
amenagement de M'Bewani. L'Office devait entreprendre, A raison de 500 ha/an, des travaux
de rehabilitation A haute intensite de main d'auvre sur les casiers de Molodo et du Kouroumari.
Ce programme etait trop ambitieux et n'a pas e  mene A son terme (les reliquats de credits sur ce
volet ont servi a financer les travaux de M'Bewani). Quelques travaux ont cependant ete executes
avec une assistance technique hollandaise mais on n'en conna^it pas les resultats en termes de
production. II etait prevu que ces travaux HIMO devraient former les agriculteurs A l'entretien
mais il n'en a rien ete. Sur les reliquats financiers du projet, on a realise un perimetre irrigue de
460 ha A M'Bewani le long du canal Coste-Ongoiba. L'execution des travaux a introduit une
innovation importante puisque les populations ont participe aux travaux pour environ 20% de
ceux-ci, diminuant ainsi fortement les couits d'am6nagement. Une autre raison de la diminution
des couats a et6 la diminution de la qualite par rapport aux normes de l'ON (largeurs et revanches
des canaux trop petites, absence de modules aux prises, absence de pistes paralleles aux canaux).
I Le projet a egalement foumi du materiel de petit entretien (4 tracteurs agricoles, 2 tracteurs polyvalents, 2 rouleaux
compacteurs, 4 groupes moto-pompes, 4 remorques simples, 2 remorques citernes) pour les centres de Molodo et
Diabali. Ce matdriel devrait essentiellement 6tre utilise pour les travaux urgents (reparation de breches) mais il a
parfois ete utilisd pour des travaux qui auraient du etre confies a 1'entreprise. Qualitativement, il a donne
satisfaction et son amortissement est effectue dans le compte global d'amortissement de l'Office.



39                                  Annex 1
Des travaux d'aamelioration sont dejA prevus dans les prochains financement. Impact
environnemental. II etait prevu que le projet aurait peu d'effets sur l'environnement, ce qui a
ete le cas. En effet, la plupart des travaux, consistant en rehabilitations, ont eu un impact plut6t
positif, m8me s'il a et faible: meilleur drainage, reboisements, construction de lavoirs pres des
villages, abreuvoirs pour animaux, reparation de l'echelle A poisson du barrage de Markala. En
revanche, 1'envahissement des canaux par la jacinthe d'eau n'avait pas e  envisage. Ce probleme
ne semble pas attirer suffisamment l'attention de l'ON et des bailleurs de fonds, la lutte etant
menee de maniere trbs artisanale. Securite des barrages. Apres les reparations au barrage de
Markala, l'ON a decide de confier tous les deux ans une mission d'inspection sous-fluviale du
barrage A une socit&. Cela semble suffisant pour assurer la securite du barrage. I1 serait
cependant preferable que cette pratique soit officialisee dans le contrat plan de l'ON. La mission
a recu l'assurances semblable pour le barrage de Selingu6. Cependant, celui-ci vient de faire
P'objet d'une revision generale recente dans le cadre du projet IDA
Services agricoles
10. Recherche appliqu6e. Le credit A permis la conduite des tests de vulgarisation dans les
secteurs de Ndebougou et de Molodo (travaux ruraux et rehabilitation des terres), la r6flexion sur
le systeme harmonise de vulgarisation, la mise en place de ce systeme sur l'ensemble de l'ON. Le
credit a finance des formations du personnel de vulgarisation et des paysans au centre de
formation et A l'ext6rieur (pour plus de 15 millions), des equipements et une partie du
fonctionnement. Les techniques en vigueur A l'ON ont et6 diffus6es: intensification de la
riziculture (le rendement avant rdhabilitation 92/93 est de 3 tonnes/ha dans la zone de Siengo, il
est de 6, 4t/ha en 89/99), gestion de l'eau, la culture attelee, la double riziculture ( 9%), la
diversification des cultures (cultures maralch6res 17 ha en 92/93 et 175 ha en 98/99, 7,5 ha
d'etang piscicole). Malgre les accords de collaborations signes entre l'ON et les directions
nationales de I'elevage et celles des Eaux et Forets, les deux domaines ont ete completement
occultes par le systeme de vulgarisation, les programmes de travail proposes par ces directions
n'ayant pas e  approuves ni finances par la Direction A travers le credit. Le plan de formation et
le plan de carriere n'existent pas, les formations sont faites suivant les opportunites. La majorite
des organisations paysannes ( 60%) sont satisfaits des services du systeme actuel, mais affirmnent
( 65%) avoir d'autres besoins de formation ( conseil agricole, auto-promotion, alphabetisation).
11 est souhaitable de redynamiser le dispositif avec l'appui du programme national de
vulgarisation. Amelioration de la gestion des ressources. Deux etudes ont ete menees: celle qui a
produit des cartes d'utilisation des sols au 1/10 oooeme et celle de la cartographie des sols au 1/
10 oooeme. Ces cartes existent mais sont peu utilisees. Les plantations collectives de bois
villageois se sont poursuivies ( 21 ha dans la zone de Siengo de bois collectif et individuel). Par
contre dans la zone du projet il n'y a pas eu de plantation le long du reseau. Les analyses de la
qualite de 1'eau pour contr6ler la pollution par les engrais ne sont pas realisees, mais le sujet reste
important eu 6gard aux quantites d'engrais utilisees ( 200 kg DAP et 300 kg d'uree par culture de
riz). La contribution du Pole de recherche des systemes irrigues (PSI) pourrait etre sollicitee et
celle du projet sante primaire de Niono.
11. En conclusion, le Gouvernement a tenu A ses engagements. La determination des prix et la
commercialisation du riz et des autres produits agricoles ont ete entierement liberalises
notamment dans le cadre du PRMC. Ces mesures de liberalisation, I'adoption d'une fiscalite sur
les importations de riz et la devaluation du F CFA ont ameliore la competitivite du riz malien tant
A l'interieur qu'A l'exterieur du Mali. Ce faisant, elles ont concouru A l'augmentation des revenus
des paysans et A l'amelioration de leurs conditions de vie. Le programme d'investissement a e,



40                                   Annex 1
en general, correctement execute. Cependant, I'appui aux organisations des producteur aurait dfi
etre plus fort. En ce qui conceme la perennisation des investissements, la redevance payee par
les producteurs est suffisant pour l'entretien du reseau secondaire, 1'entretien du primaire etant
assure par l'Etat. II est recommand6 que, vu I'accroissement du revenu A l'Office du Niger grace
aux rehabilitations, aux reformnes politiques, et institutionnelles et aux services agricoles renforces,
les producteurs prennent en charge l'entretien du reseau primaire. En plus, le mecanisme du
contrat-plan, qui r6unit les trois principaux partenaires (les producteurs, P'ON, et I'Etat), sert a
garantir la perennisation des infrastructures d'irrigation. Neanmoins, il est vivement
recommande que le comite de son suivi soilt renforce pour mieux assurer ses fonctions.



IRED 20622
/                                                       ~~~~~~~~MALI
OFFICE OF NIGER CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
M A U RI! T A N I A                                             I                                               .  zr~<i E .Xa.>'< / --OFFICE DU NIGER CONSOLIDATION PROJET
- ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     z -  -  -X = -    -/ -j -   -    -L, 
fD                                                                                                                                                        Koussea} /,/'. 'It} . 0 A *; 0 ' 0 00X~-  RRIGATION PER MEFER- IC)BE RR F  EAELItRA    fNDER THE PROJECT
I'ERIMCEAE  D'LRRIGAEIOPL  ARIRARIIAITCR HANS IPCA.RDRE  G POJET
R CE HAS                51Mo10R   A LS
LET R1I'RICD           LET USINES SU1E RIDED
IERISRING PROJECTS
ARONFTS EXISEANES
_7 IDENTIFIED FUTURE PROJFEETS
L 20                                                                                         4Dao1/,  <, <;qr......... g;iJ:\.  SX .......... ---PROJETS FUTURS IDINTIFIFS
KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                                                                                   FXITRING SDAR
BBARRAGE EXISTANT
PRIEC DAMS
iAAGFS EN PRO,ET
PRHINOTAC     CANARD HIIRIGATION
,RRIGGTION REDEIILPDTNT REC,ION
_7 Z;  ,y!_/    S: =- + a   u    _ )   >--    )    0 j  > ;X  -    IREGION HE EEELOpEPMENT DES IRRIGAlON
LOT,    iSOR'TES IN MM
2/I                                                          _ __._ .  _0!t- ~ '"  ~  /  /   f   0    -  ROADS
ROUTESF
X   ,  L\,  mW  i S : 0 W S ''Sti /i f f  / = =- .R RIVERS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIER
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
'FRONTIERES INTERNATIONALES
IRRIGABLE LAND POTENTIAL (DATA FROM  P.IR.T  MALI ATLAS)
POTENTIEL EN TERRES IRRIGAELES (DONNEES DE LA TLAS PlRRT. MALI)
v.,                                                                                                                                                            Y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ OBNOB  ,A I   TOLD' SIIS(1RAGARLR LAND IR GLOD PROTECTION PROVDESF)
A_IJONU)S BE    E5 ENGU SONHARLED IRRIGARLES SODS R5SERVE OE CONEROLE DES INONDAIONS)
TA LEIE SOILS COMPLER SUITRIB FOR PADDY ANT ORDER IRRIGATED CROPS
JW <~~~~~~~~~  C  ~ ~   ~        ~        ~        ~        ~       ~       -- - ~~~~~~~~~ ACCORD ND ROD RDT CONDITONS)
COPELEXE DES SO'S HE ALLEES BIALC-IURE  A1 AUTRES CELTET EN FONCTION
DES CONDITTOND DE SITE)
FLOODED PLAINS (MANLY P DTAbLE FOR PADDS)
m                                                                                                                                                                   1   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2   OWER NLOOSED) AREAS (DRT SEASON GRAZING LAND)
4 MokaououX  .ff ~EN v < C [ . - - > OVED   ADE ONASBESW ArURAGES E  SAISON SECHE)
11 OLD A=LCDA SO SLOCALTYNUIRRI CFR IRROARTON AND MAINLT N  A.LE
F R OTHER CR0 S THAN PADDY)
R. ALLUE,ONS ANCIENNE) _ 6TEIIEDENT IRR'ARLES FE GRDNCiPAIEMENT APTES A
D HEEDED C-LPAES ODE COLT SU AZ.
TERRACED(TOPOGRAFITYAND COARESE OIL TEXTURE ARTRATIONS)
TECRIADSES A CONERAIN TE DIS TOEOGASLE CET DED TEA TARE GROSSIERE
A~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                             L. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARLADIAMS POORLYD-SR EDL OR DANDY
A L?AU-NS ANCIENNED SAl DRAINET S. DAU CAS170ES
7 j(  OLD ALLHDIUMS (SCATTERED SANDY AREAS AND COARSE SO-LS WTHR TEXTURE LMIRARIONS)
pP                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~AllDEONSANCIENE   (AIGEAL TRN  DABLESSES
III. MISCELLANEOUS IDENR FIED IRRIGARLE SANDS
IlL. REDSOURCES OIVERSES ,ECNRIEICS
SCAT1TERED AILHJIAL SOILS - ITO, WIITHIN SAND DUNES
A%,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~LEI                                                                                       ALUICIEON  DLSPERSPEE   ADTp1 DETDANES MABLETSCS NON IRRDOABLES
- ALLUVIAL SO LD WITHOLT DENTIRIED W-TER RrSOBRCE
MI RITA N,                -                                                             -         AIIUONS DES EAI RED DANA RESSOGRCE EN CAA ,DENRTTEE1
B LKIA F           NIGER                                              PLLLLIL'LLL 
D, 1-F.I.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R.
N>                      A, LL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JL 93



