Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 1906 MLI
                             Project Agreement
                  (Office du Niger Consolidation Project)
                                  between
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                    and
                              OFFICE DU NIGER
                                    and
                BANQUE NATIONALE DE DEVELOPPEMENT AGRICOLE
                            Dated July 11, 1988
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 1906 MLI
                             PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 11, 1988, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and OFFICE DU NIGER (ON) and BANQUE NATIONALE
DE DEVELOPPEMENT AGRICOLE (BNDA).
      WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between the Borrower and the Association, the Association has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
thirty-one million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 31,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on
condition that ON and BNDA agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
      (B)   by the African Facility Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between the Borrower and the Administrator, the Administrator has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent
to seven million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR
7,100,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the African Facility
Credit Agreement, but only on condition that ON and BNDA agree to undertake
such obligations toward the Administrator as are set forth in this
Agreement;
Page  2
      (C)   by Subsidiary Loan Agreements to be entered into between the
Borrower and ON, and the Borrower and BNDA, respectively, part of the
proceeds of the Credits provided for under the Development Credit Agreement
and under the African Facility Credit Agreement will be made available to
ON and BNDA on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan
Agreements; and
      WHEREAS ON and BNDA, in consideration of the Association entering into
the Development Credit Agreement and the Administrator entering into the
African Facility Credit Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to
undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                                Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the African Facility Credit
Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                                ARTICLE II
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. (a) ON and BNDA declare their commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement, and to this end, (i) ON shall carry out Parts A.2, 3, 4,
B, C and D of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and
agricultural practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
said Parts of the Project; and (ii) BNDA shall carry out Part E of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, and banking practices, and shall provide, or
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for said Part of the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section and except as the Association and ON shall otherwise agree, ON shall
carry out its Parts of the Project in accordance with the Implementation
Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.02. (a) ON shall open and maintain in CFAF in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association: (i) a Special
Account (hereinafter referred to as "Special Account A") for the purposes
of Parts A.2, B, C and D of the Project; and (ii) a Special Account
(hereinafter referred to as "Special Account B") for the purposes of Parts
A.2, B.2, C.1, C.4, C.5 and D.3 of the Project to be financed under the
African Facility Credit. Deposits into, and payments out of, Special
Accounts A and B shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
3 to this Agreement.
      (b)   BNDA shall, for the purposes of Part E of the Project, open and
maintain in CFAF a Special Account (hereinafter referred to as "Special
Account C") in BNDA on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, Special Account C shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.04. ON and BNDA shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of the Parts of the Project carried out by them.
Page  3
      Section 2.05. ON and BNDA shall duly perform all their respective
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements* Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, ON or BNDA shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving
the ON or BNDA Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof.
      Section 2.06. (a) ON and BNDA shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress
of the Project, the performance of their respective obligations under this
Agreement and under the ON and BNDA Subsidiary Loan Agreements and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit and the African Facility
Credit.
      (b)   ON and BNDA shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit and the
African Facility Credit, or the performance by ON and BNDA of their
respective obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements.
      Section 2.07. ON shall:
      (a)   implement the Contract-plan;
      (b)   not later than November 30 of each year review with the Borrower
and the Association the progress achieved in implementing the Contract-plan;
      (c)   (i) assess the progress achieved in the execution of Part B.1
of the Project and explore all relevant ways (including privatization of the
Maintenance Unit referred to in Part B of the Project) to ensure efficient
maintenance of the irrigation network; and (ii) by December 31, 1990 submit
to the Association for its review and approval the results and
recommendations of said assessment;
      (d)   implement by June 30, 1989: (i) a new administrative and
operational structure satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) the
recommendations of the studies referred to in Part A.2 (iii) and (iv) of the
Project as they shall have been reviewed
and agreed upon with the Association;
      (e)   examine with the Association in the context of the annual review
of implementation of the Contract-plan under paragraph (b) above, all
investment proposals and proceed with any such investment only if its
economic, financial and technical justification has been established;
      (f)   take all action necessary on its part to conclude by June 30,
1989 or such other date as shall be agreed upon with the Association an
agreement satisfactory to the Association with a comparable irrigation
authority to provide ad hoc engineering services, training and technical
assistance support when and as required; and
      (g)   make an agreement satisfactory to the Association with Institut
d'Economie Rurale providing for the terms of reference and modalities of its
collaboration to carry out Part D.1 of the Project.
      Section 2.08. BNDA shall provide agricultural credit in the Project
Area in accordance with the terms and conditions referred to in Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of ON and BNDA
      Section 3.01. ON and BNDA shall carry out their respective operations
and conduct their affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, agricultural and banking practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
      Section 3.02. ON shall at all times operate and maintain its plants,
machinery, equipment and other property and from time to time, promptly as
Page  4
needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance
with sound engineering, financial, and agricultural practices.
      Section 3.03. ON shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers
or make other provision satisfactory to the Association for insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) ON and BNDA shall maintain separate records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
their operations and financial condition.
      (b)   ON and BNDA shall:
            (i)   have their records, accounts and financial statements
                  (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
                  related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
                  to the Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than four months after the end of each
                  such year: (A) certified copies of their financial
                  statements for such year as so audited; and (B) the
                  report of such audits by said auditors, of such scope and
                  in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
                  requested;
            (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and financial
                  statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
                  Association shall from time to time reasonably request;
                  and
            (iv)  without any limitation to the provisions of subparagraph
                  (i) above ON shall during the first two years of Project
                  implementation have the accounts referred to in said
                  subparagraph (i) audited semiannually and shall submit
                  the report of such interim audit to the Association not
                  later than one month after its completion.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, ON
shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the completion of
                  the audit for the fiscal year in which the last
                  withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records
                  (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                  documents) evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                  annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                  and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
Page  5
      Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ON
shall maintain, for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending
on April 30, 1990, a ratio of total operating expenses to total operating
revenues not higher than 0.85:1.
      (b)   Before May 1 in each of its fiscal years, ON shall, on the basis
of forecasts prepared by ON and satisfactory to the Association, ascertain
whether it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect
of such year and the next following fiscal year, and shall furnish to the
Association the results of such review upon its completion.
      (c)   If any such review shows that ON would not meet the requirements
set forth in paragraph (a) for ON's fiscal years covered by such review, ON
shall promptly take all necessary measures (including, without limitation,
adjustments of the structure or levels of its prices) in order to meet such
requirements.
      (d)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   The term "total operating expenses" means all expenses
                  related to operations, including administration, adequate
                  maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and
                  provisions for depreciation on a basis acceptable to the
                  Association, but excluding interest and other charges on
                  debt.
            (ii)  The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from
                  all sources related to operations.
      Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ON
shall not incur any debt, unless the net revenues of ON for the fiscal year
immediately preceding the date of such incurrence or for a later twelve-
month period ended prior to the date of such incurrence, whichever is the
greater, shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated maximum debt service
requirements of ON for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt of ON,
including the debt to be incurred.
      (b)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   The term "debt" means any indebtedness of ON maturing by
                  its terms more than one year after the date on which it
                  is originally incurred.
            (ii)  Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan
                  contract or agreement or other instrument providing for
                  such debt or for the modification of its terms of payment
                  on the date of such contract, agreement or instrument;
                  and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the
                  agreement providing for such guarantee has been entered
                  into.
            (iii) The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
                  (A)   the sum of revenues from all sources related to
                        operations adjusted to take account of ON's prices
                        in effect at the time of the incurrence of debt
                        even though they were not in effect during the
                        twelve-month period to which such revenues relate
                        and net nonoperating income; and
                  (B)   the sum of all expenses related to operations
                        including administration, adequate maintenance,
                        taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding
                        provisions for depreciation, other non-cash
                        operating charges and interest and other charges on
                        debt.
            (iv)  The term "net non-operating income" means the difference
                  between:
                  (A)   revenues from all sources other than those related
                        to operations; and
Page  6
                  (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of
                        taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues in
                        subparagraph (A) above.
            (v)   The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
                  amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if
                  any) of, and interest and other charges on, debt.
                                 ARTICLE V
                       Effective Date; Termination;
                        Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the
date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
      Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association, ON and BNDA thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the
following two dates:
            (i)   the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
                  terminate in accordance with its terms; or
            (ii)  the date 30 years after the date of this Agreement.
      (b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance
with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this
Section, the Association shall promptly notify ON and BNDA of this event.
      Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in
full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under
the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI
                         Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given
or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request
shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered
by hand, by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which
it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request.
The addresses so specified are:
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                  Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
      For ON:
            Office du Niger
            B.P. 106
            Segou
            Mali
            Cable address:
                  NIGEROFI
                  Segou, Mali
Page  7
      For BNDA:
            Banque Nationale de
               Developpement Agricole
            B. P. 2424
            Bamako
            Mali
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  BNDA                          2638 BNDA
                  Bamako, Mali
      Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on
behalf of either ON or BNDA, or by either ON or BNDA on behalf of the
Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed
by either ON's or BNDA's Director General, as the case may be, or such other
person or persons as either ON's or BNDA's Director General, as the case may
be, shall designate in writing, and ON and BNDA shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
      Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts,
each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Callisto Madavo
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                                                   Africa
                  OFFICE DU NIGER
                  By /s/ Nouhoum Samassekou
                                                Authorized Representative
                  BANQUE NATIONALE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
                  By /s/ Nouhoum Samassekou
                                                Authorized Representative
                                SCHEDULE 1
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those
set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Page  8
2.    Except as otherwise agreed with the Association, contracts for
vehicles and equipment shall be grouped into packages estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more so as to permit bulk procurement.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Mali may be granted a
margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs I through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
      In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A (1) hereof, ON may grant a margin of preference to
domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Contracts for vehicles and equipment estimated to cost less than
$100,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the equivalent
of $30,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least three
reputable suppliers.
Part E:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
      Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for civil works and each contract
for vehicles and equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contracts are to be made out
of any of the Special Accounts, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of each contract required to be furnished to
the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the
Association prior to the making of the first payment out of such Special
Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contracts are to be made
out of any of the Special Accounts, such procedures shall be modified to
ensure that the two conformed copies of each contract together with the
other information required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to
said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized
withdrawals from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in accordance with Section
4.01 (c) of this Agreement.
      The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist ON and BNDA in carrying out the Project, ON and
BNDA shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
Page  9
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                       Lending Terms and Conditions
      BNDA shall, in the Project Area, follow lending terms and conditions
set forth in this Schedule in carrying out Part E of the Project.
A.    Purpose
      BNDA shall make credits to: (i) individual farmers and VAs for
agricultural inputs and equipment; (ii) VAs for village equipment and
village investments; and (iii) VAs for agricultural equipment and work oxen
for lending to individual farmers.
B.    Eligibility
      In order to be eligible to receive a credit, farmers and VAs shall
meet lending policies established by BNDA, satisfactory to the Association.
C.    Terms and Conditions
1.    BNDA shall charge an annual interest rate on the amount withdrawn and
outstanding under each credit as provided below:
      (a)   Credits to individual farmers: for short-term credits, 10% per
annum; for medium-term credits, 9% per annum;
      (b)   Credits to VAs: for short-term credits, 9% per annum; for
medium-term credits, 8% per annum.
2.    Credits beneficiaries (individual farmers and VAs) shall be required
to provide at least 5% in cash of the total cost of equipment financed under
medium-term credits.
3.    Short-term credits to individual farmers and VAs shall be repaid in
equal installments over a period of up to 12 months and 18 months
respectively with no grace period.
4.    Medium-term credits to individual farmers and VAs shall be repaid in
equal installments over a period of up to 60 months including a 12-month
grace period.
5.    BNDA shall have the right to suspend or terminate access by the
borrowers to the use of the proceeds of the credits if the borrowers fail
to perform any of their obligations under the respective credit agreements.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                             Special Accounts
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4)
for Special Account A, and Category 5 for Special Account C, of the
Categories set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the.
Development Credit Agreement, and Categories (1) through (5) set forth in
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 of the African Facility Credit
Agreement for Special Account B;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the African Facility
Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement or the
African Facility Credit Agreement; and
Page  10
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocations" means two amounts, equivalent
to CFAF 200,000,000 for Special Account A and CFAF 100,000,000 for Special
Account C, to be withdrawn respectively from the Credit Account and an
amount equivalent to CFAF 100,000,000 for Special Account B, to be withdrawn
from the African Facility Credit Account and deposited into the respective
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Except as the Association or the Administrator shall otherwise agree,
payments out of the respective Special Accounts shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association or the Administrator has received evidence
satisfactory to it that the relevant Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the relevant Special Account may be made as follows:
      (a)   On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a
deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation, the Association or the Administrator shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the African Facility Credit
Account, as the case may be, and deposit into the relevant Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   The Borrower shall furnish to the Association or the
Administrator requests for replenishment of the relevant Special Account at
such intervals as the Association or the Administrator shall specify. on the
basis of such requests, the Association or the Administrator shall withdraw
from the Credit Account or the African Facility Credit Account and deposit
into the relevant Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the relevant Special Account with amounts not exceeding the amount
of payments made out of the relevant Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association or the
Administrator from the Credit Account or the African Facility Credit Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence supporting the request
for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the relevant Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph
3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association or the
Administrator, prior to or at the time of such request, such documents and
other evidence as the Association or the Administrator shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.    (a)   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
no further deposit into the relevant Special Account shall be made by the
Association or the Administrator when either of the following situations
first arises:
            (i)   the Association or the Administrator shall have
                  determined that all further withdrawals should be made by
                  the Borrower directly from the Credit Account or the
                  African Facility Credit Account in accordance with the
                  provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
                  paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
            (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or the African
                  Facility Credit allocated to the eligible Categories
                  minus the amount of any outstanding special commitment
                  entered into by the Association or the Administrator
                  pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with
                  respect to the Project, shall be equal to the equivalent
                  of twice the amount of the relevant Authorized
                  Allocation.
      (b)   Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account or the African
Facility Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
or the African Facility Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Association or the Administrator shall specify
by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after
and to the extent that the Association or the Administrator shall have been
Page  11
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the relevant Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments
for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association or the Administrator shall have determined
at any time that any payment out of the relevant Special Account: (i) was
made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association or the Administrator, deposit into the relevant
Special Account (or, if the Association or the Administrator shall so
request, refund to the Association or the Administrator) an amount equal to
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
justified. No further deposit by the Association into the relevant Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
      (b)   If the Association or the Administrator shall have determined
at any time that any amount outstanding in the relevant Special Account will
not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association or the
Administrator, refund to the Association or the Administrator such
outstanding amount for crediting to the Credit Account or the African
Facility Credit Account.
