Page  1
                                                               July 11, 1988
M. le Directeur General
Office du Niger
B.P. 106
Segou
Republic of Mali
M. le Directeur General
Banque Nationale de
   Developpement Agricole
B.P. 2424
Bamako
Republic of Mali
       Re:   Credit No. 1906 MLI
             (Office du Niger Consolidation Project)
             Preference for Domestic Contractors
Dear Sirs:
1.     We refer to the Project Agreement of even date herewith
between International Development Association ("the
Association"), Office du Niger and Banque Nationale de
Developpement Agricole, and to the provisions in Part C of
Schedule 1 thereof for the Grant of a 7.5% margin of
preference to eligible domestic contractors bidding for
construction contracts to be financed out of the proceeds of
the above Credit.
2.     We wish to confirm that, in order to be accepted by the
Association, the criteria for classification of domestic
contractors eligible for such preference must include at
least the following:
       (a)   domestic bidders shall be eligible provided that they:
             (i)   are registered in Mali;
            (ii)  have majority ownership by nationals of Mali;
                   and
           (iii)  have not subcontracted more than 50% of
                  the contract works measured in terms of
                  value to foreign contractors.
       (b)   joint venture between domestic and foreign firms
shall be eligible for the margin of preference provided that:
             (i)   the domestic partner or partners individually
                   satisfy the criteria for eligibility set forth
                   above;
            (ii)   the domestic partner or partners would not be
                   qualified for the contract works in question
                   on technical or financial grounds without the
                   foreign participation; and
           (iii)   the domestic partner or partners will,
                   under the arrangements proposed, carry
                   out at least 50% of the contract works
                   measured in terms of value.
For the purpose of this paragraph, the term "foreign firm"
means a firm that does not qualify as a domestic bidder
pursuant to sub-paragraphs (a) (i) and (a) (ii) of this
paragraph.
3.     In any contract awarded to a bidder who received
preference as a domestic contractor in accordance with the
Page  2
foregoing, appropriate provisions will be included limiting
the right of the contractor to subcontract any portion of the
works in excess of the percentage indicated under paragraph 2
(b) (iii) above.
4.     Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing by
signing the enclosed copy of this letter and returning it to
us.
                               Sincerely yours,
                     INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                               By /s/ Callisto Madavo
                                      Acting Regional Vice President
                                      Africa
CONFIRMED:
OFFICE DU NIGER
BANQUE NATIONALE DE
  DEVELOPPEMENT AGRICOLE
BY /s/ Nouhoum Samassekou
   Authorized Representative
DATE:  July 11, 1988
