Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 1906 MLI
                       Development Credit Agreement
                  (Office du Niger Consolidation Project)
                                  between
                             REPUBLIC OF MALI
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                            Dated July 11, 1988
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 1906 MLI
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 11, 1988, between REPUBLIC OF MALI (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the
Project;
      (B)   the Project will be carried out by the Borrower and by ON and
BNDA (as hereinafter defined) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part
of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to ON and BNDA part of
the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement;
      (C)   the Borrower has requested the Association as Administrator of
the African Facility to provide additional assistance towards the financing
of the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between the
Borrower and, said Administrator (the African Facility Credit Agreement),
the Administrator has agreed to provide such assistance in an aggregate
principal amount of seven million one hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 7,100,000) (the African Facility Credit);
      (D)   the Borrower intends to contract from Kreditanstalt fur
Wiederaufbau (KfW) under the Special Joint Financing Agreement for the
African Facility a loan (the KfW Loan) in an amount of thirty-seven million
nine hundred fifty thousand Deutsche Marks (DM 37,950,000) to assist in the
financing of part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in
an agreement (the KfW Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and KfW;
      (E)   by an agreement dated December 31, 1987 (the FAC Grant
Agreement) the French Republic, through Fonds d'Aide a la Cooperation (FAC),
Page  2
has agreed to make a grant (the FAC Grant) to the Borrower in an aggregate
amount of seven million French francs (FF 7,000,000) to assist in financing
part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the FAC Grant
Agreement;
      (F)   by an agreement dated November 11, 1986 (the CCCE Loan
Agreement) Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) has agreed to
make a loan (the CCCE, Loan) to the Borrower in an aggregate principal
amount of forty million French francs (FF 40,000,000) to assist in financing
part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the CCCE Loan
Agreement;
      (G)   the Borrower intends to contract from The Netherlands through
the Directoraat General voor Internationale Samenwerking (DGIS) a grant (the
DGIS Grant) in an aggregate principal amount of twenty-nine million four
hundred fifty thousand Dutch Guilder (Dfls 29,450,000) to assist in
financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the DGIS Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower
and DGIS; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even
date herewith between the Association and ON and BNDA;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last
sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions, in the Preamble to this Agreement and in
the African Facility Credit Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and ON and BNDA of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental
to the Project Agreement;
      (b)   "ON" means Office du Niger, an Etablissement Public a Caractere
Industriel et Commercial of the Borrower, established pursuant to Ordinance
No. 81-3/P-RM, dated April 28, 1981 and operating pursuant to Decree No. 217
PG-RM, dated August 31, 1981 of the Borrower as amended to date;
      (c)   "ON Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and ON pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) (i) of this
Agreement and Section 3.01 (c) (i) of the African Facility Credit Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the ON Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
      (d)   "BNDA" means Banque Nationale de Developpement Agricole a
Societe d'economie mixte of the Borrower established pursuant to Law No. 81-
08 dated February 11, 1981 and operating pursuant to Decree No. 63 PG-RM
dated March 25, 1981 of the Borrower;
      (e)   "BNDA Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and BNDA pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) (ii)
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time and such
term includes all schedules to the BNDA Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(f)   "CAA" means Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement, an Etablissement Public
a Caractere Industriel et Commercial of the Borrower established pursuant
to Law No. 82/26 dated February 25, 1982 and operating pursuant to Decree
No. 60 PG-RM dated March 11, 1982 of the Borrower;
Page  3
      (g)   "Contract-plan" means the contract to be entered into between
the Borrower and ON, setting forth the mutual rights and obligations of the
Borrower and ON to strengthen the carrying out of ON's operations, as the
same may be amended from time to time;
      (h)   "Special Account" means any of the accounts referred to in
Section 2.02 (a) and (b) of the Project Agreement;
      (i)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange
of letters dated May 5, 1986 and June 23, 1986 between the Borrower and the
Association;
      (j)   "CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
      (k)   "VA" means the Village Association, a group of farmers in the
Project Area jointly carrying out activities of an economic and social
nature recognized by ON;
      (l)   "Project Area" means an area of about 53,000 hectares of land
entrusted to ON and comprising perimeters irrigated through the Macina Moldo
and Sahel Canals;
      (m)   "DNACOOP" means Direction Nationale de l'Action Cooperative, a
directorate within the Ministry of Agriculture of the Borrower, responsible
for promoting the activities of cooperatives;
      (n)   "DNAFLA" means Direction Nationale de l'Alphabetisation
Fonctionnelle et de la Linguistique Appliquee, a directorate within the
Ministry of Education of the Borrower, responsible for alphabetization and
functional literacy operations; and
      (o)   "DNE" means Direction Nationale de l'Elevage, a directorate
within the Ministry of Natural Resources and Livestock of the Borrower,
responsible for the promotion of livestock development.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-one million
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 31,000,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself
the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation
Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid
charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.13. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997 or such later
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from
time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each
year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from a date sixty days
after the date of this Agreement (the Accrual Date) to the respective dates
on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account
or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately
Page  4
preceding the Accrual Date or at such other rates as may be set from time
to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June
30 in each year shall be applied as of the next payment date in that year,
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, except that the rate set as of
June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind
imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time
to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual
installments payable on each March 1 and September 1 commencing September
1, 1998 and ending March 1, 2028. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on March 1, 2008 shall tie one percent (1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita,
as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985
dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the
Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to
the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms and repayment of installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of
each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may
revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase
in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
of the Association, such review shall not change the grant element obtained
under the abovementioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph, (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if
so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
      Section 2.09. (a) ON is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions in respect of all Categories except for Category (5) of
the table set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) BNDA is so
designated in respect of Category 5.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and,
to this end, shall carry out Part A.1 of the Project through its Ministry
of Agriculture with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and technical practices, and shall
Page  5
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause
ON and BNDA to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project
Agreement all the obligations of ON and BNDA therein set forth, shall take
and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
ON and BNDA to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
      (c)   The Borrower shall: (i) relend the proceeds of the Credit which
may from time to time be allocated to Categories 1 (a), 1 (b), 2 (a), 2 (b),
3 (c), 3 (d) and 4 of the table set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement
to ON under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and ON, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved
by the Association and which shall include interest at a rate of three (3%)
percent per annum and a thirty-year repayment period including a grace
period of ten years; (ii) relend the proceeds of the Credit which may from
time to time be allocated to Category 5 of the table mentioned above to BNDA
under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and BNDA, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the
Association and which shall include interest at a rate of three (3%) percent
Per annum and a fifteen-year repayment period including a grace period of
five years; and (iii) make the proceeds of the Credit which may f rom time
to time be allocated to Categories 1 (c), 2 (c) , 3 (a) and 3 (b) of the
table mentioned above, and an amount equivalent to that allocated to
Category 6 of the same table, available to ON on a grant basis.
      (d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and
the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures required
on its part to:
      (a)   ensure that ON: (i) at all times buys paddy and sells rice in
accordance with the provisions of the Contract-plan; (ii) charges custom-
mill services at full cost at all times; (iii) collects water charges at the
rate of CFAF 28,000 per hectare on all rehabilitated perimeters commencing
with the first crop harvested on said perimeters after their rehabilitation;
and (iv) increases water charges each year by a percentage agreed upon with
the Association so as to achieve: (A) on any rehabilitated perimeter three
years after its rehabilitation an overall increase of 25% over and above the
level of charges collected on such perimeter as of the first year of its
rehabilitation, plus the required adjustment for inflation as determined by
the Borrower's consumer price index or any other measure of inflation
satisfactory to the Association; and (B) on any rehabilitated perimeters
seven years after its rehabilitation an overall increase of 70% over and
above the level of charges collected on such perimeter as of the first year
of its rehabilitation, plus the required adjustment for inflation determined
as provided in subparagraph (A) above;
      (b)   further to the provisions of paragraph (a) (iv) above, cause ON
to increase water charges no later than January 1 of each subsequent year
so as to generate funds sufficient to cover ON's cost attributable to water
distribution operations;
      (c)   not later than September 30, 1988 conclude with ON an agreement
satisfactory to the Association to determine the legal, financial and
accounting regime of fixed assets belonging to the public domain but whose
operation and maintenance is entrusted to ON including a detailed inventory
of such assets;
Page  6
      (d)   cause ON to: (i) implement the Contract-plan; and (ii) review
with the Borrower and the Association no later than November 30 of each year
the progress achieved in executing said Contract-plan; and
      (e)   without any limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) (i)
above, from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
with the Association on the Borrower's rice pricing policies and its plans
in respect of the overall development of the rice sector.
      Section 3.04. Not later than September 30, 1988 the Borrower shall
cause:
      (a)   ON, DNACOOP, DNFLA and DNE to conclude an agreement satisfactory
to the Association to integrate their activities in the Project Area in the
training and extension programs devised by ON; and
      (b)   ON and CAA to conclude an agreement satisfactory to the
Association to restructure ON's long-term debt due to the Borrower.
      Section 3.05. the Borrower shall: (a) not later than December 31, 1988
or any other date agreed upon with the Association, on the basis of a plan
proposed by the Borrower, review with the Association all ways and means
appropriate for privatizing one or several rice mills; and
      (b)   take all measures required on its part to implement the results
and recommendations derived from the review referred to in paragraph (a)
above.
      Section 3.06. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of
the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of Parts A.2, B, C and D of the Project shall be
carried out by ON and in respect of Part E by BNDA pursuant to Section 2.04
of the Project Agreement.
      Section 3.07. Without limiting the generality of Section 3.06 above,
the Borrower shall under arrangements satisfactory to the Association cause
the Markala and Selimgue Dams and all electromechanical and regulating
structures thereof to be periodically inspected in accordance with sound
engineering practice in order to determine whether there are any
deficiencies in the condition of such structures or in the quality and
adequacy of maintenance or methods of operations of the same which may
endanger their safety. To this end, the Borrower shall propose to the
Association appropriate arrangements for the Association's review no later
than December 31, 1988.
                                ARTICLE IV
                        Remedies of the Association
      Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   The Borrower shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Contract-plan.
      (b)   ON or BNDA shall have failed to perform any of their obligations
under the Project Agreement or in the case of ON under the Contract-plan.
      (c)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that ON or BNDA will be able to perform their
obligations under the Project Agreement or in the case of ON under the
Contract-plan.
      (d)   Ordinance No. 81-3/P-RM dated April 28, 1981 relating to ON, or
Law No. 81-08 dated February 11, 1981 relating to BNDA, or Decree No. 217
PG-RM dated August 31, 1981 relating to ON, or Decree No. 63 PG-RM dated
March 25, 1981 relating to BNDA, shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of ON or BNDA to perform any of their respective obligations under
Page  7
the Project Agreement, or in the case of the Borrower and ON, their respec-
tive obligations under the Contract-plan.
      (e)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of ON or BNDA
or for the suspension of their respective operations.
      (f)   The Borrower or ON shall have amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived the Contract-plan without prior approval of the
Association.
      (g)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                  (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
                        of any grant or loan made to the Borrower for the
                        financing of the Project shall have been suspended,
                        cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
                        pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing
                        therefor; or
                  (B)   any such loan shall have become due and payable
                        prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
            (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the
                  Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the
                  Association that: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
                  termination or prematuring is not caused by the failure
                  of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                  such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project
                  are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
                  and conditions consistent with the obligations of the
                  Borrower under this Agreement.
      Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   the events specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the
Borrower;
      (b)   the events specified in paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
      (c)   the event specified in paragraph (g) (i) (B) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of subparagraph (ii) of
that paragraph.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the KfW Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the
Borrower and KfW;
      (b)   the DGIS Grant Agreement has been executed on behalf of the
Borrower and DGIS;
      (c)   the Contract-plan has been executed on behalf of the Borrower
and ON;
      (d)   the ON Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of
the Borrower and ON;
      (e)   the BNDA Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf
of the Borrower and BNDA; and
      (f)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of, or initial
Page  8
disbursements under the KfW Loan Agreement, FAC Grant Agreement, CCCE Loan
Agreement, DGIS Grant Agreement, have been fulfilled, other than the
effectiveness of this Agreement.
      Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional matters,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
      (a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by ON and BNDA, and is legally binding upon ON and BNDA in accordance with
its terms;
      (b)   that the ON Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Borrower and ON and is legally binding upon the Borrower
and ON in accordance with its terms; and
      (c)   that the BNDA Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Borrower and BNDA and is legally binding upon the
Borrower and BNDA in accordance with its terms.
      Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
      Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 3.03 (a),
(b) and (e) of this Agreement and the provisions of
paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of Section 4.02 of this Agreement shall cease
and determine on the date on which this Agreement shall terminate or on the
date thirty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
                                ARTICLE VI
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement,
the Minister of the Borrower responsible for Finance is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministere des Finances et du Commerce
            Bamako
            Republic of Mali
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  MINIFINANCES                  2559 MINFINANCE
                  Bamako
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                  Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
Page  9
                  REPUBLIC OF MALI
                  By /s/ Nouhoum Samassekou
                                                Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Callisto Madavo
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                                                   Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit
to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
       Amount of the
     Credit Allocated                % of
       (Expressed in             Expenditures
CategorySDR Equivalent)         to be Financed
(1)      Civil works:
    (a) maintenance                  780,000    100%
        unit under
        Part B.2 of
        the Project
    (b) Gruber/Siengo              8,480,000     85%
la      canals and main
        drain under
        Part C.3 (i)
        of the Project
    (c) Siengo peri-               8,945,000     85%
        meters under
        Part C.3 (ii)
        of the Project
(2)     Vehicles, equipment
    materials and spare
    parts:
    (a) maintenance unit           1,945,000    100%
        under Part B.2
        of the Project
    (b) support to ON                855,000    100%
        under Part C.5
        of the Project
    (c) Markala Dam                4,355,000        100%
        (Phase II) under
        Part C.1 (ii)
        of the Project
(3)     Consultants'
    services:
Page  10
    (a) Gruber/                      235,000    100%
    Siengo
    canals, main
    drain and
    perimeters
    under Part C.3
    of the Project
    (b) Markala Dam                  650,000        100%
        (Phase II) under
        Part C.1 (ii)
        of the Project
    (c) applied                      150,000        100%
        research
        under Part D.1
        of the Project
    (d) other parts of               320,000        100%
        the Project
(4)     Training and                 315,000        100%
    Studies under
    Part A.2 and D.3
    of the Project
(5)     Agricultural               1,550,000        100%
    Credit under
    Part E of the
    Project
(6)     Refunding of Pro-          1,170,000        Amount due pur-
    ject Prepara-                                   suant to Section
    tion Advance                                    2.02 (b) of this
                                   Agreement
(7)     Unallocated                1,250,000
        TOTAL                     31,000,000
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement; and (b) payments for expenditures: (i) in respect
of Category (3) (c) until ON and Institut d'Economie Rurale have concluded
an agreement satisfactory to the Association on the modalities of their
collaboration for carrying out Part D.1 of the Project; (ii) in respect of
Category (5) until ON and BNDA have concluded an agreement satisfactory to
the Association on the modalities of their collaboration concerning delivery
of agricultural credit and other financial services within the Project Area;
and (iii) in respect: of Categories 1 (a) and 2 (a) until the Association
has approved the results and recommendations of the study referred to in
Section 2.07 (c) of the Project Agreement.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to increase agricultural productivity
and farmers' income in the Project Area and to protect investments already
made in irrigation and in agriculture, all within the framework of a long-
term program to rehabilitate and strengthen the operations of ON.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Policy Reforms and Institutional Development
1.  Carrying out of a program comprising a package of policy reforms
designed to:
          (i)   limit the scope of ON's activities during the Project
Page  11
                Period to the operation and maintenance of the Markala Dam
                and of the primary and secondary irrigation
                infrastructures; planning, development, and management of
                land entrusted to ON, provision of extension services to
                farmers in the Project Area; carrying out of applied
                agricultural research; and purchasing and milling of paddy
                and rice marketing;
          (ii)  consolidate farmers' land tenure rights;
          (iii) liberalize paddy and rice pricing and marketing policies;
          (iv)  increase access of farmers to agricultural credit; and
          (v)   promote and attract private investments in the irrigation
                sector.
2.  Strengthening of ON's management capability through:
          (i)   streamlining of ON's administrative and operational
                structure;
          (ii)  preparation of staff profiles; assessment of current
                training needs and formulation of a training program to
                most said needs;
          (iii) formulation and execution of: (a) a staff redeployment
                plan; and (b) a career development plan and policies
                related thereto;
          (iv)  execution of a study to assess staff remuneration and
                design an appropriate staff compensation and benefits
                scheme; and
          (v)   provision of: (a) in-house and formal training in Mali and
                abroad of ON's staff responsible for carrying out the
                Project in matters related to agricultural sciences, civil
                works engineering, accounting and finance, and human
                resources management; (b) job related training in fields
                such as mechanics, and rural works for ON's staff to be
                redeployed; and (c) training of farmers and VA's members in
                activities related to development and maintenance of
                irrigated perimeters, agricultural and livestock husbandry,
                and storage and marketing of agricultural inputs and
                outputs.
3.  Strengthening of ON's accounting and financial management systems,
4.  Promotion and establishment of Village Associations.
Part B:   Maintenance Unit
1.  (i)   Execution of a study to formulate a maintenance program and assess
          current needs in fleet and workshop equipment and spare parts
          required to redress the Maintenance Unit;
          (ii)  strengthening the technical and managerial capability of
                the Maintenance Unit to carry out maintenance programs; and
          (iii) acquisition of required equipment and spare parts.
2.  Overhual and refurbishing of workshops and renewal of maintenance
equipment.
Part C:   Repairs and Maintenance of Irrigation Infrastructure and
          Perimeters
1.  Overhaul and repair of the Markala Dam in two phases:
          (i)   Phase I consisting of the overhaul and repair of the
                electromechanical equipment and workshops; and
Page  12
          (ii)  Phase II consisting of the overhaul and repair of the gates
                and pillars of the dam.
2.  Urgent repairs of the Sahel and Molodo Canals, including consolidation
of their embankments, repairs of their regulating structures and
construction of an access track along said canals.
3.  (i)   Rehabilitation and modernization of the Gruber-Nord and Siengo
          canals and the Siengo main drain including an access track; and
          (ii)  rehabilitation of about 3,100 hectares of perimeters in the
                Siengo command area.
4.  (i)   Carrying out of a rural works pilot scheme at the rate of about
          500 hectares per year on perimeters not yet rehabilitated; and
          (ii)  acquisition of equipment required for implementing said
                scheme.
5.  (a)   Carrying out by ON of: (i) a program to improve water management;
(ii) a program to protect the environment, inter alia, through tree
planting, periodic water quality controls and implementation of any
protective measures required; and (iii) aerial photography and a
morphopedological study to update land-use and soil maps with a view to
developing a master plan for the Project Area; and
    (b)   computerization of ON's data base and acquisition of equipment
required therefor.
Part D:   Applied Research and Studies
1.  Carrying out of applied research programs designed to increase
agricultural production in the Project Area and provision of extension
services to farmers in the Project Area.
2.  Formulation of a training program for the Agricultural Training Center.
3.  Carrying out of studies to:
    (a)   identify: (i) new crops suitable for production in the Project
Area and assess the required processing technologies and marketing potential
thereof; and (ii) the constraints facing private investments in the
irrigation sector and devise appropriate incentives to attract such
investments in the said sector;
    (b)   assess the potential for increased taxation of revenues earned by
farmers and other economic operators in the Project Area, and determine the
modalities required to implement such taxation; and
    (c)   prepare follow up investments required to carry out further
rehabilitation programs.
Part E:   Agricultural Credit
    Provision of short- and medium-term agricultural credit to farmers and
VAs.
                                 *   *   *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.
