Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                  AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT NUMBER A-35 MLI
                          African Facility Credit
                                 Agreement
                  (Office du Niger Consolidation Project)
                                  between
                             REPUBLIC OF MALI
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          as ADMINISTRATOR of the
                  SPECIAL FACILITY for SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA
                            Dated July 11, 1988
                                  AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT NUMBER A-35 MLI
                     AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 11, 1988, between REPUBLIC OF MALI (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as ADMINISTRATOR of the
SPECIAL FACILITY for SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA (the Administrator).
      WHEREAS (A) the Executive Directors of the International Development
Association (IDA) have established by their Resolution No. IDA 85-1 of May
21, 1985, (the Resolution) , a Special Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa (the
African Facility) constituted by the funds which shall be contributed by the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and other
donors and administered by IDA, acting as Administrator of the African
Facility, for the purpose of, and in accordance with, the provisions of the
Resolution;
      (B)   the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has
requested assistance from the resources of the African Facility in the
financing of the Project, and the Administrator has determined that such
assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of the Resolution;
      (C)   the Borrower has also requested IDA to provide additional
assistance towards the financing of the Project and by an agreement of even
date herewith between the Borrower and IDA (the Development Credit
Agreement), IDA is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate
principal amount equivalent to thirty-one million Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 31,000,000) (the IDA Credit);
      (D)   the Borrower intends to contract from Kreditanstalt fur
Page  2
Wiederaufbau (KfW) under the Special Joint Financing Agreement for the
African Facility a loan (the KfW Loan) in an amount of thirty-seven million
nine hundred fifty thousand Deutsche Marks (DM 37,950,000) to assist in the
financing of part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in
an agreement (the KfW Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and KfW;
      (E)   by an agreement dated December 31, 1987 (the FAC Grant
Agreement) the French Republic through Fonds d'Aide a la Cooperation (FAC)
has agreed to make a grant (the FAC Grant) to the Borrower in an aggregate
amount of seven million French francs (FF 7,000,000) to assist in financing
part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the FAC Grant
Agreement;
      (F)   by an agreement dated November 11, 1986 (the CCCE Loan
Agreement) Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) has agreed to
make a loan (the CCCE Loan) to the Borrower in an aggregate principal amount
of forty million French Francs (FF 40,000,000) to assist in financing part
of the Project the terms and conditions set forth in the CCCE Loan
Agreement;
      (G)   the Borrower intends to contract from The Netherlands through
the Directoraat General voor Internationale Samenwerking (DGIS) a grant (the
DGIS Grant) to the Borrower in an aggregate principal amount of twenty-nine
million four hundred fifty thousand Dutch Guilders (DFls 29,450,000) to
assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (the DGIS Grant Agreement) to be entered into between
the Borrower and DGIS;
      (H)   the Project will be carried out by the Borrower, ON and BNDA
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower
will make available to ON the proceeds of the African Facility Credit as
provided in this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the African Facility Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between IDA, ON and BNDA;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the International Development Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)    the term "Association", when used in the General Conditions,
means the International Development Association acting as Administrator of
the African Facility, except in the phrase "member of the Association" in
Sections 2.01 (5), 4.02 (b) and 6.02 (e) thereof;
      (b)   the terms "Development Credit Agreement", "Credit" and "Credit
Account", when used in the General Conditions, are amended to read "African
Facility Credit Agreement", "African Facility Credit" and "African Facility
Credit Account", respectively;
      (c)   the last sentence of Section 3.02 and the second sentence of
Section 5.01 are deleted; and
      (d)   in Sections 6.02 and 7.01, the term "Association" shall also
include the International Development Association acting in its own
capacity.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions, in the Preamble to this Agreement and in
the Development Credit Agreement have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
Page  3
      (a)   "Part II member of IDA" means a member of IDA with respect to
which the terms and conditions of membership are those prescribed in the
Articles of Agreement of IDA for countries whose names are listed in Part
II of Schedule A to those Articles;
      (b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between IDA and ON of
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project
Agreement;
      (c)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and ON pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this
Agreement, as the same may be amended f rom time to time, and such term
includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
      (d)   "Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and IDA for the Project, as such agreement may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes the "General Conditions
Applicable to Development Credit Agreements" of IDA, dated January 1, 1985,
as applied to such agreement, and all schedules and agreements supplemental
to the Development Credit Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                        The African Facility Credit
      Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Borrower on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the African Facility Credit
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to seven million one
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 7,100,000).
      Section 2.02. The amount of the African Facility Credit may be
withdrawn from the African Facility Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the African
Facility Credit.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1992 or such later
date as the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to IDA a commitment charge
on the principal amount of the African Facility Credit not withdrawn from
to time at a rate to be set by !DA as of June 30 of each year, but not to
exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from a date sixty days
after the date of this Agreement (the Accrual Date) to the respective dates
on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the African
Facility Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the
June 30 immediately preceding the Accrual Date or at such other rates as may
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied as of the next payment
date in that year, specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, except that
the rate set as of June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as IDA
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by,
or in the territory of , the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified
in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions
or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from to time to be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to IDA a service charge at the
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the amount
withdrawn from the African Facility Credit Account and outstanding from time
to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on March I and September 1 in each year.
Page  4
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay to IDA the principal amount of
the African Facility Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March
1 and September 1 commencing September 1, 1998 and ending March 1, 2038.
Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 1, 2008,
shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and
each installment thereafter shall be one and one-half percent (1-1/2%) of
such principal amount.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
      Section 2.09. ON is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under
the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and,
to this end, shall carry out Part A.1 of the Project through its Ministry
of Agriculture with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and technical irrigation practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause
ON and BNDA to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project
Agreement all the obligations of ON and BNDA therein set forth, shall take
and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
ON and BNDA to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
      (c)   The Borrower shall: (i) relend the proceeds of the African
Facility Credit, which may from time to time be allocated to Categories 1
(a) , 2 (a) , 2 (b) , 2 (d) , 3 (a) , 3 (c) and 4 of the table set forth in
Schedule I to this Agreement, to ON under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and ON, under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Administrator and which shall include
interest at a rate of three percent (3%) per annum and a thirty year
repayment period including a grace period of ten years; and (ii) make the
proceeds of the African Facility Credit which may from time to time be
allocated to Categories I (b), 2 (c), 2 (e), 3 (b) , and 5 of the table
mentioned above available to ON on a grant basis.
      (d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Administrator and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit and, except as
the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision
thereof.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the African Facility
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule I to the Project
Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures required
on its part to:
      (a)   ensure that ON: (i) at all times buys paddy and sells rice in
accordance with the provisions of the Contract-plan; (ii) charges custom-
mill services at full cost at all times; (iii) collects water charges at the
rate of CFAF 28,000 per hectare on all rehabilitated perimeters commencing
with the first crop harvested on said perimeters after their rehabilitation;
and (iv) increases water charges each year by a percentage agreed upon with
Page  5
the Association so as to achieve: (A) on any rehabilitated perimeter three
years after its rehabilitation an overall increase of 25% over and above the
level of charges collected on such perimeters as of the first year of its
rehabilitation, plus the required adjustment for inflation determined by the
Borrower's consumer price index or any other measure of inflation
satisfactory to the Association; and (B) on any rehabilitated perimeter
seven years after its rehabilitation an overall increase of 70% over and
above the level of charges collected on such perimeter as of the first year
of its rehabilitation, plus the required adjustment for inflation determined
as provided in subparagraph (A) above;
      (b)   further to the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) (iv) above cause
ON to increase water charges no later than January 1 of each subsequent year
so as to generate funds sufficient to cover ON's costs attributable to water
distribution operations;
      (c)   not later than September 30, 1988, conclude with ON an agreement
satisfactory to the Administrator to determine the legal, financial and
accounting regime of fixed assets belonging to the public domain but whose
operation and maintenance is entrusted to ON, including a detailed inventory
of such assets;
      (d)   cause ON to: (i) implement the Contract-plan; and
(ii) review with the Borrower and the Administrator no later than
November 30 of each year the progress achieved in executing said
Contract-plan; and
      (e)   without any limitation to the provisions of subparagraph (a) (i)
above, from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
with the Administrator on the Borrower's rice pricing policies and its plans
in respect of the overall development of the rice sector.
      Section 3.04. Not later than September 30, 1988, the Borrower shall
cause: (a) ON, DNACOOP, DNFLA and DNE to conclude an agreement satisfactory
to the Administrator to integrate their activities in the Project Area in
the training and extension programs devised by ON; and
      (b)   ON and CAA to conclude an agreement satisfactory to the
Administrator to restructure ON's long-term debt due to the Borrower.
      Section 3.05. the Borrower shall: (a) not later than December 31, 1988
or any other date agreed upon with the Administrator on the basis of a plan
prepared by the Borrower, review with the Administrator all ways and means
appropriate for privatizing one or several rice mills; and
      (b)   take all measures required on its part to implement the results
and recommendations derived from the review referred to in paragraph (a)
above.
      Section 3.06. The Borrower and the Administrator hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of
the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of Parts A.2, B, C and D of the Project shall be
carried out by ON and in respect of Part E by BNDA pursuant to Section 2.04
of the Project Agreement.
      Section 3.07. Without limiting the generality of Section 3.06 above,
the Borrower shall under arrangements satisfactory to the Administrator
cause the Markala and Selimgue Dams and all electro-mechanical and
regulating structures thereof to be periodically inspected in accordance
with sound engineering practice in order to determine whether there are any
deficiencies in the condition of such structures, in the quality and
adequacy of maintenance or methods of operations of the same which may
endanger their safety. To this end, the Borrower shall propose to the
Administrator appropriate arrangements for the Administrator's review no
later than December 31, 1988.
                                ARTICLE IV
                       Remedies of the Administrator
Page  6
      Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   The Borrower shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Contract-plan.
      (b)   ON or BNDA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement or in the case of ON under the Contract-plan.
      (c)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that ON or BNDA will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement or in the case of ON under the
Contract-plan.
      (d)   Ordinance No. 81-3/P-RM dated April 28, 1981 relating to ON, or
Law No. 81-08 dated February 11, 1981 relating to BNDA, or Decree No. 217
PG-RM dated August 31, 1981 relating to ON, or Decree No. 63-PG-RM dated
March 25, 1981 relating to BNDA, shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of ON or BNDA to perform any of their respective obligations under
the Project Agreement or, in the case of the Borrower and ON, their respec-
tive obligations under the Contract-plan.
      (e)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of ON or BNDA
or for the suspension of their respective operations.
      (f)    The Borrower or ON shall have amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived the Contract-plan without prior approval of the
Administrator.
      (g)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                  (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
                        of any grant or loan made to the Borrower for the
                        financing of the Project shall have been suspended,
                        cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
                        pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing
                        therefor; or
                  (B)   any such loan shall have become due and payable
                        prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
            (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the
                  Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the
                  Administrator that:
                  (A)   such suspension, cancellation, termination or
                        prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                        Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                        such agreement; and
                  (B)   adequate funds for the Project are available to the
                        Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
                        consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
                        under this Agreement.
      Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   the events specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Administrator to the
Borrower;
      (b)   the events specified in paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) Section 4.01
of this Agreement shall occur; and
      (c)   the event specified in sub-paragraph (g) (i) (B) of Section 4.01
of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of subparagraph (ii)
of that paragraph.
Page  7
                                 ARTICLE V
                       Effective Date; Termination;
                       Designation of Administrator
      Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of the African Facility Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely,
that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of, or initial
disbursement under, the Development Credit Agreement, KfW Loan Agreement,
FAC Grant Agreement, CCCE Loan Agreement and DIGIS Grant Agreement, except
for the effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled.
      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
      Section 5.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 3.03 (a),
(b) and (e) of this Agreement and the provisions of paragraphs (a), (b) and
(c) of Section 4.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date
on which the African Facility Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the
date thirty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
      Section 5.04. In the event that the Executive Directors of IDA decide
to terminate the functions of IDA as Administrator of the African Facility
pursuant to paragraph 10 of the Resolution, the Administrator may, by notice
to the Borrower, designate another party which, on the date specified in
such notice, shall assume part or all of the rights and obligations of the
Administrator under this Agreement in accordance with the Resolution and
such decision of the Executive Directors, as specified in such notice.
                                ARTICLE VI
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement,
the Minister of the Borrower responsible for Finance is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministere des Finances et du Commerce
            Bamako
            Republic of Mali
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  MINIFINANCES                  2559 MINFINANCE
                  Bamako
      For the Administrator:
            Administrator of the African Facility
            (International Development Association)
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                  Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
Page  8
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                  REPUBLIC OF MALI
                  By /s/ Nouhoum Samassekou
                                                Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL FACILITY
                  FOR SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA
                  By /s/ Callisto Madavo
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                                                   Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                        Withdrawal of the Proceeds
                      of the African Facility Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the African Facility Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the African Facility Credit to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
       Amount of the
     African Facility
     Credit Allocated                % of
      (Expressed in              Expenditures
CategorySDR Equivalent)         to be Financed
(1)     Civil works:
    (a) maintenance                  235,000        32%
        unit under
        Part B.2 of
        the Project
    (b) repairs under                935,000        32%
        Part C.2 of
        the Project
(2)     Vehicles, equip-
    ment and spare
    parts:
    (a) maintenance                  860,000        32%
        under
        Part B.1 of
        the Project
    (b) maintenance                  780,000        32%
        unit under
        Part B.2 of
        the Project
    (c) ON research                  470,000        32%
        under Parts D.1
        and D.2 of the
        Project and
        water management
        under Part C.2 (a)
        of the Project
Page  9
    (d) rural works under             80,000        32%
        Part C.4 of the
        Project
    (e) Markala Dam                  940,000        32%
        (Phase I) under
        Part C.1 (i) of
        the Project
(3)     Consultants' Services:
    (a) maintenance unit             240,000        32%
        under Part B.2
        of the Project
    (b) Markala Dam                  240,000        32%
        (Phase I) under
        Part C.1 (i)
        of the Project
    (c) other parts of               240,000        32%
        the Project
(4)     Training and                 160,000        32%
    studies under
    Parts A.2 and
    D.3 of the
    Project
(5)     Operating Costs              940,000        16%
(6)     Unallocated                  980,000
        Total                      7,100,000
2. For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "operating costs" means
expenditures (except for staff salaries) incurred by ON for operations and
maintenance of the Markala Dam and main drains, and for research and
extension activities.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of:
   (a)    payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement; and
   (b)    payments for expenditures in respect of Category (2) (b) until the
Administrator has approved the results and recommendations of the study
referred to in Section 2.07 (c) of the Project Agreement.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
   The objectives of the Project are to increase agricultural productivity
and farmers' income in the Project Area and to protect investments already
made in irrigation and in agriculture, all within the framework of a long-
term program to rehabilitate and strengthen the operations of ON.
   The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Policy Reforms and Institutional Development
1. Carrying out of a program comprising a package of policy reforms
designed to:
       (i)   limit the scope of ON's activities during the Project period
             to the operation and maintenance of the Markala Dam and of the
             primary and secondary irrigation infrastructures; planning,
Page  10
             development, and management of land entrusted to ON; provision
             of extension services to farmers in the Project Area; carrying
             out of applied agricultural research; and purchase and milling
             of paddy and rice marketing;
       (ii)  consolidate farmers' land tenure rights;
       (iii) liberalize paddy and rice pricing and marketing policies;
       (iv)  increase access of farmers to agricultural credit; and
       (v)   mobilize and attract private investments in the irrigation
             sector.
2. Strengthening of ON's management capability through:
       (i)   streamlining of ON's administrative and operational structure;
       (ii)  preparation of staff profiles; assessment of current training
             needs and formulation of a training program to meet said
             needs;
       (iii) formulation and execution of: (a) a staff redeployment plan;
             and (b) a career development plan and policies related
             thereto;
       (iv)  execution of a study to assess staff remuneration and design
             an appropriate staff compensation and benefits scheme; and
       (v)   provision of: (a) in-house and formal training in Mali and
             abroad of ON's staff responsible for carrying out the Project
             in matters related to agricultural sciences, civil work,
             engineering, accounting and finance, and human resources
             management; (b) job related training in fields such as
             mechanics, and rural works for ON's staff to be redeployed;
             and (c) training of farmers and VAs members in activities
             related to development and maintenance of irrigated
             perimeters, agricultural and livestock husbandry, and storage
             and marketing of agricultural inputs and outputs.
3. Strengthening of ON's accounting and financial management systems.
4. Promotion and establishment of Village Associations.
Part B:   Maintenance Unit
1.     (i)   Execution of a study to formulate a maintenance program and
             assess current needs in fleet and workshop equipment and spare
             parts required to redress the Maintenance Unit;
       (ii)  strengthening the technical and managerial capability of the
             Maintenance Unit to carry out maintenance programs; and
       (iii) acquisition of required equipment and spare parts.
2. Overhaul and refurbishing of workshops and renewal of maintenance
equipment.
Part C:   Repairs and Maintenance of Irrigation Infrastructure and
          Perimeters.
1. Overhaul and repair of the Markala Dam in two phases:
       (i)   Phase I consisting of overhaul and repair of the electro-
             mechanical equipment and workshops; and
       (ii)  Phase II consisting of the overhaul and repair of the gates
             and pillars of the dam.
2. Urgent repairs of the Sahel and Molodo Canals, including consolidation
of their embankments, repairs of their regulating structures and
construction of an access track along said canals.
Page  11
3. (i)    Rehabilitation and modernization of the Gruber-Nord and Siengo
          canals and Siengo main drain, including a related access track;
          and
       (ii)  rehabilitation of about 3,100 hectares of perimeters in the
             Siengo command area.
4. (i)    Carrying out of a rural works pilot scheme at the rate of about
          500 hectares per year on perimeters not yet rehabilitated; and
       (ii)  acquisition of equipment required for implementing said
             scheme.
5. (a)    Carrying out of:
       (i)   a program to improve water management;
       (ii)  a program to protect the environment, inter alia, through tree
             planting, periodic water quality controls and implementation
             of any protective measures required; and
       (iii) aerial photography and a morphopedological study to update
             land-use and soil maps with a view to developing a master plan
             for the Project Area; and
   (b)    computerization of ON's data base and acquisition of
equipment required therefor.
Part D:   Applied Research and Studies
1. Carrying out of applied research programs designed to increase
agricultural production in the Project Area and provision of extension
services to farmers in the Project Area.
2. Formulation of a training program for the Agricultural Training Center.
3. Carrying out of studies to:
   (a)    identify:
       (i)   new crops suitable for production in the Project Area and
             assess the required processing technologies and marketing
             potential thereof; and
       (ii)  the constraints facing private investments in the irrigation
             sector and devise appropriate incentives to attract such
             investments in the said sector;
   (b)    assess the potential for increased taxation of revenues
earned by farmers and other economic operators in the Project Area and
determine the modalities required to implement such taxation; and
   (c)    prepare follow-up investments required to carry out further
rehabilitation programs.
Part E:   Agricultural Credit
   Provision of short- and medium-term agricultural credit to farmers and
VAs.
                                 *   *   *
   The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.
