Document of
The World Bank                                £>
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4017-NIR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
May 20, 1983
Western Africa Projects Department
Transport Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =   CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.0           =   CFAF 340
CFAF 1 million       US$2,940
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYY1S
BAEMTP    - Budget Annexe pour 1'Exploitation du Materiel des Travaux
Publics (Supplementary Budget for Operation of Public Works
Equipment)
BCEAO     - Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (Central
Bank of West African States)
BCEOK     - Bureau Central des Etudes d'Outre-Mer (France)
BDRN      - Banque de Developpement de la Republique du Niger (Niger
Development Bank)
BN        - Budget National
CFPTP     - Centre de Formation et Perfectionnement des Travaux Publics
CONCERTA  - Compagnie Nationale pour la Construction et l'Entretien de la
Route Tahoua-Arlit
DM        - Direction du Mat6riel
DTP       - Direction des Travaux Publics (Directorate of Public Works)
DTT       - Direction des Transports Terrestres (Directorate of Land
Transport)
FNI       - Fonds National d'Investissement (National Investment Fund)
LCPC      - Laboratoire Central des Ponts et Chaussees (France)
LNTP      - Laboratoire National des Travaux Publics (Niger)
MF        - Ministere des Finances
MTPU      - Ministere des Travaux Publics, et de l'Urbanisme (Ministry of
Public Works and Housing)
OCBN      - Organisation Commune Benin-Niger
OPEC      - Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PCX       - Parc Central du Materiel (Central Equipment Fleet)
SNGTN     - Societe Nationale des Grands Travaux du Niger
SNTN      - Societe Nationale des Transports Nigeriens



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   THE  TRANSPORT  SECTOR ....................................                               1
A.   General .............................................                               1
B.   Transport  Policy  and  Planning .......................                            2
C.   The  Transport  System ................................                             5
II.   THE  HIGHWAY  SUBSECTOR ...................................                               6
A.   The Network .........................................                               6
B. Road Traffic ..................  7
C.   Administrative  Planning .............................                              8
D.   Staffing  and  Training ...............................                             9
E.   Financing ...........................................    10
F. Engineering, Construction, Procurement
and  Contracting ...................................    12
G.   Road  Maintenance ....................................    12
H.   Previous  Projects ...................................    14
III.   THE  PROJECT .............................................    15
A.   Objectives ..........................................    15
B.   Description .........................................    15
C.   Cost  Estimates ......................................    19
D.   Procurement .........................................    20
E.   Financing,  Disbursements  and Reporting ..............    21
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION                                      ..                                23
A.   General .............................................    23
B.   Bituminous  Roads  Periodic  Maintenance  Program .......    24
V.   AGREEMENTS  REACHED  AND  RECOMMENDATIONS ..................    26
This report was prepared by C.J.D. Lane (Highway Engineer) and J.
Pelletey (Economist) on the basis of an appraisal mission to Niger in
October 1981.
r This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
TABLES
Supporting Tables for Chapter II
2.1 Development of the Highway Network, 1970-1980
2.2 New Vehicle Registrations, 1970-1980
2.3 Consumption of Petroleum Products, 1970-1981
2.4  Structure of Retail Price of Oil Products, 1982
2.5 Total Highway Expenditures, 1979-1982
2.6 Government Highway Maintenance Expenditures, 1971-1981
2.7  Estimates of Government Revenue from Road Users, 1970-1981
2.8 Spectrum of Axle Loads
Supporting Tables for Chapter III
3.1 Road Strengthening Program: Description of Works
3.2 Staff Training Program
3.3 Equipment List for the Training Center
3.4 Cost Estimates
3.5  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements from the Credit, FY1984-1989
Supporting Tables for Chapter IV
Paved Road Maintenance Program
4.1 Vehicle Operating Costs
4.2 Basic Assumptions of Cost-Benefit Analysis
4.3 Economic Return/Sensitivity Test
ANNEXES
1. Outline Data Collection System
2. Documents Available in the Project File
3. Technical Assistance to the Training Center
CHART
Organization of MTPU
MAP
IBRD-16335



NIGER
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. General
1.01      Niger with 1.3 million km2 of terrain is one of the largest
landlocked countries in the Sahel area. About 90% of Niger area lies in
the Sahara. Arable land is only 2.7 ha. per capita, one of the lowest
ratios among Sahelian countries. The population, which is growing at
2.5% p.a., was estimated at 5.5 million in 1981, making the average den-
sity only 4.2 inhabitants/km2, one of the lowest in Africa.  Eighty-five
percent of the population still lives in rural areas mainly in the south-
ern part of the country where the land is moderately fertile and the
rainfall sufficient for the cultivation of some food crops (millet,
sorghum, maize and cow peas) and cash crops (mainly groundnuts and cot-
ton) partly for the Nigerian market.
1.02      Niger endures a harsh climate with low and uncertain rainfall.
The drought of the mid-1970s probably hit Niger the hardest of the Sahe-
lian countries. In addition, the landlocked position of the country
induces high transport costs and sometimes causes serious delays in the
delivery of imports. However, despite these constraints and the very
meager endowment of physical and human resources, the country has tradi-
tionally adjusted relatively well to unfavorable environmental circum-
stances. During the last decade Niger experienced significant economic
growth. By 1980 the per capita income was US$360 ($90 in 1972), roughly
double that of its Sahelian neighbors, Mali and Upper Volta. This eco-
nomic upswing resulted from good rains in the late 1970s and an agri-
culture investment program that was generally soundly conceived and rea-
sonably well executed, and also from rapid development of uranium mining
and associated construction, transport and transit activities.
1.03      The uranium boom, which started in the mid-1970s, increased
foreign exchange earnings considerably. Exports of uranium rose from
1,100 tons in 1974 to 4,128 tons in 1980, while at the same time export
prices increased from CFAF 5,000/kg to CFAF 24,500/kg. Revenues earned
by the Government from tariffs, taxes, dividends and royalties from ura-
nium production increased from CFAF 4.1 billion in 1975 to CFAF 23.6
billion in 1980, i.e., about 31% of Government revenues. These windfall
revenues have been earmarked, by and large, for the Fonds National
d'Investissement (FNI) for the development of the agricultural sector and
improvement of basic infrastructure and social development.



- 2 -
1.04     Notwithstanding the importance of the uranium sector, Niger con-
tinues to be a predominantly rural economy with agriculture and livestock
accounting for some 30% of GDP. Both sectors performed acceptably after
the drought of the early and mid-1970s. The country has already managed
to restore self-sufficiency in food grains with output keeping pace with
population growth. In the livestock sector, reconstitution of herds has
already reached pre-drought level. The rural sector in the south is
profoundly influenced by the fact that Niger has traditional pre-colonial
links with neighboring Nigeria. The concentration of similar ethnic
groups on both sides of the 1,500 km border, the road network, and the
high demand for agriculture and livestock products in Nigerian urban
centers explains the recent growth of trade between the two countries.
1.05     The Government through its Five-Year Development Plan (1979-83)
emphasizes self-sufficiency in food production, reduction of economic
dependence and promotes, through the establishment of a "Development
Society," social justice and a gradual reduction of prevailing regional
and economic inequalities. This ambitious plan projects total public
investments of US$1.8 billion in 1979 constant prices excluding mining.
It gives priority to the increase of productivity in agriculture and
livestock, agrobased industries which have growth potential, and to the
development of basic economic and social infrastructures, mainly highways
but also in the water supply, education and health sectors. There are
already indications that the implementation of the Plan will fall short
of targets in most sectors. This is not necessarily undesirable, given
the over-optimistic nature of the Plan.
B. Transport Policy and Planning
1.06     While the Government's past transport policy was aimed mainly at
expanding and upgrading the major trunk roads in the south of the coun-
try, the present objectives are more diversified:
(a)   completion of linking the major urban centers and mining
areas to the main paved road network;
(b)   consolidation of the existing force account capability of
the Ministere des Travaux Publics et de l'Urbanisme
(MTPU)1/ for the maintenance of the earth roads network;
(c)   establishment of an adequate capability within the MTPU
for the preparation, supervision and execution of periodic
maintenance works on the paved road network;
(d)   extension of the feeder roads system in areas where rural
development projects are being implemented;
1/  Ministry of Public Works and Housing.



(e)   modernization of the fleet of Air Niger, the domestic air
line;
(f)   development of the training capacity of the MTPU; and
(g)   support of the development of a local construction indus-
try through highway projects.
1.07     The Bank is now supporting the Government actively in the reali-
zation of these objectives. The ongoing Third Highway Project and the
Feeder Road Project are addressing objectives (b), (d), (f) and (g). The
proposed Fourth Highway Project will chiefly address objectives (c) and
(f).
1.08     During the ongoing 1979-83 Five-Year Plan, the Government envi-
sages to allocate for highways mainly about CFAF 55 billion (in 1979
prices) in the sector, the equivalent of 14% of total public invest-
ments. In addition, about CFAF 31 billion were estimated to be invested
by the private sector or mixed companies for the purchase of transport
equipment and also for the construction by CONCERTA, an affiliate of the
uranium mines, of the "uranium road" Tahoua-Arlit (650 km, cost CFAF 21.7
billion, taxes excluded). Although the realization of some projects
envisaged by the Plan has been postponed because of insufficient funds,
the actual total investment in highways, still amounted to CFAF 30 bil-
lion during the period 1979-82, or about 12% of total public invest-
ments. Only 18% of these investments were financed by the FNI in asso-
ciation with local banks; the balance being met by foreign aid. The
major works undertaken during the period include the completion of the
major east-west trunk road (RN 1) which connects Niamey to major economic
centers of the south and for the improvement of access roads to the bor-
der of Benin and Upper Volta where import traffic developed rapidly.
Simultaneously an important effort has been made (CFAF 14 billion) for
extending and upgrading the secondary network in rural areas.
1.09     Today Niger is facing major uncertainties in its medium-term
economic outlook. The present depressed conditions in the world uranium
market are expected to continue until the late 1980s and will affect
public finance and creditworthiness. The Government has now to make
substantial adjustments including the scaling-down of its investment
program, to cope with the harsher economic environment. Under the so-
called policy of "consolidation" a pause in new investments is called for
and an increased emphasis will be placed on making existing investments
operational through better planning, maintenance, and tight control of
current expenditures.
1.10     This new policy should be applied in the transport sector.  The
Government is no longer actively pursuing the railway extension project
(Parakou to Niamey (650 km)). Since the country now has an adequate
interurban paved network, resources should now be allocated to the im-
provement of the feeder road network and to road maintenance, mainly on
the paved road network which has been considerably extended since 1975.
The next 1984-89 Five-Year Plan should embody a more balanced highway



- 4 -
investment program which should recognize the relative priority of high-
ways investments on the paved network in the following order: (a) main-
tenance; (b) rehabilitation; (c) paving; and (d) new construction. This
does not mean that the construction of new paved roads should be stopped
but rather that it be tied to traffic needs or linked to specific eco-
nomic development programs. This issue was discussed during negotia-
tions. Periodic consultations will be arranged between the Bank and the
Government during the implementation of the project to review the program
of highway construction and its implementation (para. 5.01(c)).
1.11     Basic policies and decisions on transport investment are made in
principle by the Ministry of Planning which also coordinates the neces-
sary external financing. These proposals are subject to the approval of
the National Council for Development. However, because of the lack of
qualified staff and inadequate coordination between ministries, major
responsibility for formulation of transport policy has been in fact
assigned to the MTPU. In recent years, the MTPU has adequately fulfilled
its task, and investment priorities in the sector have in general been
sound and reflected accurately the needs of the country.
1.12     The Direction des Travaux Publics (DTP),1/ which is staffed with
sufficient numbers in most branches and disposes of the necessary budget-
ary resources, has responsibility for the execution of investment studies
of all major public works projects (mainly highways) and plays a key role
in the formulation of the country's transport policy. The Direction des
Transports Terrestres (DTT)2/, short of staff, has been generally too
weak for meaningful participation in planning and policy-making decisions
and thus has limited its activities to routine administrative tasks (such
as registration of vehicles, driver licensing) and the control of opera-
tions of the state-owned transport companies. DTT has been recently
placed under the tutellage of the Ministry of State for Planning,
Commerce and Transport. This move has two main objectives: first to
improve coordination between the Directorate of Commerce and the DDT in
order to ensure more efficient transport operations of commercial firms
including large state companies and second to involve DTT more in the
preparation of the 1984-88 Economic Development Plan. The Direction
d'Aviation Civile (DAC)2/ delegates an important part of its functions,
mainly airport management, navigation aids, meteorology, etc., to ASECNA,
the Agence Internationale pour la Securite de la Navigation Aerienne
which manages and maintains civilian installations in the Francophone
African countries.
1.13     The French Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC) financed the
preparation of a Transportation Plan in 1977/1978. It is largely on the
basis of this study that priority projects included in the 1979-1983
Five-Year Plan have been selected. Since the growth of uranium revenue
1/ Directorate of Public Works.
2/ Since January 1983 the Directorates of Land Transport, Civil Aviation
and Meteorology are under the Ministry of State for Plan, Commerce and
Transport.



- 5 -
is now expected to be significantly lower than forecast during the prepa-
ration of the Plan, some updating of traffic forecasts and prefeasibility
studies will be needed. At the request of the Bank the MTPU has agreed
first, to undertake the necessary surveys with the assistance of the new
Road Management Unit (para. 3.07) to reinstitute data collection on this
sector which has been neglected in recent years and secondly, to execute
specific studies needed for adequate management of the sector (Annex 3).
C. The Transport System
1.14     Niger has a simple domestic transport infrastructure, with roads
and air being the most important modern modes of transportation. The
primary road network which is under the regular control of the DTP for
maintenance, includes about 8,500 km of paved, engineered laterite, and
earth roads and tracks. Since 1975, most of the Government efforts have
been to upgrade to paved standards the east-west axis which links the
Mali border to Lake Chad and serves the major economic areas and urban
centers of the country, and to upgrade and extend links to the uranium
mining area. Details of the road system and the road transport industry
are given in Chapter 2.
1.15     Niger's external trade flows are quite sensitive to transport
costs. First, because exploitation of the scarce natural resources (for
example uranium) depends heavily on imports of equipment and intermediate
goods and secondly, because the distance between local production or
consumption centers and the ocean ports is considerable. Another handi-
cap is that the major sections of the routes to the sea lie outside the
country and Niger has little control over the efficiency of operations
and costs of transit. There are three main export/import outlets:
(a)   the Nigeria route (about 1,450 km from Zinder to the sea)
which connects the central and eastern regions by road to
Kano, and thence by rail to the Port of Lagos;
(b)   the Benin route (about 1,100 km from Niamey to the sea)
which connects Gaya by road to Parakou, and thence by rail
to Cotonou; and
(c)   the Togo route (about 1,350 km from Niamey to the sea)
which connects Niamey to the Port of Lome (Togo) by road
through Upper Volta.
1.16     Traditionally about 70% of the total import/export freight traf-
fic was transported over the Benin route. However, severe restrictions
imposed on the activities of foreign companies in Benin following the
1976 wave of nationalization have obliged Niger transit companies and
their foreign partners to transfer part of their activity to Lome. In
addition, the improvement of roads both in Upper Volta and Togo make the
Togo route an acceptable alternative to the Benin route (although about
20% more expensive) for high value equipment and consumer goods, which
can support higher transportation costs and for which rapid delivery is a



key factor. The utilization of the Nigerian route was traditionally
limited to the import of oil products for the uranium mines, but its
importance for Niger is now decreasing since most of the oil is now
supplied from the Kano oil depots in northern Nigeria.
1.17     There is an international airport at Niamey and four small
regional airports at Agadez, Tahoua, Maradi and Zinder. Some mining and
oil exploration companies operate their own air fields. Niamey Airportl/
is the closest to Europe for sub-Saharan countries of the region and is
therefore an important transit stop (79,000 transit passengers in 1980)
and as such generates significant revenues from landing fees. Through
Credit 473-NIR in 1974, the Association helped to finance a project of
modernization and extension of the airport.
1.18     Most of the limited domestic air traffic (25,000 passenger
departures in 1980) is handled by Air Niger, the national airline and the
remainder by Trans-Niger air-taxi service. Since the air traffic demand
mainly to and from the Arlit mines is expected to continue to grow, the
Government has recently authorized Air Niger to modernize its fleet and
requested ASECNA to undertake a feasibility study for the construction of
a new airport at Arlit suitable for medium-sized aircraft of the B737
type.
1.19     Efforts to develop modern river transport on the Niger River
have recently been abandoned. The Soci6te Nationale des Transport Flu-
viaux (SNTF) created in 1972, with assistance of the Canadian Interna-
tional Development Agency (CIDA), to operate between Gaya and Warri
(Nigeria), has been recently dissolved. There is at present no immediate
hope for the company to resume its activities in the foreseeable future
since Nigeria has not yet undertaken the necessary improvements, such as
river regulation, required to develop this mode of transport.
II. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A. The Network
2.01     The main road network includes 8,500 km of roads: 2,910 km are
paved, 3,130 km are good engineered laterite roads, and the remainder are
earth roads and tracks of generally low standards, some of which are
periodically closed to traffic during the rainy season. There are also
some 12,000 km of unclassified earth roads in agricultural areas and
tracks in desert areas not under the regular control of the DTP
(Table 2.1). Niger ranks fourth among the six Sahelian countries -in
terms of total length of classified roads but, because of its large size,
is considered last in terms of km per 1,000 inhabitants (1.5 km/1,000"),
as well as in terms of density of road (6.3 km/1,000 km2).
1/  202,000 passengers handled in 1980; growth averaging about 11% p.a.



- 7 -
2.02     The network is concentrated in the south where the majority of
the population and most of the economic activity are found. The vast
uninhabited areas in the northern part of the country are only sparsely
served (Xap 1). Niger's terrain is mostly flat or undulating and pre-
sents no major physical barrier to land transport or development. In
recent years, as a result of the development of uranium mining, the
Government gave priority to the construction of the Tahou-Agadez-Arlit
Road (645 km) (the "uranium road") which links the populated areas of the
southwest with the mining areas.
B. Road Traffic
Growth of Traffic
2.03     The highest traffic flows are observed along the road RN 1, 1/
the major east-west axis of the country. The daily traffic averages
about 350 vehicle per day (vpd) but with higher volumes (550 to 750 vpd)
nearer Niamey. Traffic along the Dosso-Gaya Road, which leads to Benin,
and on the uranium road has already reached 360 and 280 vpd respectively,
with a high percentage of heavy truck traffic. Recent traffic counts
indicate that during the 1970s road traffic increased at about 13.5%
annually in terms of ton/km, reflecting both an increase in volume of
traffic (10%) and in average haul distance, following the mining boom.
2.04     This rapid increase in traffic is also reflected by the increase
in vehicle registrations by the DTT: 4,039 vehicles were registered in
1980 compared to 1,398 in 1970 (Table 2.2). Growth has been particularly
rapid in commercial vehicles.  An average of 1,645 new vehicles was reg-
istered annually between 1979-1980 as opposed to only 478 vehicles per
year a decade ago. The existing truck fleet is now considered adequate
to serve the present requirements.
2.05     Fuel consumption statistics confirm the traffic growth; between
1970 and 1975, consumption has grown at about 10% annually (Table 2.3)
but since the start of the uranium boom in 1976, growth has been about
16% p.a. Fuel prices are not subsidized, and the domestic price is well
above the current international price (Table 2.4).
The Road Transport Industry
2.06     The growth of imported equipment and intermediate goods for the
uranium mines as well as the rapid development of urbanization (about 9%
annually), which increased the flow of agricultural products to the major
urban centers, have strongly stimulated the activity of the trucking
companies. Public freight transport now is handled by well over 300
transporters, most of them located in the capital city of Niamey. While
officially there is no monopoly in road transport, it is clear that the
well-managed and efficient Soci6te Nationale des Transports Nigeriens
1/ RN = Route Nationale.



- 8 -
(SNTN) has benefitted most from the rapid growth of the transport demand
since the mid-1970s. However, SNTN which has full autonomy and is ma-
naged as a private company must negotiate its contracts like its compe-
titors. It also suab-contracts to small operators through the Syndicat
National des Transporteurs. Between 1976 and 1980 the company increased
its fleet from 295 vehicles to more than 1,000. The total mileage of the
truck fleet increased an average of 30% annually during the period. The
company handled about 75% of total fuel imports and about 30% of general
freight. SNTN has the monopoly for transport of uranium exports to
Parakou (Benin) and for imports of some chemical products, e.g., sulphur
destined for the mines.
2.07     Official tariffs for road transport are only indicative, except
for oil products, and for imports on vehicles chartered to the
Organisation Commune Benin-Niger (OCBN), the jointly-owned Cotonou-
Parakou Railway. In the latter case, OCBN imposes its own tariffs.
Tariffs for domestic traffic are usually negotiated on a case-by-ease
basis. In 1982 ac-tual tariffs for a single trip ranged between CFAF 25-
28 per ton/km on paved roads and about 33 to 36 CFAF/km on earth roads,
only slightly higher than on the coast. Discounts of about 35% are
requested by DTT for full load returns trips. The prevailing competition
among truckers means that most of the decrease in vehicle operating costs
resulting from road improvements will probably be passed on to the
consumer. Inter-urban passenger traffic is still inadequately organized,
and although some efforts have been made during recent years by SNTN to
open new lines, transport demand is still higher than capacity.
2.08     Licenses for public transport operators are issued by DTT.  In
principle only Nigerien citizens are allowed to form public transport
companies; foreigners may do so with special authorization. There is no
control of the professional capacity of candidates. DTT also requires
that freight transport vehicles undergo a technical inspection twice a
year and those for transport of passengers, four times a year. Enforce-
ment of these regulations however is quite lax.
C. Administrative Planning
2.09     During recent years the MTPU concentrated most of its human and
financial resources on the extension and upgrading of the road network,
and DTT was given a lower priority. The problem of the quality of the
road sector management is now urgent, since the choice of appropriate
technology for road construction and maintenance, and the formulation of
an adequate policy for financing paved road maintenance, is now a crucial
issue. Efforts in the coming years should aim at implementing an ade-
quate unit for monitoring road maintenance operations (para. 3.07), im-
proving record keeping and accounting procedures, updating highway



- 9 -
maintenance costs information and adjusting the cost-related tariff of
the equipment hired by the Direction du Mat.riel.l/
2.10     Unfortunately the keeping of statistics on the sector has become
inadequate and erratic in recent years, and an effort is needed to put
the collection system in good repair again and to pull together inform-
ation from various sources for analysis. During preparation of the pro-
posed project, the lack of accurate and up-to-date data on the sector
prompted the Association to offer to finance technical assistance to re-
establish the data collection system and the regular publication of the
statistical bulletin of the MTPU. The Government does not wish to in-
clude such a component, but the Association feels the matter to be im-
portant nevertheless. Accordingly the credit agreement calls for the
Government to reestablish a minimum level of transport statistics col-
lection, using its available staff, and during negotiations the Govern-
ment agreed to carry out this task (Para. 5.01(a)). Annex 1 shows the
main headings under which data will be collected.
D. Staffing and Training
2.11     DTP at present has about 1,800 employees, of whom about 160 are
in supervisory or office positions or in civil engineering functions, and
another 490 are in the Direction du Materiel (DM) (equipment division)
including workshop staff, operators and drivers; the remainder are tra-
desmen and laborers. The level of literacy in Niger is very low (about
8%) and the school enrollment rate for the present generation of school-
age children is low by West African standards (17%). Technical and other
tertiary education facilities are not well developed.2/ In consequence,
there is an acute shortage of educated professionals and heavy competi-
tion for the small output of high school graduates. The DTP has there-
fore no option but to create its own training facilities and to be pre-
pared to work with students with low literacy. Other ministries face the
same problem as do civil works and building contractors; the training
center to be built under the proposed project, although legally part of
MTPU, will be able to accept students from other sources. No other tech-
nical training facilities are included in the current Five-Year Plan, so
the proposed center will be filling an important role outside DTP. At
the professional level, students still go abroad for training, as do some
senior technicians. Some mechanics, surveyors and bookkeepers join DTP
after attending Nigerien training schools, though many are recruited with
no professional training, nor much basic education. However, at whatever
professional level recruits enter, all need training in DTP's methods and
procedures.
1/  The rental of equipment to other regional Public Works Divisions or
other public establishments constitute the major source of revenue of the
BAEMTP (Budget Annexe d'Exploitation du Materiel des Travaux Publics).
2/ See Bibliography. Annex 2.



- 10 -
2.12     Under the Third Highway Project a training program was conducted
for the staff which would be needed to set up four regravelling brigades,
covering field, workshop and office staff. This exercise revealed that
almost all DTP staff needed basic and refresher training, and needed it
on a continuing basis. During this project five existing DTP employees
have been gaining experience as "trainers," working with expatriate ins-
tructors in the classroom and in the workshop, and where necessary,
translating from French to one of the country's two major African lan-
guages. At the present time they are undergoing training in preparation
for their role as instructors in the new center. With the slow down of
mining activity, loss of trained people to the private sector is not the
problem it was formerly. Inasmuch as a mechanism exists within the civil
service for adjusting salaries to maintain competitiveness with the pri-
vate sector, the proposed training center should make an impact on DTP's
staffing problems. Furthermore, DTP has agreed that satisfactory per-
formance in a refresher course will be a prerequisite for promotion. The
proposed project provides for the establishment of a permanent training
center, for which much preparatory work, including the production of
course materials, and bidding documents for construction has been done.
E. Financing
2.13     Highway expenditures have traditionally been financed from four
major sources: the Budget National (BN) provides funds for administra-
tion and routine maintenance of National Roads; the Fonds National
d'Investissement (FII) finances minor road improvements and periodic
maintenance works; the Budget Annexe d'Exploitation du Materiel des
Travaux Publics (BAEMTP) provides earmarked funds for the maintenance and
purchase of highway equipment and spare parts for the MTPU (para. 2.17);
and foreign aid financing (principally from FAC, EDF, Arab Funds and the
Bank Group) is spent mostly on road construction and periodic maintenance
works executed by contract. In addition to these traditional sources of
financing, the Government has been obliged to seek new sources of funds
to execute road construction works needed because of the rapid growth of
traffic.  Important participation has been obtained from the Development
Bank of Niger (BDRN), BCEAO or even prefinancing of works by contractors.
The construction of the Tahoua-Arlit "uranium road" (650 km)--the most
important highway project in the country (CFAF 21.7 billion, net of
taxes)--has been financed by the mining companies through their affi-liate
CONCERTA. Expenditure on roads over the period 1979-8 2 totalled about
CFAF 53.5 billion, of which CFAF 47 billion or 79% went for investment,
the rest for administration and maintenance (Tables 2.5 and 2.6). About
46% of investment expenditures were financed by foreign aid; 33% by
CONCERTA and the remaining 21% by FNI.
2.14     In the coming years road maintenance needs will increase drama-
tically as a result of the aging of the paved network built during the
mid-1970s. As indicated below, total maintenance cost, including ad-
ministration, is expected to average about CFAF 4.4 billion per year
during the 1983-86 period, compared with CFAF 1.8 billion in 1981/83.
Following recent substantial increases in fuel taxes (averaging 80%),



- 11 -
total revenues from road user charges are likely to exceed these expend-
itures levels, but other expenditure requirements preclude the Government
from applying all road user revenues to road maintenance. Accordingly
the proposed project will finance urgently required periodic maintenance
of paved roads (to which the Government will contribute 25%, including
taxes) on the condition that the Government undertakes to provide suffi-
cient funds for all other road maintenance. During negotiations, the
Government agreed to provide CFAF 1.7 billion in 1983/84 and to maintain
the real value of this amount, in subsequent years 1/ (para. 5.01 (b)).
These allocations, together with the Government and IDA's contributions
to the proposed project, would bring total maintenance expenditures to
the required levels indicated below.
CFAF Million
Actual                           Projected
/1979/80  1980/81  1981/82  1982/83   1983/84  1984/85  1985/86
A.  Maintenance Expenditures -
Earth & Gravel Roads Maint.   980    1,020    1,050          1,030     1,200    1,300    1, 450
Paved Roads - Routine            250      230       200        250       450       500       550
- Periodic         400       400       400        350    2,210    2,470    1,810
Sub-Total           1,650    1,650    1,650       1,630    5,860    4,270    5,810
Other Costs 2/                   270      220       200         150      380       370       360
Total               1,900    1,870    1,850       1,780    4,240    4,640    4,170
B.  Road User Charges -/
Fuel Taxes                     1,540    1,840    1,710       2,390    3,260    3,460    3,670
Vehicle Registrations           230       230       240        250       260       270       280
Licensing                        60        70        80         90       100       110       120
Import Duties
(Vehicles, Parts, etc.)       870       960       970      1,030    1,090    1,160    1,220
Total Revenues         2,700    3,100    3,000        3,760    4,710    5,000    5,290
1/ Net of Taxes.
2/  Including overhead, training, technical assistance, Road Management Units.
3/  Forecast of the existing taxation rate.  Traffic growth: 6% p.a.
2.15     These maintenance commitments, in the context of the fiscal
constraints being faced by Niger, may necessitate a reduction of the
highway construction program in favor of road maintenance. During nego-
tiations, the Government agreed to review with IDA its highway investment
and maintenance programs as needed (para. 5.01 (c) and (d)). The
1/ To be reviewed each year with IDA in the light of Niger's financial
situation.



- 12 -
Government further agreed to ensure that its capital investment program
would not prejudice the provision of the minimum maintenance budget. The
new Road Management Unit to be created under the proposed project will
contribute to these reviews by regularly evaluating the network and
future maintenance requirements.
F. Engineering, Construction, Procurement and Contracting
2.16     It is the responsibility of the Studies Division of DTP to draw
up terms of reference for studies; review study reports, engineering
designs and proposals; and manage the bidding process. In the past, MTPU
has always handled bids for Bank projects in a satisfactory manner; the
procedure now includes public bid opening (see para. 3.17). However, at
least 30% of Government-financed contracts have in the recent past been
awarded on the basis of negotiations with selected firms. The Bank has
expressed its disapproval of this practice, which the Government defends
on the grounds of needing to direct work to domestic firms. The Bank-
financed study of the domestic construction industry (BCEOM, September
1981) also condemned this practice. Since the Government has sold its
holdings and effectively liquidated the former "Societ6 d'Etat" SNGTN
(which has been essentially reborn as Genie Civil du Sahel, a wholly
private company), there will be keener local competition. Even prior to
publication of the study, the President of the Republic had appointed a
commission to look into ways of removing the major difficulties with
contracting, namely the undue length of the contract approval circuit and
very long delays in making payments to contractors.
2.17     Construction and periodic maintenance of paved roads is carried
out by contract, and is supervised by consulting engineers or by DTP.
Major externally-financed highway projects are usually executed by
European firms, some of which have been long established in Niger. There
are two local firms which now execute laterite road construction and
regravelling contracts, and at least five building firms. Capacity for
executing bituminous works is limited in skill and experience, more than
equipment, but the proposed project contains measures to ensure the maxi-
mum of local contractor participation.
G. Road Maintenance
2.18     Niger is regarded as one of the countries in the region which is
serious about road maintenance, and the Association has played an im-
portant role during four previous highway projects (see paras. 2.21 ancL
2.22). Road maintenance is carried out by DTP's six Services Departemen-
taux (SDs) (regional road service divisions) supported by headquarters
services and the DM. Chart 1 shows the organization of DTP. The DM was
substantially reorganized and re-equipped during the Highway Maintenance
Project (Cr. 128NIR) in 1968, during which the BAEMTP was set up.
BAEMTP is a semi-autonomous budget designed to cover the operating costs
of the DM, avoiding the long slow "normal" purchasing procedure. It
takes the form of an annual advance from the Treasury, which is partially



- 13 -
repaid from SD's revenue from hiring out its equipment to operational
services. The new Road Management Unit will be asked to update on a
regular basis its information on the costs of equipment, operation and
repair to ensure a periodic revision of tariffs (Annex 1).
2.19     Routine road maintenance is financed under two main heads in the
state budget: one for permanent civil servants' salaries and one for
operations (maintenance of offices and building services, stationery,
vehicles, etc., and all routine road maintenance costs in equipment hire,
fuel, wages of temporary employees, construction materials, etc.).
Normal periodic maintenance and the local contribution to the costs of
donor-financed permanent works and periodic maintenance are financed
through FNI.
Periodic Maintenance of Paved Roads
2.20     Previous projects financed by the Association have built up the
capacity in trained manpower, equipment, and workshop services to carry
the base load of periodic maintenance on the laterite and feeder road
networks. Up to now routine maintenance of the paved network has been
confined to patching and crack sealing, a service the Association has
helped to establish. Many of the sections of paved road have now reached
the point where resealing and or overlaying are required. MTPU, cons-
cious of its patrimony of paved roads and with the same responsible atti-
tude it has shown to other maintenance activities, now wishes to esta-
blish the monitoring and programming skills required to assure a network
management approach to periodic maintenance, and having seen how a lack
of this has affected neighboring states stresses the preventive nature of
its planning. Accordingly the proposed project will finance the reseal-
ing and/or strengthening of portions of the network as required, and will
establish a Road Management Unit for the monitoring and planning of a
rolling program of works, keeping the paved network up to date with its
changing task (see paras. 3.03, 3.07 and Annex 1).
Axle Load Control
2.21     The expanding paved network and rapid growth of truck traffic
has obliged MTPU to give special attention to vehicle overloading. In
1980, DTP commissioned consultants BCEOM to undertake a survey in order
to determine the axle load spectrum, assess the impact of axle load limi-
tations on maintenance costs, and to make recommendations for new regula-
tions. Technical studies have been completed, and show that about 20% of
axles are overloaded (more than 11.5 t/axle), a slightly lower percentage
than in most West African countries (Table 2.8). A large proportion of
overloaded vehicles are from neighboring countries, mainly from Togo and
Benin, where the enforcement is less strict. At present an international
dialogue is taking place at the level of the Conseil d'Entente about the
adoption of a 13 t axle load. There is believed to be tacit agreement
from all states, but technical studies demanded by some countries are not
yet complete. When the general agreement is ratified and officially
adopted, DTT will enforce the new regulations. Five portable weight-
bridges were supplied during the Third Highway Project, and during the



- 14 -
proposed project the Association will continue its dialogue with MTPU on
the enforcement of the new regulations.
H. Previous Projects
2.22      There have been six projects in the transportation sector: four
for highways, one for feeder roads and one for airport improvement.
Details are given below:
(a)   The First Highway Project (Credit 55-NIR, US$1.5 million,
1965) consisted of engineering and construction of about
60 km of laterite roads serving groundnut production areas
in the Zinder region.
(b)   Highway Maintenance Project (Credit 128-NIR, US$6.5 mil-
lion, 1968.)  In 1965, the Bank made a US$85,000 grant for
a road maintenance study which was carried out by BCEOM
(France). As a result of the study, this project provided
for a phased reorganization of the maintenance and equip-
ment services, training and elimination of the backlog of
deferred maintenance. The project also included feasibi-
lity studies carried out by SCET/COOP (France) for about
300 km of roads, with detailed engineering for about
140 km.
(c)   The Second Highway Project (Credit 231-NIR, US$6 million,
1971) provided for the construction of the 140 km of roads
mentioned above and pre-investment studies for about
170 km of roads serving agricultural areas.
(d)   Niamey Airport (Credit 473-NIR, US$5.0 million, 1974).
The Association also helped to finance a project for the
modernization and extension of Niamey Airport to assure
its continued use by international transit traffic, and to
provide for future growth. The project consisted of
lengthening and rehabilitating the existing runway and
taxiway to accommodate wide-bodied aircraft and of up-
grading various items of airport safety and lighting
equipment.
(e)   The Third Highway Project (Credit 612-NIR, US$6 million,
1976, plus co-financing of US$7.0 million and US$3.6 mil-
lion by BADEA and ADF respectively) comprised: (i) equip-
ment purchase, technical assistance and training of DTP
staff at all levels in support of a four-year program of
laterite road regravelling; (ii) construction of the
Zinder-Nigerian border road (113 km) and the Maradi-
Nigerian border road (49 kin); and (iii) a survey of the
domestic construction industry; and (iv) supply of equip-
ment and technical assistance for routine maintenance of
bituminous roads.



-15 -
(f)   The First Feeder Road Project (Credit 886-NIR, US$10 mil-
lion, 1979) consisting of a three-year program for the
improvement, construction and subsequent maintenance of
about 1,000 km of feeder roads serving agricultural de-
velopment projects; creating a feeder road technical
section in the DTP; and training of equipment operators,
mechanics, and foremen of the new section and technical
assistance to DTP for its execution.
PCRs have been prepared for all except the last two projects which are
still in progress. The Third Highway Project has been well executed by
DTP; the construction components were executed below budget and in less
than the contract period. With the resulting savings the technical
assistance was extended to include the provision of an expert in organi-
zation and methods and three experts to improve management of the central
workshops and to extend the duration of assistance for training. The
project scope was also extended to include preparation of the proposed
project. The main component of the Third project--regravelling of late-
rite roads--will fall short of its target because of the Government's
inability to provide in a timely manner, after 1981, sufficient operating
funds for the brigades. This deficiency is in no way the fault of DTP,
but is a result of a sharp drop in Government revenues due to falling
uranium prices in 1981. The Feeder Road project's low design standards
met with local opposition but some sections have now stood two wet
seasons without damage and work is proceeding as planned. The institu-
tion-building aspects of the project have been particularly successful
and the cost accounting system established is excellent.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
3.01     The objectives of the proposed project are:
(a)   to institute and begin implementation of a program of
planned preventive periodic maintenance, and to set up a
Road Management Unit (RMU) in DTP; and
(b)   to establish the training of DTP employees on a permanent
basis.
B. Description
3.02     In order to meet these objectives, the proposed project will
finance the following items:
(a)   strengthening and/or resurfacing of 374 km of the existing
bituminous network by contract;



- 16 -
(b)   the establishment and equipping of the Road Management
Unit;
(c)   construction and equipping of a training center for DTP
employees, and the operation of the center over a three-
year period; and
(d)   technical assistance for the supervision of works in items
(a), (b) and (c) and the provision of traffic counting,
pavement roughness measuring, line marking and road main-
tenance equipment, and vehicles for items (b) and (c).
Pavement Strengthening and Resealing Program
3.03     Niger now has a network of bituminous roads of about 2,200 km to
be maintained by DTP, with a further 625 km of the Tahoua-Arlit Road (the
Uranium Road) being maintained by the mining companies. The existing
pavements which are all surfaced with a double surface dressing date from
1971; some sections originally constructed to 3.5m width are being wi-
dened to 6m or 7m depending on the traffic. The time is now ripe for the
establishment of procedures and programs for the active management of
this network, renewing and upgrading its capacity as it ages and as
traffic grows, in a rolling program of preventive maintenance and
strengthening.
3.04     A pavement evaluation exercise was carried out by Consultants
BCEOM (France) in 1980, in collaboration with the French Laboratoire
Central des Ponts et Chaussees (LCPC), consisting of deflection measure-
ments made with a Lacroix deflectograph, over 2 km lengths every 10 km
throughout the whole network, combined with a visual examination, and a
test trench every 10 km. This exercise revealed a program of maintenance
priorities and established a reference point for all future pavement
monitoring. At the same time, an indicative planning exercise was done
to determine the probable date by which pavement strengthening would be
required, based on an analysis of the pavement capacity in terms of
standard axle repetitions, past and expected commercial traffic and the
expected life of surface dressings under Nigerien conditions. It is
still not possible to predict far ahead, but the idea of a rolling ten-
year program, with -two years being definitely identified, three years
provisionally identified and five years forming an "indicative" program,
has been established. Transfer from category-to-category will be based
on the evidence from the continuous monitoring exercise. A small road
management unit is being set up within DTP to carry out the monitoring
for which the proposed project will provide equipment and technical
assistance (see para. 3.07).
3.05     A program of 374 km of strengthening and resealing works has
been identified, for execution by contract. The resealing work consists
of 31.5 km of base course strengthening followed by a double surface
dressing, and 342.5 km of double or single surface dressing on existing
pavements. Base course strengthening consists of the addition of 15 cm



- 17 -
to 25 cm of new laterite. Details of the program are given in Table 3.1,
and in the accompanying map.
3.06     The program of works was prepared in detail by consultants BCEOM
on the basis of follow-up deflection measurements made with a Benkelman
beam and a more detailed visual examination in November 1981. Bidding
documents have been prepared on the basis of global indicative quantities
and unit prices and the work has been divided into two lots. Any addi-
tions to, or curtailments of the program will be agreed with the Associa-
tion before contracting (para. 5.01(e)). In order to safeguard the qua-
lity of the surface dressing work (a rather unforgiving technique in
which attention or inattention to small details can greatly affect the
life of the seal), an experienced contractor will be essential.
Road Network Management
3.07     Under the project, DTP will establish a Road Management Unit
(RMU). This unit will be responsible for monitoring various parameters
of the network (roughness, deflection, visual condition, traffic volumes)
and updating of the road condition survey. Technical assistance of 40
man-months will be provided to help set up the unit and establish the
procedures. Two persons--an engineer and a technician--will be provided
and will work closely with their Nigerien counterparts, whom Government
agreed to provide (para. 5.01(f)). The aim of the unit will be to
"manage" the network and program the maintenance, resealing, or strength-
ening works, according to the demands of traffic and wear and to make the
best use of available funds. A nationwide inventory of bridges and other
large drainage structures is in progress under the Third Highway Project.
The road management unit will also monitor and manage the nation's bridge
resources assuring their structural integrity and programming their ti-
mely maintenance. The small amount of equipment and vehicles required is
listed in Table 3.3 and is included in the cost table (Table 3.4, item
2b). The unit, in conjunction with LCPC, will include a small research
program in its pavement monitoring work, to correlate the development of
roughness readings with changes in other parameters of pavement
performance.
Training
3.08     The successful training component in the Third Highway Project
included a review of DTP's training needs and revealed a need for short-
term and long-term training, both for regular employees and new recruits.
These needs cannot be met by its existing resources, nor are suitable
facilities available elsewhere in the state and the establishment of a
new training center within the MTPU is needed (para. 3.11). Training is
required both in the basic teaching of a trade and in the form of regular
refresher courses.
3.09     DTP and its consultants have drawn up a training program for the
short and medium term covering courses in the fields of civil and mecha-
nical engineering, equipment and vehicle operation and administration.
About 840 existing skilled employees need refresher training, and the



- 18 -
expansion to DTP's responsibilities call for the recruitment of a further
330 skilled employees by 1985 who will require basic training. Annual
replacement of those retiring or leaving the service is currently at the
level of 100 persons a year, who will also need to be trained (see Table
3.2). Once the center is fully operational students could be accepted
from elsewhere in MTPU, other Government departments and civil works
contractors.
3.10     The new training facility will be know as the Centre de Forma-
tion et Perfectionnement des Travaux Publics (CFPTP-Public Works Training
Center). The Government has already made available an excellent site of
15 ha. near Niamey Airport, which is well adapted to the buildings pro--
posed and provides a number of different rock and soil types, as well as
surface drainage features for training of equipment operators and other
civil engineering tradesmen. Training grounds for the different classes
of vehicle and equipment will be built-up during the course of instruc--
tion. Design of the center was entrusted to BCEOM and was financed under
the current project. Bids will be launched about August 1983 and con-
struction could start in January 1984.
3.11     The proposed project provides for the full establishment of the
new training center comprising the construction of workshops, classrooms
and administrative offices, forming a total useable area of 890m2, and
the provision of teaching, office and workshop equipment and furniture,
technical assistance and operating funds for three years of operation of
the center. The project will also provide earth-moving machinery and
vehicles for operator and driver instruction and for administrative use,
some by transfer from DTP's Direction du Materiel (DM), and some by pur-
chase. Spare parts for the rehabilitation of the equipment to be trans-
ferred, will be provided under the project. A list of the road equip-
ment, vehicles and major items of fixed equipment to be provided is given
in Table 3.3. The Government agreed during negotiations to transfer
equipment from the Direction du Materiel, to provide a parts list and
cost estimate for any rehabilitation required, together with written
confirmation by the head of the training center that the equipment,
after rehabilitation, would be suitable for the intended purpose
(para. 5.01(g)). To ensure that prospective students do not experience
any hardships and to compensate those who take on teaching duties in
addition to their normal workload, the project provides for the payment
of travel costs, an accommodation allowance for employees normally sta-
tioned outside Niamey, and for the payment of honoraria to instructors
and visiting lecturers. These payments would be in addition to their
normal salaries. During negotiations, the Government agreed in principle
to make these payments, but since the Government committee was then sit-
ting on the country-wide question of per diem and travel allowances,



- 19 -
actual rates were not agreed upon 1/ (para 5.01(h)). To ensure prompt
payment of these and other small day-to-day running expenses of the
center, two Bank accounts will be established by the Government, one of
which will be operated by the management of the center (para. 3.21).
3.12     The project will provide approximately 150 man-months of tech-
nical assistance for the setting up and operation of the training center
over a period of three years, to cover the following posts:
Director of the Centre de Formation et
Perfectionnement des Travaux Publics (CFPTP)
Instructor in Administration
Instructor in Civil Engineering
Instructor in Mechanical Engineering
Instructor in Equipment Use (Driver Instructor)
Outline terms of reference for these posts are given as Annex 3. Under
the Third Highway Project training component a Director of Training was
provided by BCEOM who has been responsible for preparation of the train-
ing component of the proposed project and for development of the archi-
tect's brief for construction of the center. Due to BCEOM's close asso-
ciation with the preparation of the training component and the need for
continuity between the two projects, IDA has indicated that it has no
objection to BCEOM being retained for the proposed project without soli-
citing offers from other consultants (see para. 3.17). During the cur-
rent project, five Nigerien employees of DTP have been trained as in-
structors and it is intended that they will be the counterparts to the
proposed technical assistance team. During negotiations, the Government
agreed to the employment of the five-man technical assistance team and to
provide the services of these five counterparts and of eight administra-
tive employees (office staff, chauffeurs, etc.), free of charge to the
project (except for honoraria, see para. 3.11) (para. 5.01(i)). It is
not intended that the center should become independent of expatriate help
after three years, but by the end of this period, it should be possible
to reduce the team to three expatriates, and the Nigerien head of the
center should truly and effectively share responsibility with his
counterpart.
C. Cost Estimates
3.13     The total cost of the project including contingencies is esti-
mated at US$32.1 million equivalent or US$24.8 million (77.2%) net of
_/ During appraisal, the following rates had been indicated:
Students                     CFAF  1,000 per day + Actual travel costs
Permanent Instructors         CFAF 15,000 per month
Counterpart Head of
Training Center            CFAF 25,000 per month
Visiting Lecturers           CFAF  1,000 per hour



- 20 -
taxes, and of which US$17.8 million (55%) represents the estimated
foreign cost. Taxes include turnover tax (5%), contract registration tax
(13%) and import duties.  The impact of these taxes and duties has been
taken into account in fixing the Association's disbursement percentage,
and the Government has given an undertaking that no proceeds of the
credit will be used for the payment of taxes. Outline costs are given
below; a detailed breakdown is shown in Table 3.4.
------------------  $000 s --------____
Local       Tax   Foreign       Total  % Foreign
Road strengthening and         4,896    5,715    14,241       24,852       57
resurfacing program
Road Management Unit             219       262        530      1,011       52
Training                       1,828     1,340      3,075      6,243       49
Total        6,943    7,317      17,846     32,106
of which contingencies    1,318        1,363      3,259     5,940
3.14     Estimates of the cost of strengthening, resurfacing and building
construction are based on the prices taken from recent bids submitted in
Niger for similar work. Operating costs for the training center have
been estimated by BCEOM, based on costs of training under the Third
Highway Project. The cost of traffic-counting equipment has been
obtained by inquiries of potential suppliers. Supervision of civil works
is estimatd at 8% of the value of the works supervised and technical
assistance costs are based on current man-month rates in the existing
BCEOM contract. The man-month rate net of tax is expected to be about
$8,500 of which about $2,300 is accounted for by housing and subsistence,
reflecting the high cost of living in a landlocked country. Other costs--
local office and travel expenses, etc.--will average about $1,960 per
month.
3.15     Physical contingencies have been included at a rate of 10% (see
Table 3.4). Since there is no discernible difference between inflation
in France (the source of most goods and services required by the projeci)
and in Niger, a single rate of price inflation has been used, calculated
on the basis of the following annual rates: 1983-8.0%; 1984-7.5%; 1985-
7.0% and 6% thereafter.
D. Procurement
3.16     The resurfacing works (about US$24.9 million) will be executed
by contracts awarded following international competitive bidding proce-
dures (ICB). No local contractors are considered technically qualified
for the whole of any contract, and since no joint ventures with majority
local shareholding have existed for more than a year, the domestic pre-
ference will not apply. Local practice is for the production and trans-
port of crushed stone, laterite and other building materials to be sub-
contracted to domestic firms (para. 2.06). However, many local haulers
are small operations and the contract rates per ton/km quoted by the main



- 21 -
contractor often differ substantially from what is actually paid to sub-
contractors. To avoid this abuse the documents will call for the main
contractor to name his sub-contractors and the agreed unit rates, and the
contract will give DTP the right to audit sub-contractor payments. Bids
were launched in June 1983. Bidding documents and the Government's
choice of contractors are subject to review by the Association. Since
1981, bid opening has been public and the Association is satisfied with
the correctness and impartiality of the country's procedures. A contract
for the building of the training center (US$1.8 million) will be awarded
following ICB, and in this case a local preference of 7 1/2% could apply.
3.17     The Government intends to invite proposals from a short list of
consultants (with which the Association has concurred) for supervison of
the periodic maintenance works (US$2.5 million). As BCEOM have been inti-
mately involved with the development of technical and administrative
methods and procedures used throughout DTP for many years, and have been
equally closely involved with preparation of the training component, the
Government has decided to retain BCEOM without further consultation for
the training component. However, the Government is determined to nego-
tiate firmly on man-month rates, and IDA has supplied information on
appropriate current rates elsewhere in the Region for comparison. Road
construction equipment not obtained by transfer from DM, as well as vehi-
cles and workshop equipment (US$660,000) will be purchased by ICB. Other
equipment for the training center and equipment for traffic counting,
pavement marking and roughness measurement (US$230,000) will be purchased
by international or local shopping. Fuel and other supplies for the
training center will be purchased from local suppliers at current tax-
paid prices. Draft consultants contracts and all documents in connection
with the purchase of road building equipment and vehicles will be subject
to prior review. For other equipment and material purchases, contracts
above $50,000 will be reviewed prior to signature, and those below
$50,000 will receive post-contract review.
Execution
3.18     Responsibility for project execution will rest with MTPU, mostly
through DTP. Contracts will be supervised by consulting engineers on
behalf of DTP's engineer for new works. The teams responsible for the
training center and the Road Management Unit will report to the Director
of Public Works and will consist of expatriates and their counterparts.
The center will become an integral part of DTP, and will work through the
Services Departementaux for the recruitment of students. DTP will assume
over-all responsibility for the equipment for traffic counting and pave-
ment roughness measurements and the coordination of the related research
and studies.
E. Financing, Disbursements and Reporting
3.19     The project is being jointly financed by the Association and the
Government. The IDA credit of $23.6 million will finance 95% of the net
of tax cost. The Government will contribute US$8.56 million equivalent



- 22 -
in local currency, including $7.32 in taxes. Government agreed during
negotiations to make these funds available (para. 5.01(j)). The IDA
Credit will be disbursed against full documentation (para. 3.20), as
follows:
Component                % of Total Cost 1/
Road Works                     74
Building Works                 50
Technical Assistance
& Supervision                85
Equipment                100% of foreign &
50% of local
The financing plan is shown below:
US$ million
Local      Taxes      Foreign       Total
IDA              5.70         --        17.85         25.55
Niger            1.24       7.32           __          8.56
Total           6.94        7.32        17.85         32.11
3.20     The disbursement schedule (Table 3.5) which shows a credit
closing date of October 31, 1989 (eight months after the expected comple-
tion date), is thought to be realistic, in view of past performance.
Bidding documents are available and contractors have been pre-qualified;
therefore, the "West Africa Highways IDA" disbursement profile has been
condensed by one year. Disbursement applications will be prepared and
forwarded to Washington by the Disbursement Officer in the Ministry of
Planning, on the basis of documentation supplied by DTP. Withdrawal
applications in the past have always been competently handled, but with
delays; payments made direct to suppliers by the Government are usually
unacceptably slow. The credit agreement specifies that disbursement re-
quests be forwarded to the Association within 45 days of receipt of an
invoice. Furthermore, the Government will take measures to ensure tha-t
its own payments will be made within 90 days of receipt of an invoice
(para. 5.01(k)).
3.21     In order to ensure speed and flexibility in making payments for
the day-to-day expenses of the training center, the Government will es--
tablish an account (Project Account "A") at an acceptable commercial bank
in Niamey.  Using funds from this account, the Ministry of Finance will
establish a cash advance fund (Project Account "B"), in local currency,
at an acceptable bank, which may be drawn on by the center managers. The
Ministry of Finance will reimburse Account B from Account A on the basis
of supporting documentation. The initial amounts suggested for esta-
blishment of the accounts are: Account "A": CFAF 9 million; Account "B":
CFAF 3 million. IDA will reimburse the Government in the normal way for
1/ Including Niger taxes when applicable.



- 23 -
its share of items financed out of these accounts. The Government agreed
at negotiations to open these accounts, and before effectiveness, to
deposit CFAF 9 million in Account A and then from this account withdraw
CFAF 3 million for deposit in Account B, and to make reimbursements of
the accounts in a timely manner. During negotiations the Government also
gave assurances: (a) that these accounts would be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA 1/ and that the audits would be conducted in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied; (b)
the audit reports would be of such scope and in such detail as IDA might
reasonably request; and (c) the accounts and audit reports would be sub-
mitted to IDA for review within six months of the close of the Govern-
ment's fiscal year (para. 5.01(1)).
3.22     As a further condition of effectiveness the Government must
demonstrate that at least CFAF 1,000 million 2/ have been inscribed in
the 1983/84 budget under appropriate headings to meet its contribution to
the cost of the project in that year. During negotiations, the Govern-
ment agreed to make available the balance of funds required for the proj-
ect up to a total of $8.56 million equivalent, in a timely manner.
3.23     It is expected that the project will be substantially completed
by the end of June 1988 and the credit fully disbursed by December 1988.
DTP will forward the consultants' monthly progress reports on periodic
maintenauce contracts with their own comments under a covering letter
each month, and with the help of the consultants for training, will
forward a report on training center activities every two months. The
Road Management Unit will prepare an inception report after six months,
setting out its plans for meeting its mandate; thereafter, quarterly
reports on progress will be produced.
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General
4.01     As defined, the proposed project addresses priority needs in the
highway sector, which are training, the strengthening of the planning
capability of the DTP and assistance in the execution of part of the
periodic maintenance program for paved roads. Maintenance works will
contribute to a reduction of vehicle operating costs, directly benefiting
vehicle owners. It is expected that a significant part of the benefits
will be passed on to consumers as domestic road transport in Niger is
competitive. The road maintenance component, by providing for the plan-
ning of timely surfacing and strengthening works, will limit deterio-
ration and avoid the need for premature reconstruction; this approach
1/ For these purposes the word "independent" may be applied to a
Government auditing service, with IDA's approval.
2/ As follows: FNI CFAF 140 million
EN CFAF 860 million.



- 24 -
will also tend to keep down vehicle operating costs by limiting road
roughness.
4.02     The economic analysis shows the proposed three-year periodic
maintenance program to be well justified, with an economic return of
about 43%.  Details are given in Tables 4.1 to 4.3.
4.03     Another major benefit of the project will be its institutional
impact, strengthening the planning and implementation capability of DTP
and establishing the training function on a permanent basis. The con-
struction of the new training center and associated technical assistance
and training programs will provide opportunities for DTP employees to
improve their skills or retrain in other fields. Through its continuing
dialogue with the DTP, IDA will provide assistance to the new Road Mana-
gement Unit to enable DTP to strengthen its basic information collection
capability (such as traffic data, vehicle operating costs, road user
charges as well as general information on the road transport industry)
needed to manage the sector, and to improve the planning capability of
the MTPU during the preparation of the next Economic Development Plan
(1984-89). No attempt has been made to estimate a rate of return for
these institutional improvements but they are essential for the long-term
efficiency of the Ministry.
B. Bituminous Roads Periodic Maintenance Program
4.04     To cope with the rapid growth of traffic following the uranium
boom, Niger extended its paved road network considerably during the
1970s.1/ This expansion will result in a rapid increase of periodic
preventive maintenance expenditures during the coming years, for reseal-
ing and overlaying. A preliminary estimate 2/ suggests that about
CFAF 12 billion will be required annually between 1983 and 1990, for
periodic maintenance, or about five times the present level.
4.05     Periodic maintenance is executed by contract and is financed
mainly by foreign aid. The full project cycle (identification, prepa-
ration, appraisal, financing, etc.), plus possible administrative delays
explain why it usually takes several years between the identification of
the distress on a section of road and effective execution of the repair
works. Since road deterioration is an accelerating process, it can
happen that, if serious damage has taken place to the base course or even
the foundation, a totally different task from that appraised--such as
full reconstruction--might be needed. The cost of deferred maintenance
due to a poor monitoring system can be considerable. Single coat reseal-
ing in Niger costs about CFAF 4 million per km,3/ (economic cost) whereas
the cost of pavement strengthening is about CFAF 17 million.  In case of
1/ From about 500 km in 1970 to 2,900 km in 1982.
2/ BCEOM. Study of the Road Construction Industry. Report on the
Highway Maintenance Program - 1981.
3/ Haul distances for aggregates in Niger are usually long.



- 25 -
serious damage needing full reconstruction of the road base, the cost can
reach CFAF 48 million per km. Based on these factors,it is imperative to
assist Niger not only in the timely financing of periodic maintenance but
also in developing a programmed and preventative approach to its exe-
cution. This assistance will tend to minimize costs, phase expenditure,
steer it to where it will be most effective, and avoid costly reconstruc-
tion.
4.06     Better programming of works will allow a steadier flow from year
to year and will also help Niger to develop its local construction indus-
try. Local contractors do not normally have the opportunity to operate
abroad in times of a decline in domestic activity; a steady flow of work
at home should give them the confidence to invest in equipment and hire
qualified personnel.
4.07     The resurfacing and strengthening program of 374 km identified
by the Government, will provide two categories of direct benefits; the
deferred cost of pavement reconstruction and the avoided cost of in-
creased vehicle operating costs caused by increasing road roughness. The
extent and cost of the works have been estimated by consultants, BCEOM.
For the economic evaluation, it has been assumed that two periodic main-
tenance operations will be needed during the life (20-25 years) of a
road. In the analysis, the interval of time between two periodic mainte-
nance operations is taken as 7 to 8 years. This average figure has been
adopted as the maximum period of postponement of periodic maintenance
works in the "without" case. This average time interval has been varied
to take into account specific characteristics of each section, such as
the present pavement strength, traffic composition and growth.
(Table 4.2)
4.08     The economic evaluation shows that the overall rate of return of
the maintenance program is about 43% (Table 4.3). The highest rates are
observed on roads with the highest traffic, such as Niamey-Tillabery and
Niamey-Koure, which include urban and suburban traffic. These roads are
also the oldest (built in 1971 and 1973 respectively) and any significant
postponement of works would lead to rapid deterioration. The lowest rate
of return, 30% is observed on the section Tsernaoua-Tahoua where the
lowest traffic level is recorded (290 vpd) and the sections of RN 1 east
in the area of Dogondoutchi and Birni N'Koni where strengthening works
are the most costly (see Chapter III, Table 3.1). All these rates of
return are quite satisfactory.
Sensitivity and Risk
4.09     MTPU is fully aware of the importance of road maintenance, in
particular of the paved road network. It has one of the best records in
this field in the region, and there is no doubt that there is the will to
implement this project as successfully as it has previous projects. In
addition, the proposed continuous monitoring service will allow DTP to
modify the program in order to maximize benefits for a given maintenance
budget. Sensitivity tests show that even under combined unfavorable
events such as: (a) average traffic growth reduced to 5% p.a. instead of



- 26 -
6.5%; (b) maintenance costs increased 20%; and (c) vehicle-operating
costs savings reduced 25% --the average rate of return will still be
26%. The lowest rate of return would be on the Tsernaoua-Tahoua section,
a still acceptable 15%.
V.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01     During negotiations the Government agreed to the following:
(a)   to improve the collection and analysis of basic transport
statistics and accounts (paras. 2.10);
(b)   to provide for road maintenance in the National Budget for
FY83/84 a minimum amount of CFAF 1.7 billion, and to
maintain the real value of htis amount in subsequent years
following consultation with the Association on the road
maintenance budget, and modified as may be required by the
country's financial situation (para. 2e14);
(c)   to cause MTPU, during the life of the project, to struc-
ture its investment program for new works, so as not to
prejudice minimum amounts established as targets for its
maintenance budgets (para. 2.15);
(d)   to cause MTPU to continue to communicate to the Bank on an
annual basis, for information and comments, its overall
highway investment and maintenance program (para. 2.15);
(e)   to discuss with the Association before contracting any
changes in the periodic maintenance program to be financed
under the project (para 3.06);
(f)   to provide suitable counterparts for the Road Management
Unit (para. 3.07);
(g)   to transfer certain items of equipment from DM to the
training center and to provide a written statement attest-
ing to their suitability (para. 3.11);
(h)   to pay travel expenses, accommodation allorTances and hono-
raria for students and lecturers (para. 3.11);
(i)   to make available the services of five instructors and
eight supporting staff to the training center, free of
expense to the project (para. 3.12);
(j)   to ensure that the required counterpart funds are promptly
available and include amounts required for payment of all
taxes and import duties (para- 3.19);



- 27 -
(k)   to forward to the Association all requests for withdrawal
of funds from the Credit within 45 days of a request for
payment, and to make its own payments within 90 days of
receipt by DTP of an invoice or other request to pay
(para. 3.20); and
(1)   to have the project accounts "A" and "B" audited annually
(para. 3.21).
5.02     As conditions of credit effectiveness the Government agrees that
it will demonstrate to the Association's satisfaction that: (i) funds of
CFAF 1,000 million have been inscribed in its 1983/84 budget to meet its
contribution to the cost of the first year of the project (para. 3.22);
and that (ii) it has established Project Account "A" of CFAF 9 million
and Project Account "B" of CFAF 3 million (drawn from Project Account
"A") for the day-to-day expenses of the training center (para. 3.21).
5.03     Subject to satisfactory agreement on these points, the proposed
project is suitable for a credit of 21.9 million SDRs equivalent
($23.6 million) to the Republic of Niger on standard IDA terms.



NIGER
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Development of the Highway Network, 1970-1982
(km)
1970        1974        1975        1976        1977        1978        1979        1980        1981        1982
A. Main Network _
Paved roads                        488         927        1,530      .,751        1,765       1,835       2,024       2,673       2,768       2,914
Gravel roads (8m)                2,043       1,984       2,086       2,140       2,308        2,237       2,395       2,658       3,132       3,129
Earth roads (5m)                   898         640         439          439        483          483         452         424         304         204
Trackst  Improved                  998         470         637          637        874         874          834         358         302         302
Ordinary                2,322       2,951       2,260       2,016       2,158       2,158       1,950       2,104       2,041       1,998
Total                            6,749       6,972       6,952       6,983       7,588       7,587       7,655        8,217       8,547       8,547
B. Unclassified Network
Tracks                                                       -- -- 11,000 to 12,000 ----------
1/  Network maintained by NTPU.                                                                                                                              "3
Source:   MTPU
05/83



- 29 -
Chapter TT
Table 2, 2
NIGER
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
New Vehicle Registrations, 1970-1980
1970    1971      1972     1973    1974    1975       1976    1977      1978    1979    1980
Cars        835      690      745      744       842      816      725   1,280   1,208   1,735   2,005
Vans        231      506      416      485      397      354       576      697      717   1,001   1,027
Trucks      154      108      168      215      216       251      166      232      276      431      375
Tractors    98        50       50       85       78      123       130      207      287      259      202
Trailers     47       21       38        59       53       51      109      160      185      214      164
Buses        33       27       33       49       68       69       89        67      104      219      266
Total     1,398   1,402   1,450   1,637   1,654   1,664   1,795   2,643   2,777   3,859   4,039
Source: Ministry of Public Works, & Housing, 1981



NIGER
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Consumption of Petroleum Products, 1970-1981
(in m3)
Gasoline
Aircraft                  Incl.
Jet            Prop.            Super           Diesel Oil         Kerosene
1970          11,986           2,807           19,469           39,037            8,222
1971          11,038           2,315           21,212              n.a.           2,886
1972          10,169           2,913           22,860              n.a.           2,950
1973          15,151           4,029           25,690            62,652           3,423                          1
1974          12,354           4,112           23,391           61,941            2,486                          w
0
1975          19,646           3,175           27,531           68,659            3,833
1976          10,680           2,835           28,712           74,578            4,229
1977          13,493           2,445           33,920           77,792            4,165
1978          20,878           3,036           36,193           102,461           4,455
1979          19,252           3,251           41,861           124,114           5,237
1980/1        18,055           2,810           46,800           133,799           5,516
1981/1        18,000            n.a.           54,000           120,000            n.a.
/1 Estimate.
F d
Source: Ministry of Public Works and Housing, and Bank Estimate, 1981.
05/83



- 31 -
Chapter II
Table 2.4
NIGER
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Structure of Retail Price of Oil Products, 1982
(Niamey Prices)
CFAF/hectoliter (hl)
SUPER        REGULAR      DIESEL OIL
F.O.B. Parakou                      10,430,20     10,627,76       10,558,45
Transport Parakou/Niamey             1.381,69       1,236,54       1,344,65
C.I.F Niamey                        11,811,89     11,864,30       11,903,10
Statistic tax                           15,05          15,13          14,49
Custom duties                           60,18         60,52           11,59
Entrance tax 1/                        589,20         589,80         394,80
Tax on production                      329,22        330,37          260,12
Tax specific                         1,800,00       1.800,00         600,00
Transit fee                            128,10         128,10         128,10
Tax on transit fee                      19,14          19,14          19,14
Losses depot Niamey                    128,06         103,71          74,79
Losses transportation                   58,09          46,76          45,41
Depreciation equipment                 467,92         150,00          50,00
Overhead                               400,00         380,00         245,00
Financial charges                      568,77        418,71          376,39
Profit                                 170,00         110,00          90,00
Brokers                                106,33         92,46           90,84
Benefit retailer                       600,00         420,00         340,00
Cost of delivery                       100,00         70,00           70,00
Other charges and rounding         2.648,05        890,03          867,69
Total retail price/hl           20,000,00     15.000,00       13.000,00
Price per liter (CFAF)                200            150            130
1/ Import duty.
Source: MTPU, DTT, 1982.
05/83



- 32 -
Chapter II
Table 2.5
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Total Highway Expenditures (1979-82)
(million CFAF)
1979      1980      1981     1982      Total   Average/Year
General Budget 1/              1,090    1,140    1,260    1,440    4,930            1,233
BAEMTP 2/                        200       497       400       469    1,566           392
1,290    1,637    1,660    1,909    6,496            1,625
FNI 3/                         1,600    1,319    1,200    1,100    5,219            1,304
Total Government
Expenditures               2,890    2,956    2,860    3,009   11,715            2,929
External Aid                   2,261    5,341    6,318   10,448   24,368            6,092
Total Public Financing         5,151    8,297    9,178   13,457   36,083           9,021
Tahoua-Arlit Road
(Private financing)           6,590    6,490    4,330        --      17,410        4,352
Grand Total               11,741   14,787   13,508   13,457   53,493           13,373
1/ Mainly expenditure for personnel and operations of services. Estimate about 37%
of General Budget of the MTPU.
2/  Annex Budget for exploitation of equipment of the Ministry of Public Works.
Difference between expenses and revenues (equilibrium subsidies).
3/ National Investment Fund.
Source: Ministry of Public Works and Housing, Bank estimates.
05/83



NIGER
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Government Highway Maintenance Expenditures, 1971-1981
(million CFAF)
T971   1972   1973   1974   1975   1976   1977    1978    1979    1980    1981
A. National Budget
Operating expenses of service/I       35      35      35     35      36     40      35       40       38      39       32
Personnel /1                         105      70      72     73    131    143       13       10       15      47       52
Routine maintenance works            515    545    580    615    496    560    747          835     925   1,233   1,248
655    656    687    723    663    743    795         885      978   1,319   1,332
B. PNI /2
Periodic maintenance works           163    199    238    193    200    300    350          200     400      400      400
C.  Total                                   818    855    925    916    863  1,043  1,145   1,085   1,378   1,719   1,732
/1  Related to highway maintenance operations only.
/2 National Investment Fund.
Source: MTPU  BCEOM, Bank estimate.
X6r/
06/82



NIGER
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimates of Government Revenue from Road Users, 1970-1981
(CFAF millions)
Taxes levied on fuel                                   Other Taxes
On Imports of                                   Vehicle
A /1       B /2            Vehicles        Spare Parts        Licensing       Registration         Total
1970       448         168               428                73               21                 25          1,163
1971       430         151               516                92               21                 25          1,235             l
1972       461         182               425                94               27                 23          1,212             U
1973       513         215               650               161               35                 52          1,625
1974        556        211               670               196               40                 58          1,730
1975       560         250               570               200               40                 72          1,692
1976       666           -               600               210               45                104          1,625
1977       817           -               620               220               50                132          1,839
1980     1,540           -              n.a.              n.a.               62             223.0           2,700 E
1981     1,839           -              n.a.              n.a.               72             230.0           3,100 E
/1  Revenues directed to general budget.                                                                                  H  C
/2  Revenues directed to National Investment Fund (FNI).
/3  Mission Estimate.  1978/79 data not available.
Source: Ministry of Public Works and Housing, 1981
05/83



- 35
Chapter.II
Table2.
NIGER
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Spectrum of Axle Loads
(trucks and semi-trailers)
Niger
Trucks                   Total
Tons                            Only                   Trucks
0-2                              _                        _
2-4                              3.8                     3.4
4-6                             21.4                    20.2
6-8                             21.4                    21.4
8-9                             11.4                     8.7
9-10                             9.1                     9.0
10-11                            9.9                     10.1
11-12                            6.4                      6.8
12-13                            6.4                      6.7
13-14                            2.9                      4.4
14-15                            3.7                      3.7
15-16                            3.0                      3.3
16-17                            0.6                      1.8
17                              -                       0.4
Total                            100                     100
Source: BCEOM, 1980.
06/82



3 36 -                         Chapter III
Table 3.1
NIGER
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Strengthening Program: Description of Works
Year     ADT 1981                                      Basic Cost
Road        Built    (% CV'5)             Works                    CFAF Millions
March 1982
RN 1W Niamey-Tillaberry               547         44 km monocouche 1/            190
PK 0-62                  1973       (17)         18 km bicouche 2/              167
Supplementary Works 3/          11          368
RN 29 Tsernaoua-Tahoua                340         28 km bicouche                 404
PK 0-118                 1975       (23)         90 km monocouche               589
1.5 km Drainage & Pavement
Repairs PK 69                   42
Supplementary Works             97        1,132
RN 1E
PK 10-50, 210-220        1977        714         50 km monocouche               269
(20)        Supplementary Works              35         304
PK 270-320                1974        360         50 km bicouche                 725
(31)        Supplementary Works             67          792
PK 320-414                1974        268         94 km bicouche               1,518
(16)        30 km strengthening 4/         644
Supplementary Works             33        2,195
Total Base Cost                           4,791
Total Programme 374 km
1/ Single bituminous surface dressing.
2/ Double bituminous surface dressing.
3! Regulating and other patching, making-up shoulders, culvert repairs, etc.
4/ Overlaying with 15-25 cm laterite.
Source: BCEOM Estimates



Chapter !II
Table 3.2
NIGER
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Staff Training Proeram
-raining Program   1983-;985               Annual Training Pr-grm After 1985 
2    R.p   emenc               Annual
Course Sc ruc rure- Existing Personnel           New Recr its          Personnel Annual    Refresher Training
C    e         Ue        Basic Training         Basic Trainine          Basic Trainin            1985 5 After4.
course mrsan no.    _                                      nof    course           no  of      no. of
rsh       masudntsno       f     n    f       oo          oo 
length    er        stnts c        course    students       uarss   students  frequency  tent             courses
k-          ~~~~~~~4~~~~rcours       ,    J  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~per  ear                             years   per yea   per year
Civil Engineering
Assistant District Chiefs             5          15          20                       3 2   i                2           3          17           2
Brigade Chiefs                        4       1 5             7           1           3           1          0.5                    2 5
Sector Chiefs                         2   |      15          30           3           9           1          Z           3          20           2
Foremen                               2          20          80           5          19           1         :0           I          50           3
Surveyors                            12           5          _10 |                               2           0.5         5           5           1
Sub Total                                               137      [   11          54           6          15    j                97   I       9
Mechanical Engineering                                                                   I
Head of Workshops                     8          15           2           1           3           1          0.2Z        5           2           1
Section Heads                                                                                                      I
(4 specialties)                     4         15           4           4           3           1          0.5         5           4           I
Chief mechanics                       4           8          12           2         13           2          10           1          13           2
Equipment inspectors                  8          15           4           1           2          1           0.3         5           3           1
Service station chiefs                4           8           8           1           1          1           1           3           5           1
Brigade mechanics                     S           a          30           4         20           3           5           1          25           3
Workshop mechanics                                                                          I                      I                      I
(4 specialties)                     4          8          70          4x2         29           4           10         1          50           7
Mechanic helper                       5   j       8          30           4         20           3            6          1         30            4
Light vehicle drivers                 I          10         80            B         30           3           11          1         55           6
Tru:k drivers                         2           5         150     I   30          65      1  13            21     3 months      108    I    22
Equipment operators                   2           3         120         40          75          25           19     2 Z nths       98          33
Sub-Tocal|                                              510      I  103         261         57           84                    393          8;
Administration                                                                                                 I
Administrative Assistants             8    |    15           15           1          2           1            0.8        5           9
Office clerks                         6    |    15           20           2          3           1            2.3        2         12            1
Store keepers                         6          15         30      i    2           3           1            3.3)       2         17           2
Cost clerks                           6          15          30          2           3      I    1            3.31       2         17    I      2
Head draftsman                        8           5           -          -           3           1            0.3                   2           1
Draftsmen                             8           8           5           1          5           1            0.5)       5           3          I
Clerk/typists                         2           5         50          14           2           1            5.2        1         26           6
Radio Operacor                        2          10         20           2           1           1            1         5          11           1
Sun-Total                                             i170           24           2          8           16.7                   97          !5
I            11_I_  _I- -                                          I- -                            -I
GRAND TOTAL                                             843         138        337         1.           107                   58        105
T1 This estimated course length is for basic training of existing personnel and refresher courses if tne empiovees
to be started after 1985.  This is a conservative assumption for new recruits and replacement personnel and adjustments
v7ill be made, if needed, to take inco account the background and level of qualification of students to be recruited.
2/  To fill the void  vithin che actual organization chart.
3/  Estimated curnover:  5% for professional and supervisors;  70% for skilled Manpower.
4/ Assuming that every employee will follow a refresher course every two years.
07/82



- 38 -
Chapter III
Table 3.3
NIGER
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Equipment List for the Training Center
Office Equipment
Furniture for Offices, Classrooms, and Communal Areas
Audio Visual Equipment and Teaching Aids
Workshop Equipment & Tools for Heavy Duty and Vehicle Repairs
Service Station Equipment
Administration Vehicles
1 Station-Wagon
2 Pick-ups
1 Mini-Bus, 20 seats
Equipment for Driver and Operator Training
New Equipment
1 Dump Truck
I Water Tanker 6000 1
1 Single Axle Trailer
I Vibrating Compactor
I Concrete Mixer
Second Hand Equipment 1/
1 Bulldozer 150 hp
I Tyred Loader 90 hp
I Grader 120 hp
1 Agricultural Tractor
Spare Parts for Rehabilitation
Equipment for Road Management Unit
I Roughness Measuring Device
1 White Line Marking Machine
Road Marking Paint
2 Station-Wagons
1/ By transfer from P.C.M.
Source: BCEOM Training Study.
06/82



- 39 -
CHAPTE1( I It
Table 3.4
NICER
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Cost Estimates -
CFA Francs Millions 2                              US$ '000
Local       Tax   Foreign   Total         Local       Tax    Foreign   Total          X Foreign
Periodic Maintenance
1. Strengthening and Resealing
Program (374 km)
a) Civil works by Contract              1,230    1,471    3,692    6,393          3,619    4,326    10,859    18,804              58
b) Supervision (8%)                       130       117      265       512          381       344        778      1,503           51
Contingencies: Physical 10%           136       159       395       690          400       467      1,163     2,030
Price    11.25%       169       197       490       856          496       578     1,441      2,515
1,665    1,944    4,842    8,451          4,896    5,715    14,241    24,852
.2.  Road Management Unit
a) Technical  Assistance 40 man-months  58           51      112       221          170       151        330        651           51
b) Equipment                                -        19       30        49           -         56         89        145           62
Contingencies: i1hysical 10%             6        7        14        27           19        22         41        82
Price    15%           10        11        24        45           30       33         70        133
74       88       1SO       342          219       262       530      1.011
3. Training
a) Construction of Training               150      127       279       556          441       374        821     1,636            50
Centre including VRD and
Supervision
b) Equipment for Offices,                  -        65        67       132                    192        196        388           50
Classrooms, Workshops
c) Equipment and Spare Parts               -        25        98       123           -         74        289        363          80
for Operator Training
d) Operating Costs                         69        6        -         75          203        19         -        222            0
e) Technical Assistance 150               276      142       417       835          811       418     1,225      2,454            51
man-months
Contingencies: Physical 10% on a-e   58          39        69       166          170      115        204        489
Price:    7% on a      13        10        20        43           37       30         59        126
151 on b-e   56        40        96       192          166       118       281         565
622      456    1,046    2,122          1,828    1,340      3,075      6,243
TOTAL                               2,361    2,486    6,068   10,915          6,943    7,317    17,846       32,106
x                                  (21.6)   (22.8)   (55.6)   (100)           (21.6)   (22.8)   (55.6)        (100)
1/ Prices include all applicable taxes, at January 1982 prices
2/  Rate of exchange CFAF 340 = US$ 1.00



- 40 -
Chapter III
Table 3.5
NIGER
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements from the Credit, FY1984-1989
(Us$000's)
IDA Fiscal Year and              Cumulative Disbursement
Half Year Ending                  at End of Half Year
FY84
December 83                            1,500
June 84                                3,500
FY85
December 84                            6,200
June 85                                9,200
FY86
December 85                           12,200
June 86                               14,000
FY87
December 86                           17,500
June 87                               19,500
FY88
December 87                           21,000
June 88                               23,000
FY89
December 88                           23,600
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1988.
The Credit is expected to be closed on October 30, 1989
05/83



Cha ter IV
4 41 -                           Table  .1
NIGER
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Evaluation of Paved Road Maintenance Program
Vehicle Operating Costs
(CFAF/km, January 1983, prices net of Taxes
A. Standard Vehicle Operating Costs/i
Road conditions_
_____Paved Road                  Gravel Road
1     2      3     4       1      2     3      4
Passenger cars                   70    81   113   164       89   101   136   194
Vans, pick-ups                   67    77   107   157       81    92   124   177
Light trucks (4t)               122   140   195   284    141   152   185   242
Medium trucks (lOt)             209   237   310   437    260   280   342   445
Semi trailers (22t)            307   345   455   641    381   410   500   652
B. Vehicles Operating Cost by Section
Road conditions
1    1.5    2    2.5    3
1.  RNIE Niamey -Tillabery                            94   100   108   120   146
(Flat/rolling 17% trucks
2.  RN 7 Dosso - Gaya                                 138   146   157   176   209
(Flat 54% trucks)
3.  RN 29 Tsernaoua - Tahoua                          102   108   116   130   158
(Flat, rolling 23% trucks)
4.  RN IE  Niamey-Koure; Kore - 1Mayroua              105   111   120   134   162
(Flat 25% trucks)
5.  RN IE Dogon doutchi                               113   120   129   144   174
(Flat  31% trucks)
6.  RN IE Birni - N1'Koni                              92    98   106   118   145
(Flat 16% trucks)
/1 Source: Sahel Consult Feasibility of Niamey-Say road (November 1981).
Based on BCEOM definition Transportation Plan. Cost for flat/rolling road
ranging from road conditions:  1 - excellent; 2 - good; 3 - medium; and 4 - poor.



NIGER
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Evaluation of Paved Road Maintenance Program
Basic Assumptions of Cost Benefit Analysis
RN IW                        RN 29                        RN IE                        RN IE                        RN IE
Niamey    Kore
Section                                  Niamey-rillabery            Tsernaoua-Tahoua               Koure  Mayroua                DoRondoutchi                  Birni N'Koni
P.K.                                           0-62                         0-118                    10-50/210-220                    270-320                      320-414
Construction date                               1973                         1975                         1977                         1974                         1974
Length (km)                                     62                            118                          50                           50                           94
Traffic 1981
Total                                        460                            290                       680/360                        305                          367
Irucks (Z)                                     17                            23                         20/30                         31                           16
Growth traffic (Z p.a.)                        5.5                              7                          8.5                         5.5                          5.5 
Nature of works                             Resurfacing                  Resurfacing                  Resurfacing               Resurf./Strength.               Strengthening
eonnomic cost/ks (CFAF 10 6                    4.8                            7.9                          5.0                        13.1                         19.3
rconomic cost total (CFAF 10 6)                304                            927                          252                         655                        1,816
Date of execution                               1984                        1934                          1984                        1983                       191985/86
Road quality (actual/future)                     2/3                         1.5/3                        2/2.7                       2/2.5                        1.7/2.5
Maximun postponement of
maintenance works (no. years)
in the "without  case                          7                             7                            4                            5                            7
Date of next periodic
maintenance works in the
"without" case                               1991                         1992                          1988                        1991                         1988/89
Nature of works at this date          Strengthening (43 km)         Strengthening (75 km)        Strengthening (10 km)        Strengthening (40 km)        Strengthening (20 km)
rehabilitation              bicouche (40 km)             bicouche (30 km)             bicouche (10 km)          rehabilitation (40 ki)
bicouche (18 km)                                                                                                 reconstruction (30 km)
Cost/ks (CFAF 106                                1S                           14                            8                           24                           2 8
Total cost (CFAF 10 )                          915                         1,670                          390                        1.180                        2 ,620
Vehicles Operating Cost
(CFAF/km)                                                                                                                                                                          HV
Actual                                       108                           108                          120                          129                          118               s
with project (minim./maxi.)                 95/120                       106/158                       111/145                      117/136                       98/124
;ithout project (           )               108/j46                      108/190                       123/145                     129/174            |           98/144



NIGER
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Evaluation of Paved Road Maintenance Program
Economic Return/Sensitivity Test
Length                                              IRR (%)
of the      Traffic      Economic
Section       1981          Cost               Best
Section                            (km)       v.p.d.       (106 CFAF)         Estimate     Sensitivityl'
1.  Niamey - Tillabery (RN 1W)                  62          460           304               62              40
2.  Tsernaoua - Tahoua                         118          290           927               30              15           4
3.  Niamey - Koure; Kore - Mayroua              50        680/360         252               96              51
4.  Dogondoutchi section                        50          305          655                36              24
5.  Birni N'Koni section                        94          307        1,816                49              27
All sections                               374                     3,954                43               26
1/ Assuming: (i) rate of growth of traffic reduced 25% (average of 5.5% p.a. instead of 6.5% p.a.);
(ii) periodic maintenance costs increased +20% and savings on vehicle operating costs reduced    H
25%.
05/83



- 44 -                        AANNEX 1
Page 1
NIGER
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Outline Data Collection System
Background
1.       The 2,200 km extension of the paved road network during the :Last
decade and the simultaneous rapid growth of traffic has already lead to a
significant increase of periodic maintenance works. This trend will
accelerate in the coming years. The planning and programming of these
works and the preparation of the associated financing plans requires a
wide range of technical and economic information. It is necessary to
improve the MTPU's system of data collection and to delegate
responsibility for this to a specific service, preferably to the
principal user of the data.
The Road Management Unit
2.       A Road Management Unit will be created within the Directorate of
Public Works, and will (i) coordinate the activities of other services
involved in the management of the road network; and (ii) advise the
Director of Public Works on all matters related to highway maintenance.
Since this new unit will be the major user of data on the sector, it will
be responsible for data collection under the following headings:
(i) Establishment of a basic system of traffic counting and
Periodic Updating (maximum periodicity: 3 years). Analysis of
traffic growth.
(ii) Axle load characteristics. Number of equivalent standard
axles (13t) by section. Cumulative axle load by section since
date of construction of works.
(iii) Summary tables of the distribution of paved network according
to traffic (ADT) and number of equivalent standard axles.
(iv) Classification of Highway Conditions; at least four classes of
highway conditions should be defined based on roughness and
deflection measurements, visual observation of surface defects
and failures; extent and nature of drainage problems.
(v) Estimated date of next periodic maintenance works and nature
of works.
(vi) Updated average costs (financial and economic) of standard
periodic maintenance procedures on paved roads (monocouche,
bi-couche, rechargement, full reconstruction, etc.).



- 45            ~          ANNEX 1
Page 2
(vii)  Updated operating costs of the equipment of the Directorate of
Materiel and review the adequacy of tariffs for rentals of
equipment.
(viii)  Updating of vehicle operating costs (financial and economic)
for a range of road conditions.
(ix)  Actual annual expenditures for periodic maintenance works on
the paved network. Unit costs by section and category of
road.
(x)  Actual road users charges (specific tax, vehicles registration
and licensing fees, custom duties on vehicles, spare parts,
oil products, excise taxes on road transport operators).
(xi)  Forecasted and actual financing plan of paved road maintenance
program. (FNI, local banks, bilateral or multilateral aid).
(xii)  Spectrum of vehicles axle loads.  (Updated every four years).
General Information on the Road Transport Industrv
Concerns information collected by other services but collated by the Road
Management Unit.
(i) General trends of road traffic growth in terms of
tons/vehicle-km, ton/km by type of road and type of traffic.
(ii)  International flows by point of entry.
(iii)  Fuel consumption.
(iv)  Fuel price structure.
(v)  New vehicle registration statistics.
(vi)  Updated estimate of existing vehicle fleet in operation.
(vii)  Inventory of Road Transport Operators.
(viii)  Official and actual tariffs for road transport freight and
passengers for selected itineraries.
(ix)  Total public expenditures for the highway sector
(a) by nature of expenditure
Overheads, routine maintenance, periodic maintenance,
earth and paved roads, road construction.
(b) by budgetary allocation
Budget General, BAEMTP, FNI, External Aid by donors.



- 46 -
ANNEX 2
NIGER
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Documents Available in the Project File
1. Plan de Transport, BCEOM, 1978.
2. Training Report, Third Highway Project BCEOM 1978.
3. CFPTP, Feasibility Study, BCEOM 1980.
4. CFPTP, Avant Projet Sommaire, BCEOM 1981.
5. Road Maintenance Program, BCEOM (1981).
6. Deflection Survey of the Paved Network in Niger. Three reports,
BCEOM (October 1980).
7. Feasibility Study of the Niamey-Say Road (Sahel Consult), September
1981.
8.  Feasibility Study of the Malbaza-Dabnou Road, BCEOM (1980).
9.  Study of the Domestic Construction Industry, BCEOM (September 1981).
10. Directorate of Public Works: Annual Report, 1979-80.
11. Study of the Influence of Axle Load on Roads and Bridges in Niger,
Technical Report, BCEOM (1980).
12. Niger's Five Year Economic Development Plan, 1979-83.



- 47 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
NIGER
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Technical Assistance to the Training Center
Outline Terms of Reference
Background
1.       Niger is a vast landlocked country and is very dependent on the
maintenance of good internal and external road links. Literacy and
higher levels of education are low and the capacity of existing trade
training organizations is limited. The Ministry of Public Works, and
Urbanism (MTPU) through its Directorate of Public Works (DTP) is respon-
sible for the maintenance of 7,500 km of roads and tracks; for this task
it employs 1,800 staff and has a large fleet of earth-moving equipment
and vehicles. Under the Third Highway Project, systematic training of
these employees was begun in a temporary training center, which is now
being returned to its former use. However programs and course material
have been developed and five Nigerien instructors have been trained.
2.       It is now required to establish the training effort on a perma-
nent basis in the new training center in Niamey, currently under con-
struction. This effort will encompass the full range of trades and occu-
pations represented by DTP's work force, including office, field and
workshop staff.
The Task
3.       A team of five is required to assist the Director of Public
Works to establish and operate the Centre de Formation et Perfectionment
des Travaux Publics (CFPTP) as a training center during a period of three
years. The team will be responsible for: (a) completion of the building
works, (b) procurement and installation of workshop, office and class-
rooms, and other equipment; (c) assembly of a fleet of earth-moving
equipment and vehicles for operator training, (d) development of training
programs and a complete range of course material; (e) delivery of the
training courses and administration of the center for three years, and
(f) training of Nigerien counterparts, instructors and other staff of
CFPTP; and (g) monitoring and evaluation of the training process.
The Team
4.       A team of five specialists will be required for a total of 150
man-months as follows:



- 48 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2
lan-months
Director of the CFPTP                   35
Administrator                            31
Mechanical Engineering Instructor       30
Civil Engineering Instructor            28
Driver Instructor                       26
150
Qualifications and Duties
5.       Each member of the team should be fluent in written and spoken
French, and have experience in technical training and some experience
(not necessarily in a teaching capacity) in a public works administration
in a developing country. Each team member will be assigned a Nigerien
counterpart with whom he will work in close co-operation at all times.
All team members will be based in Niamey, but travel to MTPU's district
offices will be necessary from time to time.
Director of CFPTP
6.       The Director should have higher level technical qualifications
or a university degree in civil or mechanical engineering and, in addi-
tion, some qualification in trade training. This individual should have
had at least ten years' industrial or public works experience, including
three years experience in a trade training institution. The Director of
CFPTP will be responsible to the Director of Public Works for setting up
the training center as a functioning organization, including the over-
seeing of: (a) completion of the building; (b) procurement of all equip-
ment, furniture and supplies; (c) the planning of all training courses;
and (d) the administration of the center. The Director must be prepared
to give courses in his speciality, and to prepare in consultation with
Nigerien authorities, a general training policy, plans for development
and expansion of the center, together with recommendations on a personnel
management policy, to ensure the best use of trainees.
Administrator
7.       This individual should hold a recognized qualification in public
administration, accounting or business management. Previous experience
in the administration of a public works or mechnical engineering organi-
zation is essential, and experience in a trade training organization
would be an advantage. The Administrator will be responsible to the
Center Director for the adminstration of the Center including procurement
and accounting for funds supplied through two special accounts, and for
the conduct of a range of training courses for DTP's office and adminis-



- 49 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3
trative staff. The subjects covered will include cost accounting,
keeping of stock records, general administration and procurement.
Mechanical Engineering Instructor
8.       The individual should possess a higher level technician's quali-
fications and a qualification in trade training with at least seven
years experience in mechnical engineering, of which two shall have been
in a trade training institution. The mechanical engineering instructor
will be responsible to the Center Director for the preparation and con-
duct of all mechanical training courses, and for the coordination of all
course activities within the Center.
Civil Engineering Instructor
9.       This individual should possess a higher-level technician's qua-
lifications, with at least seven years' experience in bitumen and gravel
road works, of which four shall have been in a developing country, and
shall have had some previous trade training experience. The civil engi-
neering instructor will be responsible to the Center Director for the
preparation of all civil and driver/operator courses, and for the conduct
of the civil courses.
Driver Instructor
10.      This individual should have had at least seven years'field expe-
rience in the operation and maintenance of a wide range of earth-moving
equipment and vehicles, and previous experience as an instructor. The
driving instructor will be responsible to the civil engineering instruc-
tor for preparation and conduct of courses for drivers and operators.
Reporting
11.      An Inception Report will be required four months after the
starting date of the contract outlining plans for the short and medium-
term operation of the center, and for the fulfillment of the objectives
and tasks set out in paras. 3 & 6. The Director will submit a report on
the activities of the Center to the Director of Public Works every two
months, with an annual summary at the end of each academic year. The
accounts administered by the Center will be audited annually. These
reports will be submitted to DTP which will forward two copies under a
covering letter to the Association. A draft final will be required three
months before the end of the contract, documenting progress to date, and
laying out an action plan for the next three years of operation and
development of the center.



REPUBLIC OF NIGER
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
MINISTERE DES TRAVAUX PUBLICS ET DE L'URBANISME
DIRECTION DES TRAVAUX PUBLICS
|  DIRECTOR                         SERE   RIl
De:part lnen tag                                              
Services         NIAMEY                 DOSSO                  TAHOUA                  MARADI                  ZINDER                  DIFFA
(Districts) 
Sectuos           Nanev 1                                        Talioua                  Mardi
l   Tillaberi   |                |  New W~~orks             Ne Wok
_New Wurks
Ce it al Serv ces        Studic             Maintenance and           EquSPnrntc                                     ANainisorataon
Central Services  Studies   New Works           a  Workshops  |          dy Contracts 
R lail                                          Stoin atenacount
Administration
Sconoalics                 Rr al ose               Inspectorate  |                                    B     Personnel  |
1/   Since appraisal,  have become separate directorates.                                                                     Wcirldllink--23594



_BIRRD 16335
r.                             2°                              4°                  U. WezzvUc/a                                 8                               a                               12-                             14'                            JUNE tY82
N    I G       E  R                                                                  ---------------
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
-       Upgrading to Paved Standard
.       Resurfacing and Strengthening
-18'              U     Construction of Training School
4                            Paved Roads (a or 2 Lanes)
Paved Roads under Construction                 |
Engineered  Gravel Roads
Simple Earth Roads                             I                                          * .        I       >
Maintained Tracks
-  --  Simple Tracks                                  /                                          -.   A s  -                    ,
Rivers                                                                              In Grl                                                                                                                                       /
t    A,rports
®    Department Capitals
Department Boundaries                     /                                    N-ga.r /
Intern-atonal Boundar,es                                   Tri,-5obaode,p            /
.J                              |                                   /d Abussoovoov
)~~~'A'  -        '~~~~~~~~~~~''    / ~~TAH                        O    A                                          \     o 
a  -~~~~~~~~~~~~- ------                                                                                                  .
| ~ P   T- 6 S +-,                 T.11h                                                                                          b,nkWrF               '
TXbi.                                                                                                                                                                                                                    16A  f}:- 14'- 
D                                                                                                                                                                                                           LIe  A tbi S''|/
> 2   04  W   7bs    \J                                                                                                  /    e     h  ¢f     atrAchd   ThernnommAlano  a G1mdthe< hZ ...  ALG ERIA             y
O'o    .                    Ovvo                   \      b-v go, 6. T                                                                                        Ina2                                                                So  v  dGlEOL                 :g
a                                                                       Modoo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~v MRD
Dv;                            r------oovv1~ 
toiryvrv  Soavouo civ  ~~~~~1'~T0C  ~~ %.  1  Irhoioooo  TokoNlo                                                                               M                   AE 
NIAME~~~  mr Mv,ooo                  /               \vrunura                         Morvorvyn                                                                                                            00~~~~~~~~~~~.*\ o~B
H   ~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                 U      50      00    isu    25~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 0  255  12ooe
20  U                                                                                                            N                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MILESNIEA
001                                                                                                                                                       io\J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bh    ..
~~OrP  I avUn                                                I      ,o,oo,ao~~~~~v,o,,ornouvrmoow,,,ueoos,,,oooodo,~~~~~~~~r,o,  ~ ~   so,.>    NiGtCAAAER
6                                                19-                              12~~~~~~~~~~~~~ooro, oo,i,,0o0                      cMtoi



