CREDIT NUMBER 1394 NIR
Development Credit Agreement
(Fourth Highway Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated       /4                        1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1394 NIR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                       /s-/    F      , 1983,
between REPUBLIC OF NIGER (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Association to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said  General   Conditions  Applicable   to  Development  Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "Project Account A" means the account referred to in
Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(b) "Project Account B" means the account referred to in
Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(c) "Training Center" means the public works training
center to be established under Part C of the Project;


﻿-2-
(d) "Service Materiel" means the Directorate of Equipment
of the Borrower's Ministry of Public Works and Urban Dpvelopment;
(e) "Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower,
starting on October 1st and ending on September 30th of each
calendar year;
(f) "CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
(g) "Treasury" means the Directorate of Treasury of the
Borrower's Ministry of Finance;
(h)  "BDRN" means Banque de Developpement de la R6publique
du Niger; and
(i) "Budget" means Fonds National d'Investissements et
Budget National.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twenty one million nine hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 21,900,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, prncurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be October 30, 1989 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The


﻿-3-
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time.   The commitment charge shall accrue
from a date sixty' days after the date of the Development Credit
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts shall be
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account ot shall be
cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 15
and October 15 commencing October 15, 1993, and ending April 15,
2033, each installment to and including the installment payable
on April 15, 2003, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the Republic of France is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through its Ministry of Public Works and Urban Development with


﻿due diligence and efficiency and in conformity wiLh appropriate
administrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds,. facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its obligations under Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Bor-
rower shall, for purposes of Part C of the Project:
(a)  open, and thereafter maintain an account (the Project
Account A) in the Treasury and an account (Project Account B) in
BDRN, in CFAF on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, to pay the operating costs of the Public Works
Training Center referred to in Part C of the Project, including
the costs referred to in Section 3.09 of this Agreement;
(b) deposit into Project Account A nine million CFAF
(CFAF 9,000,000) and withdraw from such Account three million
CFAF  (CFAF   3,000,000)  and   deposit  such  sum  into  Project
Account B;
(c) authorize the Director of the Public Works Training
Center or his authorized representative to make the withdrawals
from the Project Account B for the operating costs referred to in
paragraph (a) above;
(d) in addition to the ihitial deposit referred to in para-
graph (b) hereof, make as and when required such additional
deposits into the Project Account A as shall ensure that the
funds available in the Project Account A shall at all times be
sufficient to permit timely and efficient execution of Part C of
the Project; and
(e) withdraw from Project Account A and deposit into Pro-
ject Account B promptly as and when required to permit timely and
efficient execution of Part C of the Project, amounts equal to
payments made out of Project Account B for expenditures for such
Part of the Project.
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower in the super-
vision of the construction under Parts A and C.1 of the Project,
and in the carrying out of Parts B and C of the Project, the Bor-
rower shall employ such consultants and other experts as shall be
agreed between the Borrower and the Association, whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association, such consultants and experts to


﻿- 5 -
be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satis-
factory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.


﻿- 6 -
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furniso to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as che
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land
and rights in respect of land as shall be required for carrying
out the Project and shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association
that such land and rights in respect of land are available for
purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.07. In carrying out Part B of the Project, the
Borrower shall, not later than September 30, 1984:
(a) appoint qualified local counterparts to the engineer
and the technician to be employed pursuant to Section 3.03 of
this Agreement; and
(b) make available suitable office space for the Road
Management Unit.
Section 3.08. In carrying out Part C 3 of the Project the
Borrower shall:
(a) not later than December 31, 1984 transfer from Service
Materiel to the Public Works Training Center, a crawler tractor,
a motor grader, a tyred loader and an agricultural tractor; and
(b) before making the transfer referred to in paragraph (a)
of this Section, furnish to the Association a written statement,
satisfactory to the Association, confirming that such road
equipment and vehicles will be suitable for their intended
purposes after rehabilitation.


﻿-7-
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall make available promptly as
needed (i) all travel expenses and accommodation allowances for
students attending the Public Works Training Center, and (ii) all
honoraria for full-time instructors and visiting lecturers at the
Public Works Training Center, at such rates as shall be deter-
mined by the Borrower to the satisfaction of the Association.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall, not later than December
31, 1984, appoint five full-time instructors and eight supporting
staff to the Public Works Training Center whose qualifications
and experience shall be satisfactory to the Association, or any
other member of such full-time instruction and supporting staff
as shall be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and account5 adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by such auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning said accounts and the audit thereof
as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Sectio)n 4.02. (a) For the purposes of Schedule 1 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association each
disbursement request within forty-five days of receipt of the
invoice relating thereto.
(b)   The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be
necessary to ensure that all payments by the Borrower in connec-
tion with the Project are made within ninety days of receipt of
the invoice relating thereto.


﻿-8-
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall collect and analyse in
accordance with appropriate statistical methods and nrocedures
such technical, economic and financial data as shall be reason-
ably required for proper planning of maintenance, improvements
and extension of its road network.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause its priority road
network and its road maintenance equipment to be adequately
maintained and shall cause all necessary repairs thereof to be
made with due diligence and efficiency in accordance with
appropriate engineering and economic practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the foregoing.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall:
(a) maintain the level of revenue from road-user charges,
including taxes and duties on vehicles, spare parts and fuels,
and revenue derived indirectly from the operation of motor
vehicles, at least equal to the total cost of road maintenance
and road administration; and
(b) allocate (i) in its Budget for the Fiscal Year 1983/84
an amount equivalent to not less than CFAF one billion seven
hundred milliun (CFAF 1,700,000,000) for the maintenance of its
roads; and (ii) in its annual Budgets, until the Project has been
completed, the amounts necessary for the maintenance of its roads
as shall be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall, not later than December
31, 1983 and not later than December 31st of each year,
thereafter, until the Project has been completed, furnish to the
Association, for its comments, its highway investment program.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be reasonably required to ensure that all dimensions and
axle loads of vehicles using the roads in its national highway
system will not exceed limits consistent with the design
standards of such roads.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development


﻿-9-
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Ccnditions: (i) that the Borrower has provided in its
Budget for fiscal year 1983/84 the sum of CFAF one billion
(CFAF 1,000,000,000) as a contribution to the cost of the first
year of the Project out of which the sum of CFAF one hundred
forty million (CFAF 140,000,000) shall be allocated to Fonds
National d'Investissements and the sum of CFAF eight hundred
sixty million (CFAF 860,000,000) shall be allocated to Budget
National; and (ii) that the Project Accounts referred to in
Section 3.02 of this Agreement have been opened in accordance
with the provisions of such Section.
Section 5.02. The date 0-7'-w' 73/7/PF3           is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 5.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date 20 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall
be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Public Works and Urban
Development of the Borrower is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Travaux Public et de 1'Urbanisme
Niamey
Republic of Niger
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINISTRAVO                          5283 NI
Niamey-


﻿- 10 -
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their reGpective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the allocation of
the amounts of the Credit to each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                  SDR Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil works for              13,910,000      74%
Parts A of the
Project
(2) Civil works for                 790,000      50%
Part C.1 of the
Project
(3) Equipment, furniture,           835,000      100% of foreign
vehicles and spare                          expenditures
parts for Parts B.2,                        and 50% of
C.2 and C.3 of                              local expendi-
the Project                                 tures
(4) Consultants' services         1,300J000      85%
for supervision of
civil works under
Parts A and C.1 of
the Project
(5) Consultants' services         2,780,000      85%
for Parts B.1 and C.1
of the Project
(6) Unallocated                   2,285,000
TOTAL              21,900,000


﻿- 12 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; provided, however, that if the
currency of the Borrower is also that of another country from the
territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures
in such currency for such good, or services shall be deemed to be
"foreign expenditures".
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that the proceeds of
the Credit shall not be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Category decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such Category as required to be consistent with the aforemen-
tioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 above, if the Association
has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then
allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance all
expenditures in that Category, the Ass-ciation may, by notice to
the Borrower, reallocate to such Categoty, to the extent required
to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are
then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of
the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of


﻿- 13 -
the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restrict-
ing or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Associa-
tion uncier the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associa-
tion's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds o.f the Credit.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part 1.:  Pavement Strengthening and Resurfacing
Strengthening and resurfacing of about 374 kilometers of the
existing bituminous road network as set forth in Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
Part B:   Road Network Management
1.   Establishment and operation of a Road Management Unit
within the Directorate of Public Works of the Borrower;
and
2.   Acquisition  and  utilization   of  office,   traffic-
counting, pavement-testing and line-marking equipment,
and vehicles, by the Road Management Unit.
Part C:   Training Center
1.   Construction and operation of a Public Works Training
Center in Niamey including workshops, classrooms, and
administrative offic'es;
2.   Acquisition and utilization of teaching, office and
workshop equipment, and furniture, and earth-moving
machinery and vehicles, by the Training Center; and
3.   Rehabilitation by the Training Center of equipment and
vehicles transferred to the Training Center from the
Service Materiel and acquisition and utilization of
spare parts for the purpose.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1988.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as .the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange
for the publication of such notice in order to provide timely
notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for
the goods and works in question. The Borrower shall provide the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long as
any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) priL, for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.


﻿- 16 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to the evaluation of bids for any contract or
part thereof, for civil works included under Category (2) of the
table set forth in Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement
and to be procured in accordance with the procedures described in
Part A of this Schedule, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference of 7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   Contractors applying for such preference shall be asked
to provide, as part of the data for qualification, such informa-
tion, including details of ownership, as shall be required to
deterrine whether, according to the classification established by
the Borrower and accepted by the Association, a particular firm
or group of firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The
bidding documents shall clearly indicate the preference and the
method that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of
bids to give effect to such preference.
2.   After bids have been received and reviewed by the
Borrower, responsive bids will be classified into the following
groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for
preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Equipment and furniture for the Training Center, other than
workshop equipment and vehicles, and equipment for traffic
counting, pavement marking and roughness measurement may be
procured by negotiated purchase after solicitetions of quotations
from at least three suppliers.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:


﻿- 17 -
With respect to all contracts to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with      the analysis of the
respective bids, recommendations for award and such other infor-
mation as the Association shall reasonably request. The Associa-
tion shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower add state the reasons for such determination.


﻿-  -
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, exteasion
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Road Strengthening Program
Description of Works
Road*                                             Works*
RN-1W Niamey-Tillaberry               44 km monocouche 1/
PK 0-62                              18 km bicouche 2/
Supplementary works 3/
RN-29 Tsernaoua-Tahoua               28 km bicouche
PK 0-118                            90 km monocouche
1.5 km drainage and pavement
repairs at PK 69
Supplementary works
RN 1E Niamey-Birni Nkonni             50 km monocouche
PK 10-50, 210-220                   Supplementary works
PK 270-320                          50 km bicouche
Supplementary works
PK 320-414                          94 km bicouche
30 km strengthening 4/
Supplementary works
*    The road sections and work quantities indicated below may
vary by 5 km and 10% in base cost.
1/   Single bituminous surface dressing.
2/   Double bituminous surface dressing.
3/   Regulating and other patching, making up shoulders, culvert
repairs, etc.
4/   Overlaying with 15-25 cm laterite.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I heteby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
1983
FOR SECRETARY


