Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22213-PH
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-34550; SCL-3455A)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$68 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PIHLIPPINES
FOR A THIRD MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 28, 2001
Urban Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents mnay not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2000)
Currency Unit = Peso (PhP)
PhPI = USS 0.02
US$ 1 = 49.9
METRIC SYSTEM
FISCAL YEAR
January I  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BLGF           Bureau of Local Government Finance
BOT            Build-Operate-Transfer (also BOO, BTO-- different forms of private sector participation)
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CDS            City Development Strategy
COA            Commission on Audit
CPO            Central Project Office
DBM            Department of Budget and Management
DlLG           Department of the Interior and Local Govemment
DOF            Department of Finance
DPWH           Department of Public Works and Highways
EIRR           Economic Internal Rate of Retum
FIRR           Financial Internal Rate of Return
GOP            Government of the Philippines
IDF            Institutional Development Fund
IRA            Internal Revenue Allotment
LGA            Local Government Academy
LGC            Local Government Code
LGU            Local Government Unit
LLA            Local Loans Account
LOGOFIND       Local Government Unit Finance and Infrastructure Development Project (Ln. 4446)
MDF(O)         Municipal Development Fund (Office)
MDFGB          Municipal Development Fund Goveming Board
MDP            Municipal Development Project
MTP            Municipal Training Program
PHRD           Population and Human Resource Development Grant (of Japan)
PGB            Policy Governing Board
PSA            Project Support Account
PSC            Project Steering Committee
RPTA           Real Property Tax Administration
RPTU           Real Property Tax Unit
SPAR           Subproject Appraisal Report
Vice President:    Mr. Jemal ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Manager/Director:    Mr. Vinay Bhargava, EACPF
Sector Manager/Director:    Mr. Keshav Varmna, EASUR
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Mr. Toru Hashimoto, EASUR



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES: THIRD MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                           1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                          1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                   4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                     9
6. Sustainability                                                                       11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                         12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      16
9. Partner Comments                                                                      17
10. Additional Information                                                              17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    24
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    27
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    31
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    32
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    34
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       35
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   36






Project ID: P004592                                        Project Name: Third Municipal Development Project
Team Leader. Thomas L. Zearley                             TL Unit: EASUR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: June 28, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: Third Municipal Development Project             L/C/TF Number: CPL-34550;
SCL-3455A
CountryiDepartment: PHILIPPINES                                           Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: UM - Urban Management
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  04/24/1990                               Effective:                     08/03/1992
Appraisal:  06/13/1991                                 MTR:
Approval:  03/31/1992                               Closing: 06/30/1999           12/31/2000
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: GOP/DPWH
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jemal ud-din Kassum                        Attila Karaosmanoglu
Country Manager:     Vinay K. Bhargava                          Callisto Madavo
Sector Manager:       Keshav Varma                               Jeffrey Gutman
Team Leader at 1CR:   Thomas Zearley                            Yoshine Uchimura
ICR Primary Author:   Lito League; Toru Hashimoto
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S-Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, NI=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
BorrowerPerformance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
The OAG had not been esrablished at the tinme of project preparation, so a rating is not available.



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.] Original Objective.
Background. The Third Municipal Development Project (MDP III) was designed to assist cities
and municipalities in the Philippines to address existing deficiencies and improve priority infrastructure,
services and facilities for their residents by strengthening the National Government's institutional
framework for assisting local governments, including their planning and management capabilities. It was
the third in a series of Bank-assisted projects to promote local government development and improve local
government access to credit financing. Based on the success of the first two MDPs, MDP III was to
support the further evolution of the system applied in the previous MDPs, which adopts a demand-driven,
bottom-up approach to determining participants.
Objectives: The principal objectives of the loan were to assist Philippine cities and municipalities
in expanding and upgrading their infrastructure, services and facilities by: (a) strengthening the National
Govenmment's institutional framework for assisting local governments; (b) strengthening the local
governments' investment planning, financing and implementation capacity; (c) strengthening the local
government's maintenance capacity; and, (d) improving local fiscal performance.
The objectives were clearly defined and generally consistent with the Bank's evolving strategy for
the urban/local government sector in the Philippines. The project was generally responsive to the
borrower's circumstances and priorities, as it coincided with the passage of the Local Government Code
(LGC) of 1991 in which many national government functions were devolved to the Local Government
Units (LGUs). In this regard, the project provided the much needed support for LGUs in upgrading
infrastructure facilities, capacities, and revenue-generating programs. The project was consistent and
responsive to the Government's decentralization program by targeting assistance to LGUs. By adopting a
bottom-up, demand-driven approach, the project's objectives were realistic because LGUs were given the
responsibility of selecting projects that they could complete within the context of their technical and
financial capabilities, as well as the project's implementation period. The project's design adopted the
approach of the two previous MDPs and, therefore, did not involve any major project risks. The potential
project risks identified in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) included:
(a) acceptability of moving toward market rates for municipal lending;
(b) technical and managerial limitations of the local governments;
(c) project office's capability to handle a larger number of cities/municipalities than in the past; and
(d) political uncertainty surrounding the upcoming (1992) presidential elections.
The project was not designed with perfonnance indicators such as those included in current docurnentation,
nor was it retrofitted with indicators when the logframe tool was introduced in the late 1990s, because it
was felt the project's closing date was too soon to make a significant difference.
3.2 Revised Objective:
n.a.
3.3 Original Components:
The objectives above were to be achieved through a series of physical investments by the
Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) and LGUs, local resource mobilization efforts for
Real Property Tax Administration (RPTA) and technical assistance to the main national implementing
agencies such as DPWH, and Department of Finance (DoF). The project was a continuation and expansion
of the approach developed under MDP I and MDP II and consisted of:
- 2 -



(a) Subprojects. Subprojects included basic infrastructure (installation of communal faucets;
construction of wells; construction of communal sanitation facilities; construction and
rehabilitation of drainage canals and pipes; and improvement of existing alleys, footpaths and
local roads); public facilities (construction and rehabilitation of public markets,
slaughterhouses and motorpools) and equipment (provision of road and drainage maintenance
equipment; utility vehicles and computers for record management). These subprojects were
divided into local component-funded projects, which refer to projects that are implemented and
maintained by the LGU, and the national component-funded projects, which include projects
that are implemented and maintained by the DPWH;
(b) Maintenance Program: Improved rnaintenance planning and implementation in selected pilot
cities and municipalities;
(c) Real Property Tax Administration: Assistance to LGUs to improve the preparation of tax
maps, to improve real property tax records management, to increase real property tax
collection and to computerize the management of real property information;
(d) Municipal Training Program: Training of local officials in, among others, municipal planning,
fiscal management, contract management and environmental assessment; and
(e) Technical Assistance: for (i) a study of institutional options for further lending to local
governments; and (ii) an environmental sanitation and solid waste study.
The project components were aptly designed to address the needs of LGUs as well as strengthening
the capacity of national government agencies in assisting them. By adopting a bottom-up, demand-driven
approach, the reasonableness of achieving the project objectives within the implementation period was
assured. In addition, the combination of project components was appropriate to ensuring that LGUs had
access to the necessary technical and financial assistance to achieve the project's objectives. The
experience of the implementing agencies with the previous MDPs improved their capacity in dealing with
the problems that arose during implementation of MDP3. In particular, the Central Project Office (CPO)
was instrumental in ensuring smooth vertical and horizontal coordination during implementation.
The project design incorporated key lessons leamed in the previous urban sector projects in the
Philippines. More specifically it aimed at: (a) introducing approaches to optimize limited local resources;
(b) strengthening LGU capacity to plan investments, implement projects, operate and maintain services,
and institute proper pricing policies to ensure cost recovery; and (c) providing LGUs essential access to
financial and technical resources for basic municipal services.
3.4 Revised Components:
The Technical Assistance component was dropped from the project when funding was made
available through a grant from the Japanese Govermment. The Municipal Lending Study was undertaken
through an IDF Grant, while the Urban Environmental Solid Waste Management Study was completed
through a PHRD Grant. This component was dropped after the project became effective, and the loan
funds of US$1.3 million were reallocated in 1998 to fund the consultancy and training requirements of
other project components.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Overall. quality at entrv is rated satisfactorv. The project was consistent with the Bank's CAS
objectives of strengthening municipal management and increasing the level of resources available to local
governments through improved access to loan financing. At the same time, it also supported the
Government's priorities and decentralization policies with the timely passage of the Local Govermment
Code of 1991. Overall, the project's design, incorporating a participatory, demand-driven selection
- 3 -



process, was instrumental in its successful implementation.   The combination of the project's
components-namely subproject selection, project-related training and strengthening real property tax
collection-was suited to meet its objectives. The design appropriately addressed the needs of LGUs for
upgrading infrastructure facilities, technical capacities of LGUs, and improving municipal management
through improved resource mobilization and fiscal management, investment planning, project
irnplementation and maintenance operations. The assumptions with regard to potential risks to project
implementation were reasonable and were appropriately identified at appraisal. The project components
were evaluated as having minimal environmental impacts at appraisal. Specifically, the subprojects
component, which includes the construction of infrastructure facilities, met the Bank's standards for
environmental and social concerns and therefore complied with the Bank's safeguard policies.
Risk Assessment. The project risks with regard to generic assumptions about external risks to the
project were very reasonable and had a negligible impact on the project. The Asian financial crisis of 1997
and its impacts on the project and the country as a whole could not have been forecast at appraisal. Project
specific risks were also identified early on at appraisal and had limited impacts on the project. Specifically,
the reorganization following the local and national elections held in 1995 and 1998 caused implementation
delays due to changes in priorities, delay in assigning signatories, and submission of incomplete
documentation.  It was during this period (June 1995 to June 1996) that the project was rated
unsatisfactory.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall project outcome is rated satisfactorv. The project successfully achieved its physical
objectives of assisting LGUs to provide basic municipal infrastructure, services and facilities.  In
particular, revenue-generating projects, such as public markets, have in most cases, expanded the revenue
base of LGUs and provided income-generating opportunities for residents, in addition to improved
facilities. Based on sample calculations, the project has satisfactory economic (EIRRs) and financial rates
of return (FIRSs).  Sample economic and financial rates of return calculated for four projects reveal
EIRRs between 10-29%, as against the EIRR of 15% established at appraisal. (See details in annex 3.) The
project has sustained the achievements of previous MDPs in attaining institutional development objectives.
It successfully continued the development and strengthening of national support mechanisms for financial
and technical assistance to LGUs.
The institutional development impact on participating LGUs as in previous MDPs has been
substantial. LGUs gained both knowledge and hands-on experience in various aspects of municipal
management and development such as project planning and preparation, development and capital
investment planning, detailed engineering design, procurement and contract supervision, implementation
supervision, financial management, resource mobilization, environmental management and operation of
municipal services and enterprises, that can be applied to future capital investment and municipal service
operations. The skills acquired by the participants were not only useful as they related to the project, but
also set the foundations for improved municipal governance and LGU performance. The training
component highlighted the gaps in the technical capacity of the country's LGUs and brought to fore the
importance of extending financial as well as technical assistance in improving local govemrnment
performance.  More than anything, the project emphasized the need for LGUs to re-evaluate their
management styles to adapt to the needs of rapidly urbanizing centers in light of the govemment's
decentralization policies.
In addition to upgrading their skills, the project successfully established national support
- 4 -



mechanisms for financial and technical assistance to LGUs. The MDF has established itself as a long-term
credit window for eligible LGUs. Although this objective has not yet been fully achieved, the groundwork
has been laid for its originally envisaged function as a revolving fund facility for LGUs. The CPO became
a capable technical agency to support LGUs in municipal infrastructure planning and provisions.
The project also achieved its financial objectives. The real property tax component enabled the
significant expansion of the tax bases in rapidly urbanizing LGUs and emerging urban centers and provided
a basis for increasing locally generated resources. The project also substantially achieved the national fiscal
objective of shifting gradually from grant financing to loan financing for capital investment projects
undertaken by LGUs. The maintenance component of the project, however, did not substantially achieve
its objective of strengthening the local govenmment's maintenance capacity, as exhibited by the diminishing
support it generated as the project progressed. While the project's design was intended to institutionalize
the importance of maintenance in LGU development, it failed to take into account the ability of LGUs to
provide increasing equity over the implementation period, and therefore was not able to sustain LGU
participation in the project.
The project partially achieved its sector policy objectives and public sector management objectives.
The separation of national support functions among three agencies, namely the CPO  (technical
intermediary), Bureau of Local Government Finance/Municipal Development Fund (financial intermediary)
and LGAIMTP (capacity building) created some constraints in overall project implementation.
Furthermore, the project design of the MDP III provided little incentive for LGUs to extend coverage of
non-revenue generating infrastructure in social and environmental sectors, especially to the lower income
communities.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Subproject Component
The project substantially achieved and, in some participating LGUs, exceeded its physical
objectives. A total of 75 LGUs spread throughout 11 regions benefited from the subproject component of
the MDP Ill. As in the previous MDPs, the majority of the sub-projects included revenue-generating
facilities such as the construction and rehabilitation/expansion of public markets (56 units) and
slaughterhouses (six units). Other subprojects included transport terminals, water supply systems, a
municipal port, school buildings, health centers, traffic management systems, roads and bridges, and shore
protection facilities which were classified as local components, while other national level subprojects
included roads and bridges, drainage and flood control systems, shore protection and water supply systems.
The public markets had the most visible benefits by providing more sanitary and hygienic facilities, better
circulation and ventilation, increased market capacity to meet the demand for stalls, and improved mobility,
comfort and convenience for both users and stall owners. Moreover, public markets triggered the
development of adjacent areas into commercial spaces resulting in increased real property values and
subsequently real property tax collections.
Through the subprojects component, MDP satisfactorily achieved its objective of assisting LGUs
in the provision of priority infrastructure facilities and services for their respective constituents. More
importantly, the projects had significant impacts on the fiscal and political autonomy of LGUs. Through
the construction of revenue-generating projects, participating LGUs increased their fiscal autonomy
through improved local revenue collections. This improved their access to further MDF funds, and other
loans and grants.  Politically, more autonomy gives municipalities a greater role in decentralized
decision-making, and therefore supports the goals of the Local Government Code.
- 5 -



Maintenance Program
The maintenance program component was implemented in eight project centers (municipalities of
Bauan, Pulilan and Los Banos and the cities of San Fernando (La Union), San Jose, Dipolog, Butuan and
Tagum) as targeted in the SAR. These subprojects undertaken under this component included the
rehabilitation of drainage systems, dredging of rivers and creeks, fabrication of canal and concrete covers,
rehabilitation of municipal grading equipment, street lighting, electrical facilities, and market facilities
among others. Over the four-year implementation period of this component, the participating LGUs
assumed an increasing share in the cost-sharing scheme with the national government. During the first
year, the government assumed 70% of the funding requirements, followed by 50% and 30% in the second
and third years respectively, after which the local government assumed full funding for the project. The
objective of the graduated investment scheme was to instill the ethic of maintenance and to develop
technical skills. Participating LGUs were selected from those who were willing to comrnmit the necessary
resources to improve their maintenance performance and had satisfactorily completed projects under MDP
I.
The project only partially achieved its objective of strengthening the maintenance capacity of
LGUs through the implementation of the maintenance component. The primary reason was the inability of
interested LGUs to provide the required counterpart funds as a pre-requisite for participation in the project.
At the same time, participating LGUs experienced difficulties in meeting the equity contributions, in spite
of the graduated cost-sharing scheme with the lending agency. During implementation, the participation of
the LGUs diminished as their share in the costs increased. This experience points to a design issue which
may not have been the most appropriate means for achieving the intended objectives. Aside from not
providing appropriate incentives for participants to finish the four-year program, the component did not
include a system for penalizing participants for not providing the scheduled counterpart funds.
Municipal Training Program (MTP)
Between 1993 and 2000, the MTP component conducted 219 training courses with 9,169
participants from 74 participating LGUs, exceeding the appraisal estimate of 156 training courses. About
87% of the participants included technical staff, while the remaining 11.89% were elected officials
including mayors, vice mayors and councilors. The range of courses conducted by the Local Government
Academy were directed towards improving and strengthening the management, technical, and financial
capabilities of local government staff of its project centers, particularly as they relate to the planning,
implementation and management of local infrastructure projects. Over a seven year period, the courses
were conducted in a classroom setting coupled with project site visits in various locations by in-house staff
of the MTP-LGA and contract trainers. The most successful innovation thus far, the MTP component,
was developed and implemented as training cum technical assistance, utilizing a tested pool of experts and
consultants in the various fields of local governance.
Conducted in 1999, a survey of 27 out of the 36 project centers revealed that the objectives of the
component were satisfactorily achieved as shown in the improved performance of technical staff and local
government units, particularly in the aspects of financial management and project implementation. The
linkage between specific aspects of the sub-project implementation and operations, such as municipal
finance and revenue administration, construction supervision, contract management and procurement, and
public enterprise administration further enhanced the "on-the-job" training aspect of the sub-projects and
enhanced the demand for and relevance of the training. In particular, a number of LGUs have already
revised and implemented their Local Revenue Code as the first step in improving local fiscal performance.
At the same time, another positive outcome of this project is the institutionalization of teamwork within the
LGU, which was the approach adopted in the conduct of the training courses and the promotion of
- 6 -



inter-LGU cooperation where LGUs shared their newly acquired skills and experiences with other LGUs.
The inclusion of elected officials and career employees in the training courses institutionalized the need for
cooperation and coordination among the different departments in the LGU.
The experience with the training program under this project brings to fore the need to examine
other modes of delivering the training courses to ensure the sustainability of the experience and knowledge
learned. MTP, in sustaining the gains of MDP III, has started to develop a wide range of training
methodology innovations that will suit the requirements of first to sixth-class LGUs. On the whole, all the
training programs of the Municipal Training Program at the Local Government Academy (MTP-LGA)
consistently and continuously sustained the gains of local autonomy. Particularly with the conduct of local
elections every three years and the corresponding reorganization of the local staff, there is a need to ensure
that the gains of the project are carried over through subsequent administrations.
Real Property Tax Adniinistration (RPTA)
The RPTA component of MDP III is a continuation of the same program implemented under
MDPs I and II. The objective of the program was to enhance real property tax administration in LGUs
through the improvement of real property tax records management and the computerization of real property
data. The program was implemented in 13 regions encompassing 427 LGUs and covering more than
6.645M real property tax units (RPTU), exceeding the targets of 233 LGUs and 3.3 M RPTUs
respectively.
The component satisfactorily achieved its objectives, particularly in terms of exceeding the targeted
number of LGUs and RPTUs. Records show that total assessed values in participating LGUs increased
from PhP61.385B before project implementation, to PhP139.lB in CY 2000. This represents an increase
of 128%. Moreover, collectibles and actual collections, when compared with pre-implementation and
post-implementation figures, reveal an increase of 75% and 63% respectively for LGUs that implemented
tax mapping, records conversion and tax collection, and an increase of 46% and 31% respectively for
LGUs that conducted data conversion activities. It should be noted, however, that the growth may have
also resulted from the reclassification of properties from rural to urban uses, thereby increasing the number
of properties and value of the land, discovery of undeclared property units, and collection of delinquencies.
Therefore, there is a need to further look into more detailed indicators, particularly in the longer-term
improvement of fiscal performance of LGUs.
Technical Assistance
About US$1.3M was allocated to conduct studies on municipal lending and urban enviromnent
solid waste management. The Municipal Lending Institution study was a review of the current status of
municipal lending in the country and identified options for institutionalizing it. The urban environmental
study deemed to review the legal framework governing solid waste operations in order to formulate
measures for strengthening policy guidance, supervision, technical assistance to local governments, and
training of local officials at the national level.
This component was eventually dropped from the project when funding to conduct the studies was
made available through a grant from the Japanese Government. The Municipal Lending Study was
undertaken through an Institutional Development Fund (IDF) Grant, while the Urban Environmental Solid
Waste Management Study was completed through a Japanese Population and Human Resources
Development (PHRD) Grant. This component was dropped after effectiveness, and in 1998 the loan funds
were reallocated to fund the consultancy and training requirements of other components.
Other Achievements
-7 -



The project only partially achieved its sector policy objectives and public sector management
objectives. In particular, the project design provided little incentive for LGUs to extend coverage of
non-revenue generating infrastructure in social and environmental sectors to the lower income communities.
In addition,_ due to the perceived potential cost recovery risks, few public goods type infrastructure were
financed in MDP III. The MDP 11I did not completely achieve the objective of evolving the MDF as a
self-sustaining financial intermediary as envisaged in the SAR. Under the MDP III, the MDF began
operating as a special revolving fund through the operationalization of the Local Loans Account (LLA)
account to finance part of the loan. At closing, it was estimated that about 27% of the project was funded
from second generation funds.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Sample EIRR and FIRR for four revenue-generating projects were calculated. These include two
public markets, one integrated terminal and one slaughterhouse. Of the four projects, three had EIRRs
ranging between 14% to 29%, a figure which is higher than the 14% opportunity cost of capital in the
Philippines. This is however slightly lower that the 15% EIRR targeted at appraisal. (See annex 3 for more
details.)
4.4 Financial rate of return:
On the other hand, two of the four projects sampled showed FRRs ranging between 22% to 26%.
Due to low occupancy rates, one public market had an EIRR and FRR below 14%. Its performance is
expected to improve in the next few years when the market attains 100% occupancy of market stalls.
Annex 3 shows the detailed cost benefit analysis for the four project centers.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the subproject component was substantial, particularly in
the aspect of providing "on-the-job" training for participating LGUs. The combination of going through the
subproject selection process, as well as the participation in the training programs conducted established a
good training ground for fostering LGU autonomy in project preparation and irnplementation, as well as
mobilizing local financial resources. The CPO of the DPWH established itself as a capable project
implementation agency at the national level and acted as an effective technical intermediary in assisting
LGUs in the preparation of subproject proposals and their subsequent implementation. The MTP provided
the needed training in project-related skills, such as municipal finance and revenue administration,
construction supervision, contract management and procurement, public market administration, etc., which
were aptly applied in a hands-on manner in the subprojects.
The institutional development impact of the maintenance component, however, was modest unlike
the other components, because it was not able to effectively inculcate the need to invest in the maintenance
of infrastructure facilities as intended. Instead of encouraging LGUs to raise revenues to fund maintenance
projects, participating LGUs drew funds from their Intemal Revenue Allocation (IRA) to provide
counterpart funding, thereby defeating the purpose. Furthermore, the project's design did not provide
appropriate incentives, as well as penalties for participating LGUs to sustain the four-year program. Had it
been successful in doing so, it should have been able to sustain LGU participation until project completion.
But as it were, participating LGUs were not able to provide the required equity for the project towards the
latter part.
The MT? program's institutional development impact was also substantial in that participants
acquired the skills necessary to effectively carry out the project, from sub-project preparation to
implementation. Moreover, the training programs set the foundation for improved municipal govemance
and highlighted the need to expand technical capacity at the local level with respect to empowering LGUs in
- 8 -



light of the government's decentralization policies and the country's rapid urbanization.
Through tax mapping, records conversion/management and improved tax collection, the project's
RPTA component contributed to improving the participating LGUs fiscal performance and management.
As the LGUs primary source of revenue generation, the RPTA component effectively promoted
institutional development at the local level where it was needed most.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The Bank's delays in approving pro forna contract docurnents and in approving the policies for
determining the loanable amounts to LGUs set back project start-up by almost two years. Although the
project was approved in March 1992 and became effective the following August, actual releases began only
in the first quarter of 1994 when the documents were finally approved. The contract docunents, which
consisted of the sub-project and sub-loan agreements, and the bid documents for consultancy and civil
works, underwent a series of reviews and revisions by a succession of Bank officers from 1992 to late
1994. It should be noted, however, that during the review period (1993-1994), the Bank was in the process
of revising its Standard Bidding Documents for consultancy and civil works contracts for all Bank-assisted
projects, which at least partly explains the reasons for these delays. Assuming the pro-forma documents
were approved earlier, the project still would not have been able to meet the original target closing date, as
other problems also hampered project implementation as discussed below.
Political changes following the local and national elections also caused substantive delays to the
project's implementation schedule. Changes in administration resulted in a shift in priorities in some
participating LGUs, and in some cases led to their dropping out of the project. This was particularly true
for 10 LGUs which experienced changes in the composition of their local councils following the 1995 and
1998 elections. As stipulated in the sub-loan agreement, participating LGUs had to secure a Council
Resolution indicating their commitment to the project. But because of the lack of support from the
Council, these 10 mayors were not able to secure a resolution from the board and were, therefore, forced to
cease participation.
Natural disasters such as typhoons, earthquakes, and volcanic eruptions interfered with the
implementation of sub-projects. In particular, the eruption of Mt. Pinatubo and the succeeding economic
difficulties that followed, required changes in the scope and costing for the three pilot centers (Bauan,
Tanauan and Panabo) as these were prepared prior to the eruption. In addition, regular weather
disturbances, particularly typhoons during the monsoon season, adversely affected project progress. Upon
such occasions, some subprojects experienced work stoppages either due to the adverse weather conditions
or to delays in the delivery of construction materials. However, none of the subprojects were damaged by
these natural disasters.
The Asian Financial Crisis of 1997/98. The onset of the crisis saw the rapid devaluation of the
Philippine peso from the appraisal exchange rate of P24 to the dollar to P44 to the dollar in March 1998.
Because of this, there was a need for additional peso counterpart or budgetary requirements for 1999 and
2000, thereby necessitating expansion of the project's coverage. The additional funds could accommodate
seven more project centers, but they had physical completion dates beyond the original completion/loan
closing dates. The loan closing therefore was extended by 18 months to accommodate the additional
LGUs.
-9



5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Cash/fund flow due to ceilings on loanable amount and the government's reimbursement
procedures. The cash flow problem was a two-pronged issue concerning the loanable amounts LGUs were
allowed to borrow according to the LGC, and the reimbursement procedures of the national govermment.
These cash flow issues had already been identified in MDP II as the project suffered a similar fate.
The government's policy on loanable amounts for LGUs emerged as an issue in early 1994. The
Department of Finance (DoF) recognized the need to revise the formulas to determine the borrowing
capacity of LGUs, following the passage of the LGC, which stipulated a limit to the LGUs debt service
capacity. (The provisions required that the annual debt service of LGUs should not exceed the estimated
revenue of the LGU in the current fiscal year.) The Policy Governing Board (PGB) approved the revised
formula after one year in 1995. As a result, the sub-loan proposals of seven LGUs had to be revised
according to the new formula, which subsequently dictated a revision in their investment proposals due to
the reduction in their allowable sub-loans, not to mention necessitating changes in project scope and costs.
Fund releases following the Government's reimbursement procedures were also constrained by the GOP
monthly cash disbursement ceiling requirements. The National Government had monthly disbursement
ceilings for each of its agencies and for the entire government as a whole. Because of this provision, in
addition to the fact that the MDF sub-loans were included as on-budget items, fund flows to LGUs were
constrained as the concemed agencies often exceeded their cash disbursement ceilings. Non-reimbursement
of LGUs eventually led to project implementation delays.
Budgetary controls. Budget constraints presented a major cause of implementation delays, the
primary reason being that foreign assistance funds are included as part of a national agency's budget, in
this case the DoF, and therefore, are subject to budgetary ceilings set by the annual appropriations. As
such, subloan releases were constrained by the ceilings, which more often than not exceeded the
department's annual budget. Subsequently, these issues resulted in the delay of release of funds for ongoing
projects and the deferment of those which had previously been scheduled. These combined factors
substantially affected the pace of implementation and level of disbursement of the project. To address these
issues, the implementing agency, through the DoF and the Department of Budget Management (DBM),
removed the MDF subloans from the budget lines of the DoF and put them in the queue for unprogrammed
funds. With regard to the cash flow issues, MDF tapped the PSA funds to provide bridge financing while
replenishment requests were processed.
Local government reform The passage of the Local Government Code in 1991 presented an
increased number of opportunities for LGUs to direct their development, as well as raise much needed
revenues. The passage of this law had both positive and negative impacts on the project. Specifically, the
substantial increase of the IRA under the LGC made the LGU's less dependent on locally generated
revenues. It also had the effect of downgrading the significance of RPTA in the municipal finance system
and provided a disincentive for RPTA component expansion.
Self-selection process. Given the demand-driven, bottom-up approach, LGUs had positive
incentives to select priority sub-projects, and to manage their implementation effectively. The project had
built-in public consultation mechanisms to secure positive support by affected vendors and beneficiary
patronage for most of the new facilities.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Proiect management. At the national level, project implementation was effectively carried out by
the CPO. Most of the participating LGUs cited the timely and appropriate technical support from the
- 10-



CPO as the single most important reason for timely subproject completion. As the project framework was
replicated from MDPs I and II, the staff of the CPO and BLGF were able to deepen their understanding of
the Barnc's procurement guidelines and disbursement procedures. The CPO was very proactive in its role
as the implementing agency and in most cases implemented timely solutions to issues hampering project
implementation. On the other hand, at the local level, problems such as the weak technical capabilities at
the LGU level to manage and supervise civil works contracts, unfamiliarity of LGU officials with Bank
Procurement Guidelines, delays related to land acquisition, inappropriate feasibility studies and detailed
engineering designs by consultants, and delays in completion of documentation for liquidations of loan
releases figure among the factors that adversely affected project implementation.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Overall, the total financing requirements amounted to PHP3,480 M, which is slightly below the
appraisal estimate of PHP3,983 M. Total Bank financing amounted to PhP2,199 rmillion or 63% of the
total project financing cost of PhP3,480 million. (Details are indicated in Annex 2.) Despite the
cancellation of various components, the reallocation of funds from the maintenance program to the other
components, and the peso devaluation, the appraisal estimate was not met because: (a) the approved
subloan estimate was not fully utilized by LGU's due to cost-savings during bidding; and (b) three
subproject centers (Dipolog City, Cagayan de Oro City and Bislig) did not complete their respective
subprojects by closing resulting in cancellation. The project's original closing date was June 30, 1999; the
final closing was December 31, 2000. The causes for implementation delays are elaborated upon in the
preceding paragraphs.
As indicated in the financing by component, this project was an effort towards strengthening LGU
development from both the national and local levels through the provision of funds at various levels.
Specifically, the creation and strengthening of MDF supports the Bank, as well as the govenmuent's shift
towards improving access to LGU funds. While the project did not completely achieve the objective of
evolving MDF as a self-sustaining financial intermediary as envisioned in the SAR, it set the stage for the
unit's functioning as one through the use of second generation funds under MDF to finance part of the loan.
As of Loan closing, it was estimated that about 27% of the project was funded from MDF funds.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Overall project sustainability and sustainability of the sub-projects are likely. All the participating
LGUs maintain local ordinances to impose appropriate public market and slaughterhouse fees. The newly
created municipal facilities are generating sufficient revenues for operations and maintenance. There is a
need for a perfornance evaluation mechanism to provide an incentive framework to encourage LGUs to
improve maintenance, revenue mobilization and service delivery and overall local govemance.
Sustainabilitv of the MDP institutions. namely the MDF and the CPO is likely. The GOP's
comrnmitment to overall decentralization and national out-reach support programs remains high. High
demand for MDF financing has resulted in a large number of LGUs receiving sub-loans, with a consequent
substantial increase in MDF's accumulated repayments of interest and principals (second generation fund).
The MDF started to function as a revolving fund under the MDP III with 30% of the sub-loans coming
from this second-generation fund. The MDF has also experienced relative success as a long-term municipal
finance mechanism. At project closing, the MDF sub-loan collection rate was 100%. Of this total, 98% of
collections camne through normal LGU sub-loan repayments of principal and interest due. The remaining
2% of collections have been obtained through the application of the Internal Revenue Allotment intercept.
-1 1-



The CPO has continuously upgraded the skills of its staff and established itself as a capable
technical intermediary for LGU capital investment planning and execution. Under the MDP III, the CPO
and BLGF staff in charge of the MDF have begun to work more closely. The BLGF/MDF staff are getting
more involved with the CPO's appraisal activities, and both the BLGF/MDF and the CPO staff are
cooperating to determine loanable amounts to sub-projects and to monitor the financial performance of
LGUs. A key question that remains to be answered is how to retain qualified staff in the public sector.
The MDP III project staff of the CPO were hired on a co-tenninus bases with the project and less than half
the MDP III staff are still retained in the CPO.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The participating LGUs started the operation and maintenance of the assets created in the project
according to the respective sub-loan agreements. The main conditionalities of the sub-loan agreements
which have direct implications on future operations are: (a) full repayment of the sub-loan; (b) maintaining
local ordinance on market and slaughterhouse fee structures; and (c) sustaining the LGU Maintenance
Trust Fund. Most of the LGUs had some experience in operating and maintaining similar assets in the
past. The basic institutional framework already exists, staff are mostly on board and generally familiar
with their roles and functions.
MTP has continually upgraded its training courses to meet the needs of the participating LGUs.
MTP-LGA has already identified the need to conduct orientation seminars for the Local Government Unit
Finance and Development Project (LOGOFIND, Ln. 4446). The unit has also proposed to provide
non-project related training, such as strategic planning, environmental planning and management,
development planning, resource mobilization, financial management and others in an effort to sustain the
gains experienced from this project.
The technical training conducted under the RPTA program can now be continued with the
development of the CDRom/compendium on BLGF Fiscal Reference Tools, which can now be accessed by
LGUs. In addition, the MTP, Ateneo University and RMA conduct training sessions for newly appointed
Local Treasurers, incumbent Provincial/City Treasurers and selected BLGF staff, ensuring that the RPTA
program would continue to improve the quality of service, data, and most importantly, enhance LGU
revenue sources. Adequate operation and maintenance of the assets created in the project need to be
monitored during the follow-up projects with the MDF.
Performance evaluation. The implementing agency and their partners are in the process of
developing performance indicators to evaluate the subsequent impacts of the project. These, however, have
yet to be finalized. Under the RPTA program, annual reports will be compiled to measure: (a) real
property tax collections; (b) real property tax collectible; (c) expenditures through RPTA program; and (d)
recurrent expenditures of the assessor's office and land tax division.
Bank follow-up. The GOP envisaged undertaking further strengthening of MDP institutions under
LOGOFIND. To improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the MDF operations, GOP has consolidated
its financial and technical functions into the MDFO which is a separate unit in the DOF. GOP also intends
to strengthen the policies and institutional capacity of the MDFO overtime to carry out its new
responsibilities. Currently, MDFO focuses its attention more on the resource-poor LGUs and encourages
local social and environmental projects.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
- 12 -



Bank
7.1 Lending.
The Bank's performance in identification was satisfactory. The concept and design of the MDP
III effectively incorporated the innovative institutional framework devised in the MDP I, and the lessons
learned from the previous urban sector projects. As in the MDP II, & I the Bank designed a simple and
focused project with a limited number of components unlike the early urban sector projects. It relied on the
innovative "bottom-up" demand-driven approach, which induced strong local participation and project
ownership. The design of the project was consistent with the Government and the Bank strategies to
strengthen the financial autonomy of LGUs and to improve their capacity for managing urban growth.
The Bank's performance in project preparation was satisfactory. In preparation the Bank
provided ample guidance to the borrower in all major aspects of the project: technical, financial, economic,
institutional. The Bank made sure that the relevant safeguard policies were adhered to which, for MDP III
meant only environmental assessment.  Two preparation missions were conducted with an economist, a
financial expert and an engineer represented. The personnel in the mission were very familiar with the
results of the first two MDPs, and successfully incorporated that experience and lessons learned into MDP
HiI.
The Bank's performance in appraisal was satisfactory. The Bank's appraisal team had a well
rounded skill mix consisting of an economist, a financial analyst, and an engineer. With the solid
background gained during the implementation of the two previous MDPs, the appraisal team was familar
with the lessons from those projects and successfully incorporated them into MDP m. In addition, the
team's experience enabled it to correctly assess the strong commitment of the government, implementing
agencies and beneficiaries. The tean's experience also allowed a correct appraisal of the agencies'
procurement, financial and institutional capacities. As discussed in the Assessment section above, the
project design was relatively simple and straight-forward, and the project's risks were few. Compliance
with the Bank's environmental safeguards, notably on environmental assesment, was assured upstream
through close supervision of subproject designs to avoid and mitigate any potential harmful impact, and
downstream through review of the borrower's assessment of possible environmental impact and mitigation
plans. This project was appraised before the advent of the logframe and performance indicators relative to
the project's development objectives, so no indicators such as those currently used were incorporated in the
monitoring and evaluation aspects.
As discussed earlier, a few of the incentives built into the project were inadequate. Incentives for
LGUs to choose subprojects that had public benefits (health clinics) and not just economic benefits
(markets) were lacking. Also, the incentive for LGUs to continue to participate in the maintenance
component were either not strong enough or were inappropriate. On the whole however, the incentives for
the LGUs to sustain the project's benefits are in place.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's perfonrance in supervision is rated satisfactory. The Bank provided sound advice
and guidance throughout implementation. Early on, it gave appropriate guidance on the procedures to be
followed for the procurement of civil works. The Bank closely monitored and provided extensive
comments on the quality and contents of Sub-Project Appraisal Report (SPARs) in order to accelerate the
sub-project approval process and enhance the sub-project quality. Through close dialogue, the Bank
helped the CPO improve staff skills and streamline the sub-project preparation process. The Bank
recommended a more "impact-oriented" approach to the RPTA component. Subsequently, the BLGF
started monitoring progress in terms of actual revenue yield materialized through the RPTA and revised the
LGU selection criteria so that assistance would receive premiums. The Bank regularly monitored
- 13-



compliance with Loan covenants. However, it had difficulty in ensuring compliance with financial
covenants due mainly to lack of appropriate municipal accounting and national monitoring systems. This
issue is being addressed under the follow-on project, LOGOFIND.
The Bank's supervision plan scheduled two missions a year with approximately four specialists
represented. In practice, fornal supervision missions were generally conducted twice a year, and informal
exchanges took place during intervening periods. The Bank's missions were generally staffed with three
skills, including an urban planner, financial analyst and procurement specialist. Less well represented was
municipal engineering, although subproject construction quality does not appear to have suffered for lack
of regular visits by an engineer. Regular contact between the Bank and the borrower's implementing
agencies ensured that implementation issues that arose during the course of the project were immediately
identified and addressed jointly. Recommendations were recorded in mission aide memoires. Project
reporting was done at regular intervals, and project ratings adequately reflected the project's status.
The Bank office in Manila was instrumental in its continual support of the CPO, BLGF, MDFO
and MTP staff, in reviewing project implementation progress and in addressing issues in advance to avoid
problems in project implementation. Late in implementation, the actual task management of the project
was decentralized to the Manila office.
One aspect of Bank supervision that could have been improved was the timeliness of approval of
pro-forma contracts. As mentioned in the Major Factors section, the Bank's protracted review of
pro-forma contracts caused major implementation delays. From the time the project became effective in
August 1992, almost two years had passed before the first Notice to Proceed was issued in July 1994. This
confirms the need for completed procurement documents for the first year's activities, which is now a
standard requirement under the project readiness filter.
No significant deviations from Bank policy were seen during implementation except that project
cost savings due to the dropped technical assistance component and due to the Peso devaluation were
reallocated to other components rather than cancelled. These additional funds were well directed toward
activities that expanded the project's capacity to achieve its development objectives.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Overall, the Bank's performance in all aspects of the project from identification, through
preparation, appraisal and supervision, is considered satisfactory for the reasons discussed above. The
Bank, the GOP and the executing agencies worked well together. Although the task manager changed three
times from the time of project identification to the time of completion, the Bank continued to provide
effective guidance with smooth transitions. Close interaction between the Bank and the implementing
agencies ensured that implementation issues were immediately identified and jointly addressed.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The borrower's performance in project preparation was satisfactory. The Govemment took
initiatives to combine elements from the Metro Manila Infrastructure, Utilities and Engineering Program
from the Third Urban Project and the institutional framework developed under the previous MDPs. The
project scope covered essentially the same types of sub-projects as MDP II such as non-revenue generating
infrastructure, including roads, drainage, water supply systems, health centers, school buildings and
communal sanitation facilities; and revenue-generating projects such as public markets and
slaughterhouses.
- 14 -



7.5 Government implementation performance:
The GOP was able to maintain an appropriate multi-agency institutional framework for project
implementation. The DPWH was the lead agency for the project and chaired the Project Steering
Commnittee (PSC). The PSC provided policy guidance and coordination arnong the various project
agencies. The CPO, under the DPWH, appraised and evaluated sub-projects for financing, provided
technical assistance, monitored project implementation and acted as liaison with the Bank. The MDF was
set up under the DoF as the principal mechanism responsible for channeling long-term credit to LGUs, and
was supervised by the DoF's Bureau of Local Government Finance (BLGF). The Municipal Development
Fund Office (MDFO) was organized in 1998 to assume admninistration of the MDF from BLGF. The
MDFO has a full time Executive Director and is supervised directly by a DoF Undersecretary. The BLGF
also successfully supervised and administered the RPTA component. LGUs were the executing agencies
and were responsible for the identification, preparation and implementation of the sub-projects. This
ensured that LGUs would select projects they considered a priority. However, this often led to LGUs to
select revenue-generating projects instead of maintenance and non-revenue-generating infrastructure
projects.
Despite some delays during project start-up, the subsequent implementation of MDP III proceeded
smoothly. Much of this success can be attributed to the CPO, which was able to anticipate potential
problems and address these accordingly. In particular, the highly competent CPO staff provided timely
technical assistance to LGUs, particularly in the preparation of feasibility studies that were critical for
subloans. Many participating LGUs cited the instrumental role of CPO in facilitating the project's
implementation. These proactive measures included: (a) strengthening technical capacities within its ranks
to supervise sub-project implementation and assisting PLOs in streamlined operations; (b) establishing a
contract review commnittee within the CPO; (c) monitoring and assisting PLOs in procurement of civil
works and services in accordance with Bank procedures; and (d) continuously streamnlining the sub-project
preparation process.
Some of GOP's more noteworthy actions included: (a) the CPO initiated regular monthly PGB
meetings to approve loan applications; and (b) the MDFO was created to assume administration of the
MDF and strengthen the MDFO as a government development institution.
The Borrower complied with most legal covenants in a timely fashion except for the recurrent
delays in submitting project audit reports and the separate audit on SOEs and special accounts. As a
parallel effort under MDP EII, the Bank started to provide assistance to the Government that will assist the
Comrnission on Audit (COA) to strengthen its capability to perform its constitutional mandate.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the LGUs on the whole was satisfactory. A large number of LGUs
experienced extensive difficulties in the preparation of the SPARs and feasibility studies because many did
not have the technical capacity to prepare such documentation. With the invaluable assistance of the CPO,
most of the participating LGUs complied with project requirements for documentation and provision of
LGU equity. The quality of works constructed is satisfactory with sound rates of return. Quite a number of
them experienced some reimbursement delays due to the submission of incomplete documents. In addition,
some LGUs were not able to provide their local counterpart funds, thereby necessitating some delays, and
in some cases, cessation of project activities.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory in both preparation and implementation for
- 15-



the reasons discussed above.
8. Lessons Learned
The experience with MDP III, as with the previous MDPs, highlight a number of lessons that may
be applied to future urban projects in the Philippines and elsewhere. The following is a summary of the
project-specific lessons that were revealed in the preparation of this ICR. For a more detailed discussion of
the lessons leamed from this experience, see section 10 on additional information or the ICR Mission's
aide-memoire.
The demand-driven. "bottom-up" proiect structure proved to be a most effective and efficient
means of harnessing LGU participation. Through this process, LGUs were able to select the size and
complexity of projects that were most suited to their technical and fiscal capacities. Smaller sub-projects
and shorter time frames reduce the financial burden on LGUs and the risk that they will not meet their
revenue targets. The project structure not only encourages competition among LGUs for limited funds, but
more importantly, it fosters a greater sense of ownership of the project and of commitment to achieve
higher performance. As part of LGU overall improvement, technical assistance provided through MDP
operations helped municipalities become more entrepreneurial, think more about fiscal adjustment, value
their staff more highly, interact more closely with private companies and the local communities, and be
more environmentally conscious.
The presence of national support mechanisms is instrumental to achieving proiect success. The
intermediary roles of CPO, BLGF and MDFO were instrumental in the smooth vertical implementation of
the project. Given the substantial role that national institutions play in project implementation, it is very
important that they remain continually responsive to the needs of LGUs. The MDFO, as the key financial
intermediaiy for LGUs, should play a key role in the overall LGU development program. As such, it must
be given a corporate institutional identity and culture; institutional autonomy and decentralized decision
making; and sufficient resources to operate as an efficient and effective LGU financing and development
institution. In support of the MDFO's activities, expanding the capacities of the other MDP institutions
through the hiring of private consultancy firms would also be conducive to project success. Private
consultancy firms, with their expertise, could assist LGUs in the preparation of feasibility studies, detailed
engineering and construction supervision, assist MDF processes and appraise LGU applications and
sub-loan releases, and provide capacity building services to both MDFO and LGUs.
Limited availability of funds at the local level points toward the need for comprehensive revenue
enhancement and mobilization for LGUs. Although the RPTA component succeeded in providing a
buoyant own-generated tax bases for the participating LGUs, its accomplishment was undennined by the
passage of the Local Governnent Code, particularly with the annual release of the IRA. Future Bank
projects should assist LGUs in exploring a wider range of revenue enhancement and mobilization of funds
through user charges, business licensing and private sector participation through exaction, development
impact fees, management contracts, franchises, concessions (including BOT, BTO, BOO, etc.) and others.
Grants should be targeted to induce LGUs to consider investments in areas they do not traditionally
address such as social and environmental proiects. The experience of MDP III indicates that LGUs have
little incentive to borrow for non-revenue generating infrastructure. The provision of these infrastructure
services tends to be sub-optimal from an economic point of view, as there is a disparity between costs to
individuals and costs to society as a whole. The limited success of the maintenance program reveals that
investments in these types of infrastructure may be more attractive if they are tied to an incentive plan to
ensure continued participation in the program.
- 16 -



In conclusion, the experience with MDP III and the Bank's other urban projects in the Philippines
reinforces the Bank's new strategy, which focuses on developing a more comprehensive and integrated
approach to urban development. LGUs must have a long term vision and development strategy for their
respective cities/municipalities to better define their priorities and optimize resources. The lack of technical
capacity at the local level, particularly with respect to strategic planning and network analysis was a
consistent issue in the MDP projects. As such, there is great difficulty in planning for national projects,
which are intended to encompass a wider range of beneficiaries. At the same time, maximization of capital
investment is also limited due to the short-term solutions to the problems being addressed.
The Bank's recent success with the City Development Strategy (CDS) supports the finding that a
long-term vision is more effective when it is backed with a development strategy. As shown by the
country's success in this program, CDS incorporates a city's long-term vision, strategy for achieving this
vision, and an investment plan that prioritizes needs with fiscal capacities and investment requirements.
This ensures that projects provide the most benefit to the community, and conform to the priorities
identified by them. The participatory nature of CDS formulation ensures that it reflects the vision of as
wide a constituency as possible, thereby fostering ownership of a vision and continuity of policies beyond
the terms of local chief executives. The Philippine CDS experience has been cited as among the most
successful in the world. It has brought to the fore the need to broaden the perspective of local chief
executiveslurban managers to encompass more medium and long term development plans as opposed to
short-term solutions presented by project-specific assistance programs. More than fostering the importance
of long-term planning, CDS promotes the understanding of cities/municipalities as economic space rather
than merely govemable space, thereby encouraging innovative thinking in local governance.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Partner Comments.doc
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
Lessons Learned from the Proiect - Expanded Version
1.    Local political commitment is essential to ensuring proiect success and sustainability.  The
substantial impact of MDP III was largely based on strong local commitment exhibited by the LGUs, such
as adhering to their obligations and imposing required institutional and fiscal reformns. Through the
bottom-up, demand driven approach, the commitment to the project was inculcated as LGU participants
were given the responsibility for project identification, preparation, financing and implementation and thus
ensuring the project's sustainability.
2.    The MDFO must be made more responsive to the needs of LGUs. For MDP III, the processing
time for LGU sub-loan applications on average takes more than a year. Procurement, pre-construction and
construction take more than two years. These add up to more than three years and far longer than the
three-year term of LGU officials. The MDFO must cut the review process and speed up approval of
- 17 -



sub-loan applications to enable LGUs to complete more projects within the three-year term. The MDFO
must be transformed into a development and financing institution rather than simply a unit of the DoF. It
continues to operate as a small govemment unit impeded by a centralized decision making system, and
bogged down by bureaucratic and a highly personalized operations process. There is an urgent need for the
MDFO to play a central role in the overall LGU development program. It must be given a corporate
institutional identity and culture; institutional autonomy and decentralized decision making; and sufficient
resources to operate as an efficient and effective LGU financing and development institution.
3.    Improved fiscal perforrance goes hand-in-hand with management strengthenin . As part of the
overall improvement, technical assistance provided through MDP operations helped municipalities become
more entrepreneurial, think more about fiscal adjustment, value their staff more highly, interact more
closely with private companies and the local communities, and be more environmentally conscious.
4.     By providing a menu of sub-projects to choose from, LGUs were able to select the size and
complexity of projects that were most suited to their technical and fiscal capacities. Smaller sub-projects
and shorter time frames reduce the financial burden on LGUs and the risk that they will not meet their
revenue targets. LGUs should be presented with a range of investment options consistent with their
development visions and strategies rather than specific or individual sectoral projects to ensure the greatest
impact and sustainability. In addition, the short three-year term of local officials necessitate a speedy
processing of sub-loan applications and equally fast proiect implementation. This could be facilitated by
the expansion of the capacity of MDP institutions such as the MDFO, CPO and MTP through the hiring of
private consultancy firms. Private consultancy firms could assist LGUs in the preparation of feasibility
studies, detailed engineering and construction supervision, assist MDF processes and appraise LGU
applications and sub-loan releases, and provide capacity building services to both MDFO and LGUs.
Projects should be packaged and designed to be completed in 3-year cycles that coincide with the 3-year
term of local officials; this would foster ownership and commitment and avoid any political repercussions
on the project.
5.     Small projects lead to bigger ones. In light of the conservative nature of LGUs, the participants
opted to undertake rather simple, low risk, revenue-generating projects such as public markets. After these
are successfully implemented, they tend to enhance their creditworthiness with a stronger financial base,
and expand their investments to non-revenue generating public-goods type infrastructure projects (e.g.
drainage and sanitation). By starting small, participating LGUs gain more confidence and experience and
move towards more challenging projects.
6.     Capacity building for LGUs should go beyond the traditional classroom training mode utilized in
MDP II. Capacity building programs for LGUS must encompass a full range of knowledge enhancement
and action leaming modalities such as on the job training and technical assistance; distance learning;
computer based information networks among others. The capacity building programs must be made
available to LGUs as needed, when needed. Thus, there is a need to expand the scope and modalities of
capacity building programs for LGU to address varied needs of LGUs.
Lessons learned from workin2 with LGUs which mav be applied to future urban Rrojects in the
Philippines
7.     LGUs must have a long term  vision and development strategy for their respective
cities/municipalities to better define their priorities and optimize resources. The lack of technical capacity
at the local level, particularly with respect to strategic planning and network analysis was a consistent issue
in the MDP projects. As such, there is great difficulty in planning for national projects which are intended
- 18-



to encompass a wider range of beneficiaries. At the same time, maximization of capital investment is also
limited due to the short-term vision of the problems to be addressed.
8.    The Bank's recent success with the City Development Strategy (CDS) Project supports the finding
that a long-term vision is more effective when it is backed-up with a development strategy. A CDS
incorporates a city's long-term vision, strategy for achieving this vision, and an investment plan that
prioritizes needs with fiscal capacities and investment requirements. This ensures that projects provide the
most benefit to the community, and conform to the priorities identified by them. The participatory nature
of CDS formulation ensures that it reflects/embodies the vision of as wide a constituency as possible,
thereby fostering ownership of a vision and continuity of policies beyond the terms of local chief
executives. The Philippine CDS experience has been cited as among the most successful in the world. It
has brought to fore the need to broaden the perspective of local chief executives/urban managers to
encompass more long and medium-term development plans as opposed to short-term solutions presented by
project-specific assistance programs. More than fostering the importance of long-terrn planning, CDS
promotes the understanding of cities/municipalities as economic space rather than merely governable space,
thereby encouraging innovative thinking in local governance.
9.    Need for development strategies to coordinate national level investments in inter-municipal
infrastructure. Due to the lack of technical expertise and limited financial resources, municipal investment
in infrastructure has been limited to minor projects. At the same time, the contribution of national
government agencies, such as the DPWH, have been limited to ad-hoc projects that fail to maximize
potential benefits to the LGU and surrounding municipalities. The presence of development strategies are
effective in identify,ing large-scale infrastructure projects that individual LGUs cannot undertake on their
own. In this respect, national agencies are better able to coordinate inter-municipal investments that
support the development initiatives of a larger number of municipalities as a whole.
10.   Bank assistance to LGUs must be on a longer-term basis. This is to ensure sustained development
of the municipalities and cities through a multi-year investment and capacity building plan tied to
institutional and resource improvement conditions. In the Bank's experience, it has been found that
project-focused interventions do not necessarily result in long-term development. More than anything, they
basically fill service gaps that would have limited impacts on the development of the city/municipality. On
average, the three MDPs have had at least one project in more than 150 LGUs that have participated and
the program and there is a need to provide more long-terrn support to individual cities and towns. Just as
LGUs need to formulate their long-term strategies, so should the Bank consider extending assistance
beyond the limited support of project specific interventions. Therefore, there is a need for the Bank to
consider providing longer-term support. As exhibited by the MDPs and the CDS, these projects set the
foundation for successive intervention programs that need to be addressed on a more comprehensive scale.
The Bank is in a unique position to channel needed support to LGUs to continue the gains of previous
projects. Specifically, the Bank should consider more long-term support arrangements in providing (a)
investments, (b) technical assistance, and (c) broker for other technical assistance and investments from
other intemational aid agencies.
12.   Need to adapt Bank's assistance strategv to address the evolving role of the LGU. The Bank's
experience in working with local govenmment units brings to light the changing role of the LGU in national
economic development. Particularly in the Philippines, which is included among the fastest urbanizing
countries in the world, there is an urgent need to strengthen capacities and fiscal performance of LGUs.
Local government units in the Philippines have an advantage over their counterparts with the enactment of
the Local Govenmnent Code, which provided them with a myriad of opportunities to promote local
economic development. However, as revealed by this and previous MDPs, the lack of technical capacity as
- 19 -



well as access to funds have limited the ability of LGUs to take advantage of these opportunities. It has
therefore come to light for the need to contextualize the Bank's assistance strategy in light of these changes.
Assistance at the local level should be cover both infrastructure and non-infrastructure requirements
including support to capacity building, institutional development and knowledge enhancement in the full
range of LGU functions and needs. Thus, the assistance should be multidisciplinary as well as integrated.
13.   Need to re-evaluate current policies regarding the role and function of LGUs.  The LGU
institutional structure was established 50 years ago. There is a need to modify, reorganize and reengineer
the LGU structure to enable them to respond more efficiently and effectively to changing demands for
improved govemance to bring about equity and growth to their respective constituencies. The LGU role is
expanding from the traditional service provider to a broker of growth and managers of development.
However, the local institutions and operating systems are not suited to the current needs. There are no
units in the LGUs which can handle new functions such as environmental management, economic
development and business promotion, information technology and networking among others . These are
handled by ad hoc units under the Office of the Mayor if at all.
14.   The wide range of investments needed at the local level necessitates effective resource mobilization
programs. LGUs are at the forefront of directing urban development and providing needed services. While
the LGU has the ability to generate its own funds, these are not maximized. Previous MDPs have
concentrated too much on real property tax administration.. While real property tax is a major source of
locally generated revenues, it is just a part of a range of local resource mobilization modalities. Thus, there
is need to expand the scope of succeeding resource mobilization programs to include other components
such as business taxes, licenses, user charges, permits and fees. Moreover, there is a need to focus on
improving collection of existing taxes, which can be enormous considering the current low collection rates
for local taxes. Furthermore, there is a need to highlight other options for improving resource mobilization
such as various modes of private -public partnerships such as build-operate and transfer scheme and joint
ventures; and various forms of credit financing including bond flotation among others. The LGC has
opened up a wide range of opportunities for access to funding and mobilizing resources. Future Bank
assistance should therefore be focused on maximizing these opportunities.
15.   Rationalize LGU financing framework. Along with stepping up resource mobilization efforts at
the local level, there is a need to open up windows for LGU financing from the national govemrnment,
government financial institutions (GFIs), and even the private sector. In the context of promoting local
economic development, there is a need to detemine the roles that various financial institutions can take.
The policy on grants to LGUs must be reviewed and possibly revised to encompass sectors which are
equally vital to LGUs such as the brown environmental concerns including solid waste management,
sanitation and sewerage, water and air quality management. Moreover, national govermment agencies role
in local development should be defined more clearly.
16.   There is a need to provide LGUs and communities the means to address non-infrastructure related
problems. This include among others the increasing incidence of street children, homelessness, drug abuse,
street violence, peace and order and such other social problems which tend to erode the social fabric of
cities and towns particularly the more urbanized areas. Thus a mechanism for addressing these types of
problems need to be formulated to enable LGUs to cope and mitigate such problems in a more decisive
way.
17.   Need to expand assistance programs to include focus on economic growth and management of
development. Most of the LGU projects focus on providing LGUs the means to address current
infrastructure and service gaps. However, there is also the need to support their efforts to spur economic
- 20 -



growth and eventually to manage development. As such the package of assistance should enable LGUs the
means to access financing, technical assistance and capacity building to address these.
18.   Need to address poverty alleviation at the local level. Poverty is a pervasive issue among all
LGUs. Ironically LGUs, who are in the best position to address the problem, seldom if ever formulate
programs to stem it. The core of the problem lies in the fact that many LGUs are not cognizant of the true
problem, and if they are, they do not have the resources to solve it. Future Bank assistance programs
should therefore be targeted at fostering awareness of the issues, developing effective programs for
addressing it, and providing the needed technical and financial assistance to implement them.
19.   Active participation of the community in development. There is a need to provide conmmunities
with access to financing, technical assistance and capacity to enable them to address specific community
problems, including community-upgrading initiatives that may alleviate and reduce poverty more
significantly. Moreover, there is a need to develop new mechanisms, which will enable communities to
access financing, technical assistance and capacity building more directly. Previous Bank programs have
been directed at establishing physical and institutional reforms in national and local governments. While
they have been successful in providing the needed infrastructure to carry out these reforms, they fail to
address the problems rooted in the social fabric that translate themselves into the LGUs physical and
institutional problems.
20.   Need to strengthen capacitv-building at LGU level. The Philippines has more than 1,500 cities and
municipalities, each of which has its own unique capacities. While some have exhibited the capacity to
raise themselves above the others, a large number of them do not have the capacity to undertake the
responsibilities and duties that the Local Government Code has bestowed upon them. In order to maximize
the LGUs advantageous position for addressing the country's core economic and social problems, there is a
need to provide technical assistance to improve the overall administration and management of LGUs
towards promoting national economic development.
21.   E-govemance. Electronic governance or e-govemance is now an emerging trend among local
government units all over the world. Its application has proven to be instrumental in improving access to
information, knowledge sharing, and promoting efficiency and transparency in government procedures.
Future Bank urban projects should enable LGUs to improve capacity though the provision of both
hardware and software support for information technology.
-21 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Indicator            1992         1993         1994         1995        1996         1997         1998
Municipal Lending
No. of Cumulative     15           25           35           50          78           78           78
Sub-Loan
Approvals
Cumulative            270         468          685         1,045        1,782        1,782        1,782
Sub-Loan
Commitments (PhP
M)
Cumulative            18          285          570          873         1,319        1,586        1,782
Sub-loan Releases
(PhP M)                                                l
Real Property Tax Administration
Cumulative                        837          1,503       1,984        2,090        3,340
Completed Real
Property Tax Units
(No.#)                  _
Municipal Training Program                             r
Cumulative                         42           84          120          156
Courses Conducted
(No. #)
Total Participants                2,620        5,240       7,140        9,040
Actual/Latest Estimates
Indicator       1992    1993      1994     1995      1996     1997     1998      1999     2000     2001
Municipal
Lending                                  I
No. of                             7         17       27       45       46        65       75        74
Cumulative
Sub-Loan
Approvals
Cumulative                        229       460      630      1,103    1,122     1,565    1,722
Sub-Loan
Commitments
(PhP M)
Cumulative                         29       142      353      567       853      1,148    1,581    1,669
Sub-loan
Releases (PhP
M)
Real Property Ta Administration    _
Cumulative              1,004    1,812    2,786    3,548    4,736    5,564    6,471    6,645
Completed Real
Property Tax
Units (No.#)
Municipal Training Program      _
Cumulative       _        7        21       44        70       106      130      166       219
Courses
Conducted (No.
Total                    290      915      2,078    3,550    4,959    5,954    7,440    9,169
Participants
- 22 -



Output Indicators (By Component)
Subprojects and Maintenance Program
Output Indicators                      Appraisal             |       ActualLatest Estimate
1. Amount of Project Cost                    PhP 2.244 million                  PhP 2,731 million
a. Subloans                                 PhPl,722.5 million                  PhP 1,669 million
b_ Grant                                    PhP 815.7 million                    PhP 790 million
c. Equity                                                                        PhP 272 million
2. Number of LGUs participating                    78                                  74
3. Project Components
a. Local
1. Rehab and construction of markets            50 units                           56 units
2. Construction of slaughterhouses and           6 units                            6 units
procurement of equipment
3. Construction of transport terminal           4 units                             5 units
4. Rehab of water supply system                 4 LGUs                              4 LGUs
5. Construction local ports                     2 units                              I unit
6. Construction of school building               3 units                            4 units
7. Construction of health center                 0 units                             I unit
8. Traffic management system                     I unit                              I unit
9. Construction and improvement of               10 kms                            11.8 kms
roads
IO. Shore protection improvement       -          0 km                             0.195 km
b. National
1. Construction and improvement of              55 kms                              96 kms
roads
2. Improvement of drainage system               55 kms                              52 kms
3. Flood control improvement                    30 kms                              3 kms
4. Shore protection improvement                  O km                               4 kms
5. Improvement of water supply system           8 LGUs                             10 LGUs
Maintenance Program
|Indicator                                    Projects in SAR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
I Maintenance Program Participation           8 project centers                   8 project centers
Real Property Tax Administration (RPTA)
Indicator                                    Projects in SAR                  Actual/Latest Estimate
Number of successful applications                  233                                427
Increase in number of RPUs                        3.30M                             6.645 M
Expansion of area assessed by assessor      PhP 61.385B or 40%                PhP139.153B or 127%b
Increase in tax collection                 PhP 486.633B or 40(/o               PhP739.399 or 52%
Decrease in cost to collection ratio              1:0.75                          1:0.495 = 0.5
Number of staff trained in RPTA                   1,398                               2,562
(capacity building)
- 23 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million e uivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component              US$ million    US$ million
Subprojects                                          69.80           77.50            111
Maintenance                                           8.10            2.90             36
Real Properly Tax Administration                     12.00           10.70             89
Municipal Training                                    2.40            3.30            137
Technical Assistance                                  6.80            5.20             76
Total Baseline Cost                                  99.10           99.60
Price Contingencies                                 14.60
Total Project Costs            113.70           99.60
Total Financing Required             113.70           99.60
-24 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$M equivalent) a/
Expenditure                                              Procurement Method
Categories
v__________           ICB                NCB                Other               NBF                Total
1. Subprojects
1.1 Works                                    77.1                                                      77.1
_______________  __     (43.9)                                 _                   (43.9)
1.2 Goods                                    4.2                                                        4.2
(2.5)                                                     (2.5)
1.3 Services                                                    0.6 b/                                  0.6
(0.3)                                 (0.3)
2. Maintenance
2.1 Works                                     5.9               2.0c/                                   7.9
________________                             (2.0)              (0.6)                                   (2.6)
2.2 Materials                                                    1.9d/                                  1.9
________________   ________________             ~~~(0.6)                               (0.6)
3. RPTA Services                                                 13.5e/                                 13.5
(9.5)                                 (9.5)
4. Consulting
Services
4.1 Implementation                                              4.4b/                                   4.4
(4.4)                                 (4.4)
4.2 Municipal                                                   2.7b/                                   2.7
Training                                                         (2.7)                                  (2.7)
4.3 Studies                                                     1.3b/                                   1.3
(1.3)                                  (1.3)
TOTALS                                        87.2               26.4                                   113.7
(48.4)             (19.6)                                 (68.0)
a/ All amounts include contingencies. Numbers in brackets are the respective arounts financed by the Bank.
b/ Services to be procured in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants, August 1981.
c/ Force account
d/ Required for force account
e! Additional personnel required for the RPTA would be hired by the local government as contractual staff for the duration of the
RPTA program using their own procedures for hiring such labor.
- 25 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements, Actual/Latest Estimate (US$million equivalent)
Expenditure                                              Procurement Method
Categeries
ICB               NCB                Other               NBF                 Total
1. Subpiojects
1.1 Works                                    73.7                                                      73.7
._______________         (43.2)                                                    (43.2)
1.2 Goods                                    0.1                                                        0.1
(0.1)                                                     (0.1)
1.3 Services                                 3.7                                                        3.7
(2.4)                                   _                 (2.4)
2. Maintenance
2.1 Works                                     1.2                1.7                                    2.9
(0.7)              (0.8)                                  (1.5)
2.2 Materials
3. RPTA Services                              10.7                                                      10.7
(7.2)                                                     (7.2)
4. Consulting
Services
4.1 Implementation                            5.2                                                       5.2
(5.2)                                                     (5.2)
4.2 Municipal                                 3.3                                                       3.3
Training                                     (3.3)                                                      (3.3)
4.3 Studies
TOTALS                                        97.9                1.7                                   99.6
______________________________     _ =(62.1)                     (0.8)                                 (62.9)
A total of US$5,649,563.93 was cancelled from the Loan following the completion of disbursements.
- 26 -



Project Financing by Compo ent (PhP Million) - Appraisal Estimate
Component                                                   ___
Subprojects         Total           LGU            DPWH            MDF             Bank         Loan Shares
National             848                            424                            424            50%
Local               1,980           198                            594            1,188           60%
Maintenance          350             236                                            114            33%
Program.
RPTA                 438             132                                            307            70%
Municipal             90                                                            90             100%
Training
Project
Implementation                                                          .
Consultancies
DPWH                119                                                            119            100%
DOF                  16                                                            16            100%
DILG                 13                                                            13            100%
Technical
Assistance
Institutional         17                                                            17            100%
Study
Environmental         21                                                            21             100%
Study
TOTAL               3,983            565            424             594            2,309           59%
_ _    100%             15%            11%             15%            59%        _
Project Financing by Component (PhP Million) - Actual Estimates
Component    I               1                1             i
Subprojects         Total           LGU            DPWH            MDF          Bank Loan      Loan Shares
National             790                            331                            459            58%
Local               1,941           272                             508           1,161           60%
Maintenance          105             48       r                                     57            54.2%
RPTA                 366             122             _                              244           66.7%
Municipal             96                                                            96             100%
Training       |
Project
Implementation  _ _ _
Consultancies
DPWH                164        _                                                   164           100%
DOF                  4                                                             4             100%
DILG                 14                                                            1 4           100%
Technical
Assistance*                     _                                                             ____.
Institutional
Study
Environmental
Study          I              I               I
TOTAL               3,480            442            331             508            2,199           6%
100% 0          13%            9.5%           14.5%           63%
* Completed thnugh a PHRD Grant
- 27 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Project        Economic Analysis       Financial Analysis      Net Present Value    IncJDec.   Remarks
Center                                                                              Actual/App
L                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r.
I          ~~~~App.     Est.        App.        Est.        App.        Est.
1. Tagum       21%         23%         17%         22%         6.71        24.76      Increase   High
City                                                                                            collection
(Public                                                                                         efficiency;
Market)                                                                                        introduce
new scheme
in collection
2. San Jose    21%         10%          17%         8%         70.37       -9.48      Decrease  Low
de                                                                                              occupancy
Buenavista                                                                                      rate
(Public
Market)                                        .
3. Surigao     33%         29%         29%         26%         31.33       24.07     Decrease  Due to 65%
City                                                                                            occupancy
(Integrated                                                                                    rate of
Terminal)                                                                                       commercial
stalls;
terminal fee
collection
rate is
100%.
4. San Jose    22%         14%          16%         13%        3.040       0.042      Decrease  Estimated
City                                                                                            number of
(Slaughterho                                                                                    animals
use)                                                                                            slaughtered
=______________________  _ _________   __________   ___________   ___________                 is     no t m et.
Starts of Operations for each project center:
1. April 1997
2. December 1997
3. February 1999
4. February 1999
- 28 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                      Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
06/1990                      1   1 Economist
10/1990                     2   1 Economist, 1 Engineer
2/1991                      3   1 Economist, I Financial
Analyst, 1 Engineer
Appraisal/Negotiation
07/1991                     3   1 Economist, I Financial
Analyst, I Engineer
02/1992                     4   1 Economist, 1 Counsel, I
Disbursement Officer, 1
Operations Assistant
Supervision
08/1992                      2   1 Municipal Engineer, I            HS            HS
Economist
12/1992                      3   1 Financial Analyst, 1 Engineer,   S              S
I Economist
8/1993                       4   1 Financial Analyst, 1 Engineer,    S             S
2 Economists
4/1994                       2   1 Urban Financial Analyst, I        S             S
Economist
7/1994                       2   2 Financial Analysts                S             S
02/1995                      3  2 Urban Planners, I Financial       U              S
Analyst
12/1995                      2   2 Urban Planners                   U              S
05/1996                      3  2 Urban Planners, I Financial        S             S
Analyst
05/1997                      2   1 Urban Planner, 1 Financial        S             S
Analyst
02/1998                      3   1 Urban Planner, I Engineer, I      S             S
Financial Analyst
10/1998                      2   1 Urban Planner, 1 Procurement     S              S
Specialist
03/1999                      2   1 Urban Planner, I Financial        S             S
Analyst
05/1999                      2   1 Urban Planner, I Procurement      S             S
Specialist
12/1999                      3   2 Urban Planners, 1 Procurement    S              S
Specialist
04/2000                      3   2 Urban Planners, I Procurement     S             S
Specialist
- 29 -



ICR        04/2001                      3    1 Urban Planner, I                  S             S
Operations officer, I
consultant
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               14.5                      56,125
Appraisal/Negotiation                    34.5                      138,750
Supervision                             236.3                     698,917
ICR                                      13.3                       52,337
Total                                   298.6                     946,129
Costs incurred before the introduction of SAP in 2000 were adjusted upward by 25% to reflect full costs.
- 30 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
D Macro policies                           C H  CSUOM  O N  * NA
O Sector Policies                          O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
O Physical                                 O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
O Financial                                O H  * SU O M  O N  C NA
O Institutional Development                C H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Environmental                            C H  O SU * M  O N  O NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction                 0 H  0 SU * M  0 N  0 NA
O Gender                            O H OSUOM O N * NA
O Other (Please specify)            0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
0 Private sector development               0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
0 Public sector management                 0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
OOther (Please specify)                    O H    SU O M  O N  * NA
- 31 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
2 Lending                                            OHS *S OU OHU
F Supervision                                        OHS OS  OU  OHU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
6-2 Borrower performance                             Rating
Z Preparation                                        OHS OS  O  U  O HU
Z Government implementation performance              O HS O S  0 U  0 HU
Z Implementation agency performance                  OHS OS  0 U  O HU
7 Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
- 32 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. ICR Mission's Aide-Memoire
2. Borrower's ICR
@3
Borrowers ICR.doc
- 33 -



PARTNER' S COMMENTS
(File from icon on p. 17)
REPUBi.C OF THE *iULIPPNES
Y                   L    HWpARTMENT OF PUBLIC WOXKS AND HIGHWAYS
PRIE3IUIEp It
PROGRM FOU PSEAMAL UMIRPAL IN$MATRUCTUREf,
_  UT3L.t^ MAIPltIMAMtlF o NIENO CIRINI 0E> OPLNT      -
M90A , PlL   PrwM 4 IDF - OIM
(WORLD siAN- - 958I6FD IT UICIPPA  bFV(LOPMENT PR4JIECT5)
MR- VINAY BHARGAVA
Ctiom y Dirwo:r
RviNeni Msanila. Phitl#nos
Itkar Mr, Ihurx"va;
SUtBJE :  Commrnri an n  th3 Bankd' Paf Verxiao on tw
IC fbr MIDP 111 (l..oNts- 34-MS5-Pll
We havc roceived uob o ws wrl sion artfe mDP h I IT'R and we arc gcally poleo1
with  tIa  aevwenwt- nn  the  impkementatiorn  rft-ilM.  Iesons  teasnd  Anmi
ruzonmChdhfintLn  of the ICR Misori Ilowevcr, we hhlcwc t:hi the Tfnag  Yi th1 D
r,pTje- cuinme sbould h*ve been rated ji.fsf;y bccsc of Ih:  Lrrp.
indicnirs1. n the aciev*m           *o ifbtl deve1orStl  t reUlts- P'oa a 
oudie ort [tiic pt4io   iequIt bad dcwmented tib  sigpificant cmaTibutions nf tho
MIUPs  ihe sabprojec( notably Ihic  rvwntre gencrniinL. pnotia  su 5h as pibIic
snarketm ha tsi0ficant dirmt and iunditet impacts on imirmving the Iivitng t*ditiov's
tbi; pwducItvity of ih r$identf in tIhr pzilopafing I Citls, Thc Sbprojpt*i havT
sko becn noed tin hwsy  unfiSbed sigiifir-mne imp vrowf1ts itn loca infrsructkre
and tloca rcvcre gemtiou- InTtvieviws mtde by ('P  with varituu  paWxic'p wt LGtI
Mayms gnd their financial offiiaJis uinfinned that tierc. vxi' suhsttial incnm   in
0wr ovwn revenue soumead income mch n4 rgA prnpet1y taxes, busineS  taxes and
ofher Ltl and fe  bcsv of thsc Wi";*c   opporilnttie5 gercaSted, frotn t
opetions oi thc MDIP fwanerd pmj*Iq ()oMPw14ijw  onalysis undwr a 'befo  and
fitler 1he proi4 Souo (' oh lbe 1fioncial perfrmance nf selected MD? pn*t
ctmlc4h indicaied sub niJi positijV  prta6 chanes fim dic intwco    gencrMed
fi-m ihc prnecl. Thcs positive rcsdts recontinned t4h p vious Iinldings in itew
ctt<C oumpletion  Repmrit (PC.Rks) and Pdlbrwroatir  Audit Rqpm  (PARl) hti
previous MWP J and II. Marcov, tiDSihs oFthe  aJculaied UKs, FtWks and NrPV
'a#Cdw rcvcPm gmmting pnjects indicated tbat tht t5i.pted MDP III prw)cas
ait considered  ghIly UCi;cvstwIi proicct s,
Similarly. ttis ins a.ttiowl di opmcTi impct was bighly su.bstaial. T'he resulaB or
past4txinrin  eftctivcness survey-, Oilwr=d ibeh peiilher  tKiabulxtin   nf MT1 
Iraininps tot miawesefu prntjed impirnenitation thwLu4 mniuajril and terhiail jkitk
cnhanraent risknlg in tapWglld  rvnuhs such as "(i) improvcrncnt in projeci
limplemcntalion pcduucs eqmially procurcmem antd cmaa rwnaemfnt and
sIservisinn, (h) edoptim of effotive and cfrfi'nt finatuxil  m emnc  plr*ceunos
rsAneii  m increae in 31g rev nmcs, (t:) innsutdirnmwAIJo  rt of team work within the
- 34 -



Iullio4 jn [t rea;W  1S. (:) instiD0lizi1tiorn Oftetm work wkihn tht
l(iUs, (d) improvo& sntcr-L(ti copetaion and sharing of piujmA cpenensc
pcsially an oDmplianc  to proi:l conditiondties; and (o) eQficrnt IlUi pmo
implJcm=aio. modefling si sui sinailty. The MiP moduigs wcr cited hy LC;U
reMpCndML as VIWYtUseiR4 aid cliccu3e in impmving their 1OCa1 AoVcnantx
captlt
On Lhc o*hcr hand, the fitw Oku"tou of the Municipal Develupment F1td (NI4F)
unde; th MfN isn o  n         y.s it beamcstn ct  tvc fiaaneiai macmi nim f
IU' rtady aamet ic  c         fintawingiwg. Si*= sf  reim  in 1984, tha MIlF [so bow
endod to become Ie maim cehnn  im m= thm than 3Ol  asift= P VA a          i n1
I.-XU in the    l Phpirins. both fof foreign Md local finds under dw r   =i9ed
prJvetd It hasgrauly apdedits opc i nh tw  Urba   mm tora des nd
to socal and envir40evlmJ ptojetrs AR, nf Docatber -11, MM, colleeion etfcincy
was r.z-JlIkt At 100 perced. UIaJ3 MDP IlIL the MlDF sarted t  rinctio  a n
revolving  tid with 370 pefted of U* RibkOa  corning from the i   uowu  f NIWP
LUzU' ,morization pymeUt.  SUSIttWity of the MIW IF  tnff is MO51 lhikely Wiik
the fwther vMm_Wahezg ofth MDP IfstinAiS iunder the LJDOFINI) pfRcI. In
1 99, thc Gkwen.metx ntauized t.h IMwuiipal Deviolpnuctit fund Office. (MT*'F) In
ss$tume  [ adninatiuan af ti Mr* operafims Likowist. to Wlbher imprw the
nyd effci"n   or Ihe MIW M  pF pcrzior*n t  (iavemment rnuoll4id the
fmnaial and tmhnka  finctions into the MDFO urgarnalionlI sumure. Thuks undtr
thc l.ofiO(]OJIl, thus (io'vcrsupjif azins to achieve! fuTther sirhng1hctnp of policies
an  trLsitulioIl  *iapwties of the M1VFl0 >O tnw to csny out is eprnded
ftpmkiliies,
Pmfjcct reoinab;ity ofthe MPs bave beeo motn evident in subsoepsa du r aist, d
mknding ptmoae  su xasc As the PIClP, PRtTW, Sub$i  MDP, C'lark MTP). CRB1 and
LOGOTFJND. amvag Ohtm The saice*  of the MD:? prOeas bave also b9 cited
both in ninny koa and imanit*ea  cmfi==. notMly us Bes Prauie m UAwn
Infta%ud         IvlCmkenl by thlINCRD (1997); Global Best Pmaace 1OD list iot
ImprowrIg the U1Ag lnviftomii bY the UNCIIS HAfITAT (19), &a Ps4x*
Suceei on Municipid Fiflance ProjectR ly the Wotid 1lirk (1998), an*M  Vber.
anwMet. wt owr wk  Lhc KCR Mis"on f                    tino  that the Mainiangic
Vonpum*t did nuwI      hontiiy xohievw  iLt  objeive of  erng irg t
umucattme UcSilty of I GUa. 'tinciy projed hmpknentwi= wai greatly afed
hy the dclays in the provitn of cash cauterpat requitumnents. The par*ipan LGU;S
cnlMmd Ihat the delays in the releawe of their IRA which was the piini1y sawme of
thir oquity corMbiu1ix   deayel the timely comnpliance in the provision of ihc
required aquity.
We hre .lwo exsnoaly pleased no the rnany and varid lesaon  leared fnom ilwt
projea inciding the  acommanKnpons thetein cited by 1he ICR Mission In baet, wzt
- 35 -



find  1ha junring experim       we  sfful in furtha imprving our drldoprowl
strattieVs and in  aw*ing bgue our tieveopiotl twnrship with l.GJi We
hoip Iuo lhat lbe: pra i  nwj expatin    and   'zrn<ndationu will guide the
Bank in zuh  ue &i 3mcnt inifiawc.st in the Pft1ipt-Ans.
We wijl flaniAh you 4 copy of the Rfiowcr's Final VeisIc  of te ICR in ieparate
]cttor. The tios daR eapy wtrch was received by the flank on May 4, 2   1 had soe
minDflr rmiuons.
htflRty, we wish to .qi@  our doepest Lppreqcaion to tthe &nk (br its oxinuws
suppm t a dinet the dorvpmenmt f nur LiTh in the Phiippiu.m
very twIy ymow
.RNESTO S. CRtGORJO, 3
OJC. P .uimc
C'   Mr. Toru Hhitnato,k Tem Iftder, MM? til
Mr. Jos Atitoo Leape, Cptsaiios Offkm-
- 36 -



