-V 3fI4S5& PH
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MIICROFICHE COPY
RePort No. 10042-PH   Type: (SAR)                       Report No. 10042-PH
UCHUMORA,/ X80452/ D8 021/ AS21N
(G,
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PHILIPPINES
THIRD MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FEBRUARY 27, 1992
Infrastrueture Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Tiis document has # restricted distribudon and may be used by redpIents only in the perfonmance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dilosed without Wodd Dank authoiztion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of December 31, 1991)
Currency Unit - Peso (P)
P 1 - US$0.037
US$1.00 - P 27
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)             -   3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)        -   0.62 mile (mi)
1 square meter (sq m)   -  10.76 square feet (sq ft)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACROQYMS
BLGF      -  Bureau of Local Government Finance
GPO       -  Central Project Office
DILG      -  Department of the Interior and Local Government
DOF       -  Department of Finance
DPWH      -  Department of Public Works and Highways
ERR       -  Economic Rate of Return
GAA       -  General Appropriations Act
IDA       -  International Development Association
LOA          Local Government Academy
LGU       -  Local Government Unit
LIA       -  Local Loans Account
MDF       -  Htunicipal Development Fund
MDFGB     -  Municipal Development Fund Governing Board
MDP I     -  First Municipal Development Project
MDP II    -  Second Municipal Development Project
MDP III   -  third Municipal Development Project
NEDA      -  National and Economic Development Authority
PMO       -  Project Management Office
PSA       -  Program Support Account
PSC       -  Project Steering Committee
RPTA      -  Real Property Tax Administration
SPMS      -  Special Project Management Service, BLGF, DOF
USAID     -  United States Agency for International Development
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USR ONLY
THIRD MUNIGIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Pro2lct SuMmXy
Aorrower:         Republic of the Philippines
Bantficianr.:    Local Governments
Amount:           US$68 million equivalent
TegM£:            Repayable in 20 years, including five years of grace, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Relendinc
Terms:            Maximum maturity of 15 years including three years of grace at
an interest rate based on the prevailing weighted average
interest rate 014 time deposits of 61-90 days plus a spread
of 2%.
ProJect
Dascriggion:      The proposed project would assist cities and municipalities in
the Philippines to address existing deficiencies and improve
priority infrastructure, services and facilities for their
residents  by  strengthening  the  National  Government's
institutional framework for assisting local governments and
the local governments' planning and management capabilities.
The project wouid support further evolution of the system
established under the Bank-assisted First and Second Municipal
Development Projects to promote local government development
and improve local government access to credit financing.  The
p,oj ect would comprise: (a) Subproj ects including construction
and/or rehabilitation of basic infrastructure and facilities,
procurement of equipment, and hiring of consultants; (b) a
Maintenance Program to improve maintenance planning and
implementation in selected local governments; (c) a Real
Property Tax Admlnistration Program to improve real property
tax records management and increase real property tax
collection; (d) a Munigipal Trainine Program to train local
officials; and (a) Technical Assistance for (i) a study of
institutional  options  for  further  lending  to  local
governments; and (ii) an environmental sanitation and solid
waste study.                                      C
B&nefits:         The proposed project would improve the delivery of services,
infrastructure and public facilities at the local level,
strengthen   the   management   capacity   of   cities   and
municipalities, and improve the National Government's ability
to assist the cities and municIpalities to respond to the
needs of the increasing urban population.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Project risks relate to the acceptability of moving toward
market rates for municipal lending, as envisioned under the
project, the technical and managerial limitations of the local
governments, the capability of the project office to handle a
larger number of cities and municipalities than in the past,
and the political uncertainty surrounding the upcoming
national elections. However, tho proposed on-lending rates
are estimated to be affordable by the cities and financially
stronger municipalities, and project procedures are being
streamlined, based on experience to date, to accommodate
larger numbers of local g-overnments.
Esimte  gst:                                    Local   Foreig    Total
(US$ million)-
Subprojects                                    38.2     31.6    69.0
Maintenance                                     4.6      3.6      8.1
Real Property Tax Administration                7.2      4.8    12.0
Municipal Training                              1.4      1.0      2.4
Technical Assistance                           _.72    _2.1   6.8.
Base Cost                              56.0      43.0    911
Price Contingencies                             8.3      6.3    14.6
Total Project Cost La                  6i43      49.4   113.7
inaning Plan:
Local Governments                                   L6.2        -     16.2
DPWH                                                12.3              12.3
Municipal Development Fund                          17.2        -     17.2
IBRD                                                18.6      49.4   68.0
Total                                  64.3       49.4  113.7
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY                    1993  1994  1295  l996  1997  1998  1999
-(US$ million) -
Annual                            4.0  10.5   13.5  14.0  12.0   8.5   5.5
Cumulative                        4.0  14.5   28.0  42.0  54.0  62.5  68.0
Economic Rat_e
of Rcturn:        A minimum rate of return of 15% for each subproject.
IBRD No. 23396
La Includes taxes and duties estimated at US$17.4 million.



cl
- ili -f
PHILIPPINES
THIRD MUNICIAL DEVdLELOMEN PROJECT
STAE APRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY .............................i
I.  QECM&L CQE
A. Local Government in the Philippines.                     1
B. Issues in Local Government Development and Management...   2
II.      S        ANDEXPERIENCE FROM PREVIOUS PROJECTS
A. Bank Strategy .4
B. Bank Project Experience              .5
C. Lessons Learned and Implications for the Third Project .   8
III. THE MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT FUND AND LENDING TO LOCAL GOVERNMENTS
A. Organization and Structure ......    .......................  10
B. Subproject Selection ........   ............................  13
C. Lending Terms and Conditions ......   .....................  15
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin and Formulation  .....   ...................  16
B. Project Rationale  .........   ............................  17
C. Project Objectives  ........   ............................  17
D. Project Description  ........   ...........................  17
E. Project Costs and Financing Plan  .....  .................  22
V. PROJECT ORGANIZATION. IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Organization and Implementing Arrangements ......  24
B. Implementation Schedule .........   .......................  28
C. Procurement and Disbursement ......   .....................  28
D. Accounts and Audits  ........   ...........................  31
E. Progress Reporting and Monitoring  .....  ................  32
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting of
Messrs. Yoshine Uchimuru (Senior Economist, Task Manager, AS2IN), Brian Binder
(Financial Analyst, Consultant) and Allen Williams (Engineer, Consultant) which
visited the Philipplnes in July 1991. The peer reviewer for the project was Mr.
William Dillinger (Urban Finance Specialist, INURD). Ms. Nimfa Campos assisted
in the preparation of the report. The report was cleared by Messrs. Callisto
Madavo (Director, EAl) and Jeffrey Gutman (Chief, EAIIN).



- iv -
VI.  ROJCT JjISTIFICATIO   D RISKS
A. Institutional Impact  ..................................  32
B. Envi;onmental Impact  ..................................  33
C. Poverty Impact  .......................................   33
D. Economic Analysis  .....................................   33
E. Risks .....   .                                           34
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ......   ..............  35
ANEXES
1. Local Government Financial Summary
2. The Real Property Tax Administration Program
3. Municipal Training Program
4. Municipal Development Fund: Subloan Financial Flows
5. MDF Policy Governing Board Resolution No. 01-92-MDF (Policy Statement)
6. The Selection of Subprojects: the Project Cycle
7. Environmental Aspects
8. Outline Terms of Reference:
(a) Institutional Study
(b) Environmental Study
9. Implementation Schedule
10. Supervision Arrangements
(a) Supervision Plan
(b) Monitoring Indices
11. Disbursement Schedule
12. Documents in Project Files
Provincial Map of the Philippines - IBRD No. 23396



THIRD MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT ROJEET
I. SECTORAL CONTEXT
A. Local Government in the Philinoines
1.01     Local government responsibilities in the Philippines are shared by 75
provinces, 60 cities and over 1,500 municipalities that include both urban and
rural areas. The provinces are subdivided into municipalities over which they
maintain administrative control, while the cities are administratively equal to
and independent from the provinces. Both cities and municipalities are further
subdivided into barangays (community organizations).
1.02     The local governments are headed by elected governors for provinces and
mayors for cities and municipalities, all of whom report to elected local
councils. The governors and mayors have authority to collect charges and taxes,
prepare budgets, hire staff and invest in and manage local services and
enterprises within limitations set by the Local Government Code and other
national laws and regulations.
1.03       Within the national government, there is strong sentiment that the
country's currently centralized administrative system has not been effective in
improving the living conditions of the people, especially those in the regions.
Being closer to the people, the provinces, cities and municipalities are
considered to be in a better position to meet the priority service and investment
needs of the local populations and to contribute to economic development country-
wide. The Government is therefore pursuing a Decentralization Program to provide
greater local autonomy and increased responsibilities to the local governments.
Under the revised Local Government Code signed into law in October 1991, the
provinces, cities and municipalities will take over functions currently performed
and financed by national government agencies, namely: agricultural development
and extension services, environmental protection, construction of school
buildings, construction and maintenance of barangay roads and other local
infrastructure, social services, tourism and low-income housing.
1.04     Under the Decentralization Program, national government agencies would
continue to be responsible for overseeing local government activities and,
through the Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH), for executing larger
infrastructure investments.   The local governments would be responsible for
constructing and maintaining minor roads and drains, operating public markets and
slaughterhouses, and providing garbage collection and other municipal services.
1.05     Real property and business taxes are the main sources of locally raised
revenues, accounting for 28% and 14% of total local government revenues,
respectively, in 1990. Real property taxes are levied on the assessed value of
land, buildings and equipment, with each local government setting its tax rate
within ranges determined by the revised Local Government Code.   Property
assessments are a fixed percentage of market values and are to be revalued every
three years.   Business taxes are levied on gross annual receipts, with an
additional fixed charge based on the type of business. Revenues from public
markets, slaughterhouses and other enterprises, and various fees and charges



-2
constitute the remainder of locally generated revenues. In smaller cities and
municipalities, the public market is the center of commercial activity and the
rental income from the market is an important source of local revenues. The
combined revenues from enterprises, fees and charges accounted fcr about 22% of
total local revenues in 1990,
1.06       National government grants are the single largest source of local
government revenues, accounting for 37% of total local government revenues in
1990. Under the revised Local Government Code, the amount of revenue-sharing
grants from the national government is expected to double. These revenue-sharing
grants are allocated among the provinces, cities and municipalities based on a
formula considering population, land area and equal share. As a result, local
government   revenues  and  expenditures   are  expected  to  double  with
decentralization.
1.07       Within the local government sector, significant differences exist
between cities and municipalities and among municipalitias. The cities and the
larger urbanized municipalities, especially those in and around Metro Manila,
have a more developed economic base and higher average incomes, and are
experiencing an increase in their populations through urbanization. On the other
hand, the municipalities in the poorer regions have limited financial resources
and development possibilities.
B. Issues in Local Government Development and Management
1.08     The local governments' financial and managerial capabilities have not
kept pace with the increase in demand for services which has accompanied the
shift in population from rural to urban areas. The number of people living in
urban areas in the Philippines increased from 18 million (37% of total
population) in 1980 to an estimated 29 million (48% of total population) in 1990,
an average growth of about 5.18 per annum. The provision of basic services and
infrastructure has lagged behind this growth.   Public markets, the core of
commercial activities in many cities and municipalities, have become dilapidated,
overcrowded and unsanitary due to a lack of proper sanitation and drainage
facilities. The lack of drainage systems has resulted in flooding. Stagnant
water, improper sanitation facilities and inadequate solid waste disposal now
pose health hazards in high-density urban communities. The problem is made worse
by the lack of regular maintenance that shortens the effective economic life of
infrastructure investments and public facilities.
1.09     A lack of funds has been one major constraint.  Total expenditures by
the provinces, cities and municipalities in 1990 were an estimated P 14.1 billion
(about US$580 million) or P 230 (US$9.55) per resident. Capital expenditures
accounted for only about 6% of total expenditures.   Although the local
governments are responsible for providing many of the basic services and
facilities that directly affect the living standards of their residents, they
have played a limited and declining role in the Philippine economy.   Local
government revenues and expenditures declined in real terms during the 1980s,
causing local governments to play a smaller role in 1990, when local government
expenditures accounted for 1.2% of GDP and 6.6% of national government



*3-
expend2.tures, compared to the early 1980s when local expenditures accounted for
1.7% ox GDP and 14% of national government expenditures.,,
1.10     Despite the shortage of funds, many local governments do not adequately
utilize their existing revenue base. Real property taxes are the primaty source
of local revenues.   However, local governments collect only about 60%, on
average, of the real property taxes due because of poor record keeping and
administration. Property transactions are not always recorded so that ownership
and land use data become out of date. Notices of payments due are not sent to
taxpayers. Payments of taxes are recorded manually so that it is impossible to
adequately monitor the status of delinquencies.   Legal sanctions are rarely
enforced against delinquent taxpayers.
1.11       Similarly, although operations of public markets are an important
function and a major source of revenue for most cities and municipalities, market
rents are generally not revised on a regular basis, have not kept pace with
inflation, and are out of line with rents for commercial properties. Many cities
and municipalities do not maintain separate accounts for markets, making it
difficult to determine the actual operating costs and creating an impression that
the market is profitable when it is actually incurring a loss. At the same time,
conditions in the markets have been allowed to deteriorate due to a lack of
regular maintenance and rehabilitation, making it more difficult for the cities
and municipalities to raise rents.
1.12       Local governments have not made effective use of credit financing,
relying on locally raised revenues and national government grants, which limits
their ability to carry out capital programs.   Through borrowings, the local
governments could smooth out lumpy infrastructure investments and assure that
future users of the assets pay part of the costs rather than putting the whole
financial burden on the current residents. While local governments have the
legal authority to borrow through government banks, such as the Development Bank
of the Philippines and the Land Bank of the Philippines, and issue bonds,
debentures, and securities, borrowings are not a significant part of local
government revenues.  As of December 31, 1988, debt obligations by the local
governments to government financial institutions totaled P 358 million, about
US$17 million at the prevailing exchange rate.
1.13      Finally, many local governments lack both experience in carrying out
major capital projects and staff with the necessary administrative, technical and
managerial skills to plan and implement investment programs and provide basic
services. Many of the smaller municipalities have no municipal engineer's office
and do little planning given their limited financial resources. Programs or
projects are added during the year through supplemental budgets as additional
revenues become available.   The local governments have difficulty hiring
experienced, professional staff, and those staff that do work in the cities and
municipalities are very often overburdened with many responsibilities.
LI   Local government revenues and expenditures for 1980-90 are shown in
Annex 1.



-4-
II. BANK URBAN SRATC MD  EERIENCE FROM PREVI0US   ECTS
A. Bank Stratevv
2.01    Under tbe Government's Decentralization Program (para. 1.03), the local
governments are expected to play a greater role in addressing the infrastructure
and service deficiencies that currently exist. For decentralization to succeed,
the cities and municipalities would need to strengthen their management and
teclnical capabilities to carry out their current responsibilities as well as the
additional functions devolved from the national agencies. It is estimated that
the additional resources that the local governments receive from increased
revenue sharing would be offset by cutbacks in other grant programs and increased
expenditure responsibilities for the devolved functions. The local governments
would consequently need to increase funds available for additional expenditures
through improved local resource mobilization and use of alternative sources sucl
as credit.L
2.02     The Government's current emphasis on decentralization is in line with
the Bank's strategy and efforts to date in the Philippines, and is very timely.
The Bank has been assisting the Government to meet the challenge of urbanization
and to provide infrastructure, services and facilities, with an emphasis on
targeting the urban poor. The main objectives of the Bank strategy in municipal
development are to: (a) strengthen municipal management through improved resource
mobilization and fiscal management, investment planning, project implementation
and maintenance operations; and (b) increase the level of resources available to
local governments for investments by improving their access to loan financing.
The Bank's approach has evolved from direct lending to individual project cities
in the early 1980s to the development of an institutional framework within the
National Government to assist local governments with their financing, technical
assistance and traialing needs. While the larger and financially stronger local
governments, sucb as the cities in Metro Manila or Cebu Province, may be in a
better position to access domestic capital markets, most of the local governments
in the Philippines would need to rely on national government support for the
foreseeable future to obtA'n loan funds for their investments.
Z2    An innovative and unique approach was taken by Cebu Province which issued
P 300 million in bonds in 1991 and directly accessed the local capital
market. These bonds, named the Cebu Equity Bond Unit, pay annual interest
of 16% and are backed up by shares in the Cebu Property Ventures and
Development Corporation, a joint venture between the Cebu Provincial
Government and a private developer. The corporation was set up to develop
a publicly owned, unused airstrip in a prime location in rapidly expanding
Cebu City.



B. Bank Project Experieneta
2.03      The Rebgonal Cities DevelRODnt Proleot (RCDP, Loan 2257-PH) was the
first Bank project to on-leud funds to local governments in the Philippines.
This project addressed the comprehensive investment needs of four larger regional
cities: Bacolod, Cagayan De Oro, Davao and Iloilo. A loan of US$67.0 million was
approved in 1983 to finance drainage, solid waste management, roads, markets,
slaughterhouses and other umnicipal infrastructure to be implemented by DPWH and
the four project cities, and sites and services and slum upgrading to be
implemented by the National Housing AuthoritF.y. The identification of the project
cities, feasibility studies, and subsequent project preparation was carried out
by the National Government. The Regional Cities Development Project is scheduled
to be completed by end March 1992, just over three years behind schedule, with
the delay partly due to the country's financial. and political crisis of the mid-
1980s. As of December 31, 1991, 95% of the project has been completed and 77%
of the reduced loan amount has been disbursed.L&
2.04     The Bank's FiTst &W ipal DeXvlopment Prolec  (MDP I, Loan 2435-PH),
approved by the Board in 1984, focused on developing an institutional framework
at the national level to assist cities and municipalities in the preparation,
implementation and financing of local investments, *nd to coordinate assist:ance
to local governments. An institutional approach, rather than a city-by-city
approach was considered necessary, given the large numbers of local governments
and their diverse needs.
2.05      Under MDP I, project cities and municipalities were selected through
a bottom-up process which emphasized self-selection: i.e., only those cities and
municipalities which qua4.ified for inclusion in the project, were able to prepare
Investment proposals, and agreed to take necessary fiscal, administrative and
managerial improvements were provided financing t0rough the project. A Municipal
Development Fund (MDF) was established within the Department. of Finance (DOF) to
provide local governments with direct access tc long-term development finance.
A Central Project Office (CPO) was set up under DPWH as a technical intermediary
to assist local governments to identify investment priorities, evaluate project
proposals for financing through the MDF, and act as a liaison with national and
external funding agencies. A Project Steering Committee consisting of DPWH, DOF,
the Department of Interior and Local Government (DILG), the Department of Budget
and Management (DBM) and the National Economic Development Authority (NEDA)
L3    The Bank's initial involvement in the urban sector in the Philippines was
focused primarily on basic needs and shelter and aimed at establishing the
acceptability of lower cost approaches involving slum upgrading and
serviced sites with the National Housing Authority as the lead agency.
Three shelter projects (loans 1272-T/1281-PH, 1647-PH and 1821-PH) have
been completed and a combined Project Performance Audit Report for first
two projects (Report No. 7092, 1988) has been issued. The Bank approved
the iHousing Sector Loan (Loan 2974-PH) in 1988 as a follow-up to these
projects.
/4    US$27.56 million has been cancelled to date.



-6-
provided overall policy guidance and approved loans through the tDF. The system
for on-lending to the local governments is discussed further in Chapter III.
2.06        The project included financing for infrastructure investments in
project cities and municipalities and for national government programs to improve
local government management and operations. The project was targeted at cities
and municipalities outside of Metro Manila and consisted of three major
components:
(a)   Infrastructure  Investny"ts.    Construction  and/or  rehabilitation  of
drainage, roads, solkt -.ste management systems, bus terminals, public
markets, slaughterhouses, nd other infrastructure and facilities and the
purchase of equipment.
(b)   A nationwide  ial Eroerty TJar, Adinistration (RPTA) program through DOF.
The RPTA program aimed at improving the real property tax administration.
DOF provided a grant to the local governments to finance part of the cost
of the additional contractual staff, equipment and supplies required to
prepare tax maps, sort and update tax records and follow up with
delinquent taxpayere. RPTA is discussed in more detail in Annex 2.
(c)   An experimental Municipal TrXaLinig Proram through DILG in, among others,
project preparatf.on and management,  municipal finance,  and municipal
enterprise management. Given the diversity of training needs at the local
level and existing training organizations, the Municipal Training Program
aimed at developing a capacity within the DILG to assess local government
training needs and match these needs with existing training programs or
institutions, both government and private, offering training in the
appropriate field. DILG was intended to be a "broker" or organizer of
local government training rather than a supplier of a limited number o4
in-house training courses.  The Municipal TraLining Program is discussed
more detail in Annex 3.
A Bank loan of US$40 million was made for loans to local governments through the
MDF for infrastructure investments, financing the DOF share of the RPTA program,
the Mutnicipal Training Program and technical assistance.
2.07           In each city or municipality,  infrastructure investments are
categorized into national and local components and are packaged into subprojects.
National components consist of investments to be funded and implemented by DPWH,
such as trunk roads and major drainage which are the responsibility of the
National Government.   Local components include investments to be funded and
implemented by the cities and municipalities themseilves, such as local roads and
public markets, which are the responsibility of the local governments. Bank loan
funds are provided to the cities and municipalities through the MDF to finance
up to 90% of local component costs on the Bank's terms and conditions with a
spread of between 3* and 4% to account for the foreign exchange risk which is
borne by the Government. The national components are funded entirely by DPWH
with national government budget funds. The subprojects are appraised by the CPO
and approved by the Project Steering Committee for financing. The Bank reviews
subproject appraisal reports prepared by the CPO prior to approving the use of



-7-
Bank loan funds.  The on-lending terms and conditions are discussed in more
detail in Chapter III.
2.08       After a sluggish start, implementation of MDP I picked up momentum
after the local government elections in early 1988. The slow start was due to
the dismissal of elected local officials and their replacement with national
government appointees after the People's Revolution in February 1986, one year
after project effectiveness.   Project implementation was delayed as the new
appointees replaced local staff and reviewed the decisions and commitments made
by their predecessors. Similarly, staff changes in DILG following the change in
government significantly delayed the start of the Municipal Training Program.
2.09     The local elections in 1988 stabilized the political situation in the
cities and municipalities. The newly elected mayors were eager to carry out
investment projects to promote development in their cities and municipalities and
appeared to be willing to implement fiscal reforms if they could produce tangible
improvements by 1992 when the next local elections are scheduled. As of end-
1988, only 12 cities and municipalities had MDF loans approved, MDF loan
commitments totalled US$14.5 million, and US$2.5 million of the Bank loan had
been disbursed.   As of December 31, 1991, 42 cities and municipalities are
included in the project, the US$27.9 million of the Bank loan funds allocated for
onlending to local governments is fully committed, and US$16.4 million (59%) has
been disbursed by the Bank for subloans.
2.10       The project has had a significant impact on the project cities and
municipalities.   In most cases,  the project financed the single  largest
investments undertaken by the cities or municipalities.
2.11      As of January 31, 1992, 12 of the 38 cities and municipalities with
subloan releases were in arrears on their payments of interest and principal on
the MDF subloans. Initially the MDF faced administrative problems resulting in
delays in sending cut notices to the cities and municipalities of their debt
service requirements. As a result, the cities and municipalities needed to pass
supplemental budgets to correct differences in debt service requirements before
actual payments were made.  The proposed restructuring of the DOF's Special
Project Management Service (para. 5.07) is expected to improve administration of
the MDF. The DOF has also started witholding part of the revenue sharing grant
to the local government concerned to recover the outstanding arrears.
2.12       The RPTA Program as originally planned by DOF was completed by end-
1990, but the program haa been extended until end-June 1991 in many local
governments to process additional properties that were identified through the tax
mapping. The RPTA program covered a total of 18 cities and 54 municipalities.
As a result of RPTA, the total number of real property tax units in the 72 local
governments increased by 45% from 1.1 million to 1.6 million, and total assessed
values increased by 58% from P 26.0 billion to P 41.2 billion. Much of this
growth comes from changes from rural to urban land uses which had gone
unrecorded: e.g., the transformation of an agricultural lot to a housing
subdivision would increase the number of properties and increase the value of the
land.



-8-
2.13     The Municipal Training Program suffered delays caused by staff changes
in DILG following the change in government in 1986 and the novelty of the
approach, especially the use of outside trainers. The situation has improved
with the establishment of the Local Government Academy (LGA) within DILG in 1988
which was given the responsibility of conducting the Municipal Training Program.
As of December 31, 1991, a total of 41 training courses were conducted involving
over 1,700 participants. However, several courses remain to be implemented in
1992.
2.14     MDP I was targeted at regional cities and municipalities outside Metro
Manila, but the approach developed under MDP I has been expanded to Metro Manila
and its fringe areas.   In December 1989, the Bank approved a loan of US$40
million for the Second Municipal DeveloRment Prolect (MDP II, Loan 3146-PH) for
infrastructure investments in cities and municipalities in Metro Manila and
surrounding provinces, expansion of the RPTA Program, and technical assistance.
A separate project office, DPWH's MMINUTE Project Management Office (PMO) for the
Metro Manila Infrastructure and Engineering Program, performs the role of the CPO
under MDP II. Since the two projects covor different geographical areas, there
is no conflict between the PMO and the CPO. Subloans to local governments are
on-lent through the MDF under identical procedures, and both the PMO and CPO
report to the same Project Steering Committee. As of December 31, 1991, a total
of 20 municipalities were included in the project with investments totalling
P 850 million (about US$32 million).
C. Lessons Learned to Date-and IMnlications for the Third Project
2.15       Experience under the Bank projects to date has shown that there is
sufficient interest in a lending facility for local governments and that this
provides an effective instrument for strengthening municipal management.
Although MDP I got off to a slow start, by February 1990, over 100 cities and
municipalities had expressed interest in borrowing through the MDF.   This
necessitated the preparation of the proposed Third Municipal Development Project
(MDP III).
2.16        The flexible, institutional approach adopted under the MDP I and
continted under MDP 1I is preferable to the project approach adopted under RCDP.
The top-down planning and selection of project cities by the national government
under the RCDP caused some of the cities to regard the project as an entitlement.
It became difficult to implement policy changes, such as increasing market
tariffs, especially when the mayors lacked political control over their local
councils. On the other hand, the bottom-up, self-selection process of MDP I and
II has introduced an element of competition among local governments for funds and
has allowed the CPO to include in the project only those local governments which
are willing and capable of making necessary policy changes and improvements.
This approach would be continued and institutions at the national level
strengthened under the proposed MDP III.
2.17     The Bank initially overestimated the local governments' financial and
technical capacity to undertake large, comprehensive investment programs. At the
time of apjrainal, both RCDP and MDP I anticipated financing multi-component,
medium-term investment programs in the four regional cities under RCDP and in
about 15 cities and municipalities under MDP I. However, the investment programs



-9-
proved to be too ambitious. Partly as a result, RCDP is three years behind
schedule and the investment programs in the five project cities and
municipalities originally appraised by the Bank for MDP I are yet to be fully
completed. The project eities and municipalities have been unable to g:;nerate
additional revenues for counterpart funiding as originally projected, especially
real property taxes, or manage a large number of contracts at one time.
2.18      As a result, the Bank is moving to finance smaller subprojects in a
larger number of local governments. The number of cities and municipalities
under MDP I increased threefold from the 15 anticipated at appraisal to 42. The
subprojects under both MDP I and II include a limited number of components. The
smaller subprojects facilitate implementation and reduce the financial burden on
the local governments. Those cities and municipalities that are able to complete
their subprojects in a timely manner and achieve their revenue targets would then
be eligible for additional financing through the MDF. The long-term investment
needs of these local governments can be met through a series of subprojects, with
the provision of additional funds dependent on actual performance.
2.19     While there is a willingness to borrow, local executives have taken a
conservative approach to loans, requesting financing primarily for markets, where
there are clear revenues to offset the debt service requirements. The local
authorities are reluctant to utilize borrowings for investments which do not
directly generate revenues, such as drainage and sanitation. As result, the
share of public markets under MDP I is expected to double to around 40% of total
subproject costs compared to the 20% estimated at project appraisal.   This
increase in markets need not be an undesirable outcome. The public markets are
generally the center of economic activity and a very important service performed
by the local government. While private supermarkets exist in the larger cities,
they cater primarily to the higher-income groups. The majority of the local
residents, especially the lower-income groups, shop for their daily needs in the
public municipal markets, many of which are in very poor condition, are congested
and unsanitary, and are in need of expansion, relocation and/or major
rehabilitation.
2.20      Experience under MDP I has shown that local officials are willing to
implement potentially unpopular measures, especially increasing market rents, to
improve fiscal performance if they can assure improvements in facilities and
services to residents. The project cities and municipalities, however, have not
been successful in m.aobilizing additional local resources, especially real
property taxes, as expected at appraisal of MDP I. In part, this is due to the
difficulty of administering the real property tax which requires the (largely
manual) processing of a large number of property records, many of which may be
out of date. There is also a reluctance of local officials to increase general
taxes without being able to show significant improvements in the provision of
municipal services.
2.21    MDP I has also demonstrated the importance of beneficiary participation
in the design of investments. The project cities and municipalities are required
to pass council resolutions approving increases in market rental charges after
public hearings and consultation with vendor's associations before construction
on the market is started. In a few cases, the market design was modified in
light of objections from the potential beneficiaries. As a result, the local



10 -
governments have been able to charge rents sufficient to cover the operations,
maintenance and debt service costs of the market.
1II. THE MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT FUND AND LENDING TO LOCAL GOVERNMENTS
3.01       The development of an institutional framework for increasing local
governments' access to credit and technical assistance is considered to be a
long-term process involving several phases, with the organizational structure
evolving with each phase as more experience is gained in lending to cities and
municipalities. The first phase of this process was carried out under MDP I
which established the institutional and financial arrangements for this lending.
Under the second phase, carried out under MDP II, the MDF was expanded to include
local governments in Metro Manila and its surrounding provinces, giving the
program nationwide coverage.   While set up as a revolving fund,  the MDF
functioned primarily as a mechanism for disbursing funds. However, with the
increased number of local governments now receiving loans from the fund and the
accumulation of payments of interest and principal, the existing policies and
procedures are proving inadequate to effectively manage the MDF as a fund.
Consequently, the third phase of this process, to be implemented under the
proposed MDP III, would consist of: (a) strengthening administrative procedures
for the MDF; and (b) revising the lending terms and conditions to shift MDF
lending conditions more toward the market rates prevailing in the Philippines.
The overall organization and structure developed under the ongoing MDP I and II
projects, with the separation of functions between the CPO and MDF, would be
maintained.   However,  the long-term institutional arrangements  for local
government loan financing would be examined through an institutional study
included under the technical assistance component of the proposed project (para.
4.16). The next phase of developing institutional arrangements for the fund is
expected to include a reorganization and consolidation of the project offices and
MDF, based on the recommendations of the study.
A. Organization and Structure
3.02     As formalized under Presidential Decree 1914, dated March 29, 1984, and
introduced under MDP I, the organizational structure of the Municipal Development
Fund comprises the following:
(a)  A Project Steering Committee consisting of Undersecretaries or Assistant
Secretaries of DPWH, DOF, DILG, DBM and NEDA and chaired by DPWH, which:
(i) formulates policy and sets overall priorities and directions for the
project; (ii) approves appraisals of subprojects; and (iii) co-ordinates
the various agencies involved in program planning, financing and
implementation.
(b)  The Ceptral Projeat Office (CPO) under DPWH which: (i) prequalifies cities
and municipalities for inclusion in the program; (ii) assists cities and
municipalities to develop subprojects; (iii) appraises subprojects
proposed by the cities and municipalities for approval by the Project
Steering Committee; (iv) monitors implementation and advises cities and
municipalities during subproject implementation, including coordination
with other national agencies providing support to the cities; (v) prepares



X 11 -
annual budgets and cash flow requirements, monitors the flow of funds, and
recommends fund releases to project cities and municipalities; and (vi)
evaluates the impact of programs.
(c)  The Municipal Develonment Fund (MDF), which is a loan account administered
by DOF to: (i) release subloan funds to project cities and municipalities;
and (ii) maintain subloan accounts.
3.03        This arrangement mirrored the institutional responsibilities and
strengths of the various agencies during preparation and appraisal of MDP I. The
MDF was established within DOF, since DOF had administrative responsibility over
local government finances. However, since DOF lacked the technical expertise to
assist cities a.3 municipalities in project planning or to evaluate investments
submitted by the local governments while DWPH had significant experience in
planning and implementing Bank-funded projects and had been active in helping to
prepare MDP I, a separate CPO was set up under DPWH to handle project
preparation, appraisal and supervision. The option of establishing a separate
institution was considered and rejected as being premature. It was considered
important to involve the national government agencies with' statutory control over
local governments; thus, the option of using an existing financial institution,
such as the Development Bank of the Philippines or the Land Bank of the
Philippines, was not adopted.
3.04     The MDF was originally envisaged to be a revolving fund to make loans
to and receive loan repayments from local governments for investment projects.
To enable the fund to grow and become self-sustaining, the National Government
took on the responsibility of paying the finance charges and principal on the
Bank loan. Payments of interest and principal by the local governments to the
MDF were to be relent to additional eligible local governments.L"
3.05     While originally conceived to be a revolving fund, the MDF functioned
primarily as a disbursement mechanism for both foreign and local funds under
donor-assisted projects during the 1980s.  The Government was interested in
monitoring the flow of donor-assisted funds to local government, and the scope
of the MDF was expanded to become the channel through which all donor-sourced
funding for local government related projects and programs would pass, including
grant funds and national government counterpart funding.   Consequently,  in
addition to acting as the on-lending facility for MDP I and II funds, the MDF
also on-lends for the Bank's RCDP and the Metro Cebu Development Project funded
by the Overseas Economic Development Fund of Japan. Grant funds from the United
States Agency for International Development (USAID) under its Local Resources
Mobilization Program were also channeled through the MDF.
3.06      With the growth in the number of subloans and loan fund releases, more
focus now needs to be given to the revolving fund aspects of the MDF. During the
4E    Presidential Decree 1914 states that: "The amortization (interest and
principal) made by the local governments to the MDF shall form part of and
accrue to the MDF and shall be made automatically available for relending
to finance other similar projects of the local governments."



- 12 -
project start-up period, the DOF's Bureau of Local Government Finance
concentrated on implementation of the RPTA program and the disbursement functions
of the MDF. Initially, the funds available for relending were very limited, and
detailed policies and procedures for utilizing payments of interest and principal
were not developed. However, accumulated payments of interest and principal to
the MDF have grown to around P 117 million or about US$4 million as of September
1990, and are projected to increase to about P 190 million by end-1991 and P 325
million by end-1992.   The flow of funds for MDF's lending operations are
presented in Annex 4.  The HDF has now evolved to the point where lending
policies and procedures need to be formally instituted not only to utilize the
accumulated payments of interest and principal but also to effectively manage the
MDF.
3.07     As the next step In developing the lending facility, a reorganization
of the MDF would be undertaken under the proposed MDP III to distinguish: (a) the
lending functions from the grant disbursement functions; and (b) the fund
management operations from the project implementation and monitoring operations.
First, there will be a realignment of the units handling foreign-assisted
projects within the DOF Bureau of Local Government Finance to provide a clearer
focus on on-lending operations. This is discussed in more detail in Chapter V
(paras. 5.06 and 5.07).
3.08     Second, a sepaeate account, the Local Loans Account (LLA), was created
within the NDF to cover all lending to local governments and distinguish MDF's
lending operations from its grant disbursement functions. A Policy Statement was
issued to guide the operations of the MDF/LLA.1L The HDF/LLA would continue to
be operated on a fully revolving basis, retaining all its capital and all
interest on its loans as established under Presidential Decree 1914 (para. 3.04).
The terms and conditions of MDF/LLA lending would be set to maintain the fund's
long-term viability and pursue real growth in MDF/LLA balance and loans. These
terms and conditions are discussed in Section C below. The amortization payments
by the local governments would be used to: (a) finance further investments in
infrastructure, facilities and equipment; (b) provide counterpart financing for
donor-assisted projects; (c) provide bridge financing until loan fund releases
are obtained; and (d) finance supporting activities such as training. The amount
of funds to be used for bridge financing and supporting activities would be
limited to 0.75% of the total outstanding loan balance and a separate Program
Support Account (PSA) was created to account for these activities. The NDF/LLA
Policy Statement is attached as Annex 5. The establishment of the LIA and the
PSA will be a condition of loan disbursement.
3.09        Third, a Municipal Development Fund Governing Board (MDFGB) was
established to oversee lending operations of the MDF. The MDFGB would be chaired
by the Undersecretary of DOF and would include representatives at the
Undersecretary level from DBM, DILG, DPWH, and NEDA.   The MDF/LLA Policy
Statement would apply to all lending through the NDF, irrespective of source.
The Project Steering Committees would continue to guide individual projects. In
1_    Municipal Development Fund Governing Board Resolution No. 01-92-MDF,
"Providing General Policies for the Lending and Program Support Operations
of the Municipal Development Fund" dated February 5, 1992.



- 13 -
the case of Bank-supported projects, the membership of the MDFGB would be the
same as that of the Project Steering Committee, so that coordination should not
be an issue.
3.10         Over the long term, the functions of the CPO and MDF and the
organization of local government lending would need to be re-examined.   To
provide the basis for taking the next step in institutional development, a study
is proposed under the technical assistance component of the proposed project
(para. 4.16) to examine the role of credit in local government development and
the institutional alternatives for improving local government's access to credit
based on the experience to date. Possible options could be to reorganize the CPO
and MDF into a separate local government lending institution, with the MDFPB
functioning as a managing board, or maintain the CPO as a technical assistance
agency and encourage financial institutions to provide loans to local
governments.
B. SubDroiect Selection
3.11       Project cities and municipalities are selected through a bottom-up
process which emphasizes self-selection, i.e., only those cities and
municipalities are included in the project which meet eligibility criteria, are
able to prepare investment proposals, and agree to take necessary fiscal
improvements.
3.12     Based on the experience to date, the system developed under MDP I would
be modified under the proposed MDP III. First, the eligibility criteria for
participating cities and municipalities would be tightened by setting a minimum
annual revenue of P 3 million (about US$125,000); this would eliminate most of
the Fifth and Sixth Class municipalities that would not have the financial
capacity to borrow loan funds.LZ Second, subproject identification, screening
and selection procedures would be simplified and a point scoring system
introduced. It was recognized that it would be difficult to conduct a meaningful
economic and financial evaluation of small projects. At the same time, there was
a need to develop a simplified system to rationalize and make transparent the
selection of components at the local level.
3.13      The subprojects would be prepared and evaluate4 as follows:
(a)  Prequalification.  Cities and municipalities would express their interest
in obtaining subloans to the CPO and submit their financial statements.
To be eligible, the city or municipality would to have to meet the
following criteria: (i) an urban population of at least 10,000 and a
population growth rate of at least 2.3% per annum, the 1980-,90 national
average; (ii) average annual revenue of at least P 3.0 million over the
/.Z   The  lower class municipalities  would continue  to rely on national
government revenue share allocations to meet their financial needs. The
Bank is developing a Rural Infrastructure Development Project to address
the infrastructure investment needs of the poorer areas in the
Philippines.



- 14 -
preceding three years; (iii) for project centers seeking a second or
subsequent loan, no arrears on outstanding debt obligations and
satisfactory performance under previous subprojects.   The CPO would
determine whether the city or municipality meets the project's eligibility
criteria as well as the level of lending, based on initial projections of
revenues and expenditures and a minimum debt service coverage of 1.2. If
found to be eligible, the CPO would notify the city or municipality (the
project center) of the level of lending they could anticipate receiving
from the MDF. The project center would need to confirm its commitment to
the project by passing a local council resolution endorsing the project
and establishing a local project office for project preparation.
(b) Prefeasibility. The CPO conducts a preliminary screening of the investment
proposals put forward by the project center and determines which ones
should be considered for further study and preliminary engineering based
on a point scoring system. Individual investments would be screened for
population served, project impact, infrastructure deficiency and local
support.   The poverty impact would be taken into consideration for
localized, community-based investments such as minor roads, minor
drainage, sanitation and water supply. Those investments which pass the
initial screening would then be ranked based on ease of implementation and
other considerations.
(c)  Pregaration.  Preliminary engineering and financial and economic studies
are carried out on those investment selected for inclusion in the
subproject. Physical surveys and preliminary engineering and design will
be undertaken by city/municipality staff for local components and by DPWH
staff for national components. During the design phase, several technical
options would be identified and the least-cost approach selected.
Environmental impact would be taken into consideration in determining the
engineering design.   Financial evaluation would be carried out for
municipal piers, markets, slaughterhouses, bus terminals and other
municipal enterprises. Full economic evaluation would be carried out for
individual investments estimated to cost over P 6 million (or about
US$250,000).LA Local consultants would be hired by the project center to
carry out subproject preparation where necessary.
(d)  Appraisal and Approval.  The CPO will conduct an appraisal of the project
center's investment program once engineering works and investigations have
been completed by the project center. For minor works below P 6 million,
the proposed designs and cost estimates would be reviewed to determine
whether they are technically and environmentally sound and are the least-
cost option.    For municipal  enterprises,  such  as public  markets,
slaughterhouses, bus terminals and municipal piers, financial evaluation
would be carried out to determine whether operation and maintenance costs
and debt service obligations could be fully covered through fees and
charges.   Larger investments over P 6 million 'sould need to have an
Li    This cutoff level was established under MDP II and would be maintained
under MDP III.



- 15 -
Economic Rate of Return of over 15%, the minimum return required by the
Government.    The overall program would be  evaluated on  the local
government's technical capacity to implement the project and its financial
capability to provide the necessary counterpart funds and service the debt
obligations. A minimum debt service coverage of 1.2 would be required for
the life of the subloan. The CPO's appraisal of the subproject would be
approved by the Project Steering Committee.
The subproject screening and evaluation process is described in more detail in
Annex 6. The environmental aspects of the project and the approach used for
environmental analysis are described in Annex 7.
3.14     Project cities and municipalities are generally required to undertake
management improvements to qualify for subloans,  e.g.,  they must improve
collection of real property and business taxes or revise market tariff rates.
Local staff would receive training through the Municipal Training Program under
DILG in project planning and project development, municipal finance and revenue
administration, municipal enterprise management, engineering and contract
management, and infrastructure maintenance and equipment management.
C. Lending Terms and Conditions
3.15       Under MDP I and II, MDF subloans finance up to 90% of the local
component costs, with the project city or municipality providing the remainder
(at least 10%) from their own funds.   The MDF subloans were for 20 years
including five years of grace at a variable interest rate. The foreign exchange
risk is borne by the Government. At the start of the MDF, the interest rate was
set at 14% per annum based on the Bank's interest rate (10.08% for the first
semester of 1984) with a margin (about 3% to 4%) to reflect the commitment fee
and foreign exchange risk./2 In 1987, the MDF interest rate was reduced to the
current level of 11% per annum to reflect the drop in the Bank's lending rate.
The interest rate is reviewed annually with the Bank. Repayments to the MDF are
made in equal payments of interest and principal.
3.16     Under the proposed MDP III, the on-lending terms and conditions of the
MDF subloans would be revised in line with the development of the MDF into a
revolving fund. Under the MDF/LLA Policy Statement (para. 3.08), the MDF/LLA
lending terms would be adjusted in line with the overall management objectives.
The following changes would be made:
(a) The repayment and grace periods would be adjusted in line with the
economic life of investments, with a maximum grace period of 3 years and
maturity of 15 years.                                         v
(b) The interest rate would be linked to market rates, and the gap between the
MDF/LLA interest rates and the market rates would be narrowed over time.
i2   The interest rate is based on the Bank lending rate.  For administrative
ease, the Government has rounded the MDF rate to the nearest percent.



- 16 -
(c) The interest rate would be set annually in January and would be fixed for
that year.
(d)  The interest rate for a subloan would be that prevailing at the time of
subloan signing and would be fixed for the duration of the subloan.
(e) Interest would be calculated annually and billed and collected semesterly.
The move to annual interest rates ((c) above), fixed interest rate ((d) above)
and semi-annual billings ((e) above) reflects the need to provide local
governments with predictability in their debt service requirements so that the
necessary appropriations could be made in their annual budgets. These terms and
conditions would apply to all new loans made by the MDF irrespective of their
source of funds.
3.17     The weighted average interest rate on time deposits of 61-90 days with
a sprea& of 2* would be taken as the reference market rate. Due to the lack of
comparators for long-term municipal lending in the Philippines, the on-lending
rate of all Bank loan funds to government financial institutions with fixed
interest rates and maturities of over eight years was adopted as a proxy for the
market rate. As of end December 1991, the 60-91 day time deposit rate was 16.3%
so that the reference market rate would be 18.3%.
3.18     The move toward market interest rates reflects the long-term objective
of moving local governments toward tapping private as well as government sources
for borrowings. However, since most provinces, cities and municipalities lack
the financial capability to sustain high levels of debt, the move toward market
rates would have to be gradual. The initial MDF interest rate for 1992 would be
set at 14%, the original MDF lending rate (para. 3.15). This rate was determined
taking into consideration the anticipated inflation rates (to be positive in real
terms) and the potential cost of funds, foreign exchange risk, and loan
administration costs.   The proposed rate would still be below the market
reference rate of about 18%. The MDF interest rate would be increased by 1.5%
each year starting in 1993 (e.g., in 1993 the rate would be set at 15.5%) until
the rate is equivalent to the market reference rate. These arrangements are
reflected in the MDF/L1A Policy Statement.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. PXroject Origin and Formulation
4.01     Demand for MDF investment funds from cities and municipalities in the
Philippines is vwery strong. As of February 1990, over 100 additional cities and
municipalities had expressed interest in obtaining loans above what could be
accommodated under MDP I; as of June 30, 1991, this number had increased to over
300 cities and municipalities, of which about 80 have been evaluated as
creditworthy for loans through the MDF.  In light of this demand, the CPO
initiated preparation of a possible follow-up project in early 1990.



- 17 -
B. Prgject Rationale
4.02      The proposed project forms an integral part of the Bank's municipal
development strategy and would build on the institutional framework developed and
strengthened under the first and second projects. Continued Bank involvement at
this time would be important to sustain investment momentum and continue capacity
building both at the national and local government levels. The project is also
very timely and would assist the national government to develop and carry out its
program of decentralization.
C. Project Objectives
4.03       The proposed project would aim at assisting Philippine cities and
municipalities to expand and upgrade their infrastructure, services and
facilities by: (a) strengthening the National Government's institutional
framework for assisting local governments; (b) strengthening the local
governments' investment planning, financing and implementation capacity; (c)
strengthening the local governments' maintenance capacity; and (d) improving
local fiscal performance. The project would support further evolution of the
system established under MDP I to promote local government development and
improve local government access to credit financing.
D. Project DescriRtion
4.04      The proposed project is a continuation and expansion of the approach
developed under MDP I and MDP II and would consist of:
(a)  Subgrojects  (about  US$85.4  million)  including  construction  and/or
rehabilitation of basic infrastructure and facilities, procurement of
equipment, and hiring of consultants;
(b) Maintenance Program (about US$9.8 million) to improve maintenance planning
and implementation in selected pilot cities and municipalities;
(c)  Real Property Tax Administration (about US$14.0 million) to prepare tax
maps, improve real property tax records management, increase real property
tax collection, and computerize the management of real property
information;
(d) Municigal Training Program (about US$3.1 million) to train local officials
in, among others, municipal planning, fiscal management, contract
management and environmental assessment; and
(e)  Technical  hsssistance  (about  US$1.3  million)  for  (i)  a  study  of
institutional options for further lending to local governments; and (ii)
an environmental sanitation and solid waste study.
Suburoeigal
4.05     The investment needs of the project cities and municipalities would be
packaged into subprojects for each local government.   Subprojects would be
divided into Local Components funded, implemented and maintained by the cities



- 18 -
and municipalities, and National Components funded, implemented and maintained
by DPWH. The National Components can account for up to 30% of the subproject.
The local governments would obtain subloans through the NDF to finance up to 90%
of Local Component costs.
4.06           The  subprojects  are  expected  to  include  the  construction,
rehabilitation and/or purchase of the following:
(a)  National Components
1infraitXuctue: major shore protection, flood control measures, primary
drainage systems, and major roads and bridges.
(b) Local Components
InfrastrMcture: secondary and tertiary drainage systems, sanitation
facilities, sanitary landfills, municipal water systems (rehabilitation
only),   local  roads,  traffic  management  measures,   and  municipal
piers/wharves;
Facilities: public markets, slaughterhouses, bus terminals, motorpools,
health centers and school buildings;
Eaupmngnt: maintenance equipment, solid waste collection and disposal
equipment, and computers; and
Consul-ancy Services: consultancies for detailed engineering and
construction supervision.
The selection of subprojects would follow the procedures outlined in Chapter III,
Section B, and in Annex 6. In cases where operation expenses are being provided
by national government agencies, construction of new facilities would be
undertaken only if the national agency concerned confirms that the facilities are
within their overall program and operational costs would be provided, e.g., the
Department of Health for health centers and the Department of Education, Culture
and Sports for school buildings.   Sanitary landfills would be included in
subprojects after completion of the environmental study proposed under the
project's technical assistance component (para. 4.16). The composition of each
subproject would differ among project cities and municipalities.   Based on
experiencePgained from the first project (para. 2.17), a significant part of the
demand for financing is expected to be for public markets.
4.07        Details of each subproject, on-lending terms and conditions and
implementation arrangements would be included in two separate on-lending
agreements between the National Government and the local government: (a) a
Subproject Agreement between DPWH and the local government; and (b) a Subloan
Agreement between DOF and the local government. Special conditions for fund
releases to the cities and municipalities under the project would include, among
other things, passing of a local council resolution approving tariff increases
that would be necessary to assure the financial viability of a market, if one is
included in the subproject.



- 19 *
4.08     Local governments would be included In the project and become eligible
for Bank loan financing subject to Bank review and approval of: (a) the CPO's
appraisal of the investment program; and (b) the Subproject and Subloan
Agreements.   These arrangements were confirmed with the Government during
negotiations.
MLantenance Progr
4.09      Lack of adequate infrastructure maintenance has been identified as a
critical problem in most local government areas. Many local governments do not
appreciate the potential benefits such as improved quality of services and
prolonged life of facilities that can be derived from good maintenance practices.
Furthermore, in most areas, the technical capacity to undertake maintenance is
limited. The lack of updated inventory of infrastructure, maps and other basic
information hinders proper maintenance planning. Consequently, maintenance is
generally regarded as a low priority, is not carried out properly, and is not
provided with adequate budgets, skilled manpower, or sufficient materials and
equipment.
4.10     To address this problem, the project includes a maintenance component,
costing about US$10 million, to be carried out in about 10 project centers on a
pilot basis. The concept is to provide local governments with financial and
technical support for a limited period to create a maintenance ethic and develop
the necessary skills. Participating local governments would be selected from
those that are willing to commit the necessary resources to improving their
maintenance performance and hav- satisfactorily implemented projects under MDP
I. The CPO would provide the local staff with technical assistance and guidance
in conducting an inventory of existing infrastructure and developing a four-year
maintenance plan. Annual requirements for manpower, equipment, supplies and
materials would be developed and agreed with the local government. Labor costs
are estimated to account for about half the program costs. Detailed guidelines
for the preparation and implementation of the maintenance program have been
prepared and would be tested, developed, and refined initially in two pilot
centers.
4.11      Local governments carrying out the maintenance program would receive
financial support in the form of grants from the National Government through
DPWH. During the first year, the grant assistance would amount to 70% of the
annual maintenance program; this would be matched by a 30% counterpart
contribution from the local government's own resources. Over the following two
years, the grant funds would be reduced to 50% and 30% of the annual maintenance
program. The local government's counterpart contribution would correspondingly
increase to 50% and 70%.  In the fourth and subsequent years, the national
government grant funds would be eliminated, and the local government would assume
full responsibility for the annual maintenance costs.
ERal Property Tax Administration (RPTA)
4.12     The proposed project would support expansion of DOF's RPTA program in
Regions IV, VII, IX and XII. Following up on the success of the RPTA program
funded through USAID and the Bank, DOF has developed a program to implement the
RPTA and improve real property tax management in the remaining local governments



- 20 e
in the Philippines. The project would finance part of this nationwide program.
The RPTA component would continue the program carried out under MDP I and would
fund additional contractual staff, equipment and supplies necessary to: (a)
conduct field surveys to prepare up-to-date tax maps; (b) update assessments to
adjust for improvements and changes in land use identified through the surveys;
(c) update and streamline tax records; and (d) follow up on collection
performance. A detailed Project Implementation Plan, including a schedule of
completion of each phase, required inputs (contractual staff, equipment,
supplies, office space, etc.) and estimated costs, would be prepared for each
participating local government.   The project would also include consultant
assistance to 'DOF to implement the expanded RPTA program, with special emphasis
given to improving maintenance of the prepared maps and updated records.
4.13      Computerization would facilitate management of the real property tax
data, production of tax bills and monitoring of delinquent taxpayers.
Technological improvements have made computers affordable. However, the critical
constraint is the lack of appropriate software. At present, Cebu City operates
a computerized real property tax system on a minicomputer, and systems for
microcomputers have been developed for local governments in Metro Manila and the
Province of Antique. No microcomputer-based system has been field tested and
operationalized on a large scale to date. P 10 million has been allocated to
computerize real property tax records management on a pilot basis.   During
negotiations, agreement was reached that DOF would prepare an assessment of the
microcomputer-based systems currently being introduced and an action plan for
carrying out the computerization component of the RPTA by December 31, 1992.
Implementation of the computerization component would be based on the agreed
action plan.
4.14      DOF would provide a grant to the local governments to finance part of
the cost of additional contractual staff, equipment and supplies required to
implement the RPTA. The Bank project would fund the National Government's share
of the program, ..e., the national grant to the local government. Cost sharing
between the local government and DOF would differ depending on the classification
of the local government concerned, with the richer local governments receiving
national grants to cover 60% of costs (the remaining 40% provided by the
participating local government), intermediate local governments receiving a 65%
grant, and the poorer local governments receiving an 80% grant. A Memorandum of
Agreement would be signed between DOF and the local government detailing the work
program, resource requirements and financing arrangements based on the Project
Implementation Plan.
The Municipal Trainiua  rogram
4.15     The project would include additional training to be conducted through
the Local Government Academy (LOA).   Training courses of one- to two-weeks
duration would be provided in the following areas: (a) orientation for the Bank's
municipal development projects; (b) project development and project preparation;
(c) municipal finance and revenue administration; (d) detailed engineering; (e)
contract management; (f) construction supervision; (g) municipal enterprise
management; (h) infrastructure maintenance; (i) equipment maintenance and
management; (j) project evaluation; and (k) environmental assessment. Training
would be conducted by contract trainers, some of whom may be from government



- 21 -
agencies,  e.g.,  DPWH  for  detailed  engineering,   contract  management,
infrastructure maintenance and equipment management. Outlines of the training
courses are provided in Annex 3. The courses would be targeted to cities and
municipalities participating in the project. The effectiveness of the formal
training would be enhanced by technical assistance provided by the CPO staff to
project cities and municipalities; CPO staff would assist the local staff to use
the knowledge they gain through contract management training when they actually
award and supervise civil works contracts under the project. An estimated total
of about 156 courses would be carried out under the project, with training
provided to some 9,000 local government staff. The project also includes
consultant assistance to the LGA for project implementation.
Technical Assistance
4.16      The project would also include the following studies:
(a)  MuniciRal lending Institutional Review:  Although credit is commonly used
along with locally generated revenues and grants to finance local
government expenditures in most developed countries, credit has not been
widely used in the Philippines to finance local capital expenditures. To
improve local government access to loan financing, the MDF was established
in 1984 as a revolving fund. An increasing number of local governments
have obtained MDF financing and additional local governments are
interested in obtaining these loans. There is a need, however, to take
stock of experience to date, review the role of credit (relative to
grants), debt-related financial instruments that would be appropriate for
local governments in the Philippines, and institutional arrangements for
providing local governments with access to credit over the long term. The
proposed study would address these points, identify alternative
institutional   arrangements,   and   develop   an   action   plan   for
institutionalizing the best option.
(b)  Urban Environment and Solid Waste Management Study:  The increased urban
population places a major strain on the urban environment. In most urban
centers in the Philippines, the provision of infrastructure and basic
facilities has lagged behind population growth, resulting in stagnant
water, flooding, uncollected garbage, open dumping of solid wastes, and
other health and sanitation problems. Environmentally sound solid waste
management tehniques, such as sanitary landfills, are relatively new in
the Philippines and are not yet widely understood or accepted.   The
proposed study would review existing solid waste operations, identify
possible investments, and recommend measures to strengthen solid waste
management at the local government level in up to four regional cities.
The study would also review the legal framework governing solid waste
operations and recommend measures for strengthening policy guidance,
supervision, technical assistance to local governments, and training of
local officials at the national level. Based on the results of the study,
a separate Urban Environment and Solid Waste Management Project could be
developed tc focus on environmental concerns at the local level.  The
decision whether to include landfills and their design criteria would be
made after the completion of the study.



- 22 -
Draft outline Terms of Reference for the proposed consultancies are provided in
Annex 8 (a) and (b).
E. Project Costs and Financing Plan
projecA_ot Q2
4.17      The total project cost is estimated at about P 3.9 billion (US$113.7
million equivalent), including taxes and duties of about P 605 million (US$17.4
million equivalent) or about 15% of the total project cost and a foreign exchange
requirement of about P 1.7 billion (US$49.4 million equivalent) or 43% of total
costs. Project costs are summarized in Table 4.1. The total project cost and
Table 4.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS La
Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total Foreign
-- million peso --    --- US$ million --- as % of
Total
Subprojects
National Components    295    272    567       10.9   10.1   21.0    48%
Local Components        738    580  1,318      27.3   21.5   48.8    44%
Maintenance Program      123     97    220       4.6    3.6    8.1    44%
Real Property Tax
Administration          194    129    323       7.2    4.8   12.0    40%
Municipal Training        39      26     64      1.4    1.0    2.4    40%
Consultant Assistance for
Project Implementation
DPWH                     83     36    119       3.1    1.3    4.4    30%
DOF                      16       -     16      0.6      -     0.6     0%
DILG                     13       -     13      0.5      -     0.5     0%
Technical Assistance
Institutional Study       4     13      17      0.2    0.4    0.6    75%
Environmental Study      10     12      21      0.3    0.4    0.7    55%
Base Cost           1,515  1,164  2,679      56.0   43.0   99.1    43%
(in June 1991 prices)                -           -       -      -
Price Contingencies      687    527  1,214       8.3    6.3   14.6    43%
Total Project Costs   2,202  1,691  3,893       64.3   49.4  113.7    43%
-- .                       -             -.0.. .
L_ May not add up due to rounding.



- 23 -
breakdown of subprojects by type are indicative since the Bank is taking a
programmatic approach under the proposed project.   The overall scale of
investments at the local level was determined by the estimated borrowing capaoity
of the 78 local governments whiich have expressed interest in obtaining MDF loans
and have met the priject's eligibility criteria.  The RPTA costs were estimated
at P 110 per real property tax unit, based on the actual costs of programs
carried out to date. Municipal training program costs were estimated at P 1,200
per training participant per day, based on the average cost of the training
provided to date.   The base costs are expressed in June 30, 1991 prices.
Estimates for training and consultancies exclude taxes. Price contingencies are
based on increases of 12% in 1992 and 10% per annum thereafter for domestic
prices and 3.9% per annum for international prices.
£inacisnn Plan
4.18      The proposed Bank loan of US$68.0 million equivalent (P 2.3 billion)
would finance 72% of the total project cost net of taxes or 100% of foreign costs
and about 29% of local costs. The Bank loan would be allocated as follows:
(a)  US$34.4 million equivalent (P 1.2 billion) of the loan would be on-lent
through the MDF to the cities and municipalities at the MDF's prevailing
terms and conditions;
(b)  US$19.2 million equivalent (P 657 million) would be passed on as budgetary
appropriations to DPWH for the subprojects' National Components, the
maintenance program, and consultancies for project implementation;
(C)  US$10.0 million equivalent (P 323 million) would be passed on as budgetary
allocations to DOF for RPTA and consultancies for project implementation;
(d)  US$2.7 million equivalent (P 90 million) would be passed on as budgetary
allocations to LGA for the municipal training program and US$0.4 million
equivalent (P 13 million) for consultancies for project implementation;
and
(e)  US$1.3 million equivalent (P 39 million) would be utilized for technical
assistance studies.
The Government is seeking grants or alternative financing for the municipal
training program (US$2.7 million equivalent) and technical assistance (US$1.3
million equivalent). If grant funding is secured, the Bank loan funds would be
reallocated to MDF subprojects.
4.19     Counterpart funding would be provided as follows: (a) local governments
for the subprojects, maintenance program and RPTA, P 565 million; (b) DPWH for
subprojects, P 424 million; and (c) the MDF from accumulated payments of interest
and principal, P 594 million. The financing plan is summarized in Table 4.2.
In addition, DPWH would provide about P 70 million for the administrative costs
of the CPO, DOF and P 50 million for the SPMS, and DILG about P 20 million for
the LGA. These arrangements were confirmed during negotiations.



24 -
TAblg 4.2: FINANCING PLAN BY AGENCY .L
(in P millions)
Local                    Bank    Loan
Total    Govt.    DPWH     MDF    Loan   Share
Subprojects
National Components      848       -       424      -      424     50%
Local Components       1,980     198        -      594   1,188     60%
Maintenance Program       350      236       -       -      114     33%
RPTA                      438      132       -       -      307     70%
Municipal Training  b      90       -        -       -       90    100%
Project Implementation
Consultancies
DPWH                     119       -        -       -      119    100%
DOF                       16       -        -       -       16    100%
DILG                      13           -            -       13    100%
Technical Assistance a
Institutional Study       17       -        -       -       17    100%
Environmental Study       21       -        -       -       21    100%
Total           3,893      565      424      594   2,309     59%
(100%)    (15%)    (11%)   (15%)   (59%)
a  May not add up due to rounding.
Lk The Government is seeking alternative grant financing.
V. PROJECT ORGANIZATION. IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. PZrogect OrgaiZatiOn and ImR1ementing Arrangements
5.01        Implementatior. arrangements for the proposed project are based on
those developed under MDP I and MDP II which are described in Chapter III. The
project would expand on the institutional development activities of the previous
projects by strengthening fund management of the MDF.   For this, the key
implementing agencies at the national level would be strengthened in line with
the anticipated expansion in their work programs. In addition, the institutional
study included under the project's technical assistance component would review
options to consolidate the existing institutions into a well structured system
for providing local governments with access to credit financing.



- 25 -
LL_ Zrgjec-  t2nCmtte  (PSC)
5,02     The PSC would continue to be the main governing body and would provide
overall policy guidance and coordination among the agencies involved in the
project. The same PSC would serve for all the Municipal Development Projects.
The PSC would be supported by a separate Technical Subcommittee, consisting of
Assistant SecrOtaries and Bureau Directors (or equivalent) of the agencies in the
PSC with DPWH as chairman, and would carry out routine coordination between the
various agencies and review subproject appraiaals and on-lending agreements,
annual budgets, etc., prior to their submission to the PSC.LU
$he gentra ],riect Office (_PO)
5.03      The GPO plays a critical role in managing the proposed project.  The
functions of the CPO would include:
(a)  j.tAlU8j_J: recommend to the PSC which cities and municipalities are
eligible for funding and assistance from the MDF; and appraise subprojects
proposed by the local governments for PSC approval;
(b)  tecnic4a   assistance:  assist project  cities  and  municipalities  in
subproject preparation, implementation and monitoring of local components;
and coordinate training with the LGA; and
(c) imtlementation. monitoring and evaluation: review construction works;
monitor compliance with on-lending agreements; review requests for release
of funds from project cities and municipalities and DPWH Regional/District
Offices and recommend release of Bank loan funds from the MDF; prepare
annual budgets and cash flow requirements; maintain a consolidated project
account; monitor local government finances (in collaboration with DOF);
and evaluate impact of subprojects.
5.04      The CPO comprises a Project Director and staff from DPWH assisted by
consultants and is organized into four divisions: (a) Planning and Project
Development; (b) Financial Management and Budget Development; (c) Organizational
Research and Training; and (d) Administration. Adequate staffing of the GPO
would be essential for the success of the project. At present, the CPO handles
42 project centers and subprojects worth P 1.2 billion under MDP 1 with 57
professional, technical and administrative staff and supported by local
consultants who provide an additional 26 professional, technical and support
staff. The CPO's work is made difficult by the fact that the project centers are
distributed throughout the Philippines.
LQ    The Technical Subcommittee for MDP I would continue to serve as the
committee for MDP III.   A separate Technical Subcommittee has been
established for MDP II which includes agencies for Metro Manila, such as
the Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System.



- 26 -
5.05      The CPO's staffing and organization would need to be strengthened in
line with the increase in the volume of work. Under MDP III, the number of
project centers is expected to double to about 80. The increase in workload can
be accommodated by simplified procedures and documentation (para. 3.12) and by
efficiency improvements as the CPO staff gain experience. However, additional
staff would be necessary. It is estimated that to implement the project the CPO
would need to increase its staff by 34 professional, technical and administrative
staff from 57 at present to 91 by end-1993. On the other hand, local consultants
would be reduced to 8 professional and 10 support personnel so that total staff
of the CPO would increase from the present 83 to 109. The additional staff would
be reassigned from existing project offices, such as the Regional Cities Project
Development Office which is expected to be phased out with the closing of the
Regional Cities Development Project in 1992. The CPO would also be reorganized
into five divisions: (a) Technical Planning and Project Evaluation; (b)
Monitoring, Quality Assurance and Impact Evaluation; (c) Organization and
Coordination;  (d)  Programming,  Budgeting  and  Loan  Disbursement;  and  (e)
Administration.   It was agreed during negotiations that the CPO would be
adequately staffed and funded.
Spegial Projlet Management Service (SPMS)
5.06     Administration of the subloan releases, billing and collections and the
RPTA program is being handled by the SPMS in DOF's Bureau of Local Government
Finance. The SPMS also handles disbursements through the MDF for other donor-
assisted projects and implements the RPTA program under USAID grant assistance.
The SPMS is organized along functional lines into four Divisions: (a) Plans and
Programs Development Division, dealing with planning and budgeting; (b) Project
Execution and Management Division for RPTA training and technical assistance; (c)
Project Monitoring and Evaluation Division; and (d) Central Fund Management
Division in charge of financial administration of the MDF. Overlaid on this
structure are teams charged with management, monitoring and reporting for RPTA
components under MDP I, USAID and MDP II projects,  respectively.   These
arrangements have developed incrementally as the MDF was used for an increasing
number of donor-assisted programs.
5.07     The separation of the lending functions of the MDF (para. 3.07) and the
increase in the RPTA program require a restructuring of the SPMS and the creation
of specialized units. The SPMS would be reorganized along functional lines as
follows:
(a) Local Loans Management Unit: to handle all lending operations of the MDF;
(b) Program Support Account Unit: to handle release of funds for National
Components of subprojects together with any direct specific grants or
concessional loans made to local governments aside from the RPTA program;
(c) RPTA Unit: to handle all RPTA activities; and
(d) Planning and Administration Unit: to handle overall coordination and
general administration functions.



- 27 -
This arrangement has the advantage that it would: (a) enable staff to specialize
in particular areas of activity; (b) permit senior personnel to concentrate more
attention on strategic and policy-orientated issues; (c) facilitate the
development and implementation of coherent policies and procedures for MDF
lending operations; (d) facilitate the computerization of routine financial
accountirng and reporting duties; and (e) be potentially more efficient in the use
of accounting and clerical staff. This would not entail a major reorganization
of the SPMS, but rather would be a streamlining of assignments within the current
divisions, with more emphasis placed on fund management. The SPMS would be
supplemented by around 100 additional staff and local consultants who would
assist SPMS in administration of the subloans and RPTA program and in improvement
of present operational procedures.   Some of the additional staff would be
assigned to the regional offices of DOF. During negotiations it was agreed that
the SPMS would be reorganized by December 31, 1992 and adequately staffed.
The Local Qgovernment Acaemy fLGA).
5.08     The LGA was established in 1988 to be responsible for local government
training. A Board of Trustees appointed by the President, with the Secretary of
DILG as chairman,  is responsible for overseeing LGA's operations.   DILG's
training activities and its existing training facilities at Los Banos were turned
over to the LGA at its creation. LGA set up a special unit, supported by local
consultants, to handle the Municipal Training Program under MDP I. The LGA has
a total staff of 45 and is divided into three divisions: (a) Education and
Training; (b) Research and Program Development; and (c) Administration. LGA's
primary focus is to act as a broker of training for local governments and will
be adding a Contract Management Division and a Management Information Division
in 1992 to strengthen its capacity to organize and contract training. LGA will
continue to be supported by local consultants in the implementation of the
Municipal Training Program under the proposed project. During negotiations it
was agreed with the Government that the WGA would be adequately staffed and
funded.
Project Cities and MuniciRalities
5.09      Subnrojects.  Each project city and municipality would implement the
subproject through its respective departments. A Local Project Officer, either
the Planning Officer or Engineer, would be designated as the local program
coordinator.    The  Planning  Office  would  be  responsible  for  project
identification, prioritization and feasibility studies.   The Municipal/City
Engineer's Office would implement the Local Components and carry out: (a) survey,
design and cost estimate preparation based on established standards required
under the program; (b) preparation of tender documents and conduct of bidding;
(c) construction supervision; and (d) monitoring and maintenance of completed
projects. The Treasurer's Office would maintain subproject accounts, adminiister
the subloan and prepare the necessary documents to seek releases from the MDF.
The City Auditor would audit the subproject accounts annually.   The local
departments, especially the Planning and Engineer's Office, would be assisted as
necessary by consultants.
5.10     2PT&.  Implementation of the RPTA Program at the local level would be
carried %,t by staff from the Assessor's and Treasury's Offices. For smaller



- 28 -
municipalities with limited staff, assistance would be provided by the Provincial
Assessor's and Treasurer's Offices. Each local goverrnent would enter into a
service contract with DOF specifying the additional staff, equipment and supplies
required by the local government to carry out the tax mapping, records
administration and collection activities. The amount of the DOF grant would be
based on this contract.
DPWH Regional and District Engineering Offices
5.11     The DPWH Regional Engineer's Offices would prepare detailed design and
engineering, conduct bidding and award of contracts, and supervise construction
of National Components as part of their regular operations.   The Regional
Director can delegate some of the work to DPWH's District Offices.
B. Implementation Schedule
5.12       Based on past experience, a seven-year project implementation period
is expected, extending from the fourth quarter of 1992 to 1998 and concluding by
December 31, 1998. The implementation schedule is presented in Annex 9. The
Government, however, intends to implement project over five years. The plan for
Bank supervision of the project and the monitoring indices to be used are
presented in Annex 10.
C. Procurement and Disbursement
Procuremaent Method
5.13      Civil Works.  The estimated value of civil works under the project is
about US$77.1 million equivalent. Procurement arrangements for the project are
summarized in Table 5.1 below. Most of the contracts would involve minor civil
works, estimated to cost below US$750,000, would be scattered in cities and
municipalities in various parts of the Philippines, and are not expected to
attract foreign bidders. Therefore, the civil works contracts would be awarded
in accordance with Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures satisfactory to the
Bank.
5.14     Goods. The project would include purchases of equipment by the project
cities and municipalities costing a total of about US$4.2 million equivalent.
Equipment needs would be based on the individual requirements of the specific
cities and municipalities, but are generally limited to a few vehicles or pieces
of heavy machinery.   Based on experience to date under MDP I, it would be
difficult to coordinate t4ese equipment purchases given the diverse location and
differences in specifications and timing. Therefore, the equipment would be
procured by each project city and municipality based on LCB procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
5.15     Maintenance.  About US$5.9 equivalent or 60% of the pilot maintenance
program would be contracted out, and about US$2.0 million equivalent of works
would be executed by local government staff through force account, using about
US$1.9 million equivalent of materials which would be procured by prudent local
shoppLng. The maintenance contracts would be based on unit costs of various



C,
* 29 -
Table 5.1: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS La
(in US$ millions)
Procurgxement Mthod                    Total
Project Elements                        ICB       LCB       Other        NBF       Cost
1. Subprojects
11.1 Works                            -       77.1          -         -        77,1
(43.9)                          (43.9)
1.2 Goods                             -        4.2          -                   4.2
(2.5)                           (2.5)
1.3 Consultant Services               -          -         0.6 /b    *          0.6
(0.3)                (0.3)
2. Maintenance
2.1 Works                             -         5.9        2.0 4p-   -          7.9
(2.0)      (0.6)                (2.6)
2.2 Materials                         -          -         1.9 Ld    -          1.9
(0.6)                (0.6)
3. RPTA Services                         -           -       13.5 Lg    -          13.5
(9.5)                (9.5)
4. Consultant Services
4.1 Project Implementation            -          -         4.4 ,&     -         4.4
(4.4)                (4.4)
4.2 Municipal Training                -          -          2.7 L       -         2.7
(2.7)                (2.7)
4.3 Studies                           -          -          1.3 i       -         1.3
(1.3)                (1.3)
TOTALS                        -        87.2       26.4          -     113.7
( - )    (48.4)    (19.6)         ( - )  (68.0)
Lt     ALl amounts nclude contingencies. Numbers In brackets are the respective amounts financed by the
Bank. NIF a Not Bank Financed.
Lb     Services to be procured In accordarce wfth World Bank Gufdelines for the Use of Consultants, August
1981.
/c.    Force account.
jd     Required for force account.
L      A=Itional personnel required for the RPTA would be h1red by the local governments as contractual staff
for the duration of the RPTA program using their own procedures for hiring such labor.



- 30
items of works, adjusted annually for cost escalation, with estimated quantities
of each item giving an estimated total value of work to be undertaken. Payments
would be made on the basis of actual amounts of work completed. The contracts
would be bid in accordance with LCB procedures and bidding documents acceptable
to the Bank.
5.16     REBTA.gkryggs.  The additional personnel required for the RPTA would
be hired by the local governments as contractual staff for the duration of the
RPTA program using their own procedures for hiring such labor.
5.17    Consultant Seryvcs.  Consultants' services for subproject preparation,
construction supervision, project implementation and technical assistance,
totalling about US$9.0 million equivalent, would be procured in accordance with
the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
ImRlementing Agencies and Borrower' s Procedures
5.18      Procurement would be carried out by the following:
(a)  DPW  for National Component civil works included in the subprojects,
consultant services for the CPO, and consultant services for the Urban
Environment and Solid Waste Management Study;
(b)  Cities and Municiialities for Local Component civil works, goods and
consultant services under subprojects, and service contracts under RPTA;
(c)  DO for consultancy services for project implementation and the Municipal
Lending Institutional Review Study; and
(d)  LQ& for consultancy services for the Municipal Training Program and
project implementation.
These arrangements are identical to those under MDP I, which are considered
satisfactory.     Local  governments  would  receive  training  in  contract
administration under the Municipal Training Program and would be supervised
closely by the CPO. Both the National Government and local governments under MDP
I have been following local procedures for procurement of civil works, goods and
services, with some modifications to conform to Bank guidelines.
5.19     The Bank has been conducting an extensive dialogue with the Government
on local procedures for procuring civil works, goods and consultant services.
Understandings have been reached with the Government on the modification of
selected local procedures in order to conform with the Bank's requirements.
These modifications are included in a supplemental letter of understanding and
were confirmed with the Government during negotiations.
Procurement Suoerviaion
5.20      Contract Review.  The project is estimated to include over 500 minor
civil works, goods and consultant contracts. Standard bid and contract documents
acceptable to the Bank would be utilized, and award of the first civil works,
goods, maintenance and consultant contracts would be subject to the Bank's prior



31 -
review. Subsequent contract documents would be subject to selective post-award
review. During the first year of implementation, approximately one in every 10
contracts would be subject to post-review. The frequency of review would be
adjusted in subsequent years based on the results of the first year. The CPO is
responsible for reviewing subproject bidding and contract awards made by the DPWH
regional offices and the cities and municipalities and would maintain the
necessary documentation for review by Bank missions. A detailed contract summary
would be Included in the quarterly progress reports.   This arrangement was
confirmed during negotiations.
5.21      Disbursement of the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan would be made
against the following categories of expenditures:
(a) 70% of MDF releases to project cities anc municipalities for subloans;
(b) 60% of DPWH expenditures for national components under subprojects;
(c)  100% of DPIJ  releases for the maintenance program;
(d) 100% of DOF disbursements to the project cities and municipalities for
RPTA; and
(e) 100% of the cost of consultancies to DPWH, DOF and LGA for project
implementation and studies.
Since the project would involve a large number of small contracts, disbursements
would be made against Statements of Expenditure with the exception of consultant
services which will be be disbursed against full documentation. The CPO would
maintain the necessary documentation on releases for MDF subloans and the BLGF
for RPTA releases, for review by the Bank.
5.22      Disbursements are projected to take place over a seven-year period,
based on the Bank's disbursement profile for urban projects in the Philippines.
Estimated disbursements are shown in Annex 11.   The Loan Closing Date is
June 30, 1999.
D. Accounts and Audits
5.23      Separate project accounts would be maintained by: (a) DPWH and each
project city and municipality for subprojects; (b) LGA for the Municipal Training
Program; (c) DOF for the RPTA; and (d) DPWH, LGA and DOF for technical
assistance. The CPO would: (a) maintain a consolidated project account of
subproject expenditures for monitoring and audit purposes; and (b) prepare an
annual financial statement in the form of a Sources and Application of Funds
Statement. DPWH, DOF,L WA and each project city and municipality would prepare
annual financial statements for the project accounts of their respective
agencies, which would be certified by their agency auditors. A consolidated
project annual statement would be prepared by the MDF for the project as a whole,
based on the audits of the individual project agencies. These arrangements are
the same as those for MDP I and have proven satisfactory.   Assurances were



- 32 -
obtained during negotiations that the Bank would be furnished audit reports
prepared by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank within nine months of the
close of each fiscal year.
E.  rogres            and Monitoring
5.24       The CPO would be responsible for preparing a consolidated progress
report every quarter. DOF/BLGF would prepare and forward to the CPO necessary
inputs on the RPTA component and LGA on the Municipal Training Program. These
arrangements were confirmed during negotiations.
VI. PROJECT JUSTIEICATION AND RISKS
A. Institutional Impact
6.01     The proposed project would further strengthen institutions both at the
national and local government levels to meet the increasing infrastructure and
municipal service needs of the Philippines' growing urban population. As such,
the project is in line with the Government's decentralization strategy to give
more resources and responsibilities to the provinces, cities and municipalities
and allow the local governments to play a larger role in the country's economic
development.
6.02         At the national level,  the project would further develop the
institutional frame.work established under MDP I by institutionalizing the lending
operations of the MDF. After setting up the Project Steering Committee, the CPO
and MDF, the initial emphasis under MDP I was on developing subprojects and
carrying out investments at the local level. With the increase in the number of
local governments receiving MDF loans, the emphasis under the proposed project
is to operationalize the MDF as a revolving fund and introduce procedures to move
the MDF toward a market-based approach.    The project also  includes  an
institutional study to review the current organizational arrangements.   The
recommendations of the study are expected to lead to a restructuring of the
existing organization, e.g., consolidation of the Project Steering Committee, the
CPO, the PMO under MDP II, and the MDF into a separate semi-autonomous government
agency.
6.03         At the local level, the proposed project would help the local
governments to develop the capacity to identify, plan, evaluate, and carry out
investment projects. By being provided access to loan financing for investments,
the cities and municipalities would gain an opportunity to "learn by doing." The
Municipal Training Program provides local officials with courses in project
development and implementation, municipal finance and management. This formal
training is complemented by technical assistance provided by the CPO to the
project cities and municipalities during subproject preparation and
implementation. A pilot maintenance component has also been included to improve
the planning and implementation of maintenance at the local level. In addition,
the project would improve local financial management through the RPTA program and
through its requirement of financial discipline in improving local resource
mobilization and introducing improved accounting procedures and pricing policies
for municipal markets.



- 33 -
B. EnyiroUWnen£A l agct
6.04      The project is expected to have a positive health and environmental
impact. The supply of municipal infrastructure has not kept positive pace with
increased demand, leading to deterioration in living standards and environmental
conditions in the urban areas. This has resulted in, among others, dilapidated
and unsanitary markets and slaughterhouses, stagnant waters, and flooding during
the rainy season.   Project subloans are expected to finance investments to
correct these problems.  Subloans for the rehabilitation and construction of
public markets would result in clean and hygienic conditions for the preparation,
handling, storage and display of food for human consumption, particularly fish
and meat. Slaughterhouses improved with project funds would provide humane and
hygienic facilities for the slaughter of animals for human consumption and result
in reduced illegal and backyard slaughtering. Project-supported improvements in
flood control and drainage systems would reduce flooding, damage to private
property and infrastructure, and disruption to economic activities and social
life. And, the proper disposal of solid waste permitted by project subloans for
development of sanitary landfills would result in reduced air pollution from
burning of trash and possible contamination of groundwater from open dumps.
Project investments may impact negatively on the environment: e.g. major shore
protection, flood control measures and major roads could adversely affect
ecosystems, water quality, soil stability and land use, and may even entail
involuntary  resettlement.    Environmental  concerns  would  be  taken  into
consideration in the design of subproject components to avoid and mitigate such
potential impacts (Annex 7).
C. PovevIma
6.05      It is estimated that in 1988 48% of all households in the Philippines
were living below the Government's poverty line, the level of income required to
purchase minimum food and basic needs. Since there are significant differences
in poverty incidence between Metro Manila, where 24% of the households are
estimated to be below the poverty line, and the rest of the country, the proposed
project would be targeted at cities and municipalities outside of Metro Manila
and its immediate surrounding provinces where the poverty incidence is above the
national average and is closer to 55% to 60%.  In determining the scope of
subprojects, preference would also be given to investments with a higher poverty
impact (Annex 6). In particular, public market improvements, which are expected
to account for a large part of project subloans, would benefit the poor families
who shop at these markets and the local farmers who sell there.
D. Economic Analysis
6.06       Economic analysis would be carried out for individual investments
costing more than P 6 million (US$250,000) equivalent.   Construction of new
markets, major rehabilitation/expansion of existing markets, major roads, and
major drainage works are expected to fall into this category. A minimum Economic
Rate of Return (ERR) of 15% would be required for inclusion of these investments
in the project. The remaining subprojects would consist of minor works which are
not considered appropriate for a formal economic evaluation. Selection of these
investments would be carried out through screening based on need, and the



- 34 -
proposed designs would be reviewed to determine that the least-cost technical
option had been chosen.
E. Rigks
6.07     A number of risks relate to the financial aspects of the project, the
technical and managerial limitations of the local governments that will
participate in the project, and the political uncertainty surrounding the
upcoming national elections.
6.08      The first risk is that the local governments may resist the gradual
move toward market rates envisioned under the project (para. 3.17).   Local
executives could be expected to bring pressure on the MDF to maintain lending
rates at current levels, especially the marginal borrowers--the financially
weaker municipalities. However, increases in MDF lending rates would be phased
in to minimize jumps in debt service requirements, and, with the increase in
revenue sharing under the revised Local Government Code, the cities and
municipalities would receive additional grants from the National Government.
Nevertheless, many local governments may be reluctant to pay the higher interest
rates and may opt to drop out of the project as a result. At present, it is not
possible to predict the reaction of the local executives, but preliminary
estimates indicate that the financially stronger cities and municipalities would
be able to afford the higher MDF lending rates.
6.09      Second, the CPO may be hard pressed to continue assisting cities and
municipalities with project preparation and implementation at current levels.
Capacity building at the local level is a long-term process. Regular contacts
by CPO staff have been critical in assisting the local governments in various
facets of project planning and management, have been a valuable learning process
for local staff, and have provided on-the-job training to complement the formal
training provided through the Municipal Training Program. With the increase in
the number of project cities and municipalities, the CPO may not be able to
provide each local government with current levels of follow-up, resulting in poor
performance at the local level. However, to minimize this risk, the policies and
operations of the CPO would be streamlined to handle larger numbers of borrowers
(para. 3.12) and the CPO would be reorganized and strengthened (para. 5.05). The
long-term institutional options for the effective management of lending to local
governments would also be studied under the institutional study proposed under
the project (para. 4.16).
6.10      A third risk is that the presidential, national and local government
elections scheduled for 1992 would result in changes both in the national and
local governments and may prove disruptive at the time of project start-up. The
proposed project, however, is a continuation of an ongoing project, so that
changes at the national level may not prove to be overly disruptive since the
policies and procedures have been established and accepted. Changes of local
executives may result in some of them reversing the decisions of their
predecessors, but experience from the changes in 1986 and 1988 indicates that
local executives are willing to support projects started by different regimes if
they can be shown to be viable. The CPO would, however, need to proceed with
project preparation in a larger number of cities and municipalities in
anticipation of some dropping out due to political change.



- 35 -
Vll. AGREX££EtS REAMHED AN  RECMMENDATIO
7.01     During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on the
following:
(a) Bank review of subproject appraisal reports and onlending agreements prior
to their finalization (para. 4.08);
(b) preparation of an Action Plan by DOF by December 31, 1992 for carrying out
computerization activities under the RPTA component (para. 4.13);
(c) counterpart fund requirements (para. 4.19);
(d) adequate staffing and funding of the CPO (para. 5.05) and LGA (para.
5.08);
(e) reorganization of the SPMS by December 31, 1992 (para. 5.07);
(f) modification of local procurement procedures to conform with the Bank's
procurement guidelines (para. 5.19) and contract review requirements
(para. 5.20); and
(g) auditing arrangements (para. 5.23) and reporting requirements (para.
5.24).
7.02       The establishment of the LIA and PSA will be a condition of loan
disbursement (para. 3.08j.
7.03     Subject to the above agreements, the proposed project is suitable for
a loan of US$68 million equivalent to the Republic of the Philippines for a
period of 20 years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate.



PHILIPPINES
THIRD IUMICIPAL OEVELCPENET PROJECT
ComsoLidated Intcme nd Expenditure for Local Govrrncmts
(in million cont 1960 peso)
1980    1961    1982    ¶963    1964    1965    1966    1967    198"    1969    1990
A. REVERES
Busines Taxes                744     ?03      697     710      513     506      523     494      51     s72      579
Rete  Property Taes          821     962      935   1,147      931     820      933     910      938   1,168   1,195
1,565   1,665   1,633   1,856   1,444   1,326   1,457   1,405   1,455   1,740   1,777
Economic Enterprises         274     390      421     42D      314     290      326     315      320     405      364
Few, Chrges & Others         939   1,057      987     88       677     642      576     606      584     870      560
1,213   1,447   1,408   1,305      991      932     902      921     904   1,275      924
Subtotal: Locat Sources    2,774   3,112   3,041   3,161    2,435   2,258   2,359   2,325   2.359   3,014   2,701
m3=z                     mm  _=w==   mm                   ==mx    mm   mmu==
BIR & Specific Allotments   1,238   1,486   1,831    1,876   1,329   1,347   1,364   1,204   1,396   1,379   1,356
National Ade                 295     29f      294     272      202     223      182     173      181      199     206
Subtotal: Govt Tramfers   1,533   1,782   2,126   2,147   1,531   1,570   1,546   1.377   1,576   1,578   1,562
3=2222322333=  2e23=33 32 3                  333        33 3   5233    N33223
TOTAL REVENES             4.311   4,894   5,166   5,308   3,966   3,828   3,905   3,703   3,935   4,593   4,263
UzZ==Xm= ss=X  8:xm   xxzau=z_2  sszf
S. EXPENWITURES
Cwmral Governint             916   1,185   1,214   1,150       884     858      962   1,019   1,019   1,219   1,193
Pubtlfc Welfare & Safety    718     774      843     922      720     737      798     797      806     765      758
Economic Develop et          982     747      852     924      683     703      693     6S0      708     644      753
Others                     1.033   1,276   1,35?   1,236       945     846      862     805      809   1,097      974
Subtotal: Recurrent       3,649   3,981   4,265   4,232   3,231   3,143   3.314   3,271   3,343   3,725   3,678
Capitat Exp nditures         532     594      579     617      443     365      251     225      257     246      243
TOTAL EXPENDIT'RES        4,181   4,575   4,845   4,850   3,674   3,508   3,566   3,496   3,600   3,971   3,922
C. SURPLUS (DEFICIT)            130     319      322     459      292     319      339     20?      335     622      341
Loel Expenditures as a Share of:
GOP                          1.6%    1.7X     1.72    1.7X    1.42    1.42    1.4X    1.32    1.21    1.3X    1.22
Total Govt. Expenditures    12.82   13.1X   14.32   14.52   14.02   13.02   10.42    8.42    8.02    7.5X    6.62



- 37 -
Anne_x 2
Page 1 of 6
PHILIPPINES
THIRD MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Real Property Tax Administration Prograr
A. Real Property Taxes LI
1.      Real property taxes are levied on the assessed value of land, buildings
and equipment. These assessments are a fixed percentage of the market value of
the property based on actual use, with the percentages (the assessment levels)
varying from 15% to 80% depending on use, for land and equipment, and on value
for buildings.
2.         Each local government establishes its own real property tax rate,
within ranges determined by the Real Property Tax Code (PD 464). Provinces and
municipalities can impose a tax rate of no less than 0.25% but no more than 1.5%,
while cities can impose a tax rate of no less than 1% but no more than 2%. An
additional 1% is levied on properties and is earmarked for the Special Education
Fund.
3.        Government property, nonprofit cemeteries, charitable and religious
institutions and other properties exempted by government policy (e.g., preferred
industries certified by the Board of Investments) are exempted from paying real
property taxes.
4.       A general revision of assessments is carried out every three years to
take into account changes in property values.  Outside of the three-year general
revisions, real property assessments can be revised when changes are made to
individual properties which are considered to have a significant impact on
property values, e.g., construction of new buildings, improvements of nearby
public facilities, demolition, etc.
5.         Valuation of property is carried out through mass appraisal, with
updated standard unit valuations, the schedule of values, prepared for different
types of land, buildings and equipment based on market values prior to each
revaluation. Information on the physical characteristics of each property is
obtained through tax declarations or field visits. The assessed value for each
property is then obtained by using the standard unit costs in the schedule of
values. Assessments are carried out by the Local Assessors and their staffs.
Property owners are notified of their new assessments and property tax
obligations through the Real Property Tax Order of Payment (RPTOP).
LI   Real property taxes could be modified under the revised Local Government
Code; if this is done, then this section would be adjusted accordingly.



- 38 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 6
6.        Property owners are liable for paying the real property tax.  Legal
ownership need not be fully established for the property to be taxed, and it is
common for all parties to pay taxes on disputed properties to bolster their
claims.
7.       The Local Treasurers are responsible for collecting the real property
tax. Real property taxes are due on January 1 of each year and can be paid
through quarterly installments or in full by March, in which case the taxpayer
may receive a discount. The Local Treasurers are required to notify taxpayers
of the payment periods by posting them in the main entrance of the local
government building and in a conspicuous public place in each barangay, by
publishing in a newspaper, and by public crier. The taxpayer is informed of his
individual tax obligation through the RPTOP. Individual tax bills are rarely
sent out.
8.       In cases of nonpayment, the taxpayers are assessed a penalty of 2% per
month on the outstanding amount up to a maximum of 24%. The local government can
go to court to collect taxes due or seize the personal property of the taxpayer
and auction it off. However, local governments generally have been reluctant to
enforce these penalties against delinquent taxpayers.
B. Issues Related to the Real property Tax
9.         The local governments do not fully exploit their real property tax
base. First, the assessed values (and hence their collectables) are low because
of postponement of regular revaluation due to political considerations and
underassessment of individual properties. Under the existing law, properties
should be revalued every three years (para. 4). While the schedules of values
have been updated, they have not been introduced or have been phased in over
three years to avoid sudden increases in taxes due.  As a result, the current
assessments are based on market prices from the early 1980s.
10.         Second, many land transactions, such as changes in ownership or
land-use and improvements, go unrecorded.  As a result, information on ownership
and land usp becomes out of date; residential land in cities, for example,
continues to ii recorded and taxed as agricultural land at lower values.
11.       Third, local governments do not collect the full amount of taxes due;
on average, only an estimated 60% of property taxes due are actually collected.
This occurs for several reasons. First, the information on ownership may be out
of date, and the current owners may be unaware of their tax obligations since
they are not notified by the local government.   Second,  there is little
systematic follow-up on nonpayment.   Third,  penalties for nonpayment are
generally not enforced.
C. The Real Property Tax Administration (RPTA) Program
12.      The Real Property Tax Administration (RPTA) Program aims at improving
real property tax administrc.tion and increasing tax revenues through the updating
of tax records, preparation of tax maps, improvement of records management, and
intensification of collection efforts. The RPTA comprises following phases:



- 39 -
Annex 2
Page 3 of 6
(a)  IDjL4aUY^ia: Preparation of base maps; gathering and sorting of property
records; preparation of field copies of property records forms; tax
mapping team organization, work scheduling and training; survey and field
interviews; preparation and finalization of tax maps; assignment of
Property Index Numbers; and preparation and finalization of Tax Mapping
Control Roles.
(b)  Records  Conversion and _Management:  Review of field appraisal  data;
determination of market values, assessed values and taxable values; and
preparation of the assessment section (Part A) of the RPTOP, the form used
to notify the taxpayer of his assessment and his real property tax payment
obligations.
(c)  Tax Collection Enforcement: Calculation of property taxes (Part B of the
RPTOP) and distribution of the RPTOPs to the taxpayers; updating of Real
Property Tax Registers; information drive through the media and community
meetings; preparation of delinquency notices and follow-up; and
institution of legal remedies.
13.         The RPTA is carried out by the Local Assessor's office and the
Treasurer's Office in each city and municipality under the supervision of DOF's
regional  offices.    In smaller municipalities,  staff from  the provincial
assessor's and treasurer's offices would augment the local staff. While the
process itself is relatively simple, the local governments require additional
staff and resources to deal with the large volume of data that need to be
processed within a short period of time, given the number of existing real
property tax records.
14.       The DOF provides a grant to the local governments to finance part of
the cost of additional contractual staff, equipment and supplies required to
implement the RPTA.   The DOF and the local government agree to a detailed
implementation plan, including a schedule of completion of each phase, required
inputs (contractual and regular staff, equipment, supplies, office space, etc.)
and estimated costs. The number of existing real properties on record in the
local government is used as a base for preparing these estimates. Field surveys
may identify unrecorded properties and the estimates for subsequent phases would
need to be adjusted.
15.      Cost-sharing between the local government and DOF differs depending on
the classification of the local government, with the richer local government
units (LGUs) receiving less in national grants. The cost-sharing formula is
presented in Annex Table 2.1.   In the case of municipalities,  the local
contribution is shared equally between the municipality and the province, e.g.,
in the case of first and second class municipalities, the national government
finances 60% of the cost, the province 20% and the municipality 20%.



- 40 
Annex 2
Page 4 of 6
Annex Table 2.1: RPTA COST SHARING
Class of             National        Local
Local Government        Govt. Grant   Contribution
First & Second             60%             40%
Third & Fourth             70%             30%
Fifth and Below            80%             20%
16.        The RPTA Program was initiated by DOF with support from the United
States Agency for International Davelopment (USAID) in the late 1970s. The USAID
continued to finance RPTA through its Local Resources Mobilization Project. 12
The Bank has followed the format developed under the USAID program to maintain
consistency.
17.         The Bank loan finances the national government grant to the local
government.   Loan disbursements are made against a service contract between DOF
and the local government, which specifies the additional staff and supporting
expenditures required by the local government (para. 14 above) and the cost
sharing between DOF and the local government.   Since cost sharing differs
depending on the classification of the local government concerned, the Bank
disburses against 100% of DOF grant releases to the local government.
D. Evaluation of RPTA under the First MuniciRal Development Proiect
18.        The RPTA Program under the First Municipal Development Program was
successfully concluded in June 1991.  The program included 18 cities and 54
municipalities (in over 27 provinces). As a result of RPTA, the total number of
real property tax units in the 72 local governments increased by 45% from 1.1
million to 1.6 million and total assessed values increased by 58% from P 26.0
billion to P 41.2 billion.
19.       The increase in assessed values resulted from: (a) the discovery of
undeclared properties; (b) discovery of undeclared improvements; (c) discovery
of unrecorded changes in land to higher-value uses (e.g., the transformation of
an agricultural lot to a housing subdivision); and (d) an increase in the overall
assessment levels. On the other hand, elimination of duplicate and/or invalid
assessments would have the effect of reducing assessed values.
a     A description of the RPTA program and evaluation of the initial efforts is
provided in William Dillinger, "Urban Property Tax Reform: the Case of the
Philippines' Real Property Tax Administration Program," INU Report 16, May
1988.



- 41 -
Annex 2
Page 5 of 6
20.      To assess the impact of the RPTA program, only results from cities and
municipalities which implemented the RPTA without increasing assessment levels
were considered; these results are presented in Annex Table 2.2. The program has
resulted in both a net increase (net of cancellations) in the numbers of real
property units and in assessed values. The increase was greater in the cities,
where the number of real property units Lncreased by 88% and the assessed values
by 68%.  This is probably due to the development of agricultural land into
residential and coAmercial uses.
Annex Table 2.2: IMPACT OF THE RPTA PROGRAM UNDER MDP I
(PRELIMINARY RESULTS) La
Cities  Municipalities   Total
Real Property Units ('000)
Before RPTA                         373.5       562.6        936.1
After RPTA                          703.3       706.8      1,410.1
Increase                              88%         26%          51%
Assessed Values (P billion)
Before RPTA                           8.6         3.8         12.4
After RPTA                           14.5         5.4         19.9
Increase                              68%         45%         61%
La Excludes local governments which introduced new assessment schedules.
Source: Department of Finance.
21.      The RPTA program also includes a tax collection enforcement component
in which funds are made available to conduct information campaigns and follow-up
of delinquent taxpayers.   Results are not yet available to systematically
evaluate the impact of RPTA on actual tax collections.
E. The RPTA Program undfer the Pronosed Project
22.       It is DOF's objective to carry out the RPTA in all of the over 1,500
cities and municipalities in the Philippines. To most effectively deploy its
experienced staff, DOF would implement the RPTA on a region-by-region basls. The
proposed project would support expansion of DOF's RPTA program in Regions IV,
VIII, X and XI.
23.        A computerization component has been added to the program.  P 10
million has been allocated to computerize real property tax records management
on a pilot basis.   While technological  improvements have made computers
affordable, the appropriate software in not yet available. At present, Cebu City
operates a computerLzed real property tax system on a minicomputer and systems
for microcomputers have been developed for local governments in Metro Manila and
the Province of Antique. No microcomputer-based system has been field tested and



- 42 -
Annx 2
Page 6 of 6
operationalized on a large scale to date. DOF will assess the microcomputer-
based systems currently being introduced and develop an action plan for carrying
out the RPTA computerization component by December 31, 1992. A decision on the
computerization component would be made after a review of DOF's report.
24.      The program is expected to cover over two million real property units
in nearly 200 cities and municipalities. The total cost is estimated at about
P 438 million (US$13.5 million equivalent), using an average cost of P 110 per
real property tax unit, based on the ongoing RPTA programs. The program would
continue to be a key activity of DOF's Bureau of Local Government Finance.



- 43 -
Annex 3
Page 1 of 10
PHILIPPINES
TAIRC IMXUCIPAL TRAINING PROGRAM
Municigal Training Program
A. The Eirst MuniciDal Develogment Project (MD? I)
1.         During preparation of the MDP I, the priority areas identified for
attention under the project were strengthening managerial, technical and
administrative skills at the local level and developing training programs
oriented towards local government officials. The bulk of government training at
that time had been directed at national government officials.   While local
government training had been carried out, it tended to deal with broad management
concerns rather than the technical requirements of local officials. It was felt
that many of the existing training programs could be adapted and used for
training local government staff.
2.        A training program oriented toward local governments would need to be
have built-in flexibility to address the diverse training needs at the local
level.   Therefore, the project rejected the approach of setting up a local
government training institution with its own facilities, training staff, and
curriculum.   The project instead aimed at establishing capacity within the
national government to assess local training needs and match those needs with
existing programs or institutions, both government and private, offering training
in the appropriate fields. Where necessary, existing programs could be adapted
to suit the needs of local officials.
3.        The municipal training component under the MDP I (referred to as the
Municipal Training Program) included financing for training in municipal finance
and revenue administration, municipal enterprise management, planning and
budgeting, project development and contract management, municipal engineering and
maintenance. At appraisal, the training was expected to be organized into four
modules: (a) program development; (b) project management; (c) municipal finance,
revenue  administration  and  municipal  enterprise  management;   and  (d)
infrastructure and equipment maintenance and solid waste management. The Bank
loan was expected to finance 90% of the cost of training, with the remaining 10%
provided by the participating local governments. However, this was found to be
administratively cumbersome, and it was decided that the Bank would finance 100%
of national government expenditures for training courses, with the local
governments' contribution coming in the form of actual expenses incurred, e.g.,
travel expenses, rather than cash contributions.   The training was to be
organized by the Training Division within the Central Project Office. It was
estimated that over 4,000 local officials would be trained during the project
period.
4.         A Study of Training Needs, Resources and Development of a National
Training Program was also included under the technical assistance component of



- 44 -
Annex_3
Page 2 of 10
NDP I, with the Department of the Interior and Local Government (DILG) as the
executing agency.  DILG was made responsible for carrying out the Municipal
Training Program as well as the study and that both be incorporated into one
consultancy contract.  Since DILG was keen to start the consultancy contract
before loan effectiveness in 1984, it was agreed to make DILG responsible for
training under the project and include the consultancy contract under the
Regional Cities Development Project (Ln. 2257-PH).  The actual costs of the
training courses organized by DILG would continue to be funded through MDP I.
5.       The Training Needs Assessment and National Training Program Study was
carried out in 1985, and the consultant's draft final report was issued in early
1986. Completion of the study coincided with the People's Revolution in February
1986, and the subsequent changes in DILG proved to be very disruptive to
implementation of the Municipal Training Program.
6.        DILG experienced a major turnover of staff as a result of the change
of government in 1986. The new staff reviewed all initiatives started by the
previous government and had to be convinced that the programs were worth
continuing. DILG assigned no full-time staff to the Municipal Training Program
and continued to experience senior staff changes. Under these circumstances, it
was difficult to maintain continuity or generate momentum for the program.
7.        The present government created the Local Government Academy (LGA) in
1988 to be the lead agency for local government training.L   Establishment of
the LGA was recommended by the Training Needs Assessment and National Training
Program Study. Implementation of the Municipal Training Program under NDP I was
assigned to the LGA, providing the program with a clear institutional base. In
addition to the Municipal Training Program, WA was made responsible for DILG's
regular training programs, including the Executive Management Program, oriented
toward over 43,000 local executives, and the Sanggunian Bayan training program
for some 260,000 local council members nationwide.  While the LOA inherited
DILG's training facilities and staff at Los Banos, it was a new organization with
limited staff and budget. Local consultants therefore had to be brought in to
assist LGA implement the Municipal Training Program.
8.         Implementation of Municipal Training Program improved significantly
after establishment of the LGA. Seven training modules were developed, namely:
(a) Module I: Orientation on Management and ImDlementation of the MuniciRal
Develogment  Project.      The  course  was  designed  to  familiarize
city/municipal mayors and key local staff with the policies, procedures
and requirements of the Municipal Development Project.
(b) Module II: Project Development and Project Preparation.  The course was
designed to teach local executives, project officers, and local
engineering staff about the project cycle, feasibility studies, assessment
21. The LGA was created under Executive Order 262, dated July 25, 1987,
reorganizing the DILG (then called the Department of Local Government).



- 45 -
Annex 3
Page 3 of 10
of borrowing capacity, and the organizational requirements of project
preparation and implementation, especially with regard to the Municipal
Development Project.
(c) Module III: Municinal Financg and Revenue Administratign. The course was
designed to provide municipal/city treasurers and assessors, local budget
officers, local council members involved with finance with knowledge of
recent developments, problems and issues in local government financial
administration, the revenue sharing system and other national-local
relationships, and revenue generation.
(d)  Module IV: Detailed Engineering and Contract Management.  This module was
designed to provide city and municipal engineers, local project officers,
and other technical staff with information on detailed engineering,
preparation of bid documents, and administration of contracts.   This
module was subsequently divided into three courses: construction
supervision, detailed engineering, and government procurement regulations
(PD 1594 and its Implementing Rules and Regulations).
(e) Module V: Municipal EXntergXise Management. The course was designed to
provide municipal/city treasurers, municipal enterprise managers, local
council members (involved with finance), and staff from the financial
departments with knowledge of basic management concepts and principles and
their application to municipal markets, slaughterhouses, bus terminals and
other municipal enterprises.
(f)  Module MI: Infrastructure Maintenance and Eguipment Management.   The
course was designed to provide city/municipal engineers, equipment pool
supervisors, project engineers and other managers and technical staff
involved with infrastructure in the local governments with knowledge of
planning, scheduling, budgeting, work organization and monitoring and
control of maintenance for civil work projects.
(g) Module VII: Community Mobillzation. The course was designed to provide
local executives, barangay officials and local community leaders with
basic knowledge of project identification, preparation, implementation and
maintenance, encouraging local resident participation, and sources of
financial assistance.
Most of the training courses run for about one week (five working days). Module
I is conducted by staff from the CPO and the MDF; Modules IV and VI are based on
regular in-house training provided by the Department of Public Works and Highways
(DPWH) and implemented by DPWH staff specifically for local officials.  The
remaining modules are, carried out by external organizations selected through
competitive bidding by LGA from a long list of potential training organizations
prepared for each module.
9.       As of December 31, 1991, a total of 41 training courses were conducted
involving 1,728 participants.   Training was initially carried out only for
modules involving DPWH staff, namely Modules I (Orientation), IV (Detailed
Engineering and Contract Management) and VI (Infrastructure Maintenance and



- 46 -
Annex 3
Page 4 of 10
Equipment Management). Module IV was subdivided into construction supervision
(IV-A), detailed engineering (IV-B) and contracting rules and regulation (IV-C)
based on the response of participants who wanted more in-depth training in these
technical matters. The breakdown of the Municipal Training Program is provided
in Annex Table 3.1.
10.         Modules involving external trainers have been more difficult to
organize. The hiring of contract trainers for Modules II (Yroject Development
and Preparation), III (Municipal Finance and Revenue Administration), and V
(Municipal Enterprise Management) has taken about one year. Due to the novelty
of the approach, confirmation of the procedures to be followed and administrative
approvals took much longer than usual. Contracts for the consultant trainers
have now been signed, and training will take place during 1991 and 1992.
B. Evaluation of the Experience To Date
11.      The LGA is still going through a process of learning by doing. As yet,
there is insufficient feedback from the training conducted to date to make a full
assessment of the training program. The concept of the LGA acting as a "broker"
or organizer of training is new to the DILG, and the administrative structure of
the department has been slow to process the selection of contract trainers and
payments for training courses.   As a result,  training programs have been
rescheduled, which inconvenienced both the trainers and the participants.
12.           The LGA is addressing these institutional issues through the
establishment of a Board of Trustees, reorganization, and an increase in staff.
Under EO 262, the LGA would be under the supervision of a Board of Trustees
composed of the DILG Secretary as chairman and four members appointed by the
President upon the recommendation of the DILG Secretary. The Board was appointed
in early 1991. This is expected to give the LGA more autonomy and speed up
decision making.
13.        The LGA is reorganizing and establishing a Contract Administration
Division to handle contract preparation, documentation and administration, and
a Management Information Division for processing information. The total number
of staff is expected to double from 45 to 91. This increase in staff is in
anticipation of LGA's expanded role in local government capacity-building as part
of the Government's decentralization program. The LGA is planning to focus its
efforts on improving planning and budgeting at the local level so that the local
governments would effectively utilize the additional financial resources being
made available to them.
The ProRosed Third Municipal DeveloRment Project
14.      The proposed project would continue the program developed under MDP I
but would include financing for additional training modules to be conducted
through the use of contract trainers and staff from DPWH for the technical
modules and from the CPO for modules directly related to the project.
15.      The modules would be along the lines of those developed for MDP I and
would include:



- 47 -
Annex 3
Page 5 of 10
(a) Module I: Orientation Conference on the Management and Implementation of
the Municipal Development Project
(b) Module II: Project Development and Preparation
(c)  Module III: Municipal Finance and Revenue Administration
(d)  Module IV: Detailed Engineering
(e)  Module V: Contract Management and Project Procurement Procedure
(f)  Module VI: Construction Supervision
(g)  Module VII: Municipal Enterprise Management
(h)  Module VIII: Infrastructure Maintenance and Equipment Management
(i)  Module IX: Equipment Maintenance and Management
(j)  Module X: Project Monitoring and Evaluation
(k)  Module XI:  Environmental Assessment
Based on the reaction of participents, the infrastructure and equipment
management module has been separated into two courses: one for overall
infrastructure maintenance and another for equipment maintenance. A community
mobilization module has been dropped since it is expected to be taken up as part
of DILG's regular training program. With more project cities and municipalities
completing their investment programs under the project, project monitoring and
evaluation was added as a new module. A brief description of each module is
provided in Annex Table 3.2. The modules are still experimental and their design
would be refined as more experience is gained in their implementation, especially
those modules to be conducted by contract trainers who are scheduled to begin
work during the second half of 1991.
16.        The modules would be carried out annually over a four-year period,
1993-96. Implementation of the training program in 1992 would be funded through
MDP I. Based on experience gained from the Municipal Training Program under MDP
I, it is assumed that all modules would be carried out in parallel each year and
that one training session (school) would be conducted every quarter.   The
trainees would be selected from the project cities and municipalities, but
participants from other local governments would be allowed to participate on a
space-available basis.. It is estimated that a total of 156 training sessions
will be conducted and a total of about 9,000 local government officials trained
under the project. A detailed breakdown of the proposed training program is
provided in Annex Table 3.3.
17.     The total training cost is estimated at P 89.7 milliov (including price
contingencies), assuming an estimated P 1,200 per trainee per day and including
costs of the trainers, materials and supplies, accommodations for trainers and
trainees, and travel costs for trainers.



PHILIPPINES
THIRD MMICIPAL DEVELOPtENT PROJECT
Amex Table 3.1: ONGOING INICIPAL TRIAINING PROGRAN
. _....... ................................. . .. ............_.. ..  _.._._...........................
198S              1989              1990              1991              1992              Total-
......... ...  ...........  -------   -------   ..........   ........
No.  Trainee   No.  Trainee   No.  Trainee   No.  Trainee   No.  Trainee   No.  Trainee
... ...__,....... ........ ................ .... ...... _.. .. .. . ... .. . __....   _.............                    .....................
1.  mnicipal Developent Project Orientation                   I         78      3        117      4        281       -         -       -         -      8        476
11. Project Developent & Project Preparation                    -          -      -          -      -          -      3       103       3       120       6       223
111. MIhicipaL Finance $ Revwnue Akinistration                                     -          -      -          -      5       235       2        100      7       335
IV. Detaited Engineering & Contract Ranagenent                       -        -              -      4       242       -          -      -          -      4       242
IV-A Comtruction Supervision                                          -            -          -      6       221       -          -      -          -      6        221
IV-B Detailed Engineering                                        -          -      -          -      2        63       -          -      -          -      2         63
*                                                     C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D
IV-C Rules and Regulations (PD 1594)                             -          -      2       112            -        -         -        -             -      2        112
V.  unwicipal Enterprise Managmnt                              -          -      -          -      -          -      6       120       -          -      6        120
VI. Infrastructure Maintenance & Equipment Mgnt.                -          -      -          -      -          -      5        156      -          -      5        156
VIIZ. Commuity Nobitzation                                                                                             -          -      -                 0          0
....    ......  .. -     -----           ...  ...            ....    ...    ....      .. ...
TotaL                                                      1         78      5       229      16       807      19       614       5       220      46      1948
0
.   .....                                     .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



PHILIPPINES
THIRD I4ICIPAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
ASwx Table 3.2: MJICIPAL TRAINING PROGRAM SULMY OF TRAINING NODDULES
... ... .. .._. .. ........ .............. __...._._...._W. .W.. ...................... ................. .. ............ .................... ... .... ,......
ODULE                                       DESCRIPTIOti                                 TARGET                  MTION         TRAINERS
....................................................... .................................................................................................... _.. .. ...................
NCDULE I
Orientation Conference on the               Orientation training progren for                   Mayors, c mcia Nesbers,   3 days              Central
nagement wnd Inplent mttion of              project policies, preparation and                  key local officials                           Project Staff
the M4nicipsl Oevelopnt Project             imptleentation, including explanation
of onlerding, procedures for loan
avaitment, utilization, tcan repayment
ad monitoring requfrments.
........................... ........................................................... .... ... .. ........ ..... ......... .. ...... ...... .......... . .......
NODULE   I                                  1he module woutd faiNtiarize tocat                  ayors, development             10 days       Contract
Project Devloaimnt wmd Preparation  staff with the project cycte, including   officers, ptaming                                              Trainers
the project conceptulization,                     officers, engineering
technical, finaciat and econneic                  staff, selected council
evaluation of projects, assessment of             mdbrs
borrowing capacity and organization for
project irple mtation
... ... .......... .................... .................. ....................................... .. .._. .... ... .... .. ....... .........0. .......  ..... ..  .... ..................
NXRULE III                                  The  odUle would fmiliarize local                  Treasury staff,                 5 days        Contract
Iunicipel Finance  edr Revimwe              officiats with the tatest detelopment              assesiment staff, budget                      trainers
AcKinistration                               in the revised Locat Governent Code               officers, selected
and  ewasures to improve revenue                  councit members
cotlection and adfinistration,
tncluding best practices frco other
local government
NOULE IV                                    The module focasas en detailed                     Locat project staff,            7 days       Department of
Detailed Engineering                        engineering for project investments,               engineering staff                            Pibtl ie Works
including data requirements, designs                                                           and Highways
awd design stanwdrds, technical                                                                                                        °
specificatiors, preparation of cost 
estimtes and bid documents.                                                                                                            °
..__.. . ... .... ..... ......... __.... ...... _.... ........... .................... _..................................................... ........ ............



PHILIPPINES
THIRD MUNICIPAL DEVELO(WENT PROJECT
Amex Table 3.2: PSMICIPAL TRAINING PROGRAN StHRRY OF TRAINING NDULES
ODULE                                  DESCRIPTION                             TARGET             DURATION        TRAINERS
PUMULE V                               The module would fm tliarize locat           City administrators,         3 days      Department of
Contract NaRgwnnt and Project          officials with PD 1594, guideLines on        PMAC mebers, local                       Public Norks
Procurenent Procedures                 consultant selection and other               project staff,                           and Highways
goverrnnt procurement requirements.          engineering staff,
plaening staff
NOULE VI                               The module would instruct Local project   Local project staff,            3 days      Department of
Constructioei Supervision              staff on site inspection, monitoring of   engineering staff                           Public Works
project accoaqlishw)nt, testing and                                                  and Highways
quality controt, mnd probltes related
to project construction and supervision.
..._,.....................................................__. .... ...... .................. . .. .... ................ ............................. ... .... .. ...... ...... .......
IULE Vn                                 This maodule includes the study of basic   Mayors, administrators,    varies         Contract
Mmaicipat Enterprise  aunwgement       swagamnt toots, key problte   in              treasury staff, selected                trainers
rolotion to m,,icipal enterprise             coumcil teabers
operations, and the role oT manageriaL
wad technical staff.  Muicipal
enterprises inctude markets,
slaughterhouses and bus terminals.
.............. ............................ ^_.. ....... ......... . .... ... .... ...... ........... . .. . ...................
NJULE VIII                              The molule would instruct local              Engineering staff            5 days     Department of
Infrastructure Nointemwne aId          engineering staff in plamning,                                                        Puilic Works
Equipennt PRarmement                   scheduling, managing, conducting and                                                  and Highways
monitoring infrastructure maintenance
operations.
.. _..... ... ................................... ................................. ....................... ................... .............                    l.......... ... .......  ..bW
MIOULE IX                               The module would failiorize local            Engineering staff           3 days      Department of
Equipwnt Kaintearice awd               engineering staff with management and                                                 Public Works                        Co
Nanagement                             maintenance of heavy equipuent, with                                                  and Highways
the emphasis on preventive maintenance.
.



PH:ILPPINES
THIRD IUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Amex Tsbte 3.2: NMMICIPAL TRAINING PROGRAM SWUIRtY OF TRMINING NMKULES
............ ........................ X_..... ......... ................................................
NRWLE                                 DESCRIPTION                            TARGT             DURATION       TRAINERS
NODLr.d X                             The .odute Mould instruct tocat staff       Local project staff,        3 days      Central
Project tr4act Monitoring end         on the procexss wd aethods for positive  plaming staff                              Project and
Evatu tion                            ard negative effects of conpleted                                                   LGA staff
projects.
Nf'ULE Xi                             The mcdete iwoatd fitliarize local          Mayors, devetopment         3 days      Con tract
Envircrmntal Assesu   nt              govermrnt staff with environnental          officers, planning                      Trainers
concenns and instruct them on the          officers, engirnering
coicct of envirmntal essessnt for  staff, selected council
local inmestmnt projects.                  mebers
~0
I-
0o



PHILIPPINES
THIRD IWMICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Am= Table 3.3: PROPOSED IWNICIPAL TRAINING PROGRAM
..... ........ .............................. ................................................................... __......................................... .....  ...........
1993            1994             1995             1996             Total
... ... .......   ------   .............  ......... .. ..  . ... ........
No.  Trainee   No.  Trainee   No.  Trainee   No.  Trainee   No.  Trainee
......... ................. ............................. ................................................................. ..... .......... 
S. Punicipst Del eop met Project Orientation              6       720      6       720      -         -                -    12      1440
11. Project Deveopitnt & Project Preqaration               4       240      4       240      2       140      2       140    12        760
111. Nuiicipat Finance & Revenue Adninistration             4       240      4       240      4       240      4       240    16        960
IV. Detailed Engineering                                   4       240      4       240      4       240      4       240    16        960
V. Contract Mnagement & Procuremnt Procedure              4       220      4       220      4       220      4       220    16        880                                  1
Vt. Construction Supervision                                4      200      4       200      4       200      4       200    16        800 
VII. Nuaiciput Enterprise Nwamgemmnt                         4      200      4       200      4       200      4       200    16        800
Villi. Infrastructure Naintenwce & Equfpment wgst.            4       200      4       200     4       200      4       200    16        800
IX. Equipuent Maintennce &  anasement                      4       160      4       160      4       160      4       160    16        640
X. Project lepact Monitoring & Evaluation                 2       100      2       100      4       200      4       200    12        600
XI. Envirornentsl Assessment                                2       100     2       100      2       100      2       100      8       400
OQ~
TotaL                                                 42      2620    42       2620    36       1900    36      1900   156       9040                            0  X
..... .......---. ---....... . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .o . . . . . . . .. .     . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . .
Source: The Local Government Academy                                                                                                                                    O



PHILIPPINES
THIRD NUICIPAL DEVLOPMENT PROJECT
Nuicipt Oevelopent Fund Calh Flows
(in P uliliors)
ACTUAL                                 PROJECTIONS
1987   198    1989   1990   1991    1992    1993   1994   1995    1996   1997    1990
SMNtCES OF FUNDS
lutice Brought Forwrd            54.7  173.9   136.2  157.9   68.9  190.6  289.3  252.8  203.0  233.7   212.9  243.4
IBRD Loans
EDP                             66.3    8,0  4U.7   64.5   22.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
"DP 1                           85.9    0.0   37.5   23.4  221.8  382.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
MP 11                            0.0    0.0    0.0    11.8  116.5   84.1   114.4   93.6   65.2    0.0    0.0    0.0
NDP III                          0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    11.9  178.2  190.1  201.9  297.0   178.2  130.7
Other Donor to s                  0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   17.2   80.2  216.4  236.4   187.9  101.5   10.7
Dcuestic Budlget Contributlons    0.0    0.0    0.0    4.9   -4.9    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Local Govt. Oebt Service Pay ents   10.1    8.3    17.9   32.5   126.6  126.6   171.6  249.1   382.5  490.8  648.8  738.8
iPPLICATION OF FVIES
iBRD Projects
RCDP                            29.6   35.4   34.6   90.9   22.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
POP 1                           13.5    18.6   46.8  132.5  221.8  382.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0                Vd
UDP 11                           0.0    0.0    0.0    2.7   116.5   84.1   114.4   93.6   65.2    0.0    0.0    0.0               ID
NDP III                          0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   17.8  267.3  26.1   302.9   45.5   267.3  196.0                 fx
o Other Doorm Projects             0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   17.2   88.3  253.5  281.3  237.2   144.0   16.1              .'
h
Local LoWns                       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   22.0   110.9  166.8  205.9  313.8   486.7  S41.1
salowe                          173.9  136.2  157.9   68.9  190.6  289.3  252.8  203.0  233.7  212.9  243.4  370.4



Annex 4
Page 2 of 2
PHILIEENE
THIRD MUNICIPAL DVELOPMENT PROJECT
Municipal Development Eund Cash Flows
The following assumptions have been used in projecting the cash flows
for the MDF:
(a) The MDF interest rate is projected to be 14% in 1992, 15.5% in 1993,
17% in 1994, 16% in 1995, 14% in 1996, 12% in 1997 and 12% in 1998.
It is assumed that current levels of interest rate in the
Philippines would be maintained over the medium term but then begin
to drop over the long term.
(b) The average repayment period is assumed to be 15 years with 3 years
of grace.
(c) The average size of subloans under MDP III is assumed to be P 16.2
million in June 1991 prices and the subloan would be disbursed over
a three year period, with 20% released in the first year, 70% in the
second year, and 10% in the third year.
(d) The number of loan commitments is estimated to be 15 in 1992, 10 in
1993, 10 in 1994, 15 in 1995 and 28 in 1996. It is assumed that
many of the project cities and municipalities availing of subloans
in the latter years would be repeaters, namely those that have
successfully completed earlier subprojects.
(e) The proposed Philippines Regional Municipal Development Project of
the Asia Development Bank and a possible Fourth Municipal
Development Project are included under "Other Donor Assisted
Projects".
(f) "Local Loans" include loans made by the MDF exclusively from its
internally generated funds. These loans would be released on the.
same assumptions as that of the proposed MDP III.



Annex 5
Page 1 of 9
PHILIPPINES
THIRD MUNICIPAL DBVELOPMENT PROJECT
MDF POLICY GOVERNING BOARD
RESOLUTION No._OL14MD
PROVIDING  GENERAL  POLICIES  FOR THE  LENDING  AND  PROGRAM
SUPPORT OPERATIONS OF THE MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT.FUND (MDF)
WHEREAS, it  is the  stated national policy  to promote
local government autonomy and decentralization in order tO
respond  to current  local  infrastructure deficiencies, and
' Tntensifying. pr9ssures arising  from demographic,  econoame.
and-social trends;                                          I
WHEREAS, the initiative to respond to the challenges of
local development through investment in infrastructure- and.
improvements in local services shall rest more strongly
upon LQUs under the new decentralized environment;
WHEREAS,  growing  Financial  domand levels  for  local
fnvestments  cannot  be  expected   to  be  sourced  through
National Government channels alone and borrowing is. a
potentially important. means by which local governments can
augment  their regular  revenue resources  to finance  badly
needed capital investments;                             .
WHEREAS, in  recognition of  the need to  provide local
governments, with  greater  access   to  loan  finance,  tht:
Municipal Development Fund eiiDF)  was established in 1984 by
virtue of P.D.  .1914 as a revolving fund;               ...
*  WHEREAS, subsequent explication  of P.D.  1914, notably
thru DOF-COA-DBM  Joint Circular 6-87 in  1V87 established.-a
vider MOF role  as the principal funding channel- for a.wide
array of donor-sourced financing of developmental projectY
initiated by local governments;
WHEREAS,   the  MDF   Ims  accumulated   a. substantial
balance of loan repayments that is projected to increase
very rapidly over  the next few years,  so that complemented
with further  donor-sourced on'-.1ndings. it has  a potential
to form the  basis of a major  and self-sustaigifig borrowing
source for LGU8;                         .    , .,        _'.
WHEREAS, thdre has been little opportunity to develop a
coherent set of policies and operational procedures In
relation to the management of lending operations of the MNMr
notably the  recycling of  loan repaymente for. relending. to
LGUS, to provide a substantial expansion in the use of
borrowing through MDF, on appropriate terms and conditions,
to finance capital investment needs for an increasing number
of local governments.



- 56-               . Annex 5
Page 2 of 9
WHERiEAS, the  MDF Steering Committee created  by virtue
of a Joint Special Order No. 1-91 of DOFp DDIp NEDA, DPWH
and DILO dated October 1, 1991v was designed primarily to
initially institutionalize the operation of the MDFp
WHEREAS, the name '"MDF Steering Committee" tends to
create confusion in view of the presence of various Project
"8teering Committees" also dealing with MDF;
WHEREFORE, upon  Joint sponsorship of this  Body, be it
resolved as it is hereby resolved, thati
1.   IDF  Steeri*'g  Committee  be   renamed  as  IDF  Policy
Governing   Board  (POB)   to  avoid   confusion  among
different Project Steering Committees.
2Z   Effective  sourcing,  cApitalizing   and  revolving  of
liunicipal Development Fund (MDF) shall be governed by a
clear %et of supportive policy pronouncements and
Institutional re-orientations, as followsu
1.0 PCjlic  Direstiorn. wk    ja  jUDDorl Onerations
1.1       Be it resolved, as it is hereby resolved, that
the   basic  principles,   policies  and   overall
direction that wopld govern MDF operations shall
be set and formulatioed by the MDF Policy Governing
Board  hereinafter  referred  to as  the  'DF-PGDp
chaired by the Department of Finance (DOF)p and
comprising reprAsentative& also from the National
Economic Development  Authority (NEDA)p Department
of Public Works and Highways (DPIWH)p Department of
Interior   and   Local   Government   (DILO)   and
Department   of  Budget   and  Management   (DBMI)p
together with  a representative of  the depository
banks  set-vicing for  the  MDF. The  POB shall  be
aided by a Mlanagement Committee headed by the
Executive   Director  of   the  B4ureau   of  Local
Government Finance (BLGF) who will concurrently
act as MDF Administrator.
1.2       Ve it resolved, fLrther, that in, prder to
enable attention to be focused specifically on the
lending operations as a separately Identifiable
progrom within the overall scope of the MDF, there
.is hereby created within the MDF a distinct
account   called   the    Lical   Loans   Accountp
hereinafter referred to as LLA, which shall cover
all transactions relating to lending to local
governmentt under the aegis of the MDF, to include
the advance of donor-assisted loans and loans made
from do-estic somrces  (including from accumulated
loan repayments).



57                 ) Annex 5
Page 3 of 9
1.3        E4e i t reSOlveVd. further,, that a portiorn of
the  A C-CLUlM.ated  and  anriual loan-i principal  and
interest repayments whicth accrteb  to the PIDF shall
1be rserved  so as  to be  thiade available  -for the
finarice crf essential sttppcort activities to the MDF
:Lndinir:  operations.  Irn  the  interests of  clear
accou.intability  and  controll a  clistirict  accotunrt
waou.ld be  created withirn the overall  scope of the
PIDFl, tC7 be known  as the Procgramn  Suttpport AccorUnt
(FPSA)  to  cover  all such  -financing  of  program
support activities.
ZO ILj%_ijg   rn (.._:lves_  *j f  .r  LLe A
2.1        Be? :L t resolvecl, as it is hereby resolved, that
the  I...LA.A in  the  mediutm terni  sihoudotli be  directed
towarcds    realizirig   the    followinq   speci fic
obJectiveso
,t- To function as a  source of credit finance in
support of decentralizatioon  ouf services from
national -tC local levels of, goverrninentu
(:)  To promo)fnc,-)te the  acceptability of borrowinrg as
,a meiaris  of f:inanciriq  a wide range  of local
governmvs>|ernt inrvestmentsp
(c)  0o promote the selection by local governmento
of    well-Justified    and   high    qual.ity
irvvestnitents  in   infrastr-utcture  and  putblic
-facilities;
(d)  To encoturage a  cost-recovery approach to the
provision of suitable public services through
the  levy  of   appropriate  levels  of  user
ctarges; arnd
2'2        Be it resolvecd. further, that in order to. neet
the above  obJectives and  sustain the  ILA within
the MDF  as a viable loans  fundingi mecharnism, the
operational  policies  pf  the  LLA  woulcl  be  as
-follows u
(a)  The    LLA   wouldl   be   operated    on   a
fully-revolving  basis"   retaining  all  its
capital and all interest on its lendinrgs
(b)  'rernis and  conditions of LLA  fund deploym*nt
would be set so  as to maintair' its long-term
viability and to pursuLe a significant real
termns  annual  growtht  in  LLA  balance  and
lend ings;



Annex 5
-58-                    Page 4 of 9
(c)  It would  be an objective  of the fLnd  to be
eventually self sutstaining.
3.0  L-- UMn i. rLL f the LLf
EBe it resolved, as it isd hereby resolved, that on
its creationp the LLA would be capitalizedl by an
initial allocation of  fifty percent (50W)  of the MDF
acc:umulated balance comprised  of accrued repayments of
principal and  interest -an loan advances  made together
with accrued interest earned on the MDF cash balances.
Thereafter.,  the thtie  LLA  would be  further funded  as
follows t
(a)  As  a   general  rule,  all   donor-sourceci funds
intendedl for on-lending to local goverrnments would
be  channeled  through   the  LLA.   (At  present,
on-goinq projects such as  PhtREMIUMIED and MDP2 have
been  the prime  soturces for  relending activities
now to  be coveredi by the  LLA.  Future identified
projects which would provide further financing for
loans   include  MDP3,  F'RMDP  and   MCDPg  other
donor-aided local governmnent  lending projects yet
to  be  identified   wouldl  also  be  administered
through the LLA.)
(b)  All repayments of loan  principal by LOUs on their
borrowings fr om MDF/LLA.
(c)  All  interest paymerits  by LUUs  on their  MDF/LLA
borrowings with  the exception  of the  amounts of
such interest to be transferred annually to the
PSA under Section 11.0 below.
(d)   Any domnestically-sourced  funds from  the General
Appropriation  Account   which  are   intended  to
finance  loants   to  LOUs  under  LLA . terms  and
conditionsp and
(e)  Earnings  fronm  irnvestment  of LLo  cash  balances
(such as time deposits and COMBO accounts) subject
to applicable rules o.nd regulations.
4_0    s U%srs  f Lj-A Punds
4.1       Be it resolved, as it is hereby resolved, that
both donor-sourced funds and any OAA and other
domestically   sourced  contributions   which  are
provided for-specific  purposes and proiects would
be  utilized f'or  the  purposes  speci fied in  the
agreements  with the  relevarnt donors  and in  the
O3AA.



Annex 5
Page 5 of 9
42         Bfe it resolved, further, that earninrgs
accrtting  to  the. LLA  from  LGUs' amortization
payments  on their  borrowings, -together  with any
retained interest earnings from investments of LLA
cash  balances, could  be  useCd  in the  -following
waysi              I.
(a)  Financing  (up to  100%)  eligible LOU) investment
expendisture proposials as outlined below.
(b)  Financintg a proportion  of acgreed individutal loans
as countterpart  to. donor-soturced financing  of -the
balance of  such loans (this (night  be appropriate
where  donors   require  a   substantial  domestic
counterpart   contOibution   and   where   it   is
consisdered jiustifiable  to provide all or  part of
sttch  co:Lunterpart funds  as loans  to LOUs  rather
than seeking LOU contributions directly from their
own revenues)p
S.1       Ele it resolved, as it is htereby resolved.. that
in principle,  any-LOU woauld be  eligible to apply
for   a   loan,   siubiect-  to   its   passing   a
credit-worthiness  test specified  by the  MDF-P'O
(which  would   bet  based  both  on   the  c:urrent
financial conditidn  and on future  projections of
financial condition foir the applicant LOU).
5.2       Be it resolved, further, that the MDF-POS
shall determine priority eligibility categories of
credit--worthy LOUs  having regardp inter  alia, to
the available voltume of. LLA funds and to national
policy priorities as expressedi in the Medium Term
Philippine Development FPlan.
5.3       Be it resolved, ftlrther, that in the
determination of  priority categories' "of borrower
LGUs,   consideiratioti  shall   be  given   to  the
potential ability of strongly credit-worthy LOUs
to access alternative sources of credit finance.
6.0  Z:1 i i&J& EA DditUres fr  an. FiraLrnce
6.1       Be i t resolved, as it is hereby resolved, that
in principle, eligible LOUs  sshall be permitted to
borrow from the LLA for financing any investments
within    the    range       of    their   .aosigned
responsibilities which  flulfill specified economic
and financial criteria e.g. minimum economic rates
of   return;    disigns   which    maximize   cost
effectiveness in relation -to the obJectives seought
froem the investmen'ts; and, irn the case of directly



-60-                   Annex 5
Page 6 of 9
revenue-generatinq    investments,l    full    cost
recovery, plus other provisions  as may be allowed
uAnder  the  New   Local  Government  Code  (NLOC).
Borrowing for financing of current operational
expenditures would not be allowed.
6.2       Be it resolveds furtherp that borrowing for
the  finance  of  municipal officer  and  prestige
proJects  such as  municipal  theaters and  sports.
s tadia shall be considered not eligible.
6.3       Bae.it resolved, fuirtherp that the MDF-PGB
would '- from   time  to  time   establish  priority
categories  for  .investment  expenditure   to  be
financed from LLA loans, taking account,, inter
alia. of the volume of available LLA funds and of
current national priorities as expressed 'in the
National  Economic  Development Plan.   In  normal
cifcumstances, investments approved for LLA loan
finance would be expected to have been included in
the relevant Local Development Plans.
3    7.0  Terms dnd SgnidUans of Lendig
7.1       Be it resolved, as it is hereby r-esolved, that
the  .MDF-PGB  shall   deter-mine  the   terms  and
conditions of LLA loans1, including interest rate,
repayment  periods  and  allowable  grace  periods
within  the framework  of the  principles outlined
below.
7.2       Be it resolved, fturther, that the MDF-P0B
shall also determine appropriate penalties to,be
applied in the event ofl default by LOUs in making
loan repayments of principal and/or interest,
including a provision for recovery of arrears
through o-ffsetting from  defaulting LOUs' Internal
Revenue Allotment (IRA)  allocations where amounts
remain unpaid after a specified period from due
payment date in accordance with existing rules and
regulations.
8.0  Interest EILj
0.1       Bo it resolved, further1  that the LLA interest
rate be determined annually to apply to all loan
agreements  signed  in  thw  relevant  year.   The
interest rate prevailing during the signing of the
sub-loon  agreements would  remain  fixed for  the
duration  of  the  loan repayment  period.   These
provisions  woLuld  give   borrowing  LOUs  greater
certainty in  their futuire  repaymen7ts liabilities
than the variable interest rate hitherto in use.



-61-                   Annex 5
Page 7 of 9
8.2        Be i.t resolved4, further, that a uniform
interest  rate  vwoulcd  apply  for   all  sub-loan
a1greemnents signed in a givet-n year4i' irrespective of
fund inq saturcc?, o)f borrowing  L-OU4.: and of category
of  investment beinrc,  finvancccd .  This  arrarngement
woulId a
(a)  facilitate  the objective  o0f fostering  real
growth in  the size (i.e. the  net assets) of
- he LLA;
(b)' simplify the management antid administration of
the Ll.A  and
(c)  protmote   the  objec'tive   of  selection   of
well-itustified  LOJU investments  (by avoiding
bias in  investment selection which  could be
occasioned hy differentia:l interest rates).
8.3        De iJt resolved, further, that it is considered
that  subsidies  to  LGUs with  limited  borrowing
capacity would better be providedI through explicit
capital grants (administered throucah the 1MDF grant
mechanisms)  allied with  loans at  a uniform  LLA
interest   rate  rather   than  being   hidden  in
concessional lending terms.
8.4        Be it resolved, further, that in the initial
year (1992)  of LLA  operation, the  interest rate
would be, set  at 14 percent (14%)  per annum.  The
r"ate  wottld be  increased  annually thereafter  in
increments ofl 1.5 percent (j.5%) until  such time
as it reached a referernce level of the three month
weighted  average  interest  rate (WAIIR)  on  time
deposits  of 61-90  days.  based  on Ceritral  Bank
statistics,  plus  a  margin of  2  percent  (2X).
Thereaixfter4 it would be  adjutsted annually in line
with thtis ireference level.
9 * 0  RtQR,?t Mjni Cr em,                    .,2
9.1        Be it resolved, as it is hereby resolved. that
the, economic or  useful life  of the  investments
financed from  the LLA  lqans would  determine the
maximum repayment periods (inclutding any grace
periods) of loans. From the economic standpoint
artd for equity  considerations. future generations
should  riot  be   burdened,  thru  taxation,  with
amortizations  for  depreciated  assets  that  the
earlier  generation  ihas  incurred  and  benefited
fronm.  The periods over which loans are repaid (to
include  the grace  rperiods)  shotuld thlerefore  be



-62-                  Annex 5
Page 8 of 9
made  on a  per  investment  category basis.   The
MDF-PUS  shall issue  a  schedule showing  maximum
repayment periods per investment category based on
estimated average economic lives.
1,71.2    Be it resolved, further, that the grace
periods would only be allowed where the borrowing
LGU  is unable  immediately to  service fully  the
_VA.       loan  debt.   In  these circumstances,  the  grace
period would be based on two (2) conditions:
a) Cash flow of revenue generating projects
b)  construction period of infrastructure
projects.
10.0  Pltt.Pi,  oth. L).A.
Be it resolved, as it is hereby resolved, that all
aspects of the operation and administration of the LLA
will be handled, under the direction of the MDF-PGB
through the MDO Administrator, by a special management
- unit, referred to as the Local Loans Management Unit
(LLMU), to be established within the Special Projects
Management Service (SPMS) of.the BLGF-DOFo.            -
L11.0 FE!Jfl4S p.f.. iJa, ,,PQ 
Be it resolved, as it is herebyresolved, that on
its  creation,  the  PSA  would be  capitalized  by  sn
iniitial allocation of fifty percent (5O%) of the MOF
accumulated balance comprised of accrued repayments of
principal and interest on loan advances made together
with accrued iriterest earned  on the MDF cash balances.
Thereafter,  the   PSA  would  be  further   funded  by,
sem,estral transfers determined by the MDF-PGBO, not
exceeding   .75   percent    (.75%),   of   the   total
outstanding loan debt of local governments relating
to their  borrowings from'the MDF/LLA  at the beginning
of the relevant semester. "Earnings frominvestment of
PSA cash balances (such as time deposits and COMBO
accounts) would also be retained by the account.
12.0 YS C  ibf t .t P?  Ewi. 4F,.
Be it resolved, as it is hereby resolved, that the
permitted uses of thq PSA funds would be confined
strictly to the following:
(a) finance of releases of installments of agreed
types of MDF disbursements pending receipt of
Notice of Cash Allocation (NCA) from the DBM, such
financing,to be reimbursed to  the PSA once NCA is



-63-                        Annex 5
Page 9 of 9
r ece:ived#
¢hJ)  fIrinarnce    of    tral.ninq    ac:tivities    and    ather
ex pQII d i ttre    essn   ta. i A 1  tt    ttie     ef fective
ii. tnp 1ien ta t. iatXI  of    t he;.  procnrams;   and   pr3 ifctC
riariAnced  throtth tlti  IIDF    " for Which r1co altetrnuative
fltnd i.nq viouirrce  iLs .available.
1 3..O  inrsp:l.umsn * i n I r rartqetiier) t I
tie i t reso.lved, §final1ly, tthat cletailed
.imnplemnetitingu qtutidlines and   proceduLmal arranqeiments to
effec.t tthe provisiors ot this TJoint Resolution shall be
prort lacated  v in   a    sepaa-ate   sttppor tinra    memforanduim
approved by the IID)F-PCEi.
Done  iLn  thrse  cit.y of  Manila, thi';   5th  d.aY  trf F           e
Unanimouz i (lYlI A: #rpproved:
D:USD                  GAL.. J R.
IJnder-se cre ary'
Departmerit of F"inance
HARRY Sl. FA8MIOC                      CESAR; N . SARIND
Assi stan 1: 11 lrector-G3erieral           Actirng Stcmretary
1Matlr.ilo l Ec:conmclnlic bve elopmervt   D)eparti men t 1crf Inter  or
AtA tht-I" ity                  & Lol T'over'nment
S;A,L#PA E)R Ii.  r:+ll.iC;            E11:F;I  r* ENCATIRNACIIt)
U d.erlecrte    ary                   Undr secreta rhy
tep<r mlift of' BAud]get and          ) par t.nervi of Vubl bI: Work:s
Manaq omen t                           H lgit hways
rdIJ
I; 



- 64 -
Annex 6
Page 1 of 9
PHILIPPINES
THIRD MUNICIPAL DEVELOPENT PROJECT
The Selection of Subgrojects; The Project Cycle
1.            The process for selecting project centers (project cities or
municipalities) and determining investment programs (the subproject) involves
several stages: (a) prequalification; (b) prefeasibility; (c) preparation; and
(d) appraisal and approval.   The Project Steering Committee is involved in
approving a city or municipality for inclusion in the project at the
prequalification stage and in the final approval of the subproject. Subproject
preparation is carried out by the project center with guidance from the Central
Project Office (CPO). This process emphasizes "self-selection" as a method of
screening prospective project centers, i.e., only those project centers willing
and able to prepare viable investment projects are provided access to financing.
A. preaualification
2.          Cities and municipalities expressing interest in the project are
screened to determine whether they meet the project's eligibility criteria and
whether they are fully committed to the project. To be included in the project,
project centers need to:
(a)  have an urban population of at least 10,000 with annual population growth
of at least 2.3% per annum (the average population growth rate);
(b)  have  a  high  Incidence  of  adverse  environmental  conditions  and
infrastructure deficiencies, and a substantial concentration of people
with per capita incomes below the urban poverty threshold;
kc)  perform important regional, commercial, transportation, industrial, and
educational functions;
(d) have annual average revenues of at least P 3.0 million over the last three
years; and
(e)  for centers applying for a second or subsequent subloan, (i) have no
arrears on amortization of their debt obligations; and (ii) have
satisfactory perfoimance under previous subprojects.
These criteria eliminate most fifth and sixth class municipalities which have
limited financial capability to borrow loan funds, thus narrowing possible
project centers to about 200 cities and municipalities. The financially weaker
municipalities must continue to rely on national governiient grants for finlancial
assistance.
3.       Project centers need to confirm their commitment to the project by: (a)
passing a local council resolution endorsing the project; (b) establishing a



- 65 -
Page 2 of 9
project office with full-time staff and an operating budget for project
preparation; and (c) commiting to a package of fiscal and management reforms
which are acceptable to the CPO as being required for effective project execution
and to support debt to be incurred. At this initial stage, a clear commitment
from both the mayor and the council is required to avoid situations in which a
mayor lacks full support of the local council to undertake the subproject,
resulting in problems during subsequent phases of subproject preparation and
implementation.
4.        The CPO evaluates the project center's revenues and expenditures to
estimate the amount of counterpart funding the center could provide and the level
of debt it could service (based on an overall debt service coverage of 1.2), and
to make a preliminary estimate of the amount of the loan that could be made to
the center. If the potential loan amount is too small or if the project center
expresses an interest in borrowing more, the CPO would advise the center of its
need to increase revenues and/or reduce expenditures and agree on an action plan
and revenue and/or expenditure targets. The ability of the project center to
achieve these targets would be a critical factor during subproject appraisal.
B. g IJffaii
5.        The CPO conducts a preliminary screening of the investment proposals
put forward by the project conters and determines which ones should be considered
for further study and preliminary engineering. The CPO prioritizes and selects
investment proposals based on a point scoring system.   First,  individual
investments are screened for population served, project impact, infrastructure
deficiency, cost effectiveness and local support. Poverty impact is taken into
consideration for localized, community-based investments such as minor roads.
minor drainage, sanitation  and water supply.   Details of the  screening
methodology and points allocated are presented in Annex Table 5.1. Proposed
investments need to obtain 26 out of a total of 50 points to qualify.LL Second,
all the investments passlng the initial screening are then ranked based on
urgency, priority (points scored during the Initial screening), ease of
Implementation and other considerations. Details of the point allocations are
provided In Annex Table  5.2.   The financial evaluation conducted during
prequalification (para. 4 above) determines the overall scale of the investment
program In each project center. It is understood that the point scoring system
is very subjective; it is intended to assist the local official and CPO staff
rationalize and make transparent the selection of project components.
6.         An issue is the difficulty of systematically identifying investment
needs. At present, investments are Identified and carried out piecemeal. In
many cases, the local investment plans are "wish-lists" of projects.   Host
municipalities and many cities lack development plans or basic information, such
LI    The passing score of 26 is based on the results of traditional cost-
benefit analysis carried out on the same investments in several project
cities and municipalities.   Investments with economic rates of return
above 15% scored 26 points or higher under the point scoring system.



- 66 -
AMg 
Page 3 of 9
as an inventory of existing infrastructure facilities, to properly identify
investment priorities or establish linkages between different investments. As
a result, infrastructure is developed in a haphazard manner, e.g., road networks
are not fully developed because critical links are not identified or drainage is
not effective because the main drains are not put in.
7.           Lack of information is not necessarily a problem in evaluating
municipal markets which appear to be the first priority for most project centers.
However, it is an issue in prioritizing and evaluating road and drainange
investment proposals.
8.          The CPO requires project centers to prepare a structure plan with
defined sectoral priorities in order to identify and prioritize investment needs.
C. Preparation
9.       Preliminary engineering atzd financial and economic studies are carried
out on investments selected for inclusion in the subproject. Physical surveys
and preliminary engineering and designs are undertaken by city/municipality staff
for local components and by staff from the Department of Public Works and
Highways for national components. During the design phase, several technical
options are identified and the least-cost approach selected. Local consultants
are hired to carry out the preliminary engineering. Financial evaluation is
carried out for municipal piers, markets, slaughterhouses, bus terminals and
oother municipal enterprises. Local government staff survey beneficiaries of the
proposed investments to determine levels of demand and willingness to pay for
improvements and/or new facilities. Full economic evaluation is carried out for
Individual investments estimated to cost over P 6 million (or about US$250,000);
the cut-off level is the same in U.S. dollar terms as that established for the
Second Municipal Development Project.
D. AgporaLsaland AEL2roal
10.         The CPO conducts an appraisal of the project center's investment
program once the engineering works and investigations have been completed by the
project center. The appraisal is the final step in the selection process where
the designs, costs, fees and charges, and actions to be taken during
Implementation are agreed with the project center and the overall scale and
composition of the investment program finalized.   Based on a satisfactory
appraisal, the subproject Is approved by the Project Steering Committee for
financing through the Municipal Development Fund.
11.        Determination of the investment program is based on the following
criteria:
(a) the technical and administrative capacity of the project center to
undertake the project within a reasonable time period, Including adequjate
arrangements for tendering, bid evaluation and award, and construction
superivision;
(b) the project center's commitment to maintenance;



- 67 -
Annexi 6
Page 4 of 9
(c) provision of a mimimum 10% of local component costs as counterpart funding
(equity);
(d) debt service coverage of any project center of at least 1.2. Debt service
coverage is defined as yearly revenue from all sources tincluding local
t.axes, fees, rents, charges and national government grants) less operating
costs and maintenanice expenditures, divided by yearly debt service
liabilities to all creditors; and
(e) the national component share not to exceed 30% of subproject costs.
Additional qualified local staff may need to be hired and/or local consultants
employed to strengthen a project center's capacity to implement the project. The
project center may be required to implement measures to improve fiscal
performance, such as enforce collection of arrears on real property taxes and
revise market tariffs, as a condition for subproject approval. Performance to
date on an. agreed municipal finance action program (para. 4 above), where
applicable, would be a key consideration in determining the scale of the overall
program. These requirements would be reflected in the Subproject and Subloan
Agreements.
12.          Individual Investments are evaluated based on their technical,
financial, economic and administrative feasibility. The following are taken into
consideration in the evaluation:
(a) Design and cost estimates should be based on sound engineering and
technical practices. The CPO must confirm that the least-cost solution
has been selected.
(b)  For municipal piers, markets, slaughterhouses, bus terminals and other
municipal enterprises, the rents, fees or other charges should be set to
recover operation and maintenance costs and debt service liabilities.
(c) Investments costing over P 6 million need to have an economic rate of
return of at least 15%.
13.      The subproject needs to be approved by the local council prior to its
signing by the mayor. For public markets, bus terminals and other municipal
enterprises, the local councs1 is required to pass local ordinances approving the
revised tariff and fee structures.   These ordinances are subject to public
hearings, when the reactions of the beneficiaries and the public at large are
sought.



-68 -                         Annex 6
Page 5 of 9
ANNEX TABME 5.1: Simplified Project Screening Criteria
Set 1 : MARKE=, SLAUHEMR3HOUSE, BUS TERMINAL, SCHOOL, HEALTH CENTER AND MAJOR ROADS
A. POPULATION SERNED
A. 1.  MARENT, SLAUGaRT%%SE, BUS TERMINAL AND MAJOR ROADS
1.  High expected                         7-9 pts.   Area coverage includes adjacent
ommicipalities/cities.
2. Average expected                       4-6         irea coverage includes the whole
municipality/city.
3. Low expected                            1-3        Area coverage includes portion
of the city/municipality.
A.2. HEALTH CENTER
1. Wide range                             7-9 pts.   With more than 5,000 pop. within
service zone of 3-5 km.
2.  Average covered                       4-6        With 4,000 to 5,000 pop. within
service zone of 3-5 kn.
3.  Limited covered                       1-3        With less than 4,000 pop. within
service zone of 3-5 km.
A.3. SCHOOL
1. High Expected                          7-9 pts.   It will serve more than 70% of the
intended beneficiaries within
service zone of 0.8 to 1.6 km.
2.  Average Expected                      4-6         It will serve 50% to 70% of the
intended beneficiaries within
service zone of 0.8 to 1.6 km.
3. Low Expected                           1-3        It will serve less than 50% of the
intended beneficiaries within
service zone of 0.8 to 1.6 km.
D. PRO=ET IMPACT
B.1. Market
1. Wide beneficiaries                     7-9 pts.  All permanent sta)lholders and all
transients to be accommodated.
2. Average beneficiaries                  4-6        All permanent stallholders and some
0                                               transients to be accomodated.
3. Limited beneficiaries                  1-3        All permanent stallholders to be
accommodated.
B.2. Slaughterhouse
1. Wide coverage                          7-9 pts.   It will meet full demAnd of animals
to be slaughtered.
2. Average covered                        4-6        It will meet partial demAnd of
animals to be slaughtered.
3. Limited  coved                         1-3        It will maintain existing number of
animals being slaughtered.



- 69 -
Page 6 of 9
ol2iJ.:  Simnlified Project Screening Criteria
9.3. Bus Terminal
1.  Wide range                            7-9 pts.   It will eliminate vehicular
turn-around time when loading
unloading.
2. Average covered                        4-6         It will minimize vehicular
turn-around time by above
50% to 99% when loading and unloading
3. Limited  covered                       1-3         It will minimize vehicular
turn-around time by 50% and below
when loading and unloading.
B.4. School
1. Wide range                             7-9 pts.   More than 50 students per classroom
2. Average covered                        4-6        Bet.40 to 60 students per classroom.
3. Limited r'vered                        1-3         Less than 40 students per classroom
B.5.  Health Center
1. Wide range                             7-9 pts.   Population morbidity rate is
above 10%.
2. Average covered                        4-6         Popul%tion morbidity rate is
between 4% to 10%.
3. Limited covered                         1-3       Population morbidity rate is
below 4X.
9.6.   Major Roads
1. High                                   7-9 pts.   It is the only road connecting to
major settlements (i.e. populated
baLrangays, municipalities).
2. Average                                4-6         It is an alternate road to major
settlements (i.e. populated
barangays, municipalities)
3.  Minimal                               1-3         It will serve only the immediate
area.
C.  INFRASTUC1VRE DEFICIENCY
1.  High dogree                           7-9 pts.   Without existing facility
2.  Average deficiency                    4-6         With existing in bad condition
3. Low deficiency                          1-3        With existing in fair condition
D. cOST EMq rVENESS
1. Minimized cost I/                      7-9 pts.   Utilization of some existing struc-
tures and/or availability of cheap
materials near site.
2. Average coat                           4-6         No factors to minimize cost 1/ and
no factors for high cost. 2/
3. High cost 2/                           1-3        With additional costs such as fillinge
ROM/land acquisition and/or demo-
lishing and replacemnt of existing
structures.
S. OThPR CONSIDERATIONS
1. Full support froe all sectors           11-14 pts. Full Support from end-users, local
ofticials and CPO technical group.
2. Endorsewnt from certain sectors        6-10        Endorsement from local officials
and CPO technical group.
3. With technical recosndAtion             1-5        Recommended by CPO technical group.



- 70 -
Anner 6
Page 7 of 9
ANNEX TABL 5.1: SiMpligigd Project Screening Criteria
sEr 2 : MAJOR DRAINAGE AND SOLID WASTE
INDICATOR                   SOORE                     REMARKS
A. PrOPULATION/AREA SERVED
1.  High expected                          7-9 pts.   It will benefit more than 90% of
influence area.
2.  Average expected                        4-6        It will benefit about 70% to 90%
of influence area.
3. Low expected                             1-3        It will benefit less than 70% of
influence area.
B. PROJECT IMPACT
B.l. So.id Waste
1. High                                    7-9 pts.   Population morbidity rate due to
solid waste related sickness is
above 10%.
2. Average                                  4-6        Population morbidity rate due to
solid waste related sickness is
about 4% to 10%.
3.  Minimal                                 1-3        Population mo .4idity rate due to
solid waste related sickness is
below 4%.
9.2. MaJor Drainage
1.  High                                    7-9 pts.   It will serve as major outfall.
2.  Average                                 4-6        It will eliminate area and/or
street flooding in immediate area.
3. Minimal                                  1-3        It will minimize area and/or street
flooding.
C. INhASTh RuE DEFICIENCY
1. High degree                              7-9 pts.   Without existing facility
2. Average deficiency                       4-6        With existing in bad condition
3. Low deficiency                           1-3        With existing in fair condition
D. OOST EFFErTIVENESS
1. Hinimimed cost 1/                        7-9 pts.   Utilization of some existing struc-
tures and/or availability of cheap
materials near site.
2.  Average cost                            4-6        No factors to minimize cost 1/ and
no factors for high cost. 2/
3.  High cost 2/                            1-3        With additional costs iuch as filling,
ROW/land acquisition and/or demo-
lishing and replacement of existing
structures.
E. OM19 OONSIDERATIONS
1.  Full support from *Il sectors           11-14 pts. Full Support from end-users, local
officials and CPO technical group.
2. a dorseaint from certain e2ctors         6-10       Ehdorsement from local officials
and CPO technical group.
3. With technical recommendation            1-5        Recommended by CPO technical group.



-71-
Page  8  of  9
hi~LhMLi1: SmoliiedProject Screening Griteria
SET 3   MINOR ROADS, MINOR DRAINAOE, SANtTATI(IN, WATTEn SIJPPLY
INDICATOR                   S(ORiF ItNRKLS
A. SOCI0-PIHYSICAL STATUS                                  *%ve. *nrfiatul i.neoe/hoisehokId
I. Low In.ne-depreemsd area                 7-9 pts.       P 40l,000 nu.d ix low
2.  Middle Tncome                            I-n            PA 1,001 - 1) 100,000
3. Upper Middle Income-Semi                  1-a            Pl0o,n00 in I ovei*
affliuent area
D. DENSJTS AND POPUIATION SElVED
1. High density - maximnum expected         7-9 pts.  Iligh: ..#.wr 5l0 jxersons/hoetare
2. Average density - average expected    1-fl           A%-.: 2n-flo pe,acrsa/hectare
3.  Low density - below expected             1-3        IAuw  : IA!Iow 20 persons/hectare
C. TNFRASTRUCiURE DEFTCYENCY
1. High degree                               .-9 pt.s.   Wi Iiai in i¢iil ing friaility
2. Average deficiency                       4-1(        WiIh e% i-.itirig in itd condition
3.  lew deficienc.y                          I -3       Wii. L'XiSt.inig in lf*ir conditior
D. cOST EPF=IVENESS
1.  Minimized cost I/                        7-9 p1a.   1:1 Ii I i  i.ro a* l.xn., e' ist i ng struc-
tures awld/or availability of cheap
noltiri.i1s nenr site.
2. Average cost                              l-fi       No foo Iurs to minimize cost I/ and
940> 1;tutiovs flor hijh cost.. 2/
3. High cost 2/                              1-3        With a.1ditional conts such as filling,
RflW/latl a.qli(isiI.icim *.ndl/or demo-
I h-l.iaag diSkl ri.placement. of existing
?%I #114 lut. ..
E. OTama ONSIDERATIONS
1.  ru1l aupport. from it I ei.Wtrtirs       11i- jas. riii spltirti re-aue lu,gj lg,ty captain,
lot.7 *UfflI.i.Sl  1,*llHi. (PO tecth-
111t'&s *'i""'ll.
2.  Fjidorsemnt from certain sectors         6-10       Eslortsenmeeut. 1'r xfa    lical officials
jind CMV  t. 0.1o.1 yrnhlsp.
3. With technical recoMendatiOnI -fi                    RnconirJ,lodh tq% dO techuikcal group.
llTQIWtlT SCORE iS s0 POINTS.
PASSING; SOORE FOR PRWJEW'r SCREENING IS 26 POItflS AND AWIYWVI.
IF PAWWI OITAYINE ADOVIE 26 POTNTI, 1'I.1-4W'4V P1O(fl) 'IV S) l.MPLIFI1i.) rRWINIT RIORUITTZATION



- 72 -
Annex f
Page 9 of 9
>AEXC TABLLE..2: Siumlified Project Priori-tization Criteria
PRIORIIY INDICATOR              SCORE                     REMARKS
A. URG4ECY
1. Very Urgent                              11-15 pts. The need for immediate implementation
is very critical.
2. Urgent                                  6-10        The need for immediate implementation
is critical.
3. Less Urgent                              1-5        No immediate need to implement the
project.
B. CRDER OP PRO ORITIIE                                  Based on total score in SPS.
1. First preference                       7-9 pts.       42 to 50 pts.
2. Second preference                      4-6            34 to 41 pts.
3. Ihird preference                        1-3           26 to 33 pts.
C. IMPLEMENTABILITY
1. Good Chance                             7-9 pts.   There is no foreseen problem in
implementation such as ROW/land
acquisition; squatter dislocation;
legal and administrative conflict
with other agencies or certain
sectors; etc.
2. Fair Chance                             4-6        There is/are foreseen minor problems
in implementation such as R0W/land
acquisition; squatter dislocation;
legal and administrative conflict
with other agencies or certain
sectors; etc.
3. Unlikely Chance                         1-3        There is/are foreseen major problems
in implementation such as ROW/land
acquisition; squatter dislocation;
legal aid administrative conflict
with other agencies or certain
sectors; etc.
D. INCIUSION IN PRIORITY LISTINGS
1. National                               6 pts.     Identified in Regional Development
ProJects.
2. Regional                               4          Identified in Provincial Development
Programs.
3. Provincial                             2          Identified in City/Municipal
Development Programs Concerned.
RAUK FR0ECTS FROM HIGHT (48 PIS.) TO LOWEST (6 PTS.).



- 73 -
&=nx 7
Page 1 of 4
PHILIPIN
THIRD MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Environmental As6ects
A. Environmental Problems In the Project Cities and Municipalities
1.      Most of the cities and municipalities in the Philippines are faced with
adverse environmental conditions resulting from, among others: (a) uncollected
garbage and open dumping and burning of solid waste; (b) unsanitary public
markets and slaughterhouses; (c) dumping of animal waste from slaughterhouses
into waterways; (d) inadequate sanitation and dumping of sewage into waterways;
and (e) lack of proper drainage, causing stagnant water and flooding.
2.       These conditions have been brought about mainly through high national
population growth, rising urbanization and a lack of commensurate investment in
basic infrastructure and municipal services.   During 1980-90, the national
population grew at an annual average rate of 2.3%, increasing from 48.0 million
people in 1980 to 60.5 million in 1990.   Along with the growth in overall
population, a significant number of people migrated from rural to urban areas.
In 1980 approximately 37% of the population or about 17.9 million people were
urban dwellers. By 1990 the urban population was estimated to have reached 29
million people or 48% of the total. Rural life styles, such as the dumping of
garbage and human waste in open waterways, were no longer acceptable in the
cities with their higher population densities.
3.         Now, existing infrastructure facilities are inadequate to meet the
demand for services from the ever-increasing urban population. The capacity for
service delivery has been further diminished because many of the systems are old
and dilapidated and are unable to operate at peak efficiency. The increase in
demand for services has also outpaced, by a wide margin, the ability of both tho
national and local governments to provide additional capacity. The result is
that levels of service are deteriorating and problems relating to environmental
pollution and public health are increasing.
B. Incorporation_of Environmental Concerns-in-the Proect Design
4.        The Third Municipal Development Project (MDP III) comprises a large
number of small-scale infrastructure engineering and municipal service components
in a wide range of cities and municipalities throughout the country. It offers
a good opportunlty to local government to make a significant impact in improving
environmental protection. The problems in the areas of public health, water
supply, sanitati.on, drainage and solid waste management, are all within the scope
of MDP III. Other aspects of environmental protection such as noise control and
atmosphetic pollution are beyond the scope of MDP III, although a minor impact
in these areas may be achieved through improved traffic management procedures.
S.          Envircnmental concerns would be taken into consideration in the
formulation of investment programs under the project.   As part of project



- 74 -
Annex 7
Page 2 of 4
preparation, the local governments would under the guidance of the Central
Project Office (CPO):
(a)   undertake a careful assessment of the possible environmental impact of
each project component. This should include an evaluation of the effects
and actions that one sector may have on another. For example, improved
drainage may not be fully effective if solid waste collection is
neglected, and road rehabilitation may have a limited life if the area is
subjected to frequent flooding due to inadequate drainage;
(b)   give careful consideration to the location and site selection criteria for
high-risk facilities with the potential for causing pollution.   These
include solid waste disposal sites and slaughterhouses;
(c)   provide alternative sites and adequate compensation to squatters and other
residents displaced through the project;
(d)   obtain locational and design clearances from the responsible regulatory
agencies, such as the Department of Energy and Natural Resources and
National Meat Inspection Commission, for facilities such as landfills and
slaughterhouses;
(e)   ensure that the project design includes adequate and effective safeguards
to mitigate pollution problems;
(f)   develop,  introduce and monitor operational and management plans for
facilities such as markets, slaughterhouses and solid waste disposal sites
to ensure that pollution and environmental damage do not occur as a result
of day-to-day activities; and
(g)   introduce a system of regular and routine maintenance to keep facilities
in good operating condition. This would include activities such as drain
cleaning and septic tank emptying.
The CPO would review the environmental aspects of the investment proposals
submitted by the local governments during the appraisal of the subprojects.
6.        Public markets and paving/rehabilitation of urban roads are expected
to account for the bulk of the investments under the project. The emphasis will
be on the rehabilitation of dilapidated public market facilities and attention
will be given to providing: water supply for wet sections (fish and meat);
drainage; refuse collection, storage, and removal; public toilets; and traffic
management.
7.      Landfill site and slaughterhouse investments have the largest potential
for causing pollution and other negative impacts on the environment.   The
landfills and slaughterhouses will be designed to mitigate pollution, e.g.,
slaughterhouse designs will include facilities for the treatment and disposal of
waste products and animals condemmed as unfit for human consumption. Proper
sanitary landfill methods of operation will be introduced and facilities designed
accordingly; site drainage, fencing to control wind-blown litter and for
security, and leachate control systems will be provided. Detailed operational



- 75 -
Annex 7
Page 3 of 4
and management plans will be prepared for each landfill site showing the sequence
of tipping, compacting and covering of cells. The provision of suitable material
for covering and capping will be included in the operational plan.
8.       The investmen,' program would have to be approved by the local council
in each city and municipality. At that time, the program would be submitted to
a public hearing, and various interested parties would be given an opportunity
to voice their concerns and opinions.
9.      To the extent that the environmental problems reflect weaknesses in the
system in place in the country as a whole, system-wide solutions would need to
be sought. First, although local and national governments are beginning to take
a greater interest in the environmental impact of investment projects, the
procedures to conduct a full environmental impact assessment are not necessarily
in place. The CPO would develop environmental assessment guidelines to be used
in the review of subprojects in collaboration with the Bank based on the Bank's
Environmental Assessment Sourcebook. This would be carried out through a series
of workshops to be conducted with staff from the Bank's Environment Division,
Asia Technical Department, during the second half of 1992 and early 1993 and is
reflected in the Supervision Plan (Annex 10 (a)). Staff from the Environmental
Management Board are expected to participate  in these workshops.   These
guidelines would also provide a basis for local governments to conduct
environmental assessment of their own investments and would be part of the
environment training under the Municipal Training Program.  In addition, the
Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) will develop the procedures and
capacity to conduct environmental impact assessments for national infrastructure
Investments through technical assistance to be provided under the Highway
Management Project.   The procedures developed for DPWH as a whole would be
incorporated in the CPO'S guidelines.
10.      Second, the prevalence of open dumping reflects the fact that sanitary
landfill techniques and practices are not well known in the Philippines. There
is a severe shortage of skilled designers, managers and operators able to
effectively introduce this system, particularly in the provincial areas.  A
substantial training program in the planning, design, construction and operation
of sanitary landfills is therefore urgently required. The proposed environmental
sanitation study under the project's technical assistance component would look
into appropriate technical choices, institutional arrangements, and capacity
building requirements for sewerage, drainage and household waste disposal,
including disposal of solid waste.   No landfill components would be funded
through the project before this study is completed.
C. The Environmental ImDact of the Project
11.      The project is expected to have a positive environmental impact.  There
are significant health benefits to having clean and hygenic conditions at public
markets and slaughterhouses for the preparation, handling, storage and display
of food for human consumption, particularly fish and meat.   Slaughterhouse
Improvements financed under the project would provide humane and hygenic
facilities for the slaughter of animals for human consumption, reduce the
incidence of illegal and backyard slaughtering, and enhance public health
standards through more rigorous meat inspection and safer preparation, handling



- 76 -
AnmexZ
Page 4 of 4
and storage practices. Improvements in flood control and drainage systems funded
under the project should reduce flooding, damage to private property and
infrastructure, and disruption to economic activities and social life. And, the
proper disposal methods allowed by project-financed landfill investments should
result in reduced air pollution from burning and possible contamination of
groundwater.



- 77 -
Annex 8 (a)
Page 1 of 4
THIRD MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJ:CT
Hunicigal Develonment Fund;InstLtitutional Study
Draft Outline Terma of Reference
A. Backgroun
1.       Credit has been a significant source of financing for local government
capital expenditures  in most developed countries.    By  financing capital
investments through borrowings, local governments are able to smooth out lumpy
infrastructure investments and development costs can be shared equitably between
present and future beneficiaries by amortizing payments over the life of the
Investment.   Credit financing may, among other things,  take the form of
government loans, borrowing from private and government financial institutions,
or bonds.   The main source of local government credit may be municipal
development banks, as in some European countries, or the bond market, as in the
the United States.   The actual  form of lending reflects the historical
circumstances under which municipal lending developed in the country. In many
countries, the national government played or continues to play a role in the
establishment and growth of municipal lending.
2.           In the Philippines, credit is not widely used to finance local
government development projects. Local governments have limited revenues and are
unable to carry a significant debt burden. Most lending to local governments to
date has primarily been for public markets. On the other hand, the need for
investment financing is large. The supply of government services and facilities
has not kept pace with increased demand, resulting in congested roads, flooding
due to inadequate drainage facilities, unsanitary public markets and
slaughterhouses, and uncollected garbage. Local governments in the Philippines
would therefore benefit from loan financing to meet their investment needs.
3.      In 1984, the Government of the Philippines established an institutional
framework to provide local governments vith increased access to credit and to
coordinate that assistance.   In addition to financial resources, the local
governments needed assistance in formulating investment programs and Identifying
and preparing projects, given their lack of experience in carrying out
significant investment programs and limited technical and financial capabilities
at the local level. The framework consisted of: (a) an inter-agency steering
committee for coordination and policy guidance; (b) a Central Project Office
(CPO) under the Department of Public Works and Higiways (DPWH) to determine the
creditworthiness of subloan applicants, appraise subloans, and assist project
cities and municipalities with preparation of investment proposals and project
implementation; and (c) a Municipal Development Fund (HDF) within the Department
of Finance (DOF) to administer subloans.   This arrangement reflected the
institutional strengths and responsibilities of the various government agencies;
DPWH had experience in handling investment project and DOF was responsible for
administrative oversight over local government finances.



- 78 -
Page 2 of 4
4.       The MDF was established as a revolving fund under Presidential Decree
1914. The fund was to act as a channel for passing on foreign loans, assistance
and grants to local governments. Local governments' payment of interest and
repayment of principal provided under MDF loans accrue to the Fund and are relent
for similiar local investments.   In addition to providing loans to local
governments, the MDF has been used to monitor and release foreign funds and local
counterpart funds for foreign-assisted projects.
5.        The World Bank has supported the Government's efforts to assist the
local governments  through two Municipal Development Projects.   The First
Municipal Development Project (Loan 2435-PH), aimed at cities and municipalities
outside of Metro Manila, was approved in 1984, and a Second Project (Loan
3146-PH), aimed at cities and municipalities wlthin Metro Manila and its
immediate surrounding provinces, was approved in December 1989. After a slow
start following the political changes in 1986, project implementation has
improved significantly in recent years, with increasing numbers of cities and
municLpalities expressing interest ln receiving loan financing. The proposed
Third Hunicipal Development Project would follow on the first project and provide
additional financing for local governments outside of Metro Manila.
6.       A key long-term objective of the Bank projects is to institutionalize
credit as a form of financing for local government capital expenditures.
B. The Need for an Institutional Review
7.      The growth in the number of project cities and municipalities under the
Bank's Municipal Development Projects (and requests for financing from even more)
necessitated a review of the projects'  institutional arrangements.    The
increasing number of local governments and their increasing needs have
overstretched the institutional arrangements and procedures originally developed
ln the mid-1980s (para. 3). These were established on a pilot basis and were
expected to evolve over time as experience was gained with lending to local
governments.   Adjustments are consequently being made to MDF administrative
procedures and a policy statement and implementation plan for the MDF have been
developed for implementation under the proposed project. A Loan Loans Account
(LUA) will be established in the MDF to separate the Fund's lending operations
from its grant adminLstration functions. The policy statement and the LLA are
intended to be medium- term measures. A basic revlew of the institutional options
would be needed to establish a long-term institutional vision and goals for a
system to provide local governments with access to credit financing. This review
would be carried out under the proposed project.
8.        The Government's decentralizatlon policies are expected to result in
basic changes in national-local government relations.   The Government has
acknowledged that the provinces, cities and municipalities should play a larger
role ln economLc and social development and is proposing to shift more
responsibilities to the local govetnnments as part of its emphasis on
decentralizatLon. The revised Local Govirnment Code, signed by the President ln
October 1991, changes many of the existing laws and regulations governing
national-local government relationships, Increases resource transfer to the local
governments, and devolves many of the functions currently undertaken by natLonal



- 79 -
Annex 8 (a)
Page 3 of 4
agencies to the local governments. Under the revised Local Government Code, the
national government agencies would play a policy determination and supervisory
role and relinquish most of their direct administrative controls, The Department
of Finance would rely more on indirect measures, such as a combination of grants
and loans, to guide the financial development of the local governments. There
is thus a need to institutionalize the use of credit in a decentralized
environment. The proposed study would also address this need.
C. Objectives of the Study
9.        The objectives of the study would be to:
(a) Determine the role of credit, including the relationship to other
instruments such as grants, and identify appropriate uses for different
debt-related instruments (loans from government and private financial
institutions, bonds and guarantees);
(b) Identify institutional alternatives for providing local governments with
access to credit and recommend the most appropriate arrangement; and
(c) Develop an action plan for setting up such a system.
D. ScoRe of Work
10.       The study would review the existing situation which would include but
not be limited to:
(a) The financial relationship between national and local governments,
including laws and regulations governing the flow of funds between
national and local governments and between local governments;
(b) Local government operations at the provincial, city and municipal level,
including investment planning and budgeting, financial management
including debt management, and project execution; and
(c) Existing institutional arrangements, including, but not limited to, the
PREMIUMED CPO, the MMINUTE Project Management Office, the MDF,(especially
experience under the LLA) and other institutions involved with lending to
local governments, such as the Development Bank of the Philippines.
11.      Based on this review, the consultant would prepare recommendations on:
(a) The role of credit and its relationship to grants;
(b) Debt-related instruments appropriate for financing local governments in
the Philippines; and
(c) Alternative institutional arrangements and a recommendation on the best
alternative for the Philippines.



- 80 -
Annex 8 (a)
Page 4 of 4
Significant differences in financial, technical and administrative capacity exist
between local governments. The national government would consequently need to
employ a different combination of grants and loans and other debt instruments to
promote local development.   The consultant would need to identify critical
functions to be performed by the national government (e.g., creditworthiness
analysis, monitoring of fiscal performance at the local level) and recommend
several alternative insitutional arrangements for carrying out these functions.
The future evolution of the CPO, MMINUTE Project Management Office, and the MDF
would be taken into consideration in developing the institutional options.
12.      After agreement with the Government on the preferred alternative, the
consultant would develop an Action Plan for establishing the necessary
organizations. The Action Plan would include, but not be limited to, proposed
organizativLial and administrative changes, legislative actions required, and
technical assistance and training requirements.
13.      The study is expected to involve about 48 person-months of both foreign
and local consultant inputs over a 12-month period. The Municipal Development
Fund Governing Board would provide policy guidance to the study. The consultants
would report to the Executive Director of the Municipal Development Fund.
E. ReRorts
15.       The consultants are expected to produce the following reports during
the course of the study:
(a) Inceation Report: Within one month, an inception report outlining initial
observations and detailed work program.
(b) InteSLm ReRoxt: Within six months, an interim report outlining the use of
credit, possible debt instruments and alternative institutional options.
The Steering Committee would provide the consultants with their response
to the interim report within three weeks.
(c) Final Rggort: Within 11 months, a draft final report incoporating the
Action Plan.   The consultants would finalize the report incorporating
comments from the Steering Committee.



- 81 -
Annex 8 (b)
Page 1 of 3
PHILIPPINES
THIRD MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Urban Environment and Solid Waste Manaa&ement Study
Draft Outline Terms of Reference
A. Background
1.       In the Philippines, the provision of infrastructure and basic services
has not kept pace with the increase in demand brought about by urbanization.
This has resulted in deteriorating environmental conditions in the cities. The
urban population increased from 18 million (37% of total population) in 1980 to
an estimated 29 million (48%) in 1990. The Government is uniable to provide the
rapidly growing population with many basic urban services, infrastructure and
facilities, and poor roads, inadequate drainage facilities, unsanitary public
markets and slaughterhouses, and uncollected garbage are common in many
Philippine cities.
2.          A key environmental concern in the cities is poor solid waste
management.   Traditional dumping of household waste into waterways and open
areas, which may have been acceptable in rural areas, is not appropriate in
densely populated urban settings.   However,  this practise continues  and
significant amounts of garbage are left uncollected, creating health hazards for
city residents, clogging waterways and worsening the flooding problem. What is
collected is dumped at open sites and often burned, contaminating groundwater
resources and causing extensive air pollution. Special provisions are generally
not made for dealing with toxic industrial wastes or hazardous hospital wastes.
While Smokey Mountain in Manila has become notorious through images of small
children and women scavenging on smoke-filled mounds of garbage, the same open
dump sites exist in most cities in the Philippines.
3.       Experience to date under solid management components in Bank-assisted
projects has identified a clear need to review the overall regulatory framework
for solid waste disposal and develop technical standards, policies on cost
recovery and financing, technical assistance and training programs at the
national level to complement operations at the local level. The ongoing Regional
Cities Development Project (Loan 2257-PH) built sanitary landfills in Cagayan De
Oro and Iloilo. The designs were prepared by foreign consultants who trained
city staff in landfill operations upon completion of the sites. However, there
was no support for the cities once the foreign consultants had completed their
assignment. Similiarly, only modest efforts have been made to date in solid
waste management under the ongoing First Municipal Development Project (Loan
2435-PH) because of lack of technical skills at the local level and support in
the national government. The Bank is also preparing a Metro Manila Solid Waste
Management Project, which has highlighted the lack of both environmental
guidelines for solid waste disposal and of technical expertise by both the
national and local governments as well as the private sector.   In order to
sustain environmental improvements in solid waste management, there is now an



- 82 -
Annex 8 (b)
Page 2 of 3
urgent need to develop an institutional capacity in this regard at the national
level to provide policy guidance and technical support to local governments.
B. -he Need for the Study
4.       There is an urgent need to introduce modern solid waste collection and
disposal  practices  in  the  Philippines.    Solid  waste  management  is  a
responsibility of the local governments which are expected to play a greater role
in the country's development process under the revised Local Government Code.
Environmentally sound practices, such as sanitary landfills, are relatively new
in the Philippines and the technology not well understood or widely accepted.
Most cities lack the staff to deal with the technical, environmental and
organizational  issues  related to solid waste management.    As a result,
inappropriate, traditional methods of collection and disposal continue to be
used.
S.           Environmentally sound solid waste management practices could be
Introduced through demonstration projects and development of an institutional
capacity within the national government to promote the use of new techniques
among the local governments.
C. QObictives of the Study
6.       The objective of the Study would be to recommend: (a) improvements in
solid waste planning, collection and disposal, in about four regional cities; and
(b) an institutional framework within the national government to provide
oversight, policy guidance, technical assistance and support for solid waste
management by local governments in the Philippines.
D. Scone of Jork
7.        Consultants would be engaged to carry out the following:
(a) review solid waste operations in about four regional cities (to be
determined), including but not limited to, the planning, budgeting and
organization of operations, efficiency of refuse collection and disposal,
environmental impact and cost recovery;
(b) project waste generation over a 20-year period based on economic and
population projections and the -haractpristics of household, commercial
and industrial waste;
(c) develop alternative solid waste collection and/or disposal methods and
Investment plans, and recommend the least-cost option;
(d) recommend improvements in the organizetion and financing of solid waste
operations, including increased involvement by private operators and/or
community groups in the collection and/or disposal of waste; and
(a) review the institutional framework governing solid waste operations and
recommend measures to be taken to strengthen policy guidance, supervision,



- 83 -
Annex 8 (hl
Page 3 of 3
technical assistance to local governments, and training of local officials
within the national government.
8.       The study is expected to involve about 24 person-months of foreign and
60 person-months of local consultants over a 12-month period. The consultants
are expected to report to the Department of Public Works and Highways.
E. Regorts
9.        The consultants are expected to produce the following reports during
the course of the study:
(a) Inntion Re. ort: Within one month, the consultants would produce an
inception report outlining initial observations and detailed work program.
(b)  Interim Report: Within six months,  the consultants would produce an
interim report outlining: (i) collection and disposal method proposals,
possible sites, and investment proposals for the pilot cities; and (ii)
issues in the existing institutional arrangements at the national level
and developing options for change.
(c) Final &Reot: Within 12 months, the consultants would produce a draft
final report, including completed prefeasibility studies for investment
programs in the pilot cities and recommendations for institutional change
and development within the natioral government.



-84-
AU
'U~~~~~~~~S



- 85 -
AnnR^XJJQ (L0
Page 1 of 2
PHILIPP
THIRD MUNICIPAL DEVELOMENT PROJECT
Supervision Elan
Bank Supervision
1.         The main emphasis of project supervision during the initial stages
would be to follow-up: (a) the restructuring and staffing of the Central Project
Office (CPO) and the DOF's Special Project Management Service (SPMS);
(b) implementation of the Municipal Development Fund/Local Loans Account
(MDF/LLA) Policy Statement; and (c) development of detailed environmental
assessment guidelines based on the Bank's Environment Assessment Sourcebook
through a series of workshops. During project implementation, the supervision
missions would need to conduct the following activities in the field on a regular
basis in addition to monitoring progress: (a) sample review of bid and award of
contracts; (b) adequacy of supervision activities of the CPO and the quality of
work in the field; (c) status of the MDF/LLA portfolio. Supervision missions in
the field should attempt to visit one or more project cities and municipalities
during each trip. This would add to the length of stay in the field.
2.       The Bank project team should consist of an economist/financial anaylst
and a municipal engineer for regular supervision activities. At least once a
year, an detailed supervision should be carried out of the pilot maintenance
component, the Municipal Training Program and the Real Property Tax
Administration (RPTA) Program for which c:onsultants would need to be engaged.
An environmental engineer would assist in development of the environmental
assessment guidelines during the initial stage of project implementation.
Supervision requirements for the project are expected to be high: about 15 to 18
staff-weeks during the intial period and about 12-15 staff-weeks thereafter. A
summary of key inputs is provided on the following page.
Contribution by the Borrower
3.       The CPO will be overall coordinator for the project and responsible for
preparl.sg progress reports and materials for the Bank missions.  The SPMS would
provide detailed information on the financial status of the MDF and
implementation and impact of the RPTA Program. The LGA would provide detailed
information on the Municipal Training Program.   Supervision missions would
present their findings to the Project Steering Committee; the CPO as the
secretariat to the committee would assist in preparation of the materials.



- 86 -                   Annex 10 (a)
Page 2 of 2
PHILIPPINES
THIRD MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supervision Plan
Approximate                                          Expected Skill          Staff
Dates                Activity                      Requirements           Input
8/92    Supervision Mission                Task manager                     3.0
(review project status, impact of
local elections and prepare
environmental workshop)
11/92   Supervision Mission                Economist/Financial Analyst      2.0
review: (i) preparation of 1993   Municipal Engineer                2.0
work program, with special         Treining Specialist              2.0
emphasis on training program;      Municipal Finance Specialist    2.0
(ii) 1993 MDF lending rate;        Environmental Specialist         3.0
(iii) reorganization of SPMS;
(v) RPTA computerization action
plan; (vi) enviromental workshop
5/93    Supervision Mission                Economist/Financial Analyst      2.0
(review project status, special   Municipal Engineer                2.0
emphasis on maintenance component Maintenance Engineer              3.0
and environmental workshop)        Environmental Specialist         3.0
11/93   Supervision Mission                Economist/Financial Analyst      2.0
(review project status,           Municipal Engineer                2.0
special emphasis on RPTA           Municipal Finance Specialist    3.0
program)
1994    Two Supervision Missions           Economist/Financial Analyst      4.0
Municipal Engineer               4.0
Various Specialist               4.0
1995    Two Supervision Missions           Economist/Financial Analyst      4.0
Municipal Engineer               4.0
Various Specialists              4.0
1996    Two Supervision Missions           Economist/Financial Analyst      4.0
Municipal Engineer               4.0
Various Specialist               4.0
1997    Two Supervision Missions           Economist/Financial Analyst      4.0
Municipal Engineer               4.0
Various Specialist               4.0
1998    Two Supervision Missions           Economist/Financial Analyst      4.0
Municipal Engineer               4.0
Various Specialist               4.0



- 87 -
Annex 10 (b)
THIRD MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Monitoring Indices
992    1993      1994     1995     1996     1997    1998
MUNICIPAL LENDING:
Cumulative Suhloan Approvalt  (no.)                            15       25       35       50       78       78        78
CtawlmtIve Subloan Cosmitments (P million)                    270      468      685     1045     1782    1782    1782
Cumulative Subt on Releases (P million)                        16      285      570      873     1319     1586     1782
REAL PROPERTY TAX ADNINISTRATION:
CLmutltive Coapleted Real Property
Tax Units (no.)                                                        837    1503      1984    2090
MUNICIPAL TRAINING PROGRAH:
Cumulative Courses Conducted (no.)                                      42       84      120      156
Total Participants                                                    2620    5240    7140    9040



- 88 -
Annex 1
PHIIIZE
THIRD MUNICIUPL D[EEVLPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
(in US$ mdllion)
Disbursements            Profile
Semester
Bank FY        Ending        Semester   Cumulative      Project    Country
93      Dec. 31, 1992         0.4          0.4           14           0%
Jun. 30, 1993        3.6           4.0           6%           6%
94      Dec. 31, 1993         3.9          7.9          12%          18%
Jun. 30, 1994        6.6          14.5          21%          22%
95      Dec. 31, 1994         6.9         21.4          31%          26%
Jun. 30, 1995        6.6          28.0          41%          34%
96      Dec. 31, 1995         6.6         34.6          51%          42%
Jun. 30, 1996        7.4          42.0          62%          50%
97      Dec. 31, 1996         6.4         48.4          71%          62%
Jun. 30, 1997        5.6          54.0          79%          74%
98      Dec. 31, 1997         5.5         59.5          80%          82%
Jun. 30, 1998        3.0          62.5          92%          90%
99      Dec. 31, 1998         3.1         65.6          96%          98%
Jun. 30, 1999        2.4          68.0         100%         100%
Closing Date: June 30, 1999.



- 89 -
PHILIPPI=E
ZJI8D LUEICIPL DEVELOPMENI_ =QACT
Documents in Prolect Files
1. PREMIUMED Central Project Office
a. "PREMIUMED I1-Peasibility Study", March 1991.
b. "Screening/Prioritization Methodologies", July 1991
2. Department of Finance
"Revised PREMIUMED 2 (MDP 3) RPTA Project Proposal", July 1991
3. Local Government Academy
"Municipal Training Program 2", July 1991.
4. Mission Working Sheet: Cost Estimates and Financing Requirements



MAP SECTION



IBRD 23396
PHILIPPINES
QNIFK1NOFPW/INC
VOMRAP>I'm"OfG                                        THIRD MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I 1LOCOS             VI WrERN 1SAYAS                                            Bosco
20,      1 !loco Norts           38 Aklod                                      So
2  *CO, Sur            39 Ca                                                                    °     PROVINCE CAPItALS
3 W U1,bnC              40 =Ad,qu*                             8TA
4 Plangosinan          41 lloilo                               BTNEB                            ®     NATIONAL CAPITAL
CORDIliEiA ADUN.YJYVE   42 Negro. OclcCdl
. 5 Abm           I   ENTA43 GulnMYA                               4                                  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
6 Klno.Apayao          44 CEbu                                       > 
7 KoIurin PAoviney      44 Nuro-rinfl                                                                 REGION BOUNDARIES
8 iGoa                 46 Bohol
9 5engue               47 Slquljor                      A                                       -     INTIERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
CAGAYAN VALlY    v'i EA1Rltu1SAYAS
I oBaftne                48Northern Sartr                          6
1 1 Cagayan              49 W.brnmin Somor
12 shaela                50 Easrlrn8 amar                                  XD' 9ro
I13 Nvov nioo            51 t oAyt4                                                re
1 4 Quiinoe             52 S  114m Litl                 Via        o4~ I                 KILOMLTERS 0           100        200       300
III CENMRAL LIUZON     lx    53 6111ran                        I             12~    0IiO9 a         M IE    I~ 5           I          I 
15Nwv0E4ii5       IX I53         4 WETER r                  7c              oLES b                            dso      *oo       io       260
6 Tao`r                 54 Zambonga del Norbio
1? Zorolor.              559 amitnboorae5     SanlnSndu r                         i
1 8 iA1impO1go          56 fBa,iiit ?loo   obor   1
1 9 Safgon              57 Suluj,                            ~        1
20 Suabre,               58 TcwiIwi              uc
WtIIONA CAPFEAI.    X  NOTF N  N                              0                                                                                   16'
REGION (NCR)             59 $uar1548 de Nods                     1 
IVSOUTHERNTACOAJO          460 CanmillirA
21 Aurora                61 Auon        l  lN6ode                c    2
22 0 1on 162 MieamisOriel                                                 L UZ  ON
23 Reae                  63 MiamlerOcldenah l9
24 Covb                  64 Bukidnron                 r-  18
25 l0n908                65 AeaondelSur                v             a      'I3 )                        PHILIPPINE SEA
26 Blanrgns        Xi SOUTHORNDA                              C
-q7 Wdnduqim      66 $rigoet41lout                                    v
28 MwndoroQrie.ni        67  10oIr.rftla
29 l*dero Occidental     68 Daow. 4e1 Node.
30 Romnbioi              69 DaveorCASArarDUAES
31 A3IO1wo11             70 Sooth C*fbo*o
V  81COL              XII CEN7    L : NUI°AO                                                             A
-32 Camacinst Node       71 bnoordel Node
33 Camornin Sur         72 IcnooedlSur
34 ConIorduoen.          73 Notdh Cotabot,               IV
35 AJbOy                 74  A4guinatdntoe
36 Sorsogn               75 Suan Kudar,t
37 Mtsbto/ ..                                                                                                        on
12'                                                                                                                                                   12'
SC)UJH CI-liNA
PALA
This mapl hosfreP°,¢ boonX                                                   V  I S tes           ( d        <     } S          5
TheWkoilnVosfo ftlil                                                                                        O
for th" con,eriea n  of 1eadt4s
ocd is *xetfsoi_  for the            ,                                             tPu.rro Parncm
ict,noo ao oF Th World Sock 
CqoupT7bo denordwoeloos us d         3c
o,d the bouedoreos showno
od this %do not imphonhe o                                                                               jor 60   nndg
65
pa r c h r  1 ibon n do,j n. G o p  /r                                                                   to      0                   b e j d
ecdronero o Zr toO'cepone< ony                                                                                              6  esyn      5q
8'                                                                                                                    8'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
.Er                                                                                /       ;   tg$lnw  °rPACIFIC  Colo
I *tX              C.v'CIA                                                                                                               ti/ /  9D g>
sc,u rj        HLPPNSLb
.uI-IINA    4k      t                                                                              ta
SfU .NIA                                                                                 b    Secn
MNE                                                           SULU5t 
tMA^StAv/r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AC 19>=t



