Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8390
PROJEC.T COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT I
(LOAN 1414-PH)
FEBRUARY28, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
Asia Regional Office
Thi documen. has a resrited dtbutdon md may be used by     omdy In the pedonname of
dir offkial duies Its coten  may  et otewie be diclosed w  Wordd Bank authoizwaton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Appraisal Estimate               -          US$1.00 - P 7.44
Intervening Years Average       -                     P10.88
Completion tear Average         -                     P20.50
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
DOB           -         Department of Health
ERR           -         Economic Rate of Return
GOP           -         Goverment of Philippines
NIA           -         National Irrigation Administration
NISIP I       -         National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project I
O & X         -         Operation and Maintenance
OED           -         Operation Evaluations Department
PCR           -         Project Completion Report
SAR           -         Staff Appraisal Report
GOVERNMENT OF THE PHILIPPINES
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FMl OVFlOAL In ony
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
US.A.
Office of oimttcrsGsuat
Oprt. Evuatk
February 21, 1990
ME(ORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Philippines National Irrigation
Improvement (Loan 1414-PH)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
'Project Completion Report on Philippines National Irrigation Systems
Improvement (Loan 1414-PH)" prepared by the Government of the Philippines,
with an overview memorandum prepared by the Asia Regional Office. No audit
of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at
this time.
Attachment
This document has a rticted diWibution and ma be used by rcipients oly in oth pefme  1
of thei officid dutieL Its conts may notodtwise be dided witout Wod Bank authozatb.



FOR OFFICIAL US ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEKS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT I
(LOAN 1414-PH)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pa" No.
Preface    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  £
Basic Data Sheet   . . . . . . . . . . .                            Li. . . . .   .  * .  * .  I
Evaluation n .S.u.. .x.y. . . . . . . . .  * *   . *
General . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .     . . .      1
GPralcObete   ...................                          . .................. 1
Project Objectives  . . . . . . . . .                           1
Genral   . . . . . a  .  .  . . . . . .        a * * .        3
IrrigationDevelopment  ......         ..........              3
0 &4M support   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       4
SobjetosomiasslaProgram   . . .60..... *. ..0...              4
Land Consolidation Pilot Project  . . . . . . . ... .         S
On-Farm Facilities Study  .    . . . . ........ 
Dtsbue.ments and Costs   . * . . . , . . . . . . . . . . a
ImpaPcrfogmance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . .         7
Lessons Lrned   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         7
BOU1OWER'S COEPLETION REPORT
1.  Summr   g                 .*            
I.  Itroductio   . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        11
Backsround Inforation   ......   ..  ..  ...                 11
Project Location and AcceAsibility  . . . . . . . . . .      12
Seson and Climate  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       13
Water Supply  . . .  . . .  . . . ...   . a . . . . . .* . .  14
III. Project Feature   ....  .  .  .  .  & ........................  15
Project Objectives  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      15
Project Component   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      16
Completed Project Works   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      17
The Irrigation Service Areas  . . .  .... . .  . . . .       17
Irrigation Drainag, and FaciUti an  . . . . . . . . . .      18
Strengthening of Regional 0 & H Capability  . . . . . .      18
Land Consolidation Pilot Project  . . . .. .  . . . . .      19
On-Farm Facilities Study  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      20
Sabistosomiasis Control Program   . . . . . . . . . . .      23
This document ha a reIcd distributin and may be usd by ripients only In t perfonnae
of ter offiia dutieL Its contents may not otherwise be disckod witout Worl Bank autorbtion.



TableofContets  (Coat.)
TrainingandDevelopmentofFazaers   . . .......    .    86
Agricultural Devlopmsnt  ..a............... a.           97
Irrigated Area and Croppig Intenty   . . . . . . . .    88
IrrigatedPaddyYield  *...............a..............     88
Fam Input Utillation and Farmzuanagennt Practices  .    89
Utlizatio of Fazm Pror, Processing ad Storage
Facilities   . . . . . . . . *  . . .. .. ... * .     90
AgriculturalSupportServices   ... ............           90
Agricultural Development Coordination   .... . . . .    90
Iater-Agency Personnel Deployment   . . . . . . . . . .    91
Lan Tenure Improvement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      92
FarM f4uncing/Production Loans   . . . . . . . . .  .    92
Monitoring and Evaluation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  93
Future Development Programs   . . . . . . . . . . . . .    94
StrengtheningilContinuing Institutional Development  . . 94
EstablishlmentAdoption of a System Level Development
Coordination   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    95
Sustain Development Monitoring and Evaluation   . . . .    95
XI* Economic Evaluation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Project Econ ca Background   . . . . . . . . . . . . .    98
Crop. Yield   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   102
gEonomic Analysis   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    103
Economi Cost  . .*. . . .. . . . . . . . . . .. . ..  103
Economic Benefits   ..........               .           104
Econoi,l nternal Ratoofeeteun...........    105
Fe Income A ysis      o o                  .  .  .  .  .     . .    105
Project andO&MFacilties  .. ............  .              106
Input-output Monitoring Progra.   .. ........... .    106
Inter-aency Coordination    .  ...............  .        106
Personal Complement  . . . ............                  108
Prmonnal Training and Development  . . . . . . .   . .    108
XII. Irrigation Service Fee Collection   . . . . . . . . . . .    110
Goncr   .             .&0000&.         ..                110
Irrigation Brrice Fe (ISF) ............ .    110
Collection of Irrigation Service Fee During Project  1l
Implematation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
Projected Irrigation Service Fee Collection and
Budgetary Requiremnt for Operation and Maintenance
(O & M) of the System   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Collection Strategies   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
XIII. Operation andKaintensnc   .............                 113
Organiational Set-up and Functions   . . . . . . . . *  -116
Operation and"Mann nce Budget  . . . . . . . ....    122
Operation and Maintenane Equipment and Vehicles      .    122
Cooe pt on Water Msnagent   ............                122
XIV.  Conclusion   * 9  a        9 9 . . . . . . . . *  -  . -   125
Effects of the Project on the Region and Country  ...   123
Lessons Learned from the Project  .                     124



Table of Contents (Cout.)
Page No,
IV. Project Designs   . . . .-       .         . .. . . . .        27
Irrigation andDra zge   ...............                      27
RebabilitatioAlUpgrading Work.  .:... . . . . .    . . *     27
Vat.: Requirement   . ....... . . ..... .. .                 28
Cavals LateralsISub-Laterals, Extension Area    . . . .      30
Canal Stuctu?es  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .*.       31
Operation ad Maintenance Road   . . . . . . . . . * .        32
DranFageel.cihties  ................. .                      33
FamLevl FQ^41Atie    0 a 0  , 0 0 0 e  * * * * 0   *         33
V.  Project Managmant  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . *           36
The National Irrigation Aministration  . . . . . . . .       36
The Office of the Assistant Administrator for
Systems Ooeratiom  and Ewuimment manaement .............  39
ProJectOrganixation  ...... .... ...*                        41
Th*ProjectCoordinatin zAga4c±e   .9.999....                  44
VI.  ProjectImplmntation  9.99...999999999a                        50
ContractWorks  .9.. 9..9...        99 .    . . . . . .       50
ajorm   Contract    . . . . . . . . . . . . .0 . . .          1
Smal acag Contracts    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      61
£ ^or>er" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~61.
irceo . . . . . . . . . . . .  .*    .                       63
_"SuervisioaasO  ...................  65
V t. lmpUmnttion Schadu     . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         67
Original Project Implaientatiou Schedule  . . . . . . .      67
Actual Project Implementation Schedule  . . . . . . . .      67
Caus of the Delays on Project Implaeuntation   . . . .       68
VIII. Project Coat    * . * . . . *.* **.  .  * . . . * . . . . .   70
Coat estimates   * 9 9 * * *  * . * * * * * 9  * * * *       70
Actual Project Cost and Expendltures  . . . . . . . .        71
Dev@lop..t Coat  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       71
Causei  the Dectere of Project Cost   . . . . . . . .        72
IX. F                                                               77
Fund   for the Fore Exchange Cmpoet  7?
Withdrawal o£ Loau Procoe     .  . . .. .. . . . . .         78
Funding for the Local Component Cost  . . . . . . . . .      79
X.  Agri-Inat±tutional Deveopment  . . . . . . . . . . . . .        81
Introduction  . . .  . .  . . * *  . .  . . . . . . . .      R1
ASci-na tStut10na1 Coim*t        .  .   .     . .       . . .  81
Organization for Agri-Institutonal Development   . . .       82
Inatitutiono1 Dewelop nt   . . . . . . . . . . .    a         34
Orgization of Farmers into FIGIIA   . .  .  . . ..           84
Regitratio of IA  0  * *  *  * *  . .  * .                   8a
Turmover of O & x to the     . . . . . . . . .9.             85



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT I
(LAN 1414-Pm)
This is the Project Completion Report of the National
Irrigation Systems Improvement Project I, for which Loan 1414-PH of
US$50.0 million was approved on May 3, 1977. The loan was closed on
December 31, 1985 after three one-year extensions; the final
disbursement took place on July 2, 1986, and the unused balance of
US$11.8 million was cancelled on July 3, 1986.
The Basic Data Sheet, Evaluation Summary and Overview were
prepared by the Bank. They are based on a review of the Appraisal
Report; the President's Report; the Loan Agreement; and the Borrower's
PCR of October 27, 1988, prepared by the National Irrigation
Administration (NIA) in the Philippines. In addition, Bank
supervision mission reports, correspondence with the Borrower and
internal memoranda on project-related matters have been consulted.
This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department
(OED). The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower on October 10, 1989,
for comments by November 28, 1989, but none were received.



- Ii -
UNIUPPIUNs
NATIONAL IRIXCATION SYSSEIS INMOVWIT PW           I
Pmeet~atIlv SSmIl1Hifn                            107 7           T&O                ?fl- 
{nlqo n            39 .St
Date atfeenvem
am flttneg2A~cnne                               211121         1 W14 36
1.  _        .1_
CI%ti~mho,, - f)enm.flRSaftfwm
L                ts1i~2mWmn                -g    t              21       ' ~Q9     47 =_        1
~~~Dain                 N. of    fMaay         pai~a P~is                    F      o = ya
0617A        5 r0              Fm7e           42 .  _4          900  4
Sw ufam    A     mto       a=           i fiN    -mAMNn             T1
(lwtmhdse                                        l 06/70  2  20    1n  .            1 '4.
Ecem                             i t         7    _En.   A
Inr1~VttUWIt0o                                                         I S
X  {     1      _40          ¶eCt  -   ~ Sl
SmetemUSSnm llinr4s    S04 3t 1                    W5, A. N                                   Mrs
Sumft~t il            I L       5            EIIS     _                2
Dum      At d            V         ST Mt
M M _ _, .MM                                          D
_~~~~ _
:2                                                t
2mi of,zPimn44l_3 =   
-MM
F.teul       0-    7S 'm,mwaffnr 31           I                                 =
5 uagw~afbwow~ 1t    ny ts1     _           16c 31  E     0
IflfminmIIv   SW,,..US$100A
Siu i     'IhIas IOIS3w 1                wi 7      E,at A 7m           2          1
SuonwAfnlg 17    m^                        t     Rna2                                        F
02M2
mm um.ialmodbuImme.atUSS Ul.7K6932.76 wanwJeiefIec,wIu13 
WTmrnsrnff-wftbaaimms,jcvt- 5.;                                         nL adSuPowiSd    1252.
, Aap~mimImBs.Eo-enguw. H.om,
j~1-



1                . '      ~~~~~-'iii - 
PROJECT COMPLITION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT I
(LOAN 1414-PH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.       The National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project I was deslgeed
to improve the socio-economic conditions of about 43,000 families living on
some 49,400 ha of land (including 27,600 ha of irrigated land and 21,800 ha
of rainfed area) in Regions 1, 2 and 8 of the Philippines. The project
comprised rehabilitation, upgrading, and expansion of existing irrigation
infrastructure; construction of new irrigation infrastructure; strengthen-
ing of NIA's 0&K capabilities; and reducing the risk of schistosomiasis for
about 475.000 inhabitants of Leyte, one of the worst endemic areas in the
Philippines. The project also examined the feasibility of land consolida-
tion in an area of high land fragmentation, on a pilot basis, and included
a study of on farm facilities in an area characterized by landholdings
under 2 ha and different cropping intensities.
I1n_ ent4aion
2.       Loan 1414-PH for US$50 million was signed on May 13, 1977 and
became effective on August 9, 1977. It financed the entire foreign
exchange component (47%) of the total project cost of US$107.2 million. At
appraisal, it was expected that disbursements would be completed by
December 31, 1982, one year after scheduled project completion. Hovevr,
implementation actually took about 4-1/2 years longer, because of: fre-
quent severe weather conditions, including several typhoons, floods and
earthquakes; delays in finalizing engineering designs, in some cases
because of design changes; slow contracting procedures and poor performance
by major contractors; occasional shortages of construction materials and
supplies - ceament, fuel, etc.; the need to provide uninterrupted water
supplies to existing paddy lands during construction in many areas; reluc-
tance of some farmers to cooperate in respect of on-farm facilities and
drainages, especially in schistosomiasis endemic areas; management diffi-
culties arising from the wide geographic dispersion of individual systems
and difficult access to some work sites; inadequate and delayed counterpart
funding; and peace and order problems.
3.       The majority of major contractors did not fully complete their
contracts. While peace and order problems, unexpectedly severe weather
conditions, design changes and unusually high price escalation were som of



- iv -
the causes, the main reason was the vulnerability of these contractors to
-the difficult financial situation In the Philippines and the lack of
readily available credit during the project period. On the other hand, the
smaller contractors proved less vulnerable and, together with NIA's force
account teams, managed to complete portions of work left over from the
larger contracts, as well as an array of smaller project works.
4.       The Loan was formally extended by three years to December 31,
1985, but construction continued through June 30, 1986. With the exception
of the aforementioned delay in project completion, and a reduction of about
5,000 ha in the anticipated service area, implementation was satisfactory
and project objectives were largely realized.
Disbursements and Costs
5.       As a result of the slow start-up of implementation, disbursements
did not comence until the so^ond project year (IBRD FY1979), ranging from
about 38% to 71% of annual appraisal projections, due mainly to the diffi-
cult financial situation in the country. The Loan Closing Date was
extended by three years, as mentioned earlier, to December 31, 1985, al-
though disbursements continued into CY 1986 against expenditures committed
prior to the Closing Date. US$38.2 million, of the original Loan amount of
US$50 million, was utilized.  The balance of US$11.8 million was cancelled
or, July 3, 1986.
6.       The final project cost in US Dollar terms amounted to US$76
million, about 71% of the appraisal estimate of US$107.2 million, due both
to the devaluation of Philippine currency and reduction of some project
works (paras. 6, 7, 9 and 12 of the Overview). In local currency terms,
however, the actual project cost amownted to 110% of the corresponding
appraisal figure (Pesos 888.5 million v. Pesos 804 million).
Results
7.       At completion, the project had rehabilitated and upgraded 21
existing irrigation systems, expanding some of them, and constructed 3 new
systems to serve about 44,400 ha (i.e., about 90% of appraisal targets).
Buildings, service facilities, equipment and vehicles and spare parts to
strengthen NIA's O&K capability were provided. The prevalence of
schistosomiasis in the endemic areas covered by the project was substan-
tially reduced from 18* at appraisal in 1977, to 11.8% in 1984 and to less
than 5% in 1988. In addition, and more important, is the fact that the
individual worm burden (intensity of the disease) has dramatically
decreased, thus making it sale to say that schistosomiasis has ceased to be
a major public health problem in Leyte. Completion of the first stage of
the Land Consolidation Pilot Project demonstrated clear farmer/owner resis-
tance to any land consolidation actions. in consequence, the subsequent



steps -- determination of most appropriate level, methodology and evalua-
tion of effects of land consolidation, 'tc. -- under this component wore
not carried out. A detailed study of on-farm facilities helped to
determine the most suitable level of facilities, but actual adoption of the
recommendations has been difficult due to deeply rooted farming habits and
attitudes.
Sustainability
8.       Appraisal estimated the project ERR to be 20%, based on an average
irrigated cropping intensity of 173% and achievement of full agricultural
development five years after project completion, in 1987. The Borrower's
PCR re-estimates an ERR of 15%. It generally follows appraisal method-
ology, using crop yields based on actual observations during implementa-
tion, which do not differ signficantly from appraisal assumptions.
However, the PCR adopts an irrigated cropping intensity of 185%, which is
even higher than appraisal and probably unrealistic, considering that the
prevailing figure in the Philippines ranges from 130% to 135%. In addi-
tion, the PCR assumes full agricultural development in 1987, as assumed at
appraisal, although the project was completed only in mid-1986. If allow-
ance is made for these factors, the ERR would be less than 15%, but no
lower than 10%. In view of this positive measurable return and the
numerous social and other indirect benefits which, though difficult to
quantify, inevitably result from projects of this type (improved/increased
access, transport, storage, milling, marketing, availability of farm
machinery and related service facilities, presence of agrochemical suppli-
ers, employment opportunities, and reduced levels of out-migration which
are now very visible in the project area), it is accurate to say that the
project has been a moderate success.
Lessons Learned
9.       Project design and flexibility were generally appropriate to the
circumstances. However, with the benefit of hindsight, it is evident that
the appraisal schedule of 4-1/2 years for project completion was far too
optimistic.
10.      Contractor performance on the project underscores the importance
of maintaining a reasonable force account capability within executing
agencies such as NIA, as well as the importance of including measures in
projects of this nature to encourage and strengthen the capabilities of
small contractors.



-  PROECT QMWL=JN REPRT
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVENENT PROJECT I
(LOAN 1414-PH)
gmat  ~        ~        am
1.       This Overview is based on the Project Completion Report (PCR) of
the National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project I (NISIP I) prepared by
the National Irrigation Administration (.A), the implementing agency of
the Govornment of the Philippines (GOP). It also draws on the Loan Agree-
ment, the Bank's Appraisal Report, President's Report, supervision mission
reports, correspondence with the Borrower and internal meoranda in Bank
files, as well as the opinions of Government officials closely associated
with the project.
Proiset Obiectiven
2.      General. NISIP I was designed to: (i) increase production on
about 49,400 ha of irrigable land directly benefitting about 37,000 farmer
families and 6,100 landless labor families (comprising some 240,000 people)
through rehabilitation, upgrading and extension of existing infrastructure,
and construction of new Irrigation drainage and road infrastructure; (ii)
reduce the risk of schistosomiasis to about 475,000 people in Leyte, one of
the worst affected areas in the Philippines; (iii) strengthen NIA's opera-
tion and maintenance (O&M) capabilLty; (iv) examine the feasibility of land
consolidation in an area of high land fragmentation, on a pilot basis; and
(v) initiate a study of on-farm facilities in an area characterized by
landholdings of under 2 ha and different cropping intensities. The project
would accelerate socioeconomic development through increased farmer
incomes, generatin additional farm and agriculture-related employment
opportunities and improved farm-to-market access in the project area, and
would help met Government's objective of increased food production and
more balanced regional development.
(a) J- lt l   * ev1qfle. This component provided for
rehabilitation and upgrading of 22 existing irrigation systems
situated in Ilocos (Region 1), Cagayan (Region 2) and Leyte
(Region 8), serving 27,600 ha, and construction of irrigation,
drainage and related road Infrastructure to expand the existing
area by 18,300 ha and bring a further 3,500 ha under irrigation in
three new systems.
(b) ihI.anaMa±LZ  a   This program aimed to reduce the
prevalence of schistosomiasis in Leyte, one of the worst



schistosomiasis-endemic areas in the Philippines, with an average
prevalence rate of 18% (and running to as high as 45% in one
municipality). The climate and coastal plain topography of Leyte
are particularly suitable to the snail vector of the disease, and
the low levels of hygiene and constant exposure of the rural
population to water combine to produce the optimum situation for
high infection levels. The project improved drainage, thereby
reducing the snail population through mollussiciding, and lessened
avoidable contact with water by provision of roads and foot
bridges. It also improved public hygiene through environmental
sanitation and health education, and reduced the parasite
reservoir through diagnostic screening and chemotherapy.
(c) Other Components. Other components included strengthening
NIA's O&M capability in the project area through the provision of
buildings for offices, stores, quarters, etc., and O0M equipment;
examining, on a pilot basis, the feasibility of land consolidation
in the Ilocos area where landholdings are small and highly frag-
mented (0.8 ha average) due to population pressure, limited
employment opportunities and local inheritance practices; and a
study to determine the most suitable level of on-farm facilities
to effectively serve areas characterized by small landholdings and
different cropping intensities.
IoleSentation
3.       General.  The total estimated cost of the project was US$107.2
million. Bank Loan No. 1414-PH for US$50 million was approved by the
Executive Directors on May 3, 1977, and becme effective on August 9, 1977.
rt would finance the entire foreign exchange component (47% of total
project cost), with the Government financing the balance of project costs.
It was anticipated at appraisal that the project would be completed by
December 31, 1981 and that the Loan would be fully disbursed by December
31, 1982. However, implementation actually took about 4-1/2 years longer
and was completed only in June 1986 (PCR Section 7.02), due mainly to:
frequent and severe weather conditions, including several typhoons, floods
and earthquakes; delays in finalizing engineering designs, in some cases
caused by design changes; slow contracting procedures and generally poor
performance by major contractors; inadequate and delayed counterpart fund-
ing due to the difficult financial situation in the Philippines; occasional
shortages of construction materials and supplies - cement, fuel, etc.; the
need to provide uninterrupted water supplies to much of the project area
which consisted of existing paddy lands already under regular planting;
reluctance of some farmers to cooperate in respect of on-farm facilities
and drainages, especially drainage works in schistosomiasis-endemic areas
and areas of small landholdings; peace and order problems; and management



-3-
difficulties arising from the wide geographic dispersion of individual
systems and difficult access to some work sites (PCR Section 7.03).
4.       All work relating to the irrigation portion of the project,
including the civil works for the schistosomiasis component, were carried
out by NIA; related health aspects of the component were carried out by the
Department of Health (DOH).
5.       Of seven major contracts awarded, six were terminated after
several extensions and the remaining works were completed through a mixture
of minor local contracts, package contracts and NIA force account. Peace
and order problems, unexpectedly severe weather conditions, design changes
and unusually high costs in some areas (resulting mainly from situations in
the locality) were some of the causes for poor contractor performance, but
the main reason was the vulnerability of these larger contractors to the
difficult financial situation in the country and the lack of readily
available credit during the project period. On the other hand, the smaller
contractors proved less vulnerable and, together with NIA's force account
teams, managed to complete the portions of work left over by the larger
contracts, as well as an array of smaller project works (PCR Section 6.01).
6.       The Loan Closing Date was formally extended by three years to
December 31, 1985, but construction was not completed until June 1986. The
final project area was about 10% less than anticipated at appraisal, mainly
due to a reduction of about 5,000 ha in the planned service area (para. 7
below) and exclusion of some schistosomiasis drainage works in areas where
they would not directly serve the drainage of agricultural land (para. 9
below). This aspect is not mentioned in the PCR. The final disbursement
was made on July 2, 1986 and the undisbursed balance of US$11.8 million was
cancelled on July 3, 1986. Considering the difficultier encountered and
the nature of the project, implementation performance was satisfactory.
7.       Irriaggtio  Development.  The project rehabilitated and upgraded 21
existing irrigation systems (including expansion of some of them) and
constructed three new systems to serve about 44,400 ha J/ representing
about 90% of apprasal targets. The decrease is not a major deviation and
is the consequence of the following factors, which affected different
project sites to varying degrees. Work on the Abalog system extension was
1/ The Borrower's PCR reports the service area developed under the project
as 44,409 ha and uses this figure in the ERR computations. However,
lower figures ranging from 37,320 to 37,558 ha are shown on pp. III-4,
III-12, and Table 10.03.1. These appear to be figures which have not
been updated or are incomplete. A clarification has been requested but
NIA has not yet replied. This Overview is based on the 44,409 ha figure.



-4-
curtailed by acute peace and order problems; a portion of Bihaban Norte
system was deleted due to inadequate water and absentee cultivators; the
Camungan system was dropped from the project at the request of the farmers;
and varying area reductions were made in systems because of continuation
under unirrigated tree crops, conversion of arable land to residential and
commercial use, and unsuitable topography, (PCR Section 8.04).
8.       0&K SMort.  Support for strengthening NIA's 061 capability in
the project area included the construction and extension of necessary
buildings for offices, stores, staff quarters, etc.; provision of service
facilities such as water supply, power supply, etc.; and other facilities
such as perimeter fences, drying floors, etc. All requirements of equip-
ment, vehicles and spare parts were also procured under the project.
9.       Schistosomiasis Program.  The program consisted of civil works and
the related health inputs described in para. 10 below. Due to the very
difficult funding situation in the Philippines during implementation, it
was decided to curtail those drainage works which were purely
schistosomiasis oriented and located entirely in non-agricultural areas
(swamps and other similar areas), as these works were expensive to con-
struct and would deteriorate rapidly since Government clearly lacked the
recurrent budget to maintain them (not mentioned in PCR). However,
agricultural areas--which in Leyte were mostly located in the vicinity of
such water logged areas--were provided with necessary drainages. Such
areas were also provided with limited additional drainage works, which
amounted to modest extensions, wherever they would be effective and could
be easily maintained as a part of overall facilities. Under the civil works
portion of the program, drainage in the endemic area was improved and
avoidable water contact by the population was reduced through rehabili-
tation and construction of about 170 km of main and secondary drains, about
140 km of service roads and embankments, and about 240 footbridges.  Some
15,200 toilet slabs, 7,900 toilet bowls and 990 hand pumps were also
provided.
10.      The purely health-related portion of the program implemented by
DOH included snail control, health education, diagnosis and treatment.
Initially, the beneficiary population displayed general disinterest and
lack of faith in the program. However, over time the education program was
effective in creating public awareness of the nature, methods of prevention
and control of the disease. As a result, community involvement grew and
people actively cooperated in submission of stools for examination and use
of sanitary facilities increased.
11.      The impact of this component has been outstandingly positive.  The
prevalence of schistosomiasis in Leyte was substantially reduced from 18%
at appraisal in 1977, to 11.8% in 1984 and to under 5% in 1988. More



important, the individual worm burden (intensity of the disease) has drama-
tically decreased, thus making it safe to say that schistosomiasis has now
ceased to be a major public health problem in Leyte.  Overall, figures
indicate a drop in the prevalene, rate from 10.8% in 1981 to 4.3% in 1987
for foreign-assisted schistosomiasis programs, while the level under
locally funded programs has remained at 8.5%. (Report on Schistosomiasis
Control Program in Leyte, 1985 - Dr. B. Blas and others; and Tabulated Data
Schistosomiasis Control Council, Philippines - 1988.) The PCR does not
include this information.
12.      Lan  gonsolidation Pilot Project.  NIA conducted the first stage
of this work to determine responsiveness of farmers and land owners to the
concept of land consolidation. However, resistance was quite strong and
therefore subsequent work to determine appropriate level, methodology and
evaluation of effects, etc., was not carried out.
13.      On-farm Facilities Study. A detailed study of seven different
models of on-farm facilities in areas characterized by average landholdings
of less than 2 ha was carried out to determine the most suitable level of
facilities (PCR Section 3.03.5). Although NIA endeavors to implement the
recommended levels, this has been difficult in areas which are under culti-
vation, because of deeply rooted farming habits and attitudes of the
various communities. While an effective on-farm distribution system would
have a clear advantage, farmers are reluctant to sacrifice land for canals
since for years they have practiced plot-to-plot irrigation and drainage,
depending on mutual accommodation and cooperation. In a few instances, the
decision by some farmers to opt for a more independent system has been
interpreted as evidence of distrust and has led to disharmony within the
group.
Disbursements and Costs
14.      The project started very slowly during the first year because of
difficulties in organizing implementation through the different regional
offices, whose staff were not adequately familiar with foreign-financed
project arrangements. Slow and cumbersome procurement procedures also
delayed acquisition of construction equipment. The very difficult
financial situation in the Philippines, which worsened from the early
1980s, also took its toll. Disbursements commenced during the second
project year (IBRD FY1979), ranging from 38% to 71% of annual appraisal
projections. The Loan Closing Date was extended by three years from
December 31, 1982 to December 31, 1985. US$38.2 million of the original
US$50 million Loan amount was utilized, and the balance of US$11.8 million
was cancelled on July 3, 1986.



-6-
15.      The final project cost in US Dollar terms amounted to US$76 mil-
lion (Pesos 888.5 million), about 71% of the appraisal estimate of US$107.2
million. (Pesos 804 million). The Philippine currency devalued to an
average weighted rate of 11.7 Pesos to the dollar over the implementation
period. Other contributing factors included the reduction in the service
area and exclusion of some schistosomiasis drainage work. In Peso terms,
however, the project cost was actually 110% of the appraisal cost (PCR
Sections 8.02 and 8.04).
Imnact
16.      The major objectives of the project were met: improved irrigation,
drainage, road and 06& facilities were provided to serve about 44,400 ha;
the prevalence of schistosomiasis was drastically reduced; the feasibility
of land consolidation was examined; and the study to determine appropriate
levels of on-farm facilities was carried out. The most significant features
of the project's impact were increased paddy production as a result of
improved irrigation (Table, page 7 below), improved transportation through
provision of project roads, increased farm and agriculture-related job
opportunities, improved health as a consequence of the decrease in the
prevalence and intensity of schistosomiasis, and increased beneficiary
incomes. The process of project implementation also contributed to
strengthening NIA's project management and implementation capability (PCR
Section 14.01).
17.      Appraisal estimated the project ERR at 20%. The Borrower's PCR
re-estimated the ERR at 15%, broadly following appraisal methodology.
However, the PRC used a somewhat overly-optimistic cropping intensity of
185%, against prevailing figures for the Philippines of 130% to 135%, and
173% forecast at appraisal. The time allowed by the PCR for full agricul-
tural development is also unrealistic (although the project was completed
in mid-1986, the achievement of full agricultural development has been
assumed in 1987). If allowance is made for these factors, the ERR will be
less than 15%, but not under 10%. The expected benefits will, of course,
depend on the smnner in which the systems are operated and maintained.
Although still less than adequate, 06M in the Phillppines is generally
better than in most Asian countries, and Government is making further
efforts to improve 0&K with support under the recently approved Irrigation
Operations Support Project (Loan 2948-PH) (PCR Sections 11.02 and 11.03).



_7-
IABLE: KEY PRODUCTION ASPECTS OF THE PROJECT
(1)         (2)           (3)        (3)/(2)
Actual/Anti-
cipated at
Preproject  Appraisal    Full Agric.   Percent of
Situation    Estimates    Development  Appraisal
Proiect Area (ha)
Irrigation                     27,600.0     49,400.0     44,409.0       90.0
Rainfed                        21,800.0         -
Total                          49240009
Croueed Area (ha)
Wet-season irrigated, rice     26,200.0     49,400.0     44,409.0        90.0
Wet-season rainfed rice        23,200.0         -           -
Dry-season irrigated, rice +
1,300 ha tobacco              14,400.0    35,950.0      38,057.0      110.0
Dry-season rainfed, corn        2,000.0         -
zqtaL                          65.800.0Q    85.350.0     82466.0       298.0
Cro2ning intensitv (%)              133.0        173.0        1L8    A/   107.0
Yields (metric tonsha) b/
Paddy wet-season irrigated          2.2         3.9          4.0       102.0
Paddy wet-season rainfed            1.5         -            -
Paddy dry-season irrigated          2.2         3.9          3.7        95.0
Production (metric tons)_
Paddy                         120,800.0    325,200.0    320,800.0       98.0
«J See para.17 of Overview.
kw Weighted averages for entire project area.



18.      The Bank dealt adequately with most key issues at appraisal,
although in retrospect the time estimated for implementation was clearly
too short, and the assumptions about cropping intensitie were probably too
high. The combined effect was to overstate the project EER (which, how-
ever, would still have been quite satisfactory even with less optimistic
assumptions). The Borrower's PCR credlts the Bank with the active support
and guidance it rendered through supervision missions in various aspects of
implementation. Fortunately, the Bank's exclusive reliance on supervision
by engineers (unassisted by agriculturalists or health specialists) after
1980 did not have any noticeable consequences.
L2asons Learned
19.     With the benefit of hindsight, it is evident that the anticipated
implementation period was overly optimistic for a project of this type.
because of the nature of works involved and their geographical dispersion,
appraisal was quite correctly based on feasibility level investigations and
sample analyses, leaving detailed construction-level investigations and
preparation of final construction designs for implementation. However,
the likelihood of delays on this account should have been anticipated.
Also factors such as speed and efficiency of Government procedures,
likelihood of frequent severe weather conditions, contractor problems,
possible peace and order problems, funding difficulties, etc., were comon
to several Bank projects in the Philippines and should have been reflected
in implementation scheduling.
20.      Contractor performance on the project underscores the importance
of maintaining reasonable force account capability within executing
agencies such as NIA, as well as the importance of including measures
within projects of this nature to encourage and strengthen small contractor
capabilities.



PROJELa COMPLEIN RLO=
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMROVEMENT PROJECT I
(LOAN 1414-PH)
BORROWER ' S COMPLETION REPORT
I. SUIILARY
One effective means to sustain the country's drive to
attain self-sufficiency in staple food is to increase crop
production   by   improving  and  expanding   the   existing
irrigation systems to a higher level of standard adopted by
the National Irrigation Administration (NIA). This precisely
was the main obJective of the National Irrigation Systems
Improvement Project - Package I (NISIP I) prior to its
inception.
The National Irrigation Systems Improvement ProJect,
Package I (NISIP I) covers three (3) district sub-proJect
areas, namely; 1) Ilocos Sub-proJect in Region I, 2) Cagayan
Sub-project in Region II, and the 3) Leyte Sub-project in
Region VIII. NISIP I as finally implemented covers twenty
six (26) irrigation systems with a combined total irrigable
area of about 44,409 Hectares scattered in six (6) provinces
in Luzon and in the island province of Leyte in Eastern
Visayas. The proJects' primary obJectives as enviTioned in
the appraisal report are among others, to increase the
annual paddy production and corresponding per capita income
of the farmers within the proJect area, accelerate economic
development   through  the  generation  of   related   agro-
industrial activities, creation of employment opportunities
and saving foreign exchange reserve on rice importation.
The feasibility study on the proJect was carried out in
1975 by the National Irrigation Administration under the
provisions of Loan No. 1080 PH (Tarlac Irrigation System
Improvement Project) with technical assistance from the
Sanyu   Consultants,  Inc.  of  Japan.  The   selection   of
irrigation- systems under NISIP I were made based on the
degree of need for improvement, the social and economic
feasibility for the improvement, the social and economic
impact in the area and the institutional building aspects in
terms   of  strengthening  the  operation  and   maintenance
capabilities of the regions.
The proJect as originally envisioned during appraisal
would  be  implemented  in four and a  half  years  (4  1/2)
including detailed engineering and pre-construction works.
Implementation was scheduled to commence in July 1977 and
would be completed in December 1981. Work under the projects
includes:
a) Rehabilitation and upgrading of 22 existing national
systems in Ilocos, Cagayan and Leyte.
b) Construction of new irrigation, drainage and road
facilities on about 18,300 hectares of rainfed lands
adJoining 18 existing NIA Systems.



- 10 -
c) Construction of three (3) new national systems in
Leyte to serve 3,500 hectares.
d) Land consolidation in Ilocos Region.
e) Study of on-farm facilities.
f) Strengthening operation and maintenance capabilities
in Regions 1,2, and 8.
g) Provision of assistance to Schistosomiasis Control
in Leyte, and
h) Procurement of vehicles and equipment.
However, due to numerous constraints that undergone,
the proJect was actually carried out in nine (9) years time
including detailed engineering and pre-construction works.
Actual implementation was started in July 1977 and completed
only in June 1986.
Implementation of the various project features under
the management and supervision of NIA were carried out by
contract and force account. Contract works accounted for
about 35% of the total civil works or an aggregate amount of
US $6.972 M representing about 9.2% of the overall project
cost of US $76.0 M.
NISIP I was estimated at proJect appraisal to cost a
total of P804 (US $107.2) Million, of which P375 (US $50.0)
Million representing about 47% would be funded by the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World
Bank) and the remaining P429 (US $57.20) Million from local
counterpart fund. Included in the overall cost estimates are
provisions for physical contingencies and the expected price
increases  amounting  to  P97.28  (US  $12.97)  Million  and
P156.88 (US $20.92) Million respectively.
Implementation  of  the  project was  financed  by  the
Philippine  Gover.ment  with financial assistance  from  the
World Bank or the International Bank for Reconstruction  and
Development  (IBRD).  The loan proceeds, however,  were  not
fully utilized or withdrawn. At proJect completion in .986,
total   loan  availment  amounted  to  US  $38.206   Million
representing only about 76.4% of the total proceeds of the
loan.



- 11 -
II. INTRODUCTION
2.01   BackaroUnd .In bation
The National Irrigation Systeme Improvement Project,
Package   I  (NISIP  I)  is  the  eighth   water   resources
development   endeavor   embarked  upon  by   the   National
Irrigation   Administration   (NIA)   with   the   financial
assistance of the World Bank (IBRD). The proJect is one of
the   major   components  of   NIA's   Ten-Year   Irrigation
Development       Program       which       envisaged       the
rehabilitation/upgrading  of  existing  national  irrigation
systems  and  construction of new irrigation,  drainage  and
related  facilities  covering a  total  of  about  1,348,000
hectares of arab'Le lands scattered throughout the country.
In   1975,  the  National   Irrigation   Administration
embarked on a program for the inventory of national systems
and  to select a  total  of about 150,000 hectares   service
area  with  the  highest  priority  for   improvement.   The
feasibility study for the program was prepared under the
provisions of Loan No. 1080-PH (Tarlac Irrigaton Systems
Improvement Project (TISIP) ) with the assistance of Sanyu
Consultants Incorporated of Japan. The program was called
the National Irrigation Systems Improvement Study (NISIS).
The irrigation systems selected under NISIP I (Loan No.
1414-PH) were made on the basis of the  degree of need   for
improvement,   the social and economic feasibility  for  the
improvement,   the social and economic impact in  the  area,
and   the  institutional  building  aspects  in   terms   of
strengthening the operation and maintenance capabilities of
the regions under the project.
The first package comprising the National Irrigation
Systems Improvement ProJect - I, covers 22 existing and 3
new irrigation projects covering a total estimated command
area of 49,400 hectares widely distributed in the Ilocos and
Cagayan  regions  in Luzon and in the island   of  Leyte  in
Eastern  Visayas; Regions 1, 2 and 8, respectively, of   the
national   regional  boundaries. They are   distributed   as
follows:
Region I    -       17,600 ha.
Begion 2    -       18,700 ha.
Region 8    -       13,100 ha.



- 12 -
NISIP I (Loan No. 1414-PH) is partly financed by the
World  Bank  (IBRD)   in the amount of  fifty  million  U.S.
Dollar  (US  $50  M) or equivalent  to 47%   of   the  total
estimated  cost  of the  project.  The  Loan  Agreement  was
signed  between  the World Bank and the  Government  of  the
Philippine6 (GOP) on May 13, 1977. The loan took effect on
August 12, 1977 with  closing date on December 31, 1985. The
loan   bears an  interest rate of eight and  two-tenths  per
cent  (8.20%)   per  annum and a commitment charge  at   the
rate   of  three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) on  the
principal amount not withdrawn from time to time. Interest
and other charges are payable semi-annually on Hay 1 and
November 1 of each year beginning May 1,1982 through May 1,
1997.
2.02   Project Location and Accessabilitv
The National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project I
(NISIP  I)  with a  total  revised command area  of   44,409
hectares  covers   three  (3)  distinct   sub-proJect  areas
which  fall   into  the   jurisdiction  of  NIA's   regional
offices   for  Regions  I, 2 and  8,  namely,   the  Ilocos,
Cagayan and Leyte sub-proJects, respectively.
a) Ilocos SubproJect in Region I
The   Ilocos  SubproJect  includes   twelve   (12)
existing irrigation systems lying along the western
coast of Northern Luzon, between the Babuyan Channel
in the North and Lingayen Gulf in the south. It covers
the provinces of Abra, Ilocos Norte, Ilocos Sur and
La Union.
The proJect area is accessible by air and land
routes.  There  are regular   domestic   flights   from
Manila to the Capital City of Laoag, Ilocos Norte. A
national highway located along the northwestern coast
of  Northern Luzon passes through  nine (9)   irrigaton
systems  of   the  proJect. Paved   provincial    roads
link the national highway with the remaining three (3)
systems   of the Ilocos subproject. All the   provinces
within   the proJect area  are  linked to  Manila   and
other provinces by land transportation through first
class -roads.
b) Cagayan SubproJect in Region 2
The   Cagayan  Subproject  includes    three   (3)
irrigation systems lying at the mouth of the Cagayan
Valley   along the northern coast of Luzon  Island.



- 13 -
It  covers  the provinces  of  Cagayan   and  Kalinga-
Apayao.  The area  is also  accessible   by air through
regular domestic flights from Manila to the capital
town of Tuguegarao in Cagayan.
Paved provincial roads link the national highway
with  the  Banurbur  system.   The  road  network    of
provincial and municipal roads is adequate in the
Cagayan subproJect.
c) Leyte Subproject in Region 8
The Leyte subproJect in Region 8 includes seven
(7)  existing  irrigation systems and  three  (3)   new
irrigation  project on the island of Leyte in   Eastern
Visayas. Nine (9)   of  the Leyte systems located  near
the  eastern and southeastern coast of the island   are
served directly by a national highway or connected
to it by paved provincial roads. Another national
highway along the western coast of the island serves
the tenth irrigation system.
In  the Ilocos  and Leyte SubproJect   areas,  the
irrigation   systems  are  close  to   maJor    centers
providing banking, storage and processing   facilities,
as well as supplies of inputs to the agricultural
areas.    The  Ilocos and Leyte systems are  served  by
good   road   networks, while the Cagayan  systems  are
more   isolated.   However, the  Ministry   of   Public
Works and Highways has already embarked on a long
term plan to upgrade some of the existing limited
network of largely unpaved provincial and municipal
roads serving the proJect areas of Cagayan and Leyte.
With the completion of NISIP 1, the road network
density in the subproject areas has increased through
the construction of additional access roads and   roads
for the irrigation facilities.
2.03   Season and Climate
The climate in the proJect areas covered by NISIP I is
tropical and monsoonal. Warm temperature throughout the
year allows a twelve-month growing season with irrigation.
The average annual rainfall in the three (3) subproJect
areas ranges between about 2,000 mm and 3,000 mm, but there
are marked differences in the rainfall distribution pattern.
Each of the three subproJect lies in different climatic
region.



- 14 -
In the Ilocos subproject area, the months from November
to April are dry and wet during the rest of the year. In the
Cagayan  area, there i  a short dry season of  about   three
(3) months occurring from March and lasting up to May, while
the   Leyte   subproject   area   has  no  well-defined  dry
season, and rainfall is heaviest during the months of
November up to January.
In most system of NISIP I, the rainfall, together with
river flows in the wet season, is generally adeqtsate for
single rice crop. During the dry season,however, rainfall is
obviously not enough for rice cultivation, especially in the
Iloco6 region.
The Ilocos and Cagayan areas are experiencing in the
average   about two (2) typhoons per year, with the  highest
frequency between the months of July and November, while the
Leyte subproJect systems are experiencing an average of 1.5
typhoons per year frequently occurring during November.
Presented in Tables ( 2.03.1 - 2.03.5 ) are rainfall
intensities recorded in the different subproJects during
implementation. Table 2.03.6 shows the average temperature
and relative humidity.
2.04 Water SuwDlv
Each of the twenty-one (21) irrigaton systems obtains
its water supply from a separate river source, using their
own diversion and conveyance systems. Of the remaining four
(4) systems, two received water from one river and the
other two systems obtained their supply by the interception
of three (3) different water resources.
The   quality of water in the Leyte subproject is  good
with total dissolved solids under 300 ppm. As for the other
rivers  in  the Ilocos and Cagayan   subproJect  areas,  the
water quality is also good except for the Amburayan river in
the Ilocos subproJect which shows solids due to mine
tailings from two copper mines located upstream in two (2)
tributaries of the river.
Water requirements for the NISIP 1 project were based
on two rice crop per year, except for about 1,300 hectares
under an irrigated dry-season tobacco crop in Region 1.
Presented in the following Tables are 2.04.1a and
2.04.lb water discharges of river sources in the different
Ilocos  subproJect  areas  under NISIP  I.   Tables  2.04.2,
2.04.3,  2.04.4 and 2.04.5 shows the monthly  averag.  water
diversion  for  each of the proJect under  NISIP  I.   While
table 2.04.6 presents the average monthly discharges of
water sources serving the projects in Leyte.



- 15 -
III. PROJECT FEATURE
3.01 Piroject Objectives
The National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project
Package 1. being funded by the Philippine Government and the
World Bank would upgrade existing irrigation systems and
extend   irrigation service to currently rainfed  rice  land
in NIA Region 1,2 & 8 located in the provinces of Ilocos,
Abra, La Union; Cagayan and Layte, respectively.
The project includes:
a.   Rehabilitation  of 22 existing irrigation  systems
serving a total area of about 27,600 hectares
b.   Construction  of new irrigation, drainage and road
facilities on about 18,300 hectares of currently
rainfed land adJoining 18 existing NIA irrigation
systems;
C.   Construction of new  irrigation,  drainage, access
facilities, diversion and conveyance works for the
3 new national irrigation systems to serve about
3,500 hectares of rainfed areas;
d.   Construction of subregional headquarters building,
two new field offices and extension of office,
storage  and   stutff quarters facilities  for  the
eight (8) existing field offices;
e.   Procurement of vehicles and equipment;
f.  Provision  of  a Schistosomiasis  Control  Program
covering most of the affected areas in Eastern
Leyte.
The  proJect  would  also  provide  for  a  pilot  land
consolidation subproJect to determine the feasibility of
introducing a degree of consolidation in an area of highly
fragmented small farms. An additional project component
would be a study aimed at determining the density of
terminal on-farm facilities best suited to very small
landholdings. The proJect would also make provision for
strengthening the 0 & M capabilities of the three (3) NIA
regional offices which include repair of equipment and
vehicles, buildings and training of personnel.



- 16 _
3.02   Project ComRonent
A total of twelve (12) NIA systems in the Ilocos
SubproJect area serving about 14,900 hectares would be
rehabilitated and upgraded by repairing existing canals and
structures and by providing additional canals, control
structures, drains and turnouts to manage water deliveries
effectively. Similar upgrading and rehabilitation works
would be carried out in the Cagayan subproJect area on the
three (3) existing systems serving 8,900 ha. and in the
Leyte subproject area on the seven (7) systems covering
about 3,800 ha.   Of  the twenty five (25) systems  included
in NISIP 1, 3 systems covering 2,650 ha. are pump irrigaton
systems and the remaining twenty two (22) are gravity, run-
of the river systems.
The    improvement   would  include  minor  repairs  of
existing   diversion  structures  and  outlet   works,   the
construction   and/or  enlargement  of  canals  and  drains,
repairs   and  modification  of  existing   structures   and
provision of new water-regulating and delivery structures
and the construction of 0 & M access and farm roads. General
features  of the improved irrigation systems would   include
additional canal structures such as checks, turnouts and
installation of gates on existing canal structures to more
effectively control water deliveries and to provide water
more efficiently to each field as needed. Turnouts would be
provided for each 10 ha. unit from which farm ditches would
convey water directly to most farms. Farm drains would
convey excess water from each 10 ha. unit to the main
proJect outlet drains in flat areas.
Canals would be unlined except in selected portions of
short length where the soil are erosive. Working stations
for Water Management Technicians (WMT) would be provided for
about each 500 ha. of irrigated land in the Cagayan
Subproject and for each 300 ha. in the Ilocos and Leyte
subproJects. The stations would provide space for temporary
storage and drying of paddy. Gatekeeper's quarters would be
constructed at the maJor checks and turnouts of main canals
and   diversion  sites  for  proper,  safe   and   effective
operation.
Gravel surfaced 0 & M roads would be constructed on the
canal banks. Canals with a design flow greater than 5.0
cu.m./sec. would be provided with a roadway 5 m. on both
banks, if the service area is on both sides of the canal and
one  bank  where  the canal serves the area   on  one  side.
Canals  with capacities between 2.0 and 5.0 cu.m./sec  would
be provided with a 3.50 m. wide road on one bank. The
roadway  along  waterways  with  capacities  less  than  2.0
cu.m./sec. and along some of the maJor farm ditches



- 17 -
would be a non-gravel 2.0 m. wide cycle or cart path. Access
roads 5.0 m. wide would also be provided as links between
the existing major roads of the area and the canal 0 & M
roads. These roads would also serve as farm-to-market roads.
Gravel surfacing on some of the major existing farm-to-
market roads would be provided. The surfacing of the roads
would be 20 cm. thick for 5.0 m. wide roadways and 15 cm.
for 3.5 roadways. To allow continuous passage along the 0 &
N  roads,   bridges  and/or  culverts  across  the  existing
drainage waterways would be built.
3.03   Camuleted Projecl Works
MaJor   work   items   that  were   completed   include
rehabilitation   and  construction  of  various   irrigation
facilities. Accomplishments in the three regions include
construction of new canals, desilting works on existing
canals, raisina of embankments, canal/drainage and roads
structures,   drainage  canal,   road  embankment  and  road
surfacing.    Other    completed   activities   consist   of
construction of on-farm facilities such as farm ditches,
turnouts, water management stations, gatekeepers' quarters
and proJect offices. Table 3.03a shows the physical targets
based   on   the   Appraisal  Estimates   and   the   actual
accomplishments on major items.
3.03.1  The Irrigation Service Areas
The project covers three distinct subproject areas
which fall into the jurisdiction of NIA's regional offices
namely;  Ilocos  subproJect  area  in  Region   1,   Cagayan
subproject  area  in Region 2 and Leyte subproject  area  in
Region 8.
The   Ilocos   subproject  consists  of   12   existing
irrigation systems lying along the western coast of Northern
Luzon between the Babuyan Channel in the North and  Lingayen
Gulf in the South. Cagayan subproject includes 3 irrigation
systems lying at the mouth of the Cagayan Valley along the
Northern Coast of Luzon island. Leyte subproject includes 7
existing and 3 new irrigation systems on the island of Leyte
in the Eastern Visayas. Breakdown of irrigable area for each
system to be rehabilitated and extended is shown in Table
3.03.1.



-18 -
3.03.2   Irrigation Drainage and Eacilities
Approximately 27,600 ha. land in the project area fall
within the 22 existing irrigation systems operated by NIA
through the three regional offices. The systems range in
size from a minimum of 150 ha. for the Camunga-an river
system in Leyte to a maximum of 8,000 ha. for the Abulog
river system in Cagayan. Irrigation in the dry season is
limited to some 14,400 ha. partly because of inadequate
river flows, but mostly because of reduced canal capacities
due  to  siltation  and  a  lack  of  on-farm   distribution
facilities. The systems have suffered from insufficient
maintenance due to lack of funds and equipment. They also
have poor distribution networks which make it impossible for
the maJority of the farmers to get water at the right time
in the right amount.   In additiion, there is a general lack
of access roads which renders movement of inputs and produce
difficult. There are drainage deficiencies in a few of the
Cagayan and Leyte systems due to insufficient collector
drains and inadequate outlet conditions. It is for this
reason that rehabilitation and upgrading of the 22 existing
irrigation systems and the construction of the three (3) new
irrigation projects have been implemented.
The   total   accomplishments  for  NISIP   I   include
construction,  rehabilitation and upgrading works of 259 km.
of  new canals,  931 km.  of desilting  works,  395  km.  of
raising of embankment, 4146 units of canal/drainage/ and
road structures, 490 km. of drainage canal, 918 km. of road
embankment and 900 km.  of road surfacing.   Other completed
works   consist  of  construction  of  35  units  of   water
management station, 29 units of Gatekeeper's quarter, and
provision of 4174 units of turnouts includiing 2195 km. of
farm ditches.
The project has generated a total of 9,278 hectares of
new areas   for irrigation and rehabilitated and/or improved
facilities in 28,042 hectares already covered by existing
systems.
3.03.3   Strenathenina of ReSional O&M Caility
The proJect deals with Region I, II and VIII, centered
on Urdaneta, Pangasinan, Cauayan, Isabela and Tacloban City,
Leyte,  respectively.   The  proJect not only provided 0 & M
equipment necessary to maintain the systems which were
rehabilitated and expanded under the proJect but also
supplied enough equipment to operate and maintain the
remaining systems in each of the three regions.



- 19 -
In making provisions for the regional 0 & M equipment
requirements, accounts have been considered on the  quantity
and condition of existing equipment present in the system.
The three regions mentioned have reportedly little 0 & M
equipment available and what they have are obsolete and in
poor condition.
Under   the  strengthening  of  regional   capabilities
component,   the  project  supplied  various  vehicles   and
equipment to be utilized for operation and maintenance of 12
irrigation syetems covering a total area of about 36,500 ha.
wherein two systems are from Region I, five systems from
Reaion II and five systems in Region VIII. There were also
provisions   for  a  small  number  of  vehicles  which  are
allocated to a regional pool under the immediate control of
the  Regional  Director.   A  list of   the  equipment,  the
distribution by Region and the allocation between the
systems and the regional pools are shown in the attached
Table 3.03.2.
3.03.4   Land Consolidation Pilot Project
The farm survey conducted by the National Irrigation
Administration  showed  a   remarkable  degree  of   holding
fragmentation on the 12 systems included in the Ilocos sub-
proJect area. The situation is more acute on the 6 systems
in Ilocos Norte province, where only 6% of the farms are
unfragmented, while 38% are split up in more than 6  pieces.
In the five systems in the provinces of Ilocos Sur and La
Union, 17% of the farms are unfragmented and about half are
in   two or three parcels.  The situation is  aggravated  by
the  small  sizes  of the farms in the  area.   The  unusual
degree of fragmentation is due to the high pressure of
population on the land, the absence of alternative sources
of employment and local inheritance practices by-which all
heirs get an equal share of the land.
Fragmentation  of  small  holdings work   against  good
water management, makes adherence to cropping timetable
more  difficult  and  precludes  the use  of  machines   for
cultivation.    When  a farmer has a subs.tantial  number  of
small parcel of land scattered over a large area, it
becomes difficult for him to manage them effectively and the
amount of time spent travelling between them becomes high.
Fragmentation   also   reduces  direct  access   to   roads,
irrigation  channels  and drains.   Farms on the  irrigation
systems   in   Ilocos  Norte  province   badly   need   land



- 20 
consolidation.   The situation ie further complicated by the
high degree of tenancy. In addition, farmers frequently are
tenants  of  more  than one landlord.   The  government  has
stated that land consolidation will be the next step in the
program of agrarian reform initiated with the accelerated
land reform program in 1972.
The objectives of the Land Consolidation Pilot Project
are:
1.   To  determine the acceptability to the farmers and
land owners of land consolidation in selected areas of the
irrigation systems in Ilocos Norte province.
2.   To  determine   the   most   economic  and   least
socially disrupting level of consolidation, compatible with
the greatest reduction in number of land parcels.
3.    To  develop   a  methodology  of  implementation,
including an assessment of the feasibility of carrying out
land consolidation as a farm cost rather than a proJect
cost.
4.   To  evaluate the effects of land consolidation  on
farm incomes and efficiency of water management.
3.03.5   On-Farm Facilities Study
The project was funded by the World Bank in the amount
of $450,000  and  by the  National Irrigation Administration
through the National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project
(NISIP) Package I in the amount of $350,000.00 for a total
of   $800,000 . The   funding   includes   cost   for    the
construction and development of the various models in the
amount of P1.40 M ($185,000).   Total expenditures  incurred
by  the  project from September,  1977  to  June,  1984  has
reached  P6.86  M  broken down  as  follows:   a)  Personnel
services  - P4.59  M;   b)  Overhead  Cost  - P1.26  M;   c)
Research equipment - P 0.60 M and d) Civil works - P0.96 M.
The major objectives of this study were:
1.   To  assess the efficacy of alternative  models  of
turnout  service area facilities and method of their use  in
allocating and distributing water to farms in two major
types   of  irrigation  systems  having  different  cropping
intensities, and



- 21 -
2.   To  assess  the  causes and farmers   reasons  for
the use of extra turnouts and to determine the optimal turn-
out service areas based on existing physical parameters in
two maJor types of (TSA) system.
To fulfill the first objective, five maJor models (Ti
to T5) ranging from the improved traditional to the more
intensive    level   of   on-farm   irrigation    facilities
develtopment were designed, constructed and implemented in
the UPRIIS and CamRIS systems.   The additional models  with
land consolidation were also studied in the UPRIIS system.
Implementation  of  the   models was carried  out  in  three
stages  of water delivery rates to the different TSAs:   (1)
in accordance with the supply rates of the system; (2) in
accordance with the individual field water requirement; and
(3) deliberately reduced rates of water supply to induce
water  shortage  with  the TSA.    The  performance  of  the
different models were assessed in terms of the physical,
agro-economic and socio-institutional aspects of the study.
In pursuing the second objective, a number of TSAs with
and   without  ETOs in both UPRIIS and CamBIS were  selected
for assessing the causes and farmers' reasons for the use of
ETOs.    A  multiple  linear  segression  was  employed   in
determining the optimum size of TSA.
The study showed that:
1.   The  water  allocation  and  distribution  methods
specified for models T2, T3, T4, T5, T6, and T7 are not
practically implementable within the TSA - a) During the
land preparation stage because farmers do not prepare their
land in the same sequence as the water delivery schedule;
b)  during  the  wet  seasons,   because  of  high  rainfall
resulting   in   lack  of  farmer's  appreciation   of   its
practicality and c) when irrigation water is rotated in the
main supply canial among its different sections due to water
shortage in the system. Also, in farms where direct-seeding
is practiced, the rotational irrigation method cannot be
implemented until about three weeks after seeding. However,
in the dry season, the rotational method of irrigation can
be implemented with farmer's cooperation during the crop
maintenance stage.
2. In the dry season, when water delivery rates in the
turnout  are  adequate,   which   ranged  from  1.0  to  1.4
li/sec/ha during the 1980-82 period, there was substantial
difference in the performance of the different models.



-22-
However, during the water supply condition (less than 1.0
li/sec/ha), models Tl, T2 and T4 performed more or less
adequately   in  distributing  the  water.   No  significant
advantage was achieved from the intensive structure and
facilities of T2 and T4 models over model Tl.
3.   Rotational  allocation and  distribution of  water
requires organized farmer activities to follow the schedule.
Such organization was possible in 17 TSAs in UPRIIS where
sustained efforts to that  end were made.   Cooperation from
farmers in general was achieved regardless of whether they
belonged  to  head,   middle,  or  tail   end  of  the  MFD.
Further, farmer s organized activities were high during the
1983   dry   season  when  water  supply   was   inadequate,
particularly in the Land Consolidation Pilot Project area
where   significant  group  action  could  not  be  achieved
earlier.
4.   As  expected,  Model  Tl was the least  costly  to
develop in both UPRIIS and CamRIS.   The average actual cost
of  improvements  needed   to upgrade the  TSAs  from  their
existing conditions to the specifications of Model Tl was
P68/ha  in  UPRIIS  and P184/ha  in   CamRIS.   The  highest
average actual cost incurred was P232/ha for both models T3
and T4 in UPRIIS and P412/ha for T3 in CamRIS. The average
cost of development in CamRIS was higher than in UPRIIS
primarily   because  in -the  former  system   more  special
structures such as chute-, drop and flume were needed. Model
Tj also required over three times more operation time than
Model Ti while Model T2 and T5 required about 2 times more
operation time than Model Tl.
5.   The  prevalence of extra turnouts  constructed  by
farmers in the different TSAs had contributed to the non-
implementation   of the different Models in both CamRIS  and
UPRIIS systems.   In CamRIS,  about 53% of the original TSAs
and ETOs numbering between 4 to 18 while 43% numbering 1 to
6  in UPRIIS.   The maJor physical factors-attributed to the
construietion of  ETOs   in CamRIS are the orientation of the
MFD with respect to the supply canal and the shape factor of
the TSA. The TSA with MFDs parallel to the supply canal had
generally   more  ETOs   compared  to  zero  in  those  with
perpendicular main farm ditches (MFD).
However, in UPRIIS, the length ratio which is defined
as   the  effective   MFD  length  to  the  TSA  length  had
significantly affected the number of ETO's,in each of the
TSAs. On the other hand, the major soctological factor



- 23 -
which affected the farmer's decision to construct and use
ETO is the long stretch of MFD's with some portions
unmaintained and/or reaches with negative slope. In fact in
CamRIS. about 85% ETO users indicated that they had tried
but 60% of them failed, to get water from the regular
turnouts.
6.    In  CamRIS,  the effective  service  area  of   a
turnout is very highly affected by the location of the MFD
with respect to the supply canal. The optimum service area
under  the  existing CAMRIS condition is about  20  hectares
when the MFD is parallel and about 47 hectares when it is
perpendicular to the supply canal. The difference between
the   locations  is  important  because  in   the   parallel
situations farmers have easy access to the supply canal
water and they tend to substitute MFD maintenance work by
constructing extra turnouts, which is not possible when the
MFD and the supply canal are perpendiclar to each other.
7.    In  UPRIIS,  the net area effectively served  per
turnout is significantly affected by the farm size, ratio
of the effective MFD length to the length of the TSA (length
ratio), and the ratio of the difference in elavation between
the first irrigable paddy from the turnout and the last one
before the extra turnout to their distance (land gradient
before ETO). The optimum area per turnout found in UPRIIS
condition is about 31 hectares for TSAs whose lengths are
parallel to the supply canal and about 17 hectares for TSAs
whose lengths are perpendicular. On the average, the optimum
TSAs is about 29 hectares for the two categories of the TSA
orientation.
Originally the research project was planned to take
five year of implementation but was extended for one   year.
Site selection commenced in mid 1977 and benchmark data
monitoring started in early 1978. Operationalizing the
different models was undertaken from the second half of 1979
up to the first of 1983. However, analysis, evaluation and
writing of the final report was undertaken till December,
1984.
3.03.6   Schistosomiasis Control Program
Schistosomiasis is the most important public health
problem in the Leyte subproject area. Seven of the ten
systems included in the project are located in Leyte's
northeastern    coastal   plains,    one   of   the    worst



- 24 -
schistosomiasis-endemic regions in the Philippines. The
endemic   area    in  northeastern  Leyte  consists  of   22
municipalities and a total population of about 475,000
people. The estimated number of persons infected with
Schistosomiasis is about 87,000 for an average infection
rate of 18%.   The capital city of Tacloban has a population
of 84,000 some 17% of the population at risk, with a rate
of infestation of about 5%. The highest prevalence rates are
found  in  a  group of six municipalities  lying   west  and
south of Tacloban City. The areas to be rehabilitated under
the project involved some of the areas with the highest
Incidence of disease.
It 4is essential that the proposed upgrading, expansion
and  intensification  of irrigation should not   worsen  the
schistosomiasis   situation  by  creation  of    new   snail
habitats. The principal aim of the control program would be
to provide ample drainage works and drain maintenance
facilities   to  ensure that all irrigation water and  field
runoff would remain channelized. In addition, foot bridges
would be built to lessen exposure to water.
Besides the engineering aspects of the control program,
the Department of Health proposes a series of control
measures to be applied throughout the endemic ares without
regard   to  the irrigation system  boundaries.  The  health
component  of  the  proJect  would   include  diagnosis  and
treatment of the disease, a health education campaign,
environmental sanitation and application of molluscicides in
snail infected areas.
The health program was implemented in coordinaton with
the  Ministry  .  The  health component is  being  done  by
Ministry fo Health (MOH) while the infrastructure component
is being undertaken by NIA-NISIP.
Under the infrastucture program physical accomplishment
includes construction of 4 km. of new drainage canal, 240
units of foot bridges, 56.67 km. of main drain, 10W'95 km.
secondary drain,54 units of drainage structures, 55.48 km.
of road embankment, 53.06 km. of road surfacing, 83.60 km.
of    canal  embankment,   2  schisto  buildings  and   have
fabricated/delivered 15,210 units of toilet slabs, 7,935
units of toilet bowls and 987 units of hand pumps.



'25 -
Table 3.03.a Physical Targets basd on Appraisal
Estimates
1         S 1 Revised  I
I             I T E M S             I Units  I Estimates I
SI I                                                       I        I
tNet Irrigable Area                 I          t           t
I------------                       I -                    I
I  Now                              l  Ha.   I   1SS909 I
:  Rehab                            I  Ha.   1   28,500 1
:                  '
IDiversion Dams
I  Temporary Brush Dam              I  No.   1           6 :
I  Existing Concrete Weirs          I  No.   1          16 1
I  New Concrete. Weirs              I  No.               8 6 1
S  Intake Structures and Bates      S  No.   1          20 1
IPumping Stations                   I          I           I
t----------------          ~~~  ~~I               I
I  Existing                             No.   I          1 
New                                 No.   S           I1
I                                   S                      I
:Main Canals & Laterals                        I           I
3 ____________________ _                       I
t  Existing, Desilting              I  Km.   1        896 1
Raising of Embankment               Km.   I        438 1
New                              I  Km.   S        308 1
ICanal Structures                   I          I           I
1  Existing                         I  No.   :    1,626 1
1  New                              I  No.   1    1,628 :
I                                   I          I           1
[Main & Secondary Drains           It                      I
I  Existing                         1  Km.            275 1
:  New                              I  Km.   I        250 1
I  Structures                       I  No.   1         546 1
I       -I                                       1 
IOn-Farm Facilities                 I          le
I  Existing Irrig. Ditches          1  Km.   1    1,131 1
I  New Irrigated Ditches            I  Km.   1    1,151 1
:  Drains                           a  Km.   1         140 1
I  Main Turnout                     I  No.   :    2,792 1
I  Supplementary Turnout            1  No.   1    1,570 1
IRoads                                  Km.           975 1
SBuildings                          1          1
| _________                ~    ~~I  I            I
1  Existing                         1  No.   1          13 1
S  New                             S0  No.   1          29 1
1  WMT Stations                     I  No.   S         35 1
I  Batekeeper's Quarter             I  No.   1          31 1
S  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   S  _ _ _ _ _ _     _ _ _ _ _ _ _



- 26 -
Table 3.03.1 Breakdown of Irrigable Area for Each System
REGIONS/SYSTEMS          :   LOCATION/    sTOTAL AREA UPGRADED:
PROVINCE        A AND GENERATED   s
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ : 3  :__ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ __  :
REGION I                 :                 : .
_______________________-- --      ------- :-- :
1. Bolo RIS             :Ilocos Norte     :        525       :
2. Pasuquin RIS         uIlocos Norte     s        714       :
3. Lacag Vintar RIS     allocos Norte     :       2,523       s
4. Dingras RIS          zIlocos Norte     :       1,106       :
5. Cura RIS             :Ilocos Norte     s        676       :
6. Bonga Pump #2 RIS    :Ilocos Norte     :        699        :
7. Sta. Maria Burgos    :Ilocos Sur       :        966       :
B. Sta. Lucia Candon    aIlocos Sur       a       1s,5i2      s
9. Tagudin RIS          :Ilocos Sur               1,3G34      :
10. Amburayan RIS        :La Union         :       3,664      s
11. Masalip RIS          aLa Union                 1,620      s
12. Abra RIG             :Abra             a       1,156      a
SUB-TOTAL       :                 :      16,605       a
REGION II t                                a                   a
--- - :
1. Abulog Rehab         alsabela          :       8,468      s
2. Abulog Extension     :Cagayan & Apayao  :        -
3. Banurbur             :Cagayan                   764        s
4. Pamplona             :Cagayan          :        936        :
SUB-TOTAL       3                 :      10,168       3
REGION VIII              3
_______________________-__---- ------------ -----------
1. Binahaan North       aNorthern Leyte    :      1,910      a
2. Binahaan South & Lower:Northern Leyte    s     2,514       :
3. Guinarona River      aNorthern Leyte            450       s
4. Tibak-Soong RIS      :Northern Leyte    :      1,470      :
5. Hindang-Hilongos     :Southern Leyte    :       650
6. Das-ay RIS           :Southern Leyte    a       440        :
7. Balire RIS           aNorthern Leyte    s      1,402      3
8. Gibuga RIS           :Northern Leyte    :      1,286       :
9. Ibawon RIS           sNorthern Leyte            610       :
SUB-TOTAL       3                 :      10,732       a
GRAND TOTAL     3                  :     37,505
3------------------------  ------------------  - ------------------



- 27 -
IV. PROJECT DESIGNS
4.01   Irrigation and Drainage
4.01.1   Rehabilitation/Upgrading Works
In the rehabilitation or upgrading of existing systems,
the following points were considered:
a)   Study  how best to  use  the  existing  irrigation
facilities before considering any changes in the system's
layout that will necessitate abandoning or modifying wholly
or partly the facilities or relocating some permanent
structures.
b)   The predominant section of the existing canal  bet-
ween structures shall be used in computing the water level.
Existing canal section with capacities less than the design
requirement, should be enlarged while canal sections with
bigger  capacities should be maintained.   When one  of  the
existing banks of the canal ha.s to be filled up for 0 & M
road, the berm side of the existing canal should be filled
up to attain the free-board requirement.
c)   Backfilling  of  existing canal bottoms  and  side
slopes of oversized canals should not be done unless
required  in "b" above.   Where the water surface  elevation
will considerably drop due to oversized canal section, the
water surface level in the canal can be raised to the
desired  elevation   by providing flashboards at  the  check
structure.
d) The slope, (a) of the canal between two successive
structures to be used in the formula:
2/3 1/2
V      R    S
n
shall be equal to the slope of the line connecting the
invert of the outlet transition of the upstream structure
and the invert of the inlet transition of the succeeding
structure, both taken at cut-off wall lines and should
normally slope downhill. This is true when the canal bottom
profile of the existing canal bottom is above and/or nearly
follows the connecting line. If the canal bottom profile of



- 28 -
the existing canal is below this connecting line, or if the
connecting line slopes uphill, use backwater design approach
using the downstream structure as control.
e)  Maintain  the elevation of existing top bank  when
the required/designed top bank elevation is lower than the
existing one.
4.01.2   Water Requirement
a)   It was assumed that transplanted rice using  120-
day non-photosensitive varieties in both the wet and dry
season would remain the dominant crop in the various
projects.   Water  requirements were based on the  following
cropping calendar for the   three sub-project areas:
D A T E 8
SUB-PROJ. :   OPERATION      : WET SEASON  : DRY SEASON
Ilocos    : Land Preparation : Early May to :Mid Oct. to
& Nursery      : Mid-Sept..   :Mid-Feb.
: Transplanting    : Early  July  : Early  Dec. to
: to Mid-Sept. :Mid-Feb.
Harvesting       : Mid-October  : Mid-March to
: to Mid-Dec.  : Mid-May
Cagayan   : Land Preparation : Early  Aug.  :Early Jan. to
* & Nursery        : to Mid-Nov.  :Mid-April
: Transplanting    : Mid-Sept. to :Mid-Feb.  to
M: id-Nov.     : Mid-April
Harvesting       : Mid-Dec. to  : Mid-May to
M: id-Feb.     :Mid-July
Leyte     : Land Preparation : Early Sept.  : Early Feb. to
: & Nursery        : to Mid-Dec.  : Mid-May
Transplanting    : Mid-Oct. to  : Mid-March to
: Mid-Dec.     : Mid-MaY
: Harvesting       : Mid-Jan. to  :Mid-June to
: Mid-March    : Mid-August
b)   Land  Preparation and Nursery were estimated   to
take  30  days with  water  requirements  for  saturation,
evaporation and percolation of 300 mm., 310 mm, and 320 mm.
in the wet season and 320 mm., 330mm. and 300mm. in the dry
season   for  Ilocos,Cagayan  and  Leyte  sub-project  areas
respectively. Flooding requirements to provide a minimum



- 29 -
depth of water in the field for cultivation in each season
were    estimated    to   be  20  mm.   immediately   after
transplanting followed by additional 50 mm. about two weeks
later. Generally field percolation losses were estimated
to be 2.00 mm per day based on permeability studies in
representation parts of the proJect area. Evapotranspiration
rates were estimated to be equal to the observed Class A
pan  evaporationt at  Pait,  between 1957  and 1973 for   the
Ilocos sub-projeQt area. For the Cagayan sub-project area,
evapotranspiration rates were estimated by Penman's method
from meteorologoal data  recorded at Aparri for  the  period
1949-73.   The    same   method   was   used    to   compute
evapotranspiratlon rates for the Leyte Sub project area from
data collected at Tacloban City between 1949 and 1973. The
effectlve  rainfall  was  determined  from  observed   daily
rainfall at Laoag between 1949 and 1971 for the Ilocos sub-
project   systems,  at  Aparri between  1949  and  1975  for
Cagayan Sub-project area and at Tacloban City between 1949
and 1973 for the Leyte systems, allowing water depth to
fluctuate with the growth of the rice plants and limiting
max. depth to 150 mm.
c) Overall irrigation efficiency was estimated to be
43%  in  the  wet season and 50% in the dry season  at  full
development based on farm irrigation wastes of 40% in the
wet  season  and  30% in the dry  season,  system  operation
losses of 10% and conveyance losses of 20%.
d)   The consumptive use  of tobacco  was assumed to be
ratio of the observed monthly evaporation at Pait in the
Ilocos Sub-proJect area. The following crop coefficients
were used to obtain the consumptive use of tobacco:
State of Growth            CroD Coeffibiene
Cultivation and
Transplanting                  0.70 - 0.90
Transplanting - 3 months            0.70
3-4 months                          0.60
Usually  tobacco  is  grown   during  the  dry  season  with
negligible  rainfall,   that  the   effective  rainfall  was
assumed to be zero. An overall irrigation efficiency of 60%
was used to derive the diversion requirements for tobacco.
e)   Monthly  water  requirement  of  the   three  sub-
projects for the rice and tobacco crops are shown in Tables
4.01.1 and 4.01.3.



- 30 -
f)   The  size  of the irrigated  area for each  system
was  determined   from  simultted  operation  studies  using
synthesized discharge records for the 25-year period 1948-73
and the estimated seasonal water requirements for rice. The
cropping calendar was chosen to maximize the use of rainfall
without  exceeding  local manpower constraints.   No use  of
return  flow  was assumed.   About 36,000  hectares  can  be
irrigated during the dry season in the three sub-proJect
areas.   Adequate  water  supply  is available to  meet  the
supplementary irrigation demand of each system during the
wet  season.   For  five systems in the  Ilocos  sub-project
area, where temporary brushwood diversion weirs are used for
dry-season  diversion,   proper  allowances  were  made  for
seepage through the structures.
4.01.3   Canals Laterals/Sub-Laterals, Extension Areas
a)   Canals,   laterals,   and    sub-laterals  in  the
extension  areas  and  would  have  a  density  of  one  (1)
kilometer for every 80 - 90 hectares of service area.   They
would divert from the supply source at sufficient elevation
to reach, with proper gradient and by the most economical
route, the land to be irrigated.
b)   The  cross   section  of  earth  canals  would  be
trapezoidal in shape with side slopes determined from
stability  of bank materials.   Usually,  a side   slope  of
1 1/2:1 is used but may be flattened or steepened as soil
condition  warrants.   A side slope  of 1:1 to 1/2:1 is used
for  canals on  rock or hard pan.    The b/d  ratio  (bottom
width to water depth ratio) for unlined canals usually
ranged from 2:1 to 2 1/2:1.
c)   For hydraulic design, the Manning's formula  would
be used with a roughness coefficient of n - 0.025 for earth
canals with capacities of less than 3.00 cubic meter per
second and 0.020 to 0.0225 for bigger canals.
d)   Limiting velocities for earth canals:
Minimum velocity - 0.30 meter per second
Maximum velocity - 1.00 meter per second



- 31 -
e)   Freeboard (Fb):
Minimum Freeboard - 0.30 M
Fb   -  0.40(d) for water depth (d) of  less  than
2.00 meters
Fb   -  0.25d + 0.30 (2.00 maximum) for water
depth of 2.00 meters or greater
f)   The top berm  width should be approximately  equal
to the water depth (d) plus freeboard (Fb), with a minimum
valu6 of 0.60 M.   It would be wider when needed as  service
road or to minimize seepage through the embankment in case
of canal on heavy fill.
g)   The water surface profile during crop  maintenance
would  be  set at least 0.30 meter above the ground  surface
from the point where the canal could irrigate.
4.01.4   Canal Structures
a)   There should   be  at least one  vehicle/equipment
crossing for every 1.0 to 1.5 kms. of canals traversing in
non-irrigable  or  non-residential areas.   For  residential
areas, light vehicle crossing should be provided for every
500 meters.
b)   Adequate  provisions   should be  made  for  check
structures across the main and secondary canals, with steel
gates  if the flow exceeds 1.00 meter per second  and   stop
logs for lower flows.
c)   Measuring   devices   would  be  provided  at  the
upstream of each laterals and main farm ditch, which would
be a parshall flume for flows exceeding 1.00 meter per
second and a C.H.O. turnout or parshall flume for lower
flows.
d)   To  prevent   wash-outs  of   canals,   sufficient
protective structures such as culverts. drainage siphons or
paddy drain should be provided across the canals depending
on the topography of the area traversed by the canal.



-32 -
4.01.5      0.eration and M&in&gnancg Roads
An all-weather gravel road should be provided along
the embankments of canals, laterals or sub-laterals at an
intensity of about 20 meters of 0 & M road for each for each
hectare of service area on the following criteria:
a)   When  a  small canal runs parallel to an  existing
road within a center to center distance of 200 meters, the
road embankment should be omitted.
b)   Generally, the road embankment should be placed at
the service area side of the canal except in the existing
canals where a road ie already existing along the canal
embankment, the location of the existing road should be
maintained.
c)   When  both  sides of the canal are  irrigable  the
road should be placed at the wider embankment of the
existing canal.
d)   If possible,  maintain  operation road along  same
Bide   of   the  canal  from  headgate  to  end   to   avoid
vehicle/equipment switching from left to right embankment
or vice-versa.
e)   As  much  as possible,  the canal   service  roads
should  terminate  at  the farthest turnout  of  the  canal.
However, when a canal terminates near an existing road or
another canal, a connecting road maybe provided.
f)   Gravel surfacing for the different width  of  road
should be as follows:
For 4.00 meters  canal embankment - 3.00 M wde, 20
cms. thick
For 6.00 meters canal embankment - 4.50 M wide, 20
cms. thick
g)   A  non-gravel farm road of 2.50 M width should  be
provided  along  those  main farm ditches which  lead  to  a
village and where there is no access within 200-meter
distance.



- 33 -
4.01.6   Drainage Facilities
a)   Farm drains will  normally drain an area of 60-100
has. if draining two rotation blocks or 30 - 50 has. for
single block. These drains will be designed with two
sections,   upper section for a capacity of 150  liters/sec.
(single block) to 300 liters/sec. (two rotation blocks) and
the lower secton twice the capacity of upper section.
b)   All  of  the  main and secondary  drains  will  be
designed for a minimum velocity of 0.40 meter/sec. and the
maximum velocity will not exceed 1.20 meters/sec.
c)   All drainage  channels will have a  side-slope  of
1 1/2:1 or flatter depending on soil conditions except on
farm drains of the Leyte Schistosomiasis drainage work where
a  1:1  side slope will be  used if the   soil  cohesiveness
permits.
d)   Drainage   work   will be  designed for  ten  year
frequency flood for drainage channels allowing a retention
of water in the  rice fields not  to exceed 30   cms.  depth
and 72 hours.   In the case of Leyte drainage works with the
Schistosomiasis Control Program, retention of water 20 cms.
depth  and  48 hours is allowable.   This will result  in  a
drainage  module   of 0.50 to 0.60 cu.m./sq.  km.  for  rice
fields.
e)   All drainage structures will be designed for a 25-
year return period.
4.01.7   Farm Level Facilities
a)   Rotation Area and Rotation Units:
i)    The  area  to  be  served  by  each   canal,
lateral or sublateral would be divided into areas of not
more  than 50 hectares each called   rotation  areas.   The
rotation areas would be further subdivided into smaller
areas called rotation units having an area of 6 to 10
hectares each.
ii)   Each  rotation area would draw water from the
canals,  laterals  or  sub-laterals only through  one  gated
turnout and water would be distributed to the farm lots from
the turnouts through a main farm ditch and supplementary
farm ditches.



- 34 -
iii) The rotation area should not be too long
because it requires long farm ditches and thus increases
conveyance lose and opportunity for water disputes.   A main
form ditch should not be longer than 1,000 meters and
supplementary farm ditch not longer than 500 meters.
iv) As much as possible, rotation units within
one rotation area should be made equal or nearly equal in
areas.
b)   Turnouts
i)  The  turnout  should be  located  imoediately
upstream of a check structure and its inlet should be placed
sufficiently below the designed water surface elevation in
the center. It will be more economical to place the turnout
at the outlet of a road crossing provided with a check.
ii) When a turnout is necessary further upstream
of  a check structure,  its operating head  is to be   based
from  a water  surface elevation equal  to    the  checking
height of the structure downstream.
iii) The turnout is to be designed twice the
designed  discharge  of   its  main  farm  ditch  at  normal
irrigation  to  take care  of  increased flow   during  peak
demand.   The  minimum size of turnout pipes for a  rotation
area not less than 30 hectares is 18" diameter.
iv)     Turnout  pipes  would  be  designed  as   a
submerged tube using the formula:
0 -  CA   2gh
Where Q  - Discharge  in cubic meter per second
C  - Coefficient of discharge usually  taken
as 0.80
A  - Area of pipe in square meters
h  - Difference in water surface  elevation
at the inlet and outlet of the pipe
g  - 9.8 meters per second per second
c)   Farm  Ditches
i)   The  average  distance between  supplementary
farm ditches in a rotation area is 200 meters.



- 35 -
ii)   Main and supplementary farm ditches should be
located along tenant or lot boundaries or where it can
irrigate the highest natural ground level in the service
area.
iii)   There should be one supplementary farm  ditch
for each rotation unit. However, a common supplementary
farm  ditch  for  the two   adjacent  rotation  units  maybe
constructed depending upon the topography.
iv)   To have  a Permanent visual boundary  between
rotation units, the supplementary farm ditches should be
located along sides of rotation units except when following
a ridge line.
v)   Main and supplementary farm ditch serving the
biggest area in the rotational area should be designed with
equal capacities and should be with sufficient freeboard to
convey  water during land soaking  and  preparation.   Other
supplementary    farm    ditches   should       be    designed
independently.
vi)   For both main and supplementary farm ditches.
adopt a base width of either 60   or 40  centimeters.
vii)   Main farm ditch,  wherever practicable should
be designed to irrigate both sides thus serving two rotation
blocks of 30-50 hectares each with one turnout at the
secondary lateral.
viii)   Supplementary farm ditches will normally   be
designed with a variation of two sections, upper half for 60
liters/sec. (5-6 has). or 100 liters/sec. (10 has) and
lower half for 30 liters/sec. or 50 liters/sec. capacity.
Main  farm  ditches will have   uniform   section  for   the
entire length with designed capacity of 60-100 liters/sec.
if   serving one block and  120-200 liters/sec.  if  serving
two  rotation   blocks.      Berm  width  will be 0.45 N  for
main farm ditch and 0.35 M for supplementary farm ditch.
Outside   and  inside slopes will be 1:1 for both  main  and
supplementary farm ditch.



- 36 -
V. PROJECT MANAGEMENT
5.01   The National Irrigation Administration
The implementation of irrigation development programs.
including the operation and maintenance of national irriga-
tion systems in the Philippines was previously a   responsi-
bility of the Irrigation Division under the then Bureau of
Public Works. As food production began to fall short of the
demands of an increasing population, the role of Irrigation
as a determinant towards self-sufficiency in food became
increasingly vital.   For this  reason,  government planners
saw   the  need to establish a larger entity  to  accelerate
and integrate irrigation development in the country.
In 1963, congress enacted Republic Act 3601, creating
the National Irrigation Administration (NIA), a government-
owned   and  controlled  corporation  with   an   authorized
capitalization  of  Three   Hundred   Million  pesos  to  be
subscribed   and  paid  entirely  by  the  Republic  of  the
Philippines.   This Act abolished the Irrigation Division of
the then Bureau of Public Works.   The new agency took  over
the   functions  and  duties,   including  the  assets   and
liabilities  of the abolished division.   The NIA  has  been
vested with the following powers and functions:
a)  To  investigate,   study,  improve,  construct  and
administer all national irrigation systems in the
Philippines;
b) To investigate all available and possible water
resources  in  the  country  for  the   purpose  of
utilizing the same for irrigation, and to plan the
next   ten (10) to twenty (20) years period as  the
Irrigation Age of the Republic of the Philippines
and;
c) To collect from users in each irrigation system
constructed, such as fees as may be necessary to
finance the continuous operation of the system and
to reimburse within a period of not less than
twenty-five   (25)  years  the  construction   cost
thereof.



I                   - 37 -
The   NIA's  Policy-making body is composed of  a  six-
member Board of Directors with the Minister of Public works
and  Highways  as  Chairman   and the Administrator  of  the
National Irrigation Administrator as Vice-Chairman. Members
of  the  Board are:   the Director-General of  the  National
Economic   and  Development  Authority;   the  Minister   of
Agriculture;   the   President   of   the  National    Power
Corporation:   and  one  member  to  be  appointed  by   the
President.   The  overall management of the NIA is vested in
the   Administrator,    who  is  likewise   a   presidential
appointee.
On  September 11,   1974,  Presidential Decree No.  552
amended certain section of Republiic Act 3601 and vested the
agency with greater powers, increased its capitalization
and widened its functions and responsibilities.   The decree
authorized   the  entity  to   expand   and  diversify   its
activities to include implementation of multipurpose water
resources develoPment projects; undertaking of groundwater
exploration; and construction and/or expansion of national.
communal  and   pump  irrigation systems.   Tso achieve these
objectives, the capitalization of the UiA was increased
from Three Hundred Milliion Pesos to Two Billion Pesos, to
be   subscribed entirely by the  goverrment of the  Republic
of the Philippines.
the     broadening     of      N '8s   functions    and
responsibilities  and  the  inception of more  projects  for
implementation, necessitated a major reorganization of NIA's
set-up   to  cope  adequately  with  its  new   role.    The
reorganization was approved on September 23, 1980 by the
authority  of NIA Board  Resolution No.  3617-80.   A  maJor
innovation in the modified set-up was the creation of four
(4) offices of Assistant Administrators with the following
functions   and     responsibilities:   The   organizational
structure iNIA is presented in Figure 5.01.
a.   Office of the Assistant Administrator  for Project
Development and Implementation
1.  Assist    the  Administrator   in    planning.
organizing,   directing  and  controlling  the
project       development,       design     and
specifications  and  construction   management
activities of the NIA.



-38 -
2.  Review   plans,   programs  and  proposals  of
departments   supervised  for   adherence   to
policies   and  standards;   evaluate    their
performance   against targets;  and
3. Exercise  functional  supervision  over  field
offices  in matters pertaining to  his   areas
of concern.
b.   Office   of  the    Assistant   Administrator   for
Systems Operation and Equipment Management
1.  Assist   the    Administrator   in   planning,
organizing,  directing  and   controlling  all
activities    pertinent to the  management  of
irrigation  systems  and equipment to   ensure
proper  operation,   maintenance,  repair  and
improvement thereof.
2.  Review strategies, plans and programs  for the
formation   and  development   of   irrigators
associations   in    national   and   communal
systems/proJects;
3.  Review   plans,      programs   and   proposals
regarding    the   implementation   of       the
agricultural  phase  of a project    including
researches   to   improve    operation       and
maintenance   of   systems   and  coordination
with   other   agencies   engaged   in    food
production;
4. Review    plans    and   programs   for    the
acquisition,    development,  maintenance  and
repair of construction equipment, irrigation
pumps, drilling rigs, mechanical-electrical
plants,     transport      and    communication
equipment;
5.  Monitor   performance   of  dams   and   major
structures of an irrigation system to ensure
efficiency of said structure.
6.  Exercise  functional  supervision  over  field
offices in matters pertaining to his areas of
concern.



- 39 -
c.   Office of the  Assistant Administrator for Finance
and Management
1.  Assist    the   Administrator   in   planning,
organizing,   directing  and  controlling  the
financial and management activities of the
Agency to achieve optimum utilization of its
resources and increase corporate income;
2.  Review  plans,   programs,  and  proposals  of
departments   supervised  for   adherence   to
Policies   and  standards;    evaluate   their
performance against targets; and
3.  Exercise  functional  supervision  over  field
offices in matters pertaining to his areas of
concern.
d.   Office   of   the   Assistant  Administrator   for
Administrative Services
1.  Assist   the   Administrator   in    planning,
organizing,   directing  and  controlling  the
administrative services of the corporation;
2.  Review   plans,   programs  and  proposals  of
departments   supervised   for  adherence   to
policies   and  standards;   evaluate    their
performance against targets; and
3.  Exercise  functional  supervision  over  field
offices in matters pertaining to his area of
concern.
5.02  The  Office  of the  Assistant   Adipinistrator  for
Systems Operation and EquiMment Management
The overall management and supervision of the NISIP
being a project to rehabilitate existing systems was placed
under  the  Assistant Administrator for  Systems   Operation
and  Equipment  Management.   This sector has the  following
departments:    Systems Management Department. Institutional
Development Department and Equipment Management Department.
The functions of Systems Operation and Equipment Management
are as follows:



- 40 -
A.   Systems Management Department
1.   Provide  assistance  and advice on  the  operation
maintenance, repair and improvement of irrigation systems.
2.   Review  annual  plans  and programs  submitted  by
field offices on the management of irrigation systems.
3.   Prepare   consolidated  annual  Program  including
financial requirements for operation maintenance, repair and
rehabilitation of systems.
4. Review plans and programs on training of irriga-
tion system personnel.
5.   Develop   plans  for the conduct   of   irrigation
research to maintain irrigation structures and facilities,
improve management of systems and increase irrigation area.
B.   Institutional Development Department
1.   Formulate    policies,   strategies   to   prepare
irrigators  for  their eventual takeover and management   of
irrigation systems.
2.   Develop   plans   and   programs   for   rendering
assistance to irrigators.
3.   Supervise   and   coordinate   activities  of  all
regional water management training centers/units.
4.   Monitor  and  evaluate   the  implementation   and
effectiveness of NIA's assistance program.
C.   Equipment Management Department
1.   Plan and administer a comprehensive agency program
for the acquisition, deployment, maintenance and repair of
construction equipment, irrigation pumps, drilling rigs,
mechanical-electrical plants, transport and communications
equipment.
2.   Formulate,   update   and   dessiminate  policies,
guidelines and procedures on equipment management;   monitor
and evaluate all field activities.
3.   Prepare    technical    specifications   and  cost
estimates of construction and shop equipment to be acquired
by  the  agency  including  drilling  rigs,   transport  and



- 41 -
communication   equipment  and  electrical  and   mechanical
plants;   analyze   and  evaluate  bid  proposals  and  make
recommendations therein.
4.   Undertake field inspection  to evaluate  equipment
and pumps recommended for disposal, field shop facilities,
operations  and  maintenance  activities,   newly   acquired
equipment,  spare  parts  and tools;   undertake  repair  of
equipment brought to Central Office.
5.   Prepare  the plans  and designs and undertake  the
installations, repair, operation and maintenance of well
drilling   equipment,   mechanical  plants  and   structure,
electrical plants and communication equipment.
5.03   Proiect Or&niZaJtion
The National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project
(NISIP) is a result of a study conducted earlier by the NIA.
For quite sometime, the Agency had been aware of the
deterioration of the irrigation systems and the consequent
inadequacies of these systems to meet the growing demands of
rice production.   While some other rehabilitation  proJects
had been implemented, these were only for selected systems
such as the large Angat System and Magat System. The medium
sized  systems and the small ones were often left  out.   In
1975) the NIA was able to acquire funding from the World
Bank under Loan 1080-PH to finance a project that would
asess the status of the medium-sized and small irrigation
systems and identify their priority for their rehabilitation
and improvement.   This project was the National  Irrigation
Systems  Improvement Study (NISIS).   Hence,  the concern of
NISI?P were on national systems that were given less
attention  during the previous  years.   The result  of  the
study was the identification of 61 national systems as top
priority  for  rehabilitation.   These systems were  grouped
into  four (4) packages:   the first package also  known  as
NISIP I covers 22 existing and three new irrigation systems
in Regions 1, 2, and 8. NISIP II or package II includes 26
existing  irrigation systems covering seven NIA  regions  in
Southern  Luzon,  the  Northern Visayas and  Mindanao.   The
Third   and   Fourth  Packages  would  have   involved   the
rehabilitation   of  the  existing  irrigation  systems  not
covered  by Packages I and II.   But because of a change  of
plans,  these were not implemented.   Instead other  similar
oriented proJects were undertaken.
Under  the  NISIP package,  the systems  were  selected
based on the following criteria:



- 42 -
a)   The degree of need for improvement;
b)   The potential for improvement in terms of land and
water resources:
c)   Technical and economic feasibility of the improve-
ment package;
d)   Human  need  in the area in terms of  poverty  and
incidence of water-borne diseases;
NISIP therefore is a series of packages. NISIP I is the
first package and was implemented upon securing World Bank
assistance under Loan 1414 PH.   The estimated total cost of
NISIP  I  is  Peso 8044 which includes US$50  N  in  foreign
exchange  and  the rest in peso  counterpart.   Briefly  the
scope of work includes:
a)   Rehabilitation   and   upgrading  of  22   xisting
national systems in Ilocos, Cagayan and Leyte;
b)   Construction of new  irrigation. drainage and road
facilities on about 18,300 hectares of currently rainfed
land adjoining 18 existing NIA systems.
c)   Construction   of three new  national  systems  in
Leyte to serve 3.500 hectares.
d)   Land consolidation in Ilocos.
e)   Study of on-farm facilities.
f)   Strengthening      operation     and    maintenance
capabilities in Regions 1, 2 and 8.
g)   Provide  assistance to schistosomiasis control  in
Leyte.
Region I                Service Area (ha)
Bolo River                          400
Pasuguin                             600
Laoag-Vintar                      2,300
Dingras                           1.100
Cura River                          500
Bonga River                       1,200
Abra Pump                            650
Sta. Maria Burgos                   850
Sta. Lucia-Candon                 1,600
Tagudin                            1,350
Amburayan River                   3,050
4asalip River                      1,300
Sub-Total         14,900



- 43 -
R*gipfl II
Abulog River                      8,000
Banurbur River                      700
Pamplona Pump                       200
Sub-Total         8,900
Region VIII
Binahaan (Norte) River            1,000
Binahaan (Sur) River                600
Guinarona River                     450
Tibak River-Soong Lake              750
Hindang Hilongos                    600
Das-ay River                        250
Camunga-an River                    150
Balire River (new)                   -
Gibuga River (new)
Ibawon River (new)                   -
Sub-Total         3,800
Grand Total      27,600
ORGANIZATIONAL SET-UP
On January 24, 1977 the organization of NISIP I was
approved under Board Resolution No. 2999-77. Pigure No. 5.02
shows the approved organizational structure of NISIP I.
Under the organizational set-up, the implementation of the
25 sub-projects under NISIP I would be the responsibility of
the Regional Irrigation Director where the sub-project is
locted, in close coordination with the Project Manager of
NISIP I.  To bring about  the smooth coordination among the
NISIP I sub-projects in Regions 1. 2 and 8. the Office of
the Project Coordinator under the RID staff was created in
each of these regions.   Under the Office of the Coordinator
is the ProJect Engineer who is directly responsible for the
prosecution of the sub-project.   A sub-project was the term
used to denote an existing system under rehabilitation or a
new system under construction. Figure No. 5.03 shows the
organization of NISIP I sub-projects composed of three (3)
operating units namely: Administrative Section, Engineering
Section and Agricultural Section. Presented in Table 5.01 is
the   manpower   distribution  of  NISIP   I.   While   the
rehabilitation was going on in the systems or  sub-projects,
the  system  continued  to  operate.    Thus.  the  existing
positions were retained to undertake the 0 & N functions.



- 44 -
5.04   The Project Coordinating  Agencies
Agricultural development is a function of several
agencies,   government   and  private   alike.    Irrigation
development. land tenure improvement and the provision of
agricultural extension services are handled by government
agencies while the delivery of agricultural inputs is being
handled  mainly by the private sector.   On the other  hand,
the farm credit requirement is being provided by both
government  and private financial institutions.   Under this
situation, it would be very difficult to achieve the desired
level    of   agricultural   development   without    proper
coordination  among the various  agencies  concerned.   This
coordination  is necessary to bring about a synchronized and
timely delivery of appropriate inputs and services to the
farmers.
Recognizing the importance of coordination in bringing
about   the  ideal  condition  for   improved   agricultural
production the Agricultural Development Coordinating Council
(ADCC) is organized in all foreign-assisted irrigation
projects including NISIP.   Organized in the early stages of
the construction phase the scope of works of the ADCC
includes:
a.   improvement  and  construction  of irrigation  and
drainage facilities;
b.   establishment  of  demonstration  farms  that  are
strategically located in the project area;
C.   implementation  of  land reform   program  in  the
project area;
d.   negotiation  for right-of-way in the proJect area;
and
e.   formulation  aend  implementation of an  integrated
agricultural development program.
The  ADCC is composed of various agencies.   Among them
are as folows:
a.   National Irrigation Administration
b.   Ministry of Agriculture and Food
c.   Credit   institutions  such as Central Bank of the
Philippines, Philippine National Bank, Rural Bank
Association of the Philippines. etc.
d.   Ministry of Agrarian Reform



- 45 -
e.   National Economic and Development Authority
f.   Ministry of Natural Resources
g.   National Food Authority
h.   Ministry of Health
i.   Local Government (Municipal/Barangay Levels)
At the project level, leaders of Irrigators Association are
also included in the ADCC membership.
In NISIP areas, the ADCC has various forms although the
member  agencies  are  almost  the  same.    There  is   the
Provincial Action Committee (PAC), the Municipal Action Team
(MAT).    the   Project   Level   Agricultural   Development
Coordinating Committee (PADCC). the Field Level Agricultural
Development Coordinating Committee (FADCC) and the Systems
Level   Agricultural   Development  Coordinating   Committee
(SADCC).
The   PACs  and  MATs  have  been  existing  since  the
implementation of M-99 Program but most have been inactive
status. During project implementation they were reactivated
through the initiative of the NISIP-IOMP.   The other  forms
of ADCCs were organized also through the NISIP-IOMP with the
assistance of the Agricultural Coordination Division (ACD)
of the NIA's Regional Offices. Among the ADCCs organized or
reactivated, the PADCC, FADCC and some MATs are, at present,
the more active in solving the problems of the FYADP
implementation.



f lOURL NO. 5.1      
ORGANZTION  CHART
NATIONAL I RRIBATION AOMINISTRATOS
|ikA BOARD OP ORECTOR|
so~~~                 I                                    .It
oRUItNT             CAali               t No TTI    LCONTROLLERSHIP                                     lRS
Lo~    ~ .au  MAA0_,il
a.           - ."       o                                                                                              b itp   SRN
SSPASTUEUT  OEPANTUUR?       *EVSL~~~~OPWBme NVAG  ET                   EPAITMNSIT           OE PASNRT           OPR?ST               STNN
r   *0"1, cc  10      DiSR _ttatt           -VA    _N         r D-,ct   4 A  L -'11,111#g    __
116 V_IDO             * aaa     f_i       !                     OPSfATION& a         EMIAL ACCOW            CAt  ivo" L  _ _    _ 
M M~sUR~MS           CONTRAC                   ..Ol            SA&MPNNWE mp,prw~     ORSomI.ON lOAs      4VENUE "WIEA""O    ponsSIRlomIVISON       uFaTmIa
|to;4|72tt 10   C   ICtCATt tS                            AO.ut,OVllttOt          VE  OYM
61AN POR, ATION                          0       A 1583*   N  1   1 A RC N4 S      SUCOT DIVISION                               savasiow          MWISUNO
|tC^Tt1041tONIJI a    ar    ItaT  *CV   tot°                                                             t t(tttttD leOt
VW" SIO   P         J5CTS MAINOSN OfiNG stow  IION
--l MS.Sa    .   LAR Uv8 StOtt
LPROJECTS         D~~bapillARVMINI     OSPAS?Mtn1rpa    PRJCT                    0EPASTUENT           *                   *PARTUENPT
L .. g*- - - _i                          ..                             .       . ....,  
CI8  ORKIS       USJIMENPLM.NSSilm
011'kSCIK DVCSI ON    SMIRMWATO UA4ISMAIi
*RCNIsTEO?uRE AND  MuCA                                          SUN NIso
ONAPTItM DIVISION   OPOIRA1UVOIS
1   tlX  at
=NRIGATW!iI E   I                     i
St  lIONS J     j     ±±.g4J   f   I4tS !      ri " a



poiuat mo. o.*
ORGANIZATION CHART
NATIONAL I RRIGATION ADMINISTRATION
PROVEhMMN WRM
ASST. ADMINISTRATOR
FOR ENG'G. a OPERTiO
NISIP
PROJCI MANAGER
|   REIG1ON 2                              F |     tlo  IC       ;tSO  7 a 1
q  STAFf  |                             R      STAFF     t         DSTAFF
F~~~~~~~~~~~IS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1~~~~
ISALUf §M                                                   LAOAGl
I  -PROJET                                            SUB - PROJr
STAFF                            l                        SAFF 
_ 7ZLi                                                                                           A! 



FiGuRE NO. ma
ORGANIZATION  CHART
NISI P
SYSTEM UNDER REHABIUTATION
NISIP
CONSTRUCTION ENOHR
o e M OF SYSTEM              lUADMNISTRATIVE                     ENGWEERN            A|RCUURE
0 ok m  or sygram  SECTION                       ~~~~SECTON                   SIXTION
PO" E SE l.SURVEY a MAPPING
..  .      |           .t  FORCE ACCOUNT
ACCOUNTING                  AC   AC
d  NnNG    l           F  Cs~~~~~FA #4Y)
PROPERTY                  1     EOUIPMENT



- -  - -  -....... - -  -  - - - -  -.................... -  - -  -  -  -  -  - -  -............. -  -  -  - - - -  - -    *---
aOM. 13:.
-    w.
_ _o !,; ... -       ..        0  -.... q4
-z -    ---    --- - -F -S  I   - - Y-n -I  -    -t --
-   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   - t -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -   --   -   -   -l  -            
I-.          -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
I I   I vIIl [ I    -eXIIBi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mI.
-  *    ~~~~~~~~~:  -  ~~~~ -    --              -  - . - -
a X-  pt              aSo 14        *§
-        ---                      - , -I-    -d - . -------j
IM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
-.   ...   ".  ..--.---    ---  - -i-------
I W  ii     I              K
. --  -. ..- -    a - -a--. - - - ----.----  so-2 -



VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
6.01   Contract Works
Implementation   of  the  National  Irrigation  Systems
Improvement Project, Package I (NISIP I) was carried out by
contract  and  force account.   The  contract  works,  which
accounted for about thirty-five percent (35%) of the total
civil works, involved three (3) types of contracts as
follows:
1)   MaJor  Contract - These are contract works  bidded
at the NIA Central Office in Quezon City. It involved major
civil works originally programmed to be prosecuted by
contract.
2)   Local Minor Contracts  -  These are contract works
bidded and awarded at the Regional Offices under NISIP I by
authority  of  the Administrator.   It covered  civil  works
which could not be prosecuted by force account due to the
limited equipment and manpower resources of the different
NISIP  sub-proJects  in  Region  I,  II  and  VIII.    These
contract  works  involved  aggregate  contract  amount   not
exceeding Peso 750,000.00 per contract package/schedule.
3)   Small  Package Contract  -  These are civil  works
prosecuted by local small time contractors after unit price
determination per item of work had been established by the
NIA following a price determining bidding conducted by the
different  project offices.   It involved aggregate contract
amount   not   exceeding  Peso   100,000.00   per   contract
package/schedule.
6.01.1   MaAor Contract&
A total of seven (7) major contract works were
prosecuted in the implementation of NISIP I proJect. these
maJor contracts are as follows:
Reoion    Contract UP.              Contract r1escription
2    NISIPI-C-1R          Construction  of  the   Abulug
Diversion  Dam,   Abulug  East
Extension ProJect, Cagayan
2    NISIP C-2            Construction   of   Canals   &
Schedule I           Service  Roads for the  Abulug
East     Extension    proJect,
Cagayan



- 51 -
2    NISIP C-2           Construction      of      Canal
Schedule II         Structures for the Abulug East
Extension Project, Cagayan
2    NISIP C-8           Construction    of    Pamplona
Pumping   Station,   Pamplona,
Cagayan
8    NISIP-C-4R          Construction   of  the  Balire
River    Irrigation    System,
MacArthur, Leyte
8    NISIP C-6           Construction  of  the   Gibuga
River Irrigation System, Leyte
8    NISIP C-7           Construction   of  the   Lower
Binahan   Irrigation   System,
Leyte
A brief discussion on the implementation of the various
contract works follows.
1)   Contract   No.   NISIPI-C-1R   -  Construction  of
Abulug   Diversion  Dam,   Abulug  East  Extension  Project,
Cagayan.
The contract work involved the construction of the Main
Dam  for  the Abulug Eat Extension project  in  Cagayan  and
furnishing of all equipment, supplies, materials, labor and
other  incidentals for the successful implementation of  the
contract work.
After three (3) consecutive unsuccessful  bidding,  the
4th and final bidding was held on April 14,  1983.  Five (5)
prequalified bidders submitted their proposals and Dragages
Et Travaux Publics offered the lowest complying bid in the
amount of Peso 72,173,955.00.   It was noted that the lowest
bid was 9.49% or Peso 6,257,955.00 higher than the Approved
Agency Estimate (AAE) of Peso 65,916,000.00 and some of
their unit costs vary significantly from that of the AAE.
Subsequent   negotiation  were  held  between  NIA  and  the
contractor and the latter agreed to reduce its original bid
price by peso 2,062,959.00, bringing the total bid offer
down to peso 70,110,996.00 which was only 6.36% higher than
the  AAE.   NIA finding it fair,  reasonable and acceptable,
accepted the reduced offer of the contractor. Contract time
frame would last for 900 calendar days.



- 52 -
The "Notice to Proceed" was issued to the contractor on
November  4,  1983.   The contractor was able to comence on
November  10,   1983.    Initial  activities  included   the
construction   of   the   temporary   facilities   and   the
mobilization    of    construction    equipment.       Minimal
accomplishment was noted at the end of 1983 due to the
effect of the bad weather conditions at the project site.
In the second quarter of 1984, despite of the favorable
condition in the area, minimal progress was attained in the
various contract works due to the deteriorating peace and
order situation at the proJect site.   On May 30,  1984, the
camp of the contractor at the damsite was raided by
unidentified lawless elements which resulted in the complete
paralization  of  all their construction activities.   As  a
result of the raid, the contractor on October 29, 1984
submitted to NIA their formal request for the mutual
termination and the revised amount of claim for damages in
the amount of Peso 32,034.078.80. On April 8. 1985, the NIA
Board on its 450th meeting, approved the mutual termination
of the contract invoking the provisions of GC-23 (Right of
the Contractor to Terminate the Contract) with the condition
that the contractor may pursue other legal actions on those
controversial  claims  which NIA may  not  accept.   Further
negotiations took place between NIA and the contractor and
on May 13, 1985 during the 452nd Board Meeting, it was
agreed to compensate the contractor in the amount of Peso
12,601,134.64 out of their revised damages claim.   However,
after considering all payments made, including the advance
payment in the amount of Peso 10.516,649.40 and some
accounts  chargeable against the contractor,  the net amount
paid  was Peso  1.834.983.21.   It was understood  that  the
contractor would pursue arbritation proceedings on items
which were controversial and were not accepted by NIA at the
time  of the agreement..  On June 17,  1985,  the contractor
submitted their amended Notice of Arbitration and up to this
time   both  parties are exploring  other  possibilities  of
resolving the issues without actually going through the
expensive and lengthy arbitration proceedings.
2)   Contract No.  NISIP C-2,  Schedule I. Construction
of Canals and Service Roads for the Abulug East Extension
Project, Cagayan
The bidding for Contract No. NISIP C-2. Schedule I was
held  on May  17,   1979,   in  accordance  with  the  IBRD
Guidelines.   Out of the six (6) prequalified bidders,  only
two submitted their proposals.   The contractor,  Juanito L.



- 53 -
Bernardo Construction submitted the lowest bid in the amount
of Peso 12,766,850.00. The contract could not be awarded to
the contractor for it was higher by Peso 196,860.00 or 1.57%
from the approved government estimate in the amount of Peso
12,569,990.00. On December 12, 1979, the Contractor agreed
to lower its price to the level of the government estimate
which NIA found it advantageous and acceptable and on
December 14, 1979, NIA issued the "Notice of Award" to J. L.
Bernardo Construction.
Originally,    the   contract   which   involved    the
construction of canals and service roads in the Abulug East
Extension project had been scheduled to start on December
1979 but due to the funding problem, issuance of the "Notice
to Proceed" was held until September 11, 1980 which would
last for 600 calendar days covering two full dry seasons.
thus, the original expiry date should have been on May 3,
1982. Two deferment of contract effectivity were granted to
the contractor by NIA, thus moving the effectivity of the
contract  to  February  16.  1981.   Several  contract  time
extensions and suspensions of work were granted by NIA to
the contractor primarily due to the weather conditions
prevailing in the area resulting to the unworkability and
inaccessability  of the jobsites.   A total of 146  calendar
days time suspension and 556 calendar days time extension
had been granted to the contractor. thus the expiry date of
the contract was moved to September 9. 1984.
During the implementation of the contract works, Change
Order No. 1 was approved in the amount of Peso 1,236,825.59
or  9.84% over the original contract amount.   This includes
the relocation of the main canal line and increased in the
width of the road embankment from 2.5 meters to 4.00 meters.
Supplemental Contract covering the construction of Laterals
C,D and F was likewise considered and approved amounting to
Peso 4,927,416.63 or 39.20% over the original contract
amount.   With these,  the revised contract amount was  Peso
18.734,117.22.    Over-all  accomplishment  as  of  the  2nd
quarter of 1984 was 76% of the total revised contract
amount.
In March 24, 1984, the contractor requested NIA for the
termination  of the contract.   The justification  mentioned
were   the   combined  effects   of  the   successive   peso
devaluation, relatively high costs of construction materials
and operations in the project not commensurate with the
value of accomplishment even if escalation was granted and
the unworkability of the jobsites due to adverse weather



- 54 -
condition in the area.   A Joint inventory and assessment of
the work accomplished, partially completed works and works
not yet undertaken was conducted bY both NIA and the
contractor   and  after  evaluating  the  results   of   the
inventory, it was mutually agreed to terminate the contract
effective  September  9,  1984.   The remaining  works  were
deleted from the contract and was undertaken by "Force
Accounts"  and/or  by local minor contracts   in  accordance
with the provisions of the contract documents and the
implementation rules and guidelines of P.D. 1594 and P.D.
1870.
3)   Contract No. NISIP C-2, Schedule II, Constructuion
of Canal Structures, Abulug East Extension Project, Cagayan
The contract works for Contract No. NISIP C-2. Schedule
II was bidded on May 17, 1979. Two prequalified contractors
submitted  their bids.   The contractor,  Capitol Industrial
Construction Groups, Inc. submitted the lowest complying bid
in the amount of Peso 12,518,530.00.   An evaluation of  the
bid showed that it was 10.58% or Peso 1,197,920.00 higher
than the approved Government Estimate of peso 11,320,610.00.
Negotiations with the lowest bidder was initiated by the NIA
management and the total contract amount was eventually
reduced to Peso 12,320,610.00
The contract which involved the construction of canal
structures for the Abulug East Extension Project should have
started in June 1979 but due to the finan^ial problem
encountered, the "Notice to Proceed" was issued by NIA only
on June 19, 1981 and received by the contractor on July 3,
1981.   The  contractor upon receipt requested for deferment
of the contract to December 1, 1981 due to the unfavorable
weather condition prevailing at the Jobsite which NIA
favorably acted upon. With the new contract time frame, the
new expiry date was moved to July 23, 1983 covering a total
of 600 calendar days.
The implementation of the contract work was greatly
hampered by the non-accessability of the project site due to
the adverse weather prevailing in the area and the peace and
order situation thereat. Consequently, with these as basis,
the contractor requested for contract time extension of 338
calendar days and contract time suspension of 108 calendar
days, which NIA favorably approved. With the time extension
and time suspension granted, the new expiry date was moved
to October 11, 1984.



- 55 -
The contractor on July 20, 1984, requested for the
termination of the contract citing specifically the unusual
effect of inflation which had brought about the sudden
increase   in  the  costs  of  construction  materials   and
operations.    Several    meetings  were  held  between  the
contractor and NIA and it was agreed to mutually terminate
the contract.   On January 9,  1985,  a joint inventory  and
assessment was conducted and the result was that the
contract was 81.29% completed based from the latest contract
amount  of  peso  14.098,492.40.    The  revised  amount  of
contract was due to the approved Change Order No. 1 of Peso
2,777.882.40 or 24.54% over the original contract amount.
The change order was brought about by the increased in the
quantity of work items due to revision of plans to suit
actual field conditions.
NIA on April 23, 1985 had approved the termination of
the contract and recommended the termination effective
October 11, 1984 and the remaining works were deleted and
undertaken by "Force Account," Local Minor Contract and/or
Small Package Contract in accordance with the provisions of
the contract documents.
4)   Contract No.  NISIP C-8,  Construction of Pamplona
Pumping Station, Pamplona, Cagayan
Contract No. NISIP C-8 was bidded on April 23, 1981 for
which  all   of the bids submitted  were non-responsive  and
NIA  decided to  hold a re-bidding on May 19,  1981.   As  a
result  of  the  re-bidding,   the  contractor,   Philippine
Construction Consortium Corporation submitted the lowest
complying bid for the said contract in the amount of Peso
1,410,183.40. the result of the evaluation was that the bid
was Peso 24,334.65 or 1.75% higher than the allowable
government estimate of Peso 1,385,848.75. On July 24, 1981,
the contractor had agreed to lower its price to the level of
the allowable government estimate of Peso 1,385,848.75.
The "Notice to Proceed" was issued on November 3, 1981
but due to the inclement weather affecting the project area,
the contractor requested the deferment of the official
starting date of the contract work on November 10, 1981.
After evaluation and confirmation by NIA, it was agreed to
move  the contract effectivity from November  3,   1981   to
January  15,  1982   to give the contractor enough  time  to
prepare  for  the mobilization of manpower and equipment  to
the  jobsite.   The  construction of  the  Pamplona  Pumping
Station was scheduled to last for 360 calendar days and with
the approved deferment, the revised expiry date was moved to
January 10, 1983.



- 56 -
In the implementation of the contract, Change Order No.
1 was considered by NIA.   The change order was due to  the
sub-surface rock excavation encountered at the project site
which were unknown at the time of the bidding.   The  Change
Order was 6.09% or Peso 84,943.00 over the original contract
amount,   thus,   the   revised  contract  amount  was  Peso
1,470,341.75 and the expiry date was moved to February 4,
1983.
The contract work prosecution was smoothly undertaken
by the contractor but due to the nature of the work which
involved the installation of steel gate, transformers for
the motors and other accessories which NIA failed to deliver
the vital parts/accessories on scheuule, the contractor
requested for 161 calendar days time extension.   NIA  after
evaluating the claim recommended and approved the request
thus the expiry date was moved from February 4. 1983 to July
15, 1983.
By June 30, 1983, NIA completed the deliveries of the
various equipment/acessories to the jobsite. The contractor
accelerated their construction activities and by July 7,
1983, all of the construction works had been completed.
Change Order No. 2 (Firmed-up Quantities) was likewise
considered.   The  Change Order was 5.99% or Peso  88,114.21
less than the revised contract amount.
On June 22. 1983, NIA management conducted a test run
and found out that all items of works in the installation of
the pump had been satisfactorily completed in accordance
with the plans and specifications and the contract works had
been accepted by NIA effective July 7, 1983 as prescribed by
the resolution of Final Acceptance dated August 30, 1983.
5)    Contract  No.  NISIP C-4R,  Construction  of  the
Balire River Irrigation Project, MacArthur, Leyte
Contract NISIP C-4R was bidded on November 29, 1979
which only two (2) of the five (5) prequalified bidders
submitted  their proposals.   The lowest bid  submitted  was
that of Leyte-Biliran Construction Co., Incorporated and the
evaluation showed that the bid was higher by Peso 71,454.10
or 4.34% over the approved government estimate of Peso
1,645.256.10.   The contractor however,  in its letter dated
January 29, 1980 agreed to lower its price to the level of
the government estimate which NIA found advantageous and
acceptable and the "Notice to Proceed" was subsequently
released on November 20, 1980.



- 57 -
The works awarded to the contractor involved the
construction of the diversion dam, canal network and its
appurtenance structures and service roads. The contract time
took effect on November 26, 1980 and should have expired on
January 19, 1982.
Due to series of typhoons and heavy rains in the
locality, resulting to the unworkability of the project
site, the contract effectivity was deferred by NIA to
February 15. 1981. thus, moving the expiry date of the
contract  to  April 10,  1982.   The contractor was able  to
commence their construction activities only on March 6, 1981
and  consisted  of  the  construction  of  their   temporary
facilities and mobilization of their construction equipment.
Despite of the favorable weather conditions from March to
May 1981, no significant accomplishment was noted and this
was mainly due to the financial constraints and lack of
skilled workers on the part of the contractor.
On May 20, 1981, a suspension order was issued by NIA
on some parts of the contract work, particularly the
diversion works and the south main canal due to major
modifications to insure their structural stability and
Subsequent  diversion efficiency.   It was made clear to the
contractor that the suspension maybe a cause for giving them
an extension of time, since the dam construction was on the
critical path of the schedule.
In August 22, 1981, the contractor partially abandoned
the   project  by  the  demobilization  of  some  of   their
construction equipment and labor force with only 13% or
P213,353.56  accomplished on the contract.   NIA management
inquired on the shut down on some of their activities and
found out that it was due to lack of funds inspite of NIA's
payment of their partial collection and also the release of
their working capital in their request for assistance to
alleviate their financial capability.
By October 1981, a notice was sent to the contractor by
NIA to use labor intensive scheme on some structures and
canal construction and at the same time deploy additional
construction   equipment   in   order   to   improve   their
performance.   The problems were further complicated by  the
abandonment   of  the  contractor's  key  personnel  due  to
financial problems of the contractor.
Between August 1981 to January 1982, no accomplishment
was made by the contractor even after several notices from
NIA that most of the contracted civil works could be
undertaken, inspite of some typhoons and intermittent rains
in the locality.



- 58 -
During the first quarter of 1982, NIA had taken over
some  works on the canal,  structures and service roads  but
NIA  was  constrained  to  start  some  works  due  to   the
persistence  and  clamor  of farmer-beneficiaries  from  the
locality.
On January 28,  1982.  the final plans for the dam  and
the south main canal were issued to the contractor.   It was
agreed that the contractor would resume the works within
seven (7) days for NIA was considering to grant a four (4)
months time extension on account of the dam construction as
within   the  approved  critical path of   the  construction
schedule.   Despite  of the assistance and laxity offered by
NIA to the contractor,  their promise to resume work did not
materialize.   Hence, NIA was  compelled to takeover all the
works  by "force account" inorder not to further  delay  the
completion  of  the project.   On September  13,  1982,  NIA
management  approved the recession of the contract with  the
contractor  and  recommended   the  remaining  works  to  be
undertaken  by  force  account  and  further  suspended  the
contractor from participating in any government contract and
initiated the move to forfeit the bond posted for this
contract agreement.
6)     Contract  No.   NISIP  C-6,   Constructiion   of
Diversion works, Canals, Roads and Related Structures,
Gibuga River Irrigation Project, Leyte
The bidding for the project was held on August 28, 1979
and   implementation   was   scheduled  to  start   on   the
construction  season  of CY 1980.   During the bidding  only
three (3) of the original six (6) prequalified bidders
submitted   their  proposals.    The  lowest  bid  of   Peso
3,073,550.00 was that of Thomas and James Developers (Phil)
Inc. which was still higher by Peso 88,961.00 or 2.98% over
the approved government estimate of Peso 2,984,588.90.   The
contractor agreed on November 8, 1979 to lower its bid to
the level of the government estimate.   After the award  had
been made, P.D. 1594 was promulgated and subsequently
compliance on its requirements contributed to the delay in
the issuance of the "Notice to Proceed."
The  contract  work involved the construction  of   the
diversion dam, canals, roads, and related structures of the
Gibuga  River  Irrigation  Project.   The works  was  to  be
completed within 480 calendar days covering two full dry
season effective November 26, 1980 and should have been
expired on March 21, 1982.



- 59 -
On November 27, 1980, the contractor requested a
deferment of the effectivity of the contract mainly due to
the unworkability of the project site due to the setting-in
of the rainy season which would last up to February of the
next year.   NIA acted favorably after confirmation from the
field office and moved the contract effectivity to February
15, 1981.
The contractor was able to mobilize only on March 16,
1981 and initial activities were the construction of camp
and   office  facilities,   mobilizatiion  of   construction
equipment,   clearing   and  grubbing,  channel  excavation,
cofferdaming,    location    survey   and   fabrication   of
reinforcing  steel bars for the diversion  works  and  canal
structures.
In  the second quarter of 1982, minimal accomplishment
was noted by NIA despite the favorable weather condition in
the  locality.   The  NIA management had suggested  to  the
contractor  to   field  additional  manpower  and  efficient
utilization and scheduling of construction equipment inorder
to accelerate the project implementation.   On May 24, 1982.
the contractor requested a 39 calendar days time extension
due  to  the   series of typhoon that affected  the  project
implementation   which upon  verification by NIA recommended
and approved the request, thus the expiry date was moved to
July 18, 1982.
On October 15. 1982, the contractor requested again for
suspension of the contract time citing among others the non-
availability of working drawings for the works affected by
the   revisions   of   the   design   parameters   of    the
Schistosomiasis  Drainage Component.   NIA management  after
evaluating the causes of the request decided to mutually
terminate the contract instead of granting the contractor
another time extension and incur further losses on account
of idle equipment and manpower.
The work on October 16. 1982 was suspended inorder to
conduct   a   joint  inventory  of  the   acceptable   works
accomplished.    Due   to   the   discrepancy  in   figures,
several   meetings   were   held  between   NIA   and    the
contractor  and  on  January  24,   1986,  the   final   and
concurred firmed-up quantities was submitted. On March
14, 1986, the contract work was approved, accepted and
terminated    effective   October  15,   1985  at  94.63   %
accomplished. The remaining works were resolved to be
undertaken by "Force Account".



- 60 -
7)    Contract No.  NISIP C-7,   Construction of  the  Lower
Binahaan ProJect, Leyte
The opening of bid was conducted on February 28, 1980,
in  accordance  with IBRD Guidelines.   Out of the four  (4)
prequalified  bidders,   only  three  (3)  submitted   their
proposals. The lowest complying bid was that of J.H. Pajara
Construction Corporation in the amount of Peso 7,563,196.00
which was Peso 342,61..73 or 4.83% higher than the allowable
government  estimate of  Peso  7,214,582.27.   However,  the
contractor in its letter dated June 16, 1980 agreed to lower
their bid of the allowable government estimate.
The "Notice to Proceed" was issued and received by the
contractor on January 19, 1981 but the contractor requested
for   a  deferment  of  contract  effectivity  due  to   the
unfavorable  weather  conditions  in the area  and   further
delays were incurred due to the non-availability of the
workng  plans.   The  delay in the issuance was due  to  the
revisions of the canal lines and profiles and consequently
all  the   canal   structures  inorder   to   satisfy   the
Schistosomiasis design parameters.   NIA management found it
reasonable and moved the effectivity of the contract to May
10, 1981 and the revised expiry date was set to December 1,
1982.   The contract work awarded involved the  construction
of canal network and its appurtenant structures and service
roads and had a duration of 570 calendar days.
Due to the concommitant delays resulted from the non-
availability of said plans including typhoons and right-of-
way   problems  that  have  adversely  affected  the  timely
implementation  of the contract works.   The contractor  was
granted a total of 335 calendar days time extension and
moved the terminal date to November 1, 1983.
Prior to the expiry date of the contract several
meetings were held between NIA and the contractor in
connection with the take-over by administration of some
unworkable portions of the project which plans were not
available and those portions with unresolved right-of-way
problems.
On August 9, 1983, work in the project was suspended in
order to conduct a Joint inventory of the acceptable works
accomplished by the contractor and the probable deletion and
prosecutiion of the remaining works by "Force Account." On
September 10, 1984, NIA management approved the termination
of the contract at 26.94% accomplished and resolved that the
remaining works were to be undertaken by "Force Account."



- 61 -
6.01.2   Local Minor CUontract
Local Minor Contracts are medium size contract works
which were bidded and awarded at the Cagayan and Leyte sub-
proJects by authority Administrator. These contracts cover
civil works which could not be prosecuted by force account
due to the limited equipment and manpower resources in the
subproJects   and  those  works  taken  over  by  NIA   from
contractors who failed to complete their respectve contracts
with  the  NIA.   Each  local  minor  contract  involves  an
aggregate amount not exceeding Peso 500,000, however, this
limit   later  increased  to  Peso  750,000  by  virtue   of
Memorandum Circular No. 44-C, Series of 1985.
Presented hereunder are the various Local Minor
Contracts under NISIP 1.
Region 2 - Cagayan Subproject
SY tem        No. 2i Lo         Amount Q  E 1
Abulog Extension        20                5,600,541.23
Region 8 - Leyte Subproject
Binahaan                13               3,946,267.39
(South)
Balire                   1               1,501,233.53
(Danao Dam)
TOTAL       34               11,048,042.15
6.01.3 Small Package Contracts
Small Package Contracts were civil works prosecuted by
small-time contractors after unit price determination of
items of works had been established by the NIA following
price determining bidding conducted by the different ProJect
Offices. It involved aggregate contract amount not exceeding
Peso 50,000 per package. This limit, However, was later
increased to Peso 100,000 per pakage as per MC 1 18, S 1985.
Most of these contract works were carried-out using labor-
base intensive method.
During implementation of the NISIP 1 project, several
small   package   contracts  were  carried-out   to   hasten
prosecution of various project features. These include



- 62 -
construction and/or modifications of small irrigation canal
and drainage structures; surfacing of various roads along
canal embankments; supply of concrete aggregates to various
force account works; hauling of borrow and road surfacing
materials; desilting of canals and drainage; supply of R.C.
pipes; construction of canal lining; construction of main,
supplementary and drainage ditches and prosecution of other
civil works with an estimated cost not exceeding Peso 100,00
per contract/package.
Since small package contracts were labor intensive,
short  duration  and  did  not  require  large   investment.
performance of the contractors were generally satisfactory
and encouraging as compared to other contracts.
Small Package Contracts Com2leted Under NISIP I.
Region 1 - Ilocos Subproject
Irrigation System    No. of Package        Amount
Contracts        (Peso)
Bolo River                    164          1,506.510.53
Pasuquin                      436          4,641,121.72
Laoag-Vintar                  953         16.971,575.78
Dingras                       161          2,451,158.70
Cura River                     93          1,252,716.46
Bonga Pump                    275          4.335,791.96
Abra Pump                     144          2.912,035.59
Sta. Maria-Burgos             362          3,984.361.11
Sta. Lucia-Candon             321          4,580,544.24
Tagudin                       245          2,438,394.74
Amburayan                   1,114          8,848,220.53
Masalip                       285          4,293,084.41
Sub-Total        4,553          58,215,515.77



- 63 -
Region 2 - Cagayan Subproject
Abulog River                  420          10,516.298.32
Abulog Extension               13           2,956.505.82
Sub-Total           433         13,472,803.82
Region 8 - Leyte Subproject
Binahaan (Norte) River        205           2.478.434.15
Binaha-an (Sur) River         598          23,615,738.04
Guinarona River               203           1,167.575.57
Tibak-Soong River             146           1,863,307.77
Hindang-Hilongos               -
Balire River (new)             38           1.008,128.13
Gibuga River (new)             14             211.348.02
lbawon River (new)             27             409.483.37
Das-ay River                   -
6.02   Force Account Works
Initial   operations  on  the  implementation  of   the
National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project started as
early as 1977 when teams of technical men were fielded into
the various proJect areas to undertake pre-construction
works. These activities included field engineering surveys
and investigations, collection of hydro-meteorological and
climatological data and construction materials survey and
exploration.
With the signing of ther Loan Agreement No. 1414
between the World Bank and the government (GOP) on May 13.
1977. formal implementation of the project commenced. The
effectivity of the loan took effect on August 12, 1977.
NISIP I has three (3) distinct sub-project areas
falling   into the jurisdiction of the NIA Regional  Offices
of Region I in Urdaneta. Pangasinan located along the
northern coast with twelve (12) irrigation systems. Region 2



- 64 -
in Cauayan, Isabela located on the Northern part of Cagayan
with  three  (3)  irrigation   systems.  and  Region   8  in
Tacloban, Leyte located at the Eastern Visayas with nine (9)
irrigation systems.
Prior  to  the  firming  up   of  the  overall  project
organizations, recruitment of additional project staff and
key  personnel,   technical  men  from  the  office  of  the
irrigation  systems  of the different   regional  offices,
contributed in the gathering of data.
Following the establishment of the different divisions,
project    activities   undertaken   were   planning        and
programming,  design  and  preparation  of  plans   for  the
various  projects and service  facilities.   Preparation  of
tender documents of irrigation and drainage facilities to
be undertaken through local minor contracts were given due
emphasis   and  earnestly  pursued.    Due  to  the  limited
capability of the project offices, design and preparation
of plans and bid documents for the diversion dams and  other
major civil works were undertaken at the NIA Central Office.
In Region I, actual rehabilitation and improvement of
the  systems  started  in   1977 and was  programmed  to  be
completed by  the  end  of 1983.   Due to  the inclusion  of
some   items   of   work,   Projects  were  rescheduled  for
completion by 1984.
The   project   is  divided  into  three (3)  features,
namely:     (a)  proJect  facilities,  (b)  irrigation   and
service facilities, and (c) roads and other appurtenant
structures.
During  the  implementation of NISIP  in  the   region,
simultaneously all the systems comprising Ilocos Norte
namely Bolo RIS. Cura RIS, Bonga Pump #2, Laoag-Vintar IS,
NMC Pasuquin Extension and Dingras RIS started with the
different construction works by force account. Same is true
to  Ilocos  Sur   ProJects  namely  Sta.  Maria-Burgos  RIB,
Tagudin RIB and Sta. Lucia RIS and, in La Union we have
Masalip RIS and Amburayan RIB.
Among   the   first  activities  undertaken  were   the
renovation of the existing permanent buildings and its
extension,   construction  of the  recreational  facilities,
guard house and perimeter fence and procurement of office
facilities.   Almost  all  of the  construction  of  project
facilities  were  done by small package contract.   In  1979
regardless of the effect of oil crisis in the country,
construction works were still in progress.



- 65 -
The three (3) irrigation systems in Region 2 namely
Pamplona, Banurbur and Abulog Rehab and Extension commence
work in 1978.  Initial work was  concentrated   in   the
renovation/improvement proJect facilities.
Construction of irrigation and drainage facilities in
Abulog Rehab, Pamplona and Banurbur Systems were mostly done
by  Force  Account.   At Abulog East Extension,  works  were
undertaken mostly by major/or local minor contracts.
At Region 8, Leyte subproject, the first please of work
was   on  the  construction  of  project  headquarters   and
facilities by force account. The construction of irrigation
facilities was only started in early 1979 regardless of the
oil crisis in the country.
6.03   IBRD Supervision Mission
During  the  implementation of the National  Irrigation
Systems   Improvement  Project  (NISIP)  I.,  several   IBRD
supervision  missions  visited the project area to   oversee
and  ascertain progress in the prosecution of  the   various
project features and components, update the cost estimates
and project implementation schedule, confirm compliance
with   the various  loan  covenants and thresh  out  project
implementation constraints and recommend  solutions.
Notable  actions   made  by the Bank  as  well  as  the
various supervision missions in the interest of the project
were:
1.   Reviewed   and  approved  all civil      works  and
supply     contracts   which   were    formalized    through
international and domestic competition bidding.
2.     Provided    detailed    information    on    the
procedures to be followed to effect timely withdrawals of
the loan proceeds.
3. Reviewed and recommended approval of NIA's requests
for disbursements of the loan proceeds.
4.     Reviewed  and  recommended   approval  of  NIA's
requests for extension of the loan closing date.
5.     Reviewed  and  recommended  approval  of   NIA's
requests   for  extension  of  the  project   implementation
schedule.



- 66 -
6.   Followed up progress in the  implementation of the
civil works contracts.
7.    Followed  up   progress in the implementation  of
various   supply  contracts  covering  the  procurement   of
construction and maintenance equipment and vehicles from
abroad.
8.    Followed  up  progress in the  implementation  of
force account works.
9.    Followed  up  progress in the  implementation  of
various  programs  and activities on  water  management  and
agricultural development of the irrigation service area.
10.    Recommended  favorable  advice  in  the   overall
management and implementation of the project.
6.04 Project Personnel
Presented  hereunder  is  the breakdown  of   personnel
used  in  the project from the start of   implementation  in
August 1977 up to completion in June 1986.
Number of Personnel
Period                 NIA       Contractor      Total
EJmPloyed     Emp loyed
December 1977             324                          324
December 1978             776                         776
December 1979             987           -              987
December 1980           1,279          101          1,380
December 1981           1,437          546          1,983
December 1982           1,476          666          2,142
December 1983           1,656          528          2.184
December 1984           1,465          230          1,695
December 1985           1,313           -           1,313
June     1986           1,261           -            1,261



- 67 -
VII.   IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
7.01   Orisinal ProJect Implementation Schedule
As envisioned during appraisal of the project, the
National Irrigation systems Improvement Project Package I,
Loan  No.  1414-PH  would  be implemented in four and   half
(4  1/2)  years   including detailed  engineering  and  pre-
construction  works.       Implementation  was  scheduled  to
commence in July 1977 and would be completed in December
1981.   The irrigation works would  be carried out in  three
and one half (3 1/2) years, the land consolidation pilot
project,  and  on-farm  facilities studies in four and   one
half (4 1/2) years.
In the Cagayan Subproject area, pre-construction works
and   improvement  of 0 & M buildings and  other  facilities
would  commence in July 1977.   Rehabilitation and upgrading
of   existing   irrigation  and  drainage   facilities   and
construction and development of extension areas would be
started during the first quarter of 1978, reach peak
operations during the dry seasons of 1979 and 1980 and
gradually taper off towards completion in June 1981.
The   Leyte   Subproject   area   which   include   the
schistosomiasis   control   program   implementation   would
commence in  July 1977.   Improvement of existing irrigation
and   drainage  facilities  in  March   1978.   reach   peak
operations  in  the dry season of 1979,   1980   and   1981.
Construction and development of extension/new areas would be
started in the dry season of March 1979 and would end in
August  1981.   The  health aspect of   the  schistosomiasis
control program would commence in July 1977 and would end in
December 1981.
7.02   Actual Project Implementation Schedule
The National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project I
was actually carried out in nine (9) years time including
detailed  engineering and  pre-construction  works.   Actual
implementation was started in July, 1977 and completed only
in June 1986.   The actual implementation is longer  by four
and one-half years.



- 68 -
Numerous    delays   were   encountered   during    the
construction phase and other related activities in both the
force   account   and   contract   works.       The   original
implementation schedule was revised two times and the
projected completion date was extended in the process from
December 1981 to December 1983, subsequently to December
1985 and finally to June 1986.
Presented   in  Figure  7.01  is  the  overall  project
implementation schedule showing the original program the
second revision with proJected completion date scheduled for
December 1984 and the actual implementation schedule of the
various proJect features.
7.03   Cause of the Delays on PXolect Tmplementatio
Major factors which seriously affected smooth and
timely implementation of the project are as follows:
1.   Adverse  weather  condition  in the  proJect  area
which rendered various areas of operation unworkable and
inaccessible for certain periods during the implementation
of the project.
2.   Natural  calamities  such  as typhoons  and  sever
floods and earthquake, which caused extensive damages to
completed and on-going works.   Restorations and/or  repairs
of damaged facilities greatly affected the operations of
both the government and contractors forces.
3.   Occasional   shortage   of   basic    construction
materials  and supplies,  such   as cement,  fuel  and  oil,
which  greatly   affected  implementation  of   both  force-
account and contract works.
4.   Peace and order situation  particularly  in Region
II.
5.   Financial  constraints   during  the   course   of
proJect implementation especially in the early years which
brought   about   the  reduction  of  work  forces  in   the
government.   On top of this,   proposed contract works were
deferred or cancelled.
6.   Reluctance of farmers  to cooperate especially  in
the  construction  of farm-level  facilities  and   drainage
ditches especially in the schistosomiasis-endemic areas.



- 69 -
7.   Only  minimal rehabilitation/upgrading  activities
of existing irrigation systems could be undertaken during
crop seasons to minimize interruption of irrigation service
inorder to give farmers at least two (2) cropping seasons
in  a year.   This situation  was not  considered  serious±y
during appraisal of the project.
8.   Delay  in  the  tendering of the contract for  the
Abulog Dam construction in Region 2.
9.   Delay  in  the  implementation   of  the  drainage
construction on schistosomiasis endemic areas in Region VIII
due to revisions of construction plans as a result of the
requirement of the World Bank for NIA to hire a drainage
consultant, who will assist in drawing up the plans for
agro-drainage and for drainage on schistosomiasis endemic
areas. Delay was also due to lack of Philippine experience
in the planning and design of Schistosomiasis Control works,
implementation of this component suffered several set backs.



- 70 -
VIII. PROJECT COST
8.01   Cost Estimates
The National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project -
Package I (NISIP I) was estimated at project appraisal to
cost a total of P 804.00 (US$ 107.20) million of which P
375.0 (US$50.00) million representing 47 percent. would be
funded   from an IBRD loan and the remaining  P 429.00  (USS
57.20)  million from  local counterpart funds.   The overall
cost estimate includes the estimated cost for the various
project  components  amounting  to  P  549.84  (US$   73.31)
million  and  provisions  for   physical  contingencies  and
expected price increases involving P 97.28 (US$ 12,97) and
P 156.88 (US$ 20.92) million respectively.
The original project cost for the various project
components   amounting  to  P  549.84  (US$  73.31)  million
included the cost for the rehabilitation and upgrading of
twenty   four   (24)    existing  irrigation   systems   and
development of extension areas amounting to P 429.53 (US$
57.27)  million,   strengthening regional 0 &  M  capability
amounting to P 10.58 (US$ 1.41) million, land consolidation
pilot project involving P 4.80 (US$ 0.64) million, on-farm
facilities study involving P 5.78 (US$ 0.77) and P 99.15
(US$ 13.22) for schistosomiasis control program.
The     original    quantity    estimates    for    the
modifications/improvements of the existing diversion dams
and intake works, rehabilitation and upgrading of existing
irrigation    and    drainage    facilities,    roads    and
construction/development or extension/new areas were based
in  the feasibility study prepared for the  proJect,   field
surveys and preliminary designs and drawings. Unit cost for
each work item was based on the prevailing price indices in
1977 for construction materials and supplies, labor and
equipment and NIA's experience in the implementation of
other Bank-assisted projects in Luzon,, adjusted to the
local condition in the provinces of Ilocos, Cagayan and
Leyte. .Unit prices for equipment, materials and supplies
were based on quotations received by the NIA. The foreign
exchange requirements were based on bids received by NIA in
the  same  period for construction equipment and   vehicles.
Detailed breakdown of construction equipment and vehicles
were based on the equipment requirement of other NIA
projects. For physical contingencies, an adJustment factor
of 25 per cent was applied to the base cost estimates of



- 71 -
civil works irrigation systems, 10 percen., to 0 & N
buildings and strengthening regional 0 & M capability; 20
percent  to  land  consolidation  pilot  project,   on  farm
facilities study and on environmental sanitation and snail
control under health component; and 25 per cent was provided
to  the  civil works  of schistosomiasis  control   program.
To   take   care  of  expected  price  increases   over   an
implementation schedule of five (5) years, a 24 percent
adjustment factor was applied to the total project cost.
During the implementation of the project, the "Good for
Construction" drawings, results of competitive biddings,
current  salary  pay  scale   of   NIA  personnel  and   the
prevailing  cost  of material,  labor,  fuel and  oil,   and
equipment as well as cumulative actual costs incurred up to
that   period    of  time,   were  the  basis  in   updating
periodically the project cost estimates. In 1977 the Total
Appraisal    Estimates   amounted   to   $50,000,000.00    &
P429,000,000.00. However, the Actual Expenditures in June,
1986 resulted to $38,205,776.25 and P385,977,632.60.
8.02   Aptual Progegt CG0t and Exoanditures
At project completion in June 1986, the actual cost
amounted to Peso 888.5 M (US$ 76.0) million which is about
71  percent  lower  than the   estimated  original   project
cost.
Presented in Figure 8.02 is the summary of expenditures
from 1977 to 1986.
8.03 Da.velygmnt Cost
The   resulting  actual development cost of  irrigation
and drainage facilities including roads and other related
civil works within the twenty four (24) sub-project areas
are as follows:
The   development  cost was derived from  actual  field
quantities  and  corresponding unit cost per item  of  work.
The  cost  of  procurement of  construction   equipment  and
vehicles, pre-construction and detailed engineering works,
and proJect construction and 0 & 1 facilities were not
included  in the calculation.   Presented in Volume II of II
is the detailed information on the derivation of the
development cost of every subprojects.



-72 -
8.04   Cause in the Decrease of Project Cost
1.   The expected service area of 49,400 hectares to.be
developed   and   provided  with  irrigation  and   drainage
facilities  was reduced to 44.409 hectares.   The  reduction
of   about  4,991  hectares or 10  percent  from  the  total
service area as appraised  has correspondingly reduced   the
overall  development   cost.   This reduction in  area   was
partly due to the current urban development and industrial
expansion   within  the  service   area   and  consequential
conversion of some portion into sites for residential and
factory/industrial  plants.    Unworkability of some project
sites due to the peace and order situation in Cagayan sub-
project was also encountered.
2.   The   construction of the proposed Abulog Dam  had
been deferred under NISIP I as a result of the incident,
where  unidentified lawless elements attacked the   campsite
of  the contractor.   The contract with Dragages Et  Travaux
Publics amounting to about P 70M was mutually terminated
in  view of the   uncertainty of continuing the work  under
the present situation.
3.    Actual  expected price increase  incurred  during
project implementatiion were less than those provided in
the project appraisal.



FPI;UR 8.01 SIRAR  OF ENITURES FRON Im  - 1986
: S     &71                  :      49I8               1         19?7 9
PARTICULAR                                    :-
FOREIGN      LOCAL    I  FOREI6N    :    LOCAL    :  FOREIIN           LOCL 
:                                      : US WLOe:I USUAR  I tSOOLLR   I US DOLAR    tIS OOLAR    USOOLR   :   S 0DIL         :
(1)                  1    (2)          (3)          t(4)             )(7) 
11- CI ua                                                        a
cogw~~                                                                             ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ It  a 
a) DIVERSION NM                      1,736.50      8,324.89:   13,040.54       33,624.36 1   30,435.84:    90,279.45
: b) AIN & SCOA  CAAL SYSTEN    I   1,99.81              9,557.85 1   14,%5.04 1    38,566.61      16,936.20:    218,361.09 :
:    c) AIN AND SECDA  DRAINAGE SYSTEM'R      47.66 1      228.22:       37.54          921.90 1    2,023.29 1    2,126.34:
d1 SERVICE,ACCESS AND FARR RAeDS    :   605.12:    2,997.65       4,539.19      11,104.07     1,296.9       25,614.141
a) ON-FARN DEUELOPEW              1     447.64      2,144.50      3,359.71      9,66.27       19,006.92     4,08.06.3
I             W0-TOTAL - A             :   4,935.10     23,153.11     36,261.02      93,497.23     69,699.29:   365,369.41:
: B- FORU AC::                                                               ::                     
I    a) DIVERSION MOMKS                             a                  2,093.97i      5,01.:   19,.58            31,337.29 1
:i MAN & SECOND    CN  mTEN                    I :               56,941.  I   146,90.16    201,703.341   520,999.72:
c) MIN AND SECOA  DINA  SYSMTE                                   27,017.98: 1,2.8:   114,3.06              295,404"95 
:    d) SERVICE,ACCESS AM FAN MM       I                              55,122.08     142,117.41    343,132.44     886,311.09:
I    s) Ot-A    DEVEl   T                           I         :        1,515.21       3,908.4     1",753.65 1   492,716.668
f t) MATER  NAIUN STATIINIS                         I I           :      141.57 1       365.186     1,189.31-1    3,064.24:
1    9) GATEKEEPRS WAR                       220.85:    1,057.55 I                            :    2,776.7:       7,172.0 1
I    bi TO AIC SUE & RAPING            1  17,221.989    82,468.31 1   48,450.44 t   124,9J7.91 :   70,746.66     182,736.67 1.
.) RRINT OF NAY                             -            -             -       I      -      1    1,975.65       5,103.10 :
I    ;) OPERTION a AINTEN A    UILDINS 1     -      I     -            1,527.74       3,940.81 1   21,218.23 I    70,304.69:
I    k) FIELD OFFICES                  :                              24,706.25:   244,294.76 1   41,047.42     200,670.31
I) OPERTION   NAINT       EGUIPN        -            -              265.41 :     1,956.01:     -       :     9,410.01:
:             GUM-TOTAL - 8                17,442.83 1   83,525.96:2 27,701.98 1   743,605.06 11,014,143.13   2,704,433.35 1
:   T 0 t A L - I        :  22,277.93:  106,678.97:  324,043.00    8937,102.29  1,0B4,42.42 1 3,089,922.76:
t                  :            :             t            ~      ~      ~       ~     ~       ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:  :  :  a
:11- STIIENGIENBIN  REGIONAL OETIN AND              :                     39.06         100.76 I    6,013.17      15,532.?9:
I    RAINTEN       CAPABILITY          :            :             a             :             a             a
:111- INIPUTOWlPUt NONITORINS PUIRA    :            :             :                           1       30.76         227.12 1
IIV- SOIISTGIIRIASIS CONTROL PRlOAa :                                                                       I a
C Mf  MU                                                                        Is                135,501.36     43,709.66 
HIEALTH COMIIt                                                   I :  :                            7,705.45     19,903.19
IV-  PROCLET IV OVEREN                 :  50,513.71    132,212.50  5,179,400.01 1 57,985,334.66 11,479,705.59: 55,096,820.24:
I                                      :1 :It:I                                                   
IVI - IEIERliL E0BINEER1NG, SUPERVISION A11         : 5,045,961.60 1            : 5,495,097.44              : 6,456,228.789
:   NINlbtTI             :N
:                                      a            :             a             :    *        :             a              a
I             T O T A L -11- VI        1  50,513.71: 5,178,174.10  5,173,439.07 1 63,410,532.86  1,626,956.65 1 61,632,429.76 1
:             61UIWID TOMAL            1  70,791.64  5,264,953.071 5,503,482.07 1 64,317,635.17 1 2,713,399.07:  64,722,252.54:



- 74 -
t2:                                             1980             :        1981                         1982 
PARTICULAR                  I-
:  FUEIIS   I   LOAL    I  FOREIII      I    LOAL        FRIN       I    OCL SE
:                                     t 118DOLAR I    USD OIILUR   U IIOLULAR  :  US OLLA      US 01LAR       US OLAR :
(:)                 2S   (9)1t    (101    :    (1111 :            12)          (13)    :    (14)      :
:                                     S                                                                    S: - 
I- CIVILURKS                           2                         2 RI
: - CONTRACT                           :           2             2            :              S             :             :
:    . DIVERSION lORKS                 2  11,559.45 :  133,280.24    11,375.6     189,M.25 2  194,893.96 2    79,09.53 
2    b) MAIN I SECONDARY CAL SST           5,904.01 2  152,949.44 2   15,81.79     217,801.3 1 2 67,99.43 1   380,010.41 I
c e) RAIN AND SECONDAY DINASE 5113    1,403.4               9.3       1,897.312    2,120.88       6,623.22 S   180,7.23 2
2    d) SERVICE,ACCESS N FAUN ROADS        4,608.24 t   17,941.24     11,31.41      25,54.4  S   5,7.           62,447.94
2    ') UFAN DEVEAOPN                  2  13,104.40     34,327.56    17,823.512    48,882.76     60,22.06 1   179,361.88 
2             SUP-TOTAL - A            2  36,659.85 1  339,7.95 1   65,359.67 1   464,145.76 :  384,295.072 1,212,34.992
:   B- FORCE ACCOUlNT                  2           S                           2
a) DIVS1ION OIS                  2  20,104.74 2   52,939.9  2   21,289.42    58,641.76      49,368.55     144,625.17 1
S    b) RAIN & SECONDARY CANAL SYSIENI    241,09.84    552,912.92 2  254,813.02 2   701,802.46    146,657.06 S   429,631.86 2
I    c) RAIN AND SECONDARY DRAA  81STENI2  45,403.72    119,343.66 2   31,740.302    07,429.66 2   53,266.35   156,043.7  2
2    J) SERVICE,ACCESS AND FAR MM R      156,354.302  259,427.2B    168,335.09     113,679.01 2  106,447.05 2   311,936.63 2
:    e) Il-FAM DEVEL0OFENT            :  80,975.26    233,601.62 S  110,351.54     303,963.32     54,45.25 S   159,12.01:
2    f)  TER NANAIW     STATIONS                                                    2 4677.95  12,322.012   10,427.052    21,7.31 2   12,791.43 t    37,472.49 
I    9) 6AT ERS QUARTERS              I   4,810.23      12,643.69 2    3,64.86 2    10,149.952   13,559." 2    39,723.92
2    bi) TllltlMIC SURVEY    PI S NPPINS  2   7,420.07: 2 19,524.62 10,911.7  2    30,056.33     67,625.70 2   256,699.42
2    i) R11NT OF MAY                  2  13,635.93 S   35,041.78 2   14,163.81      39,014.21    15,354.13 2    4,979.12 2
:    1) OPERATION & RAINTENANCE 9UILDINBS 2   6,010.01 2   15,799.41  3,517.40      9,88.68 2   46,263.742   135,529.63 2
2    k) FIELD OFFICES                 2   9,70.68 2   22,90.77 2   12,852.512    35,402.24 1   53,847.98 2    16,845.77 
2    1) OPTION & AMAINENCE EIIUWIT S   1,695.45     12,2.84     18,460.72 2    50,905.14 2    3,266.57 2   120,336.98 S
:             SUB-TOTAL - 0            2 598,50.?9: 1,349,987.622  660,567.46 2 1,469,533.07    642,898.80 2 1,955,238.732
:                                     2            :             :.           :              2             2             2
2             T 0 T A L - I            2     635,510.63 1 1,669,9715.47    725,927.13 92 9 1,953,678.93 21,027,183.87 2 3,137,583.72 
211- STREN8THENINS E6IONAL OPERATI  AIID t   2,576.21 2    6,71.57 2    902.54 2    2,372.33:    6,106.912   120,336.92 2
I    flNTNCE CWNLIUTY                                            S             S             S 
Ill- IlPUT-OUTw T IONITORIt Pl06R01   2      32.26 2     242.31 2             2                  1,674.72      14,017.44 
,1V- SCIIISTOSOMIASIS CNMOL PU         2           2             2            2              : 
I    CIVIL NOVMS                       2 105,680.32     30,616.122  127,064.81      43,57.61    119,474.32 2   216,339.20 I
:    IEAlTH COIPUENT                   2  15,608.75    121,045.61 2           2              2             2
IV-  1ROCU          OEENT             21,751,061.85 211,111,103.01 2 4,93,927.17 2 37,065,542.83 2 1,564,509.912 9,506,387.692
t29 - SEA ESIERINB, SU ISION ADI                   2 6,635,211.84 2              7,375,480.64 2            2 6,466,696.39 :
2  ADNINISTRATION                                                                        Is 22          I 
0 TOt A L - 11- VI                     11,874,959.39 217,905,790.46  5,111,094.52 2 44,486,"3.412 1,91,765.86 2 16,325,M.70 2
I             amIID TOTAL              12,510,470.02 219,595,765.93 25,837,821.65  46,440,6n.242 2,718,949.73 2 19,463,361.422
2            --                                    2 --2*-2--                                                    -



- 75-
I         1983                      1984               1       1985                 I
I         PARTICULAR                      :       -                                             -
I  FOEI6         LOCAL        FOEIN    I    LOCIL      :  FO P11181:    LOCAL    I
________________I  Us OUAi                         I USDOLLR   I U5sLLM   :  US DOLLAR          US 01M W USUIRL           :
( {15)               1   (IA)    I    (17)    1    (18)    I    (19)        1    (20)    1    t2l)       I
II - CIVIL VW                                                                   I              I                           I
I   A- OlTRCT                                       I :
I    a) 1I9IOI3KS  a443,75.40 1 2,768,797.55:  138,183.60   1,363,202.11I  122,905.37  11,160,061.8Ui
I    b) 11*1M   6 SECODY CAL SYST         270,410.21 1 2,"5,166.26 1  14,946.02   4 4,146,693.15   795,249.00 16,279,01.18
I    c) lAIN RI  ECNA   IAINK 6991E11  151,970.83 1  602,906.41 1  128,774.51 1   40,031.3  t  158,765.62 t   M,696.55
) d}SERVICE,AWS8 ANIDFAlN Al0          1  77,831.33 1  323,374.97 1   ",013.48  1,370,418.34 1  130,515.%9   1,519,662.15I
I    .) ON-FAM DEVELOPNT               I    ,590.27 1  618,M.95 1  134,838.56   1,305,995.57 I  149,271.68   1,623,4.78
I                         I t  I        Is                                         a
ISW-TOTAL - A            : 901,678.10 1 7,218,969.14 1  64,756.17   8,676,.53 I 1,356,707.63  21,312,071.5  1
a                         ,                                                      I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sIs
I   8-FOURI EACINT                                                                                          I
I        DIVERSIN   IS                 1 243,150.04 1 2,233,895.53 I   43,116.61 1   713,414.01  1,356,243.14 1 3,144,411.021
: b)  il & SCOA    CANAM            1, 518,674.36  3,898,36S.99       76,093.05 1 2,370,530.25  1,224,563.82   2,587,750.9:
I    c) PhIl AND SECOAY DMAINAKI 811    140,426.35  1,867,670.46    907,382.832  4,263,595.67    343,143.66 1   680,94.28 
) SEVICE,CCES ANS FAN ROADS    : 143,007.11  1,901,"4.56                ,383.51 1 2,33,326.71  1,928,389.42 1 2,898,938.70 1
I    a)   fARN DFLPENT                 1 177,296.56 11,358,044.25 1   13,509.48 1 1,681,180.89 1  249,351.41     624,212.32 1
I    #1 lATER IAEN ST*I3              1: 9,361.70 11,321,510.611   38,781.03 1   610,815.9  1    9,57033 1   220,289.74 1
:    g) SATREKE S   :UARTERS           I  12,758.53    169,680.32:    4,461.80 1   118,160.07 1   31,069.31     189,403.95: 
I    h) TUoUPIIC 889v a NAPPIN         1   4,094.03:  65,00.60 3   22,417.321   689,206.73 I  160,958.51 1   368,840.52:
I    i) R1SNT OF NAY                   I 101,048.27 1 1,343,941.99:   63,544.87   1,086,617.22 I  126,31.91 1   150,389.751
6    j) OPERATION I PINT C   UILDI8 1  91,011.71: 1,221,05.741   79,760.59 1 1,671,705.8 1  144,637.25 :   226,M.084 1
i    ki FIELD OFFICES                  1  56,867.76 1   54,024.37 1    1,037.53 I    79,150.011  301,085.32 1    69,099.U 1
I    1) OIIERATION A ATICE EOUIPNI     105,705.53  1,405,83.55    110,163.97 1 1,893,425.83    413,264.09        778,331.85 1
-             SiWFITOTAL - 8           :1,6N,001.9  116,841,208.97 1 2,319,712.58 11782,529.26  6,378,6.17  12,539,105.3  1
T 0 1 A L - 1            12,596,680.04 124,060,178.11: 2,966,468.75: 26,418,869.79 17,735,345.80  33,851,176.91:
III- STREII8IIENI RIEIONAL O TION ANID      7,906.63 1  105,158.18 1   15,837.03 I   498,626.50 1    9,523.59:    80,463.10 1
I      NAI IEE CAPILITY                             I                                                                      I
I                                      It~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I  Is
:111- NPU-OUTUTT -l ITOIIN8 PROEM      1            I                    408.51       7,353.00 1    7,210.54     343,349.57 1
119   MISTfhNASIS CONRO PR0831     It                         s1             1 
I    CIVIL                             1  85,714.29 11,389,130.38    555,555.56 1 2,885,474.45 1  850,000.50 : 3,470,815.07 1
1      ALTMWCON TW                                  I                           I              I            I              1
I                                         I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                       I  
*                         S                          I            S              S             S              S~~~~~~~~~~~  1
IV-  FROCURED l 6OVERUT                1 170,450.87 1 2,104,330.25 1  406,763.35 1 5,705,422.60 1   11,540.43 1   230,543.18 1
1                           ~      ~     ~       ~     ~      ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~1  1  i  5                       I
:VI - 6EIEIUL ESI6EER1INS, SU8ERVISION AUD!         1 7,425,792.30 :1 6,634,381.66 1                           6,704,038.02 1
I     ANINISTRMTION                    I            I                           I t           :
: . -     7 0 T OAL - II- Vl       1 264,011.79 111,024,411.17 1  978,537.45 115,731,258.21 1  878,274.56  10,829,208.9:
1             6RIIIID TOTAL            12,860,751.83 135,084,589.28 1 3,945,006.20 1 42,220,128.00 1 8,613,620.36 1 44,680,385.85 1
:--                t            t------       |---:--                     :             l              :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



- 76 -
1 9 8 6                      T O T A L
P A R T I C U L A R                                          - ------ - -
FOREI6S        LOCAL     :  FOREIGN           LOCAL
:_________________________ IUS DOLLAR  I US DOLLAR   I US OLLAR   i  US DOLEAR
:22)                   :    (23)     :    (24)            (25)           (26)
*                    a ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~ ~~ -    -- a               --- 
1 -CIVI  VMRKS
I   A- CONTRACT                            I             l
:    a) DIVERSION VORMS                       169,077.59 :1,999,647.79 I1,144,086.11   81,326,020.61
: b RAIN h SECONDARY CANAL SYSTEN    : 301,840.46 : 5,547,588.09   1,637,126.35   29,895,715.46 :
:    c) RAIN AND SECONDARY DRAINAEE SYSTEMI   21,423.48      154,913.51 :  373,486.94 : 2,065,142.771
d) SERVICE,ACCESS AND FARR ROADS     1 114,605.85   1,068,952.52 :  498,675.93 : 4,428,761.51 :
e) ON-FARM DEVELOPMENT               :  24,034.96 :  426,410.23       479,848.91    4,296,977.92 :
:              SUB-tOTAL - A                  630,982.34 : 9,197,512.68 : 4,133,224.24 a 49,013,412.24
:   B- FORCE ACCUNT                        :             :
i    a) DIVERSION  OKS                     : 197,161.81 11,439,726.25   1,952,461.t8 8    7,824,397.37
:    b) MAIN & SECONDARY CANAL SYSTEM         707,508.84 1 4,978,734.66   3,428,054.66 116,187,692.01 :
cl NAI AND SECDARY DRAINAGE SYSTEM:  476,098.94 : 5,322,026.86   2,138,845.19 : 12,862,171.21 :
d) SERVICE,ACCESS AND FARN ROADS     :  "9,137.34 : 1,930,699.70 :3,899,308.34   11,078,401.09 1
e     AON-FARM DEVELOPMENT          : 131,153.63 :1,554,216.94 11,077,256.99 1 6,412,163.51 1
f) MATER MASENAMENT STATIONS         : 104,931.51 :2,043,541.16 :  371,878.78 1 4,278,202.73 :
:    g) GATEKEEPERS QUARTERS               :  67,764.30 11,319,709.74 :  141,106.63 : 1,868,309.66 1
h) TOPOSRPIC SURVEY & MAPPING        :  63,326.21 11,233,277.94 1  493,980.66 : 3,052,891.18
:    il RIGHt OF MAY                              -      :      -       :  336,084.47 1 2,705,887.97 :
I    j) OPERATION & MAINTENANCE BUILDINBS 1 320,4"9.47 : 4,341,727.18     721,246.93 : 7,696,164.86 1
:    k) FIELD OFFICES                      1   7,925.40 1  154,347.16       5 578,078.85 : 1,478,926.03 :
:    1) OPERATION & MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT : 178,01O.63 1  347,289.61 1  830,852.37    4,619,271.87 :
a                 3SUB-TOTAL - B           :2,353,519.08 :24,665,297.19 :15,969,155.75 : 80,064,469.49
a              T 0 T A L  - I              :2,984,500.43 :33,862,809.87 120,102,379.99 1129,077,876.70 1
:11- STRENBTNENINB REGIONAL OPERATION AND 1   1,514.35 :   31,044.10 :   50,419.79 :   860,406.31 :
:    MAINTENACME CAPABILITY
:111- INPUT-OUTPUT MONITORING PROGRAM      1  53,225.00 11,132,866.23 1   62,581.81 1 1,498,055.67
1IV- SCHISTOSOMIASIS CONTROL PROGRAM       :             :              :              :                :
I    CIVIL VORKS                           : 390,243.91 :1,920,317.51 :    23,314.20 1   141,748.90 1
HEALTH COWMONENT                     :             a               a              :               :
:V-  PROCURENENT BY GOVERNMENT                                          115,597,845.80 1178,937,704.82 1
IVI -  GENERAL ENGINEERINS, SUPERVISION ANDI             1 7,220,951.73 I               : 65,461U,80.45:
I     ADMINISTRATION                       I             :              :
T 0 T A L - II- VI            444,983.26 110,305,179.53 118,103,396.26 1256,899,975.90
I      :       EM  TOTAL                  113,429,483.68        -        :             1 -  : -   -   0 t
t              GRAND TOTAL                 13,429,483.68 144 ,467 ,989.4 U   38,205,7n6.25 1385,977,632.64 S
a-- - - - - - - - _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   -          a              a       :..      : _ _ - _ _ - - _ 5 _:



- 77 -
IX.   FINANCING
9.01   Funding for the Foreism  xahnnae C=gnent
The    foreign    exchange   requirement    for      the
implementation    of   the   National   Irrigation   Systems
Improvement  Project  - Package I was provided from a   loan
from   the   International  Bank  for   Reconstruction   and
Development (IBRD). The total amount of loan granted to the
Philippine Government under Loan Agreement No. 1414 PH was
US$ 50.00 million. This accounted for about 47 per cent of
the estimated original total project cost of US$ 107.20
million.
The loan is payable within a period of twenty one (21)
years including a five (5) years and five (5) months grace
period. It bears an interest rate of eight and two-tenths
percent (8.20%) per annum on the principal amount of the
loan   withdrawn   and -outstanding  from  time   to   time.
Amortization of the loan on semi-annual payments commenced
on May 1,  1982 and will continue up to   May 1,  1997.  The
loan was made effective on August 12, 1977 with the loan
closing date scheduled on December 31, 1983. This was later
extended to December 31,   1985 and subsequently to June 30,
1986 to permit further availment of the balances of the
loan proceeds.
As embodied in the Loan Agreement, the proceeds of
the  loan  were  allocated  to    various  categories   with
corresponding percentages of eligible expenditures to be
financed under each category.   Initially,  the proceeds  of
the loan would cover the foreign exchange cost of US$ 4.00
million for mobilization of construction equipment and
vehicles  for  civil works contractors;  US$ 24.50   million
for  other civil works;   US$ 16.00 million  for  equipment,
vehicles  and  other  commodities;   US$  0.30  million  for
consultancy   services and overseas training;  and US$  5.20
million for physical and price contingencies. Disbursements
for equipment, vehicles, and other commodities would be
made at the rate of 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost
of directly imported goods, 100 per cent of ex-factory cost
of locally manufactured goods and 65 percent of the foreign
expenditures for imported commodities purchased locally.
For civil works contractor's mobilization of equipment and
vehicles, disbursement would be at the rate of 100 percent
of the foreign expenditures and for other civil works,



- 78 -
withdrawals would be at 95 percent of certified monthly
progress  payments and/or expenditures.   Disbursements  for
consulting services and overseas training would be at the
rate of 100 percent of the foreign expenditures or 60
percent of the total payments.
During implementation of the project, re-allocation of
the loan proceeds to various categories and adjustments in
the corresponding percentages of expenditures to be financed
were requested by the NIA and later authorized by the Bank
in view of unavoidable changes actually incurred as the work
progressed.   At project completion in June 1986, a total of
US$ 38.213 or about 76.4 percent of the total amount of the
loan  proceeds  was  disbursed/withdrawn.   The  undisbursed
balance of the loan proceeds amounting to US$ 11.787 N was
cancelled by the Bank.
A comparison of the original and final allocations, and
actual    disbursement   of  the  loan  proceeds   and   the
corresponding percentages of expenditures for cash item
financed in the categories are presented in Table No.
9.01.
9.02   Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
As provided for in the Loan Agreement, the Bank shall
make available to NIA the proceeds of the loan upon the
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and the funds
maybe  withdrawn only to meet the expense in   carrying  out
the proJect as they are actually incurred.
Withdrawals from the loan account was usually done
either under the reimbursement procedure or direct payment
system.   In the reimbursement procedure, the NIA submits to
the Bank a formal application for reimbursement of payments
made  by  the NIA for goods which have   been  delivered  or
services that were already rendered.   The payments may have
been  delivered  as  services were  already  rendered.   The
payments may have been disbursed for completed transactions
or progress payments on a civil works contract.   Under Loan
Agreement   No.    1414  PH,  35  percent   of   the   total
accomplishment for civil works is eligible for reimbursement
by the Bank. This percentage of the expenditures to be
financed was later adJusted to 95 percent upon proper
representation with the Bank in 1983.



- 79 -
Under the direct payment system, the NIA submits an
application prior to paying for the goods or services and
the Bank, if agreeable, makes direct payment to the supplier
or   rendered  services  in  NIA's  behalf.    The   formal
application  is  supported  by  a copy of  the  contract  or
purchase  order under which the payment is to be  made.   If
payment is to be made for a contract on the basis of work
performed, an engineers certificate or progress report
should  be   submitted showing that the payment  has  become
due.   For goods procured from abroad, evidence of shipment,
together with a copy of the final invoice of the supplier is
also submitted to the Bank.
9.03   Fundina for the Local ComDonent CoAt
The local component cost for the implementation of the
National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project - Package I
was funded by the Philippine Government from authorised
annual    budgetary   appropriation   amounting   to    Peso
385,517,632.00 broken down as follows:
Particular          Year                 Amount
a) Presidential
Decree 1062           1977               P 10,000,000.00
1978                60,000,000.00
1979                78,360,000.00
1980                29,700,000.00
1981                43,107,000.00
Sub-Total -----             P 221,167,000.00
b) Batasang Pambansa      1982             P  94,000,000.00
1983                39,530,000.00
1984                 4,760,000.00
_____________
Sub-Total ----------------- P 138,290,000.00
c) Presidential
Decree 1177           1985                  7,460,632.60
d) Batasang Pambansa 879 1986                  9,600,000.00
e) Executive Order
No. 87                 1987                 9,000,000.00
Total ----------------- P 385,517,632.00



- go -
Table 9.01 Comparison of the Original A Final Allocations,
Actual Disburseuent of the Loan Proceeds and
the Corresponding Percentages of Expenditures
I    LOAN        ORIGINAL I                 I REVISED Z       ACTUAL    I
CATEGORY         tA UOCATIONS    I    OF      IRE-ALlOCAI1ON I    OF       I
::                                         REBURSENENrTI               IREIEURSENENTIREIURSEENT 
tlA-  obilizatian and
I   Construttion equipmeatsO4,000,000.00    I100        #4,000,00.00       100?    11775,759.42 
for civil works       I
Contractrs             
IBI- Other civil works     I                                           a
I   (including materials  I 24,500,000.00       35?     124,500,000.00      95?     121,839,441.91 1
I   used in force          I                            I              I
account vork)                                          a
-ll- Equipment and
I   Naterials               16,000,000.00               316,000,OO.00 I             115,597,845.91
a)  direKtly iported           -       i   100I            -            100            -
bh locally eanufactured!       -            1002           -            1001    I
I  c) imported goods       I
procured locally    I       -            65Z            -            65             - 
-!II- Technical Assistance      300,000.00  IO0 Z          300,000.00      100?o          -
a Unallocated           5200,0000.                  5,200,000.00
Pt T$350,000,000.00                          $50,000,000.00I             $38,213,0&7.24I
: a             a            a              a            a              a



- 81 -
X.   AGRI-INSTITUrIONAL DEVELOPMENT
10.01   Introducto2n
In the appraisal report , it was identified that the
major government objectives in the agricultural sector were
to achieve self-sufficiency in basic food and to correct
regional economic and social imbalance.   The proJect  would
help to meet both objectives by improving and expanding
irrigation facilities for the rice crop in the Ilocos area
and in Cagayan and Leyte areas which are the poorest regions
in the nation.
Under the project, there are nineteen (19) existing
national   irrigation  systems,   three  (3)  existing  pump
irrigation systems for improvement and extension and three
(3)   new   irrigation   projects   for   construction   and
development.   With this, it is expected that an annual area
of about 50,000 hectares would be rehabilitated or provided
with    new    irrigation   structures/facilities    thereby
contributing to the country's rice self-sufficiency program.
However,   a  5-year  development  program  was   recognized
necessary before the full benefits from the proJect will be
attained.
10.01.1 Agri-Institutional Commitments.
The    agri-institutional    commitment    under    the
project/loan   covenant   envisioned   in   particular   the
following:
(a)  annual  paddy  production was expected  to   reach
325,000  tons  at full  development.   Average   yields
would  be  4.0   tons/ha  in the  wet  season  and  4.2
tons/ha in the dry season in the Ilocos subproject.
Future paddy fields in Cagayan and Leyte subprojects
were expected to be about 4.0 ton/ha and 3.5 tons/ha
respectively, for both wet and dry season   crops.
(b) an increase of 42% in the cropping intensity from
133% to 185% by providing dependable water supply to
irrigate about 49,000 hectares of rice in the wet
season and 35,900 hectares of crop in the dry season.



- 82 -
(c) 0 & N capabilities both in the central office and
in   the   regional    offices   involved   would    be
strengthened to include preparation and implementation
of a plan to strengthen the agricultural capabilities
of the regions involved in the project and provision of
adequate 0 & N vehicle and equipment to operate and
maintain all the systems under the said regions.
(d)  intensification    of    agricultural   supporting
services in the project such as improved extension
services, expanded credit facilities and better water
control;
(e) the use of machineries for land preparation and
threshing would increase to meet more exacting crop
calendars.
(f) more than one half of the land in the project area
will  be farmed by owner-operators and the remainder by
leasehold tenants of small landlords.
It  was along these agri-institutional commitment  that
specific    organizational    units   in    the    component
systems/projects      and     in      the     regions      were
established/strengthened    inorder   to    undertake    the
implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the development
activities. Specifically, these organizational units would
be responsible for monitoring the deployment of extension
and water management personnel, the pace of land reform,
organization and training of the farmer-irrigators, the use
of production inputs and credits, incidence of pests and
diseases, farm management practices and others.
10.01.2   Organization for Agri-Institutional Development
In  the  regional  and  system  offices,    there   are
presently  five   (5) organizational units concerned in  the
implementation of the various agricultural and institutional
development activities of the project/irrigation systems.
These are the following:
(a) The Institutional Development Divisions (IDD).
Earlier known as the Agricultural Coordination Division
(ACD)    during   the   initial   years   of    project
implementation,   these   regional  office  units  were
charged with the overall responsibility of planning,
monitoring and evaluating the implementation of the
various agri-institutional development activities in



- 83 -
all    the    national   irrigation    systems    being
rehabilitated/improved under the project. The regional
IDDs are composed of two (2) sections: the Irrigators
Organization   and  Training  Section  (IOTS)  and  the
Irrigators  Assistance  Section  (IAS):   and  have  an
average of nine (9) technical personnel.
(b) The Input-Output Monitoring Program IIOMP Team).
The team is functionally under the supervision of the
regional IDD and is charged with the responsibility of
monitoring the use of production inputs, adoption of
improved farming practices and production levels per
unit area in the systems covered by project. Moreover,
in Leyte subproject, the IOMP team was also involved in
the organization and development of farmers.
(c) The Project Agricultural Personnel.
In all subproject areas, there were at least two (2)
Institutional Development Staff (IDS) directly under
the project coordinating engineer who are involved in
the organization and development of farmer-irrigators
groups/association in coordination with the regional
office IDD for technical advise and service.
(d) The Irrigation Community Organization Program
(ICOP Team)
This is composed of Contractual Irrigation Community
Organizers (ICOs) whose services were engaged by the
Agency   in   early  1982  and  is  charged  with   the
responsibility of organizing and training farmers for
eventual assumption of 0 & N tasks. The team, covers
selected irrigation systems covered by the proJect.
Ce) The Irrigation System's 0 & N Personnel.
Similar to other irrigation system, the regional office
functionally and administratively supervised the 0 & N
Personnel at the Systems level. It provides cooperation
and supportive services to the other organizational
units   involved   in   physical   and    institutional
development program implementation aside from their
regular 0 & M functions in their respective systems.
In   the   implementation  of  the   agri-institutional
commitments. the IOMP Team and the project IDS. seek for
technical assistance and directions from the regional IDD
particularly    in   the   organization/formation   of   the
project/field  level  coordinating  body.  Consultation  and
coordination   with   the  line  agencies   concerned   were



_ 84 -
undertaken regarding their agency participation in pursuing
the  agri-institutional  development  commitments  for   the
proJect. In the process, working relationship among them was
established.
10.02   Institutional DeveloDman-t
In the rehabilitation and construction of the irriga-
tion systems/projects, the conicern was not solely on the
physical aspect.s but also includes the organization and
development of the irrigation farmer-beneficiaries. A felt-
need to organize the farmers into irrigators groups and or
irrigators-associations,    and   provide  them   with   the
necessary trainings and assistance were recognized. Thus,
farmers capability shall be developed so that they would
become   more  effective  partners  in  the  operation   and
management of the system. The scheme of turnover to the
association a whole system or portion thereof for them to
operate  and   maintain is adopted by NIA in recognition  of
the vital role of farmers in irrigation development.
10.02.1   Qroantion-of Farmers-Into FIG/la.
When NI3lP I started rehabilitation/construction of the
irrigation systems/projects, the program to organize Farmer
Irrigators Groups (FIG) was also undertaken.   This activity
was   carried  on  by  the  five  (5)  organizational  units
concerned   in  the region/proJect or  systems.   FIGs  were
organized based on a rotational area served by a main turn
out.    These   FIGs   also  served  as  the   first   level
organization    unit    of   the   irrigators   association.
Preliminary activities such as physical survey of actual
rotational  areas,   listing  of   actual  farmer-irrigators
thereto  were  undertaken prior to  the  actual   organizing
process.   As  of  August 1986,  there were about  295  FIGs
organized in the whole proJect. See Table 10.02.1
Irrigators  Associations (IAs) were organized by   area
fitting operation and maintenance of irrigation system
considering water source, irrigation and drainage networks
and  natural  boundaries.       Specifically,  the  IAs  were
formed by all the farmer-beneficiaries thereto thru their
FIG leaders/representatives located within defined area
coverage.   These  FIG leaders automatically  became members
of the IA Board of Directors while the officers of the
association  were  elected from  among  themselves.   Figure
10.ox.l    presents  a  typical  IA   organizational    set-
up/etructure.



- 85 -
On the other hand, accomplishment in the organization
of IAs in the whole proJect showed about 80 IAs were already
formed  representing 43% of the total target,  Table 1.  By
subproJect area, 49% (or 30 out of 61 IAs targeted) were
organized in Leyte, 47% (26 out of 55 IAs) in Ilocos and
about  35% (24 out of 69) in  Cagayan  province.   The  area
covered  by   these  organized IAs reached  35%  (or  15,339
hectares) of the total irrigation service area targetted
for development while about the same percentage (36%) of the
total target farmers were listed members.
10.02.2   R.aistralion of IA.
Generally, after the IA were organized, the association
drafted  their  Articles of Incorporation   or  constitution
and By-laws and then subsequently presented to the general
assembly   membership   for   ratification   and   adoption.
Membership  fees  were paid and annual  dues were  collected
from     each    farmer-member  and  become  part   of   the
association's fund. Part of their collections were used in
registering   the  association  with   the  Securities   and
Exchange Commission of the government to obtain Juridical
personality.  To   date,  out of the 80 IAs organized in the
proJect, about 79% (or 63 IAs) were already registered; that
is, 20 in Ilocos, 15 in Cauayan and 28 in Leyte. The rest
are either formulating their constitution and by-laws or in
the  process of registration.   Other specific  informations
are shown in Table 10.02.2.
10.02.3   Turnoyer of 0 & 1H to, :the IA.
There are at present 39 lAs in various stages of
contract (Stages I, II & III) with the NIA to operate and
maintain the whole system on a position thereof.   The total
area under these contracts covered 7,932 hectares and about
240  kiilometers of canals/laterals.   Specifically,  for  a
contract  on  maintenance  (Stage  I),   an  average  annual
compensation of about Peso 7,320.00 per 3.5 kms is geared
upon.   The  total  area under Stage I contract  covered  10
irrigation   systems with 3,793 hectares and 101  kilometers
of canals/laterals. There are also 26 associations all over
the project that entered into this kind of contract.
However, if an association desires to collect Irrigation
Service   Fee  (ISF),   certain  percentage  of  the   total
collection shall be given as per agreement.



- 86 -
Stage II contract which is a joint-operation and
management contract between NIA and the IA cover four (4)
irrigation systems; i.e., two (2) in Leyte area and one (1)
each  in Ilocos and Cagayan sub-project areas.      Seven (7)
lAs were involved in this kind of contract. This specific
contract call for the  following  major forms:
(a) NIA operates major diversion points and supervises
canal/lateral  headgates to the IA area.   IA  operates
the turnouts.
(b)  NIA  undertakes   major  maintenance  works.    IA
shoulders minor maintenance job. (A classification of
major and minor work is also agreed upon);
(c) IA collects ISF and remits to the NIA.
(d) NIA shares with the IA Percentage of total ISF
collection depending upon terms of contract/agreement;
and
(e) NIA-IA to hold Periodic/regular meetings.
On the other hand, Stage III contract call for a full
turnover of the whole irrigation system to the association
for  their  operation and management.   There are three  (3)
systems which fall under this term of contracts two in
Ilocos subproject and one in Leyte  province.   Two  general
terms of the contract are as follows:
(a) NIA provides technical supervision/assistance to
the IA in all aspects of operations and maintenance of
the irrigation systems whenever necessary.
(b) IA collects ISF and pays amortization to NIA for
the development cost of the irrigation system.
(c) NIA-IA to hold periodic/regular meetings.
10.02.4 Training and Development of Farmers.
In order to develop the farmers/IAs of the required
technical   capabilities   to  operate  and   maintain   the
irrigation system, a series of training were provided.
First of which is a short project orientation which deals
with the project objectives, water and farm management
practices and other general informations about the project.
The training on irrigated crop production were provided to



- 87 -
selected farmer-representatives of an irrigation system in
order to update their knowledge in improve farming practices
for irrigated paddy rice. In turn the farmer representatives
are expected to dessiminate the same to their farmer
constituents.  Table-10.02.4  shows  about   1523   farmers
participated in this type of training.
The other capability built-up programs are equally
vital preparatory to the turnover of the irrigation systems
to   the  association.   These  include  systems  management
training   which  deals  with  the  general  operation   and
maintenance of an irrigation system such as planning for the
preparation of cropping calendar/pattern, water delivery and
distribution, maintenance schedules, management of conflict,
roles   and  responsibilities  of  IA/NIA  and   rules   and
regulations governing irrigation systems management.   There
ar now 544 farmers/farmer leaders who have undergone such
type of trainings.
Morever,   financial  management  trainings  were  also
conducted. Its content areas include preparation of cash
receipts   and   disbursements,    financial   plans,    and
monthly/annual cash statements considering IA organizational
and financial viability. To date 205 farmer-leaders of IAs
which are about to enter or already in contract with NIA
have attended such trainings. The training on management
leadership and cooperatives are sort of enrichment training
geared toward the development of the farmers/leaders in
managing their association as well as in engaging their
association to productive ventures. About 367 farmer-leaders
have undergone this type of training.
In the conduct of the training, some personnel of the
line agencies were also invited to discuss topics that
concerns their agency functions so as to provide a broad
perspective on the development needs of the farmers. In most
cases, the training expenses were shared between the NIA and
the IA/farmers. Sometimes, other government and/or private
entities involved also share in the training expenses.
10.3   Agricullural DeyglopMent
As stipulated in the proJect appraisal report, the
maJor obJective of the agricultural sector is to achieve
self-sufficiency in rice. It is envisioned that at full
development, the average paddy yield would be 4.0 and 4.2



- 88 -
tons/ha. for the wet and dry seasons, reepectively at
Ilocos subproject. For Cagayan and Leyte subprojects, paddy
yields were about 4.0 to 3.5 tons/ha. for both the wet and
dry season crops.
10.03.1   Irg.lated Area and CrPing Intensity
Since the proJect start through proJect end, Ilocos
subproJect has the highest recorded cropping intensity
(144%). This was obtained in 1982 with 14,325 has. irrigated
during the wet season and 8,409 has. during the dry season.
The average annual irrigated area was noted to be 21,042
has. with corresponding cropping intensity of 134 percent
(See Table 10.03.1).
For the Cagayan proJect, the highest irrigated area
(9,134 has. and 7,371 has.) occured during wet and dry
seasons of 1979. That year, it had a corresponding cropping
intensity of 126 percent. This, however, decreased to only
83% in 1985 with 6,872 has. and 4,050 has. irrigated during
the wet and dry seasons. respectively. From Table 10.03.1 ,
it could be noted that the annual average irrigated area was
about 13,687 has. with 104% cropping intensity.
The cropping intensity of Leyte subproject has the
lowest recorded data but subsequently increased through
time. In 1979 for example, irrigated area reached only 2,606
and 3,013 has.  for the wet and dry seasons,   respectively.
It had an equivalent cropping intensity of 49 percent. In
1982, the irrigated area increased with cropping intensity
of 69 percent. Moreover, the 1985 irrigation operations rose
to 5,039 and 4,704 has. for the wet and dry seasons,
respectively with a cropping intensity of 85 percent.
10A3.2   Irriaated Paddy Yield
Irrigated paddy yield for the wet season in the Ilocos
subproJect has already reached about 90% of the target yield
(3.58 tons/ha. against the target 4.0 tons/ha.). However, a
closer look at the data (Table 10.03.2) showed that except
for two irrigation systems (Laoag-Vintar and Cura River),
all other systems have some recorded yields exceeding 4.0
tons/ha. either in the wet or dry seasons within the period
1978-1986.



- 89 -
During the same period, there appeared a consistently
low paddy yield at Cagayan subproject. The average annual
yield was only 2.25 tons/ha. and the lowest recorded yield
was only 1.43 tons/ha. (wet season, 1982).
Paddy yields in the Leyte subproject were comparatively
higher than those in the other subprojects. In fact, the
actual average yields in the wet season (4.01 tons/ha.) and
dry season (3.82 tons/ha.) already exceeded the targets set
for the area. Also, in some of the irrigation systems, paddy
yields reached more than 5.Os tons/ha.
10.03.3 Farm Input Utilization and Farm Management Practices
Good and ordinary seeds of the high yielding varieties
have been used by the farmers even at the start of the
roject. Seedlings were mostly raised through the wetbed
method and usually transplanted randomly in the field. For
the whole project area, few adopted direct seeding method.
The rate of seed utilization at Ilocos subproject during the
wet season almost remained the same throughout the project
implementation period (86 kg./ha.). At the project start
however,there was considerable difference on the rate used
during the dry season (110 kg/ha.) while 86 kg/ha. at
project end. In the Cagayan subproject, the seedling rates
from project start to project end improved/decreased both in
the wet and dry seasons, i.e. from 70 to 59 kg./ha. (wet
season) and 67 to 58 kg/ha. (dry season). In contrast, seed
utilization rate at Leyte area increased from 70 kg./ha.
(project start) to 92 kg/ha. (project end).
The use of fertilizer also increased in most of the
irrigation  systems  in  the  Ilocos  area  during   project
implementation (2.84 bags/ha. at project start to 5.01
bags/ha, in the wet season; and 3.99 bags/ha. to 5.46
bags/ha. in the dry season). In Cagayan and Leyte areas, the
use of fertilizer/nitrogen element although quite below the
recommended rate was already recognized a necessary input to
increase production.
To combat rice pests and diseases, the farmers used
agro-chemicals. These include insecticides and weedicides
applied either as preventive or control measures.



- 90 -
10.(3.4  Utilization of Farm Power. Processing and Stor=ae
Facilities
Draft animals are the most common source of farm power
used by farmers in most of their farm operations. In Cagayan
area alone, there are 17,808 heads of these animals at
project end. During the same period, there were about 600
tractors of the two-wheeled type (hand tractors). It was
observed that tractors were increasingly utilized toward the
end of the project.
Post harvest facilities like threshers and dryers were
only very few. In Leyte area for example, only 42 threshers
and 13 dryers served the 10-irrigation systems thereat. On
the other hand, there was no thresher recorded in the
Cagayan subproject. The number of warehouses also appeared
to have decreased from 19 (at project start) to only 13
units at project end.
10.4   Agricultural Supgort Services
One of the agri-institutional commitments envisioned
was the intensification of agricultural supporting services
in the project. Specifically, this focused on improved
extension services, expanded credit facilities and other
corollary   services  of  the  government  in   agricultural
development. The need for an integrated delivery system of
such services was recognized essential in the successful
prosecution of the development objective. Hence, the project
moved to address on this commitment.
10.4.1 Agricultural Development Coordination
As there are several government agencies concerned in
agricultural development in the project, it is necessary to
establish a system or body for coordinating the provision of
extension and support services. Through this system/body, a
more effective delivery of services was provided and a far
reaching result of such services was obtained.
In   the   three  (3)  provinces  covered   by   Ilocos
subproject,  a System Management Group (8MG) was established
per  province.  This endeavor was spearheaded by the  NISIP-
IOMP team with the regional IDD providing assistance. The
SMG  was  under  each  province's  Provincial   Agricultural
Council (PAC) and chaired by the representative of the



- 91 -
Ministry of Agriculture and Food (MAF). Th Irrigation
Superintendent (IS) of the system co-chaired the (SMG) while
the members are the heads of all other agencies involved in
agricultural development in the province. Moreover, the
field officers of all gencies covering the irrigation
systems are members of the group. Presently, the SMG's meet
at least four (4) times per cropping season.
For the Cagayan subprojects, there was one project
level   Agricultural   Development  Coordinating   Committee
(PADCC)  established  for  the two  (2)  irrigation  systems
(Abulog and Pamplona) while a system level ADCC was also
established in the other system (Banurbur). The functions of
the ADCCs are similar with the other coordinating bodies in
other projects/subproJects. Unfortunately, the ADCC's became
inactive long before proJect completion as a result largely
of the peace and order problem in the area, and the distance
of the site to the government centers in the region.
The three-field level ADCCs (FADCC) at Leyte subproject
have wider participation/membership in the committee where
the local government/municipal mayors, barangay captains, IA
and Samahang Nayon presidents, etc. are members. However,
due  to   several constraints.  the FADCC  no  longer  meets
regularly and instead meets as the need arises. For example,
the FADCC in Hindang-Hilongos Irrigation System called
meeting to discuss about the organization and development of
the IAs thereat as well as the financing scheme of the
government's Intensified Rice Production Program.
10.4.2   Inter-A.encv Personnel ne]2loyment
The primary agencies that extend services in the
agricultural sector are the NAF, Ministry of Agrarian Reform
(BAR),  the lending institutions and the   NIA.   Generally,
these   agencies   comprised  the  ADCC   plus   the   local
officials/organization in the project service areas. Their
field  technical  personnel  deployed  by  each  agency   is
presented in Table 10.04.2. MAF accounted for the greatest
number of personnel deployed in the project (226 at project
start and 275 at project end). MAR deployed practically the
same number of personnel within the duration of the proJect
implementation. Whereas, the lending institutions increased
its personnel complement by 108% (from 35 to 73) for the
same duration.



- 92 -
In the Cagayan subproject, the entry of the Philippine
Crop Insurance Corporation (PCIC) was recognized as an
important service to safeguard the small investments/crops
of the farmers.
10.4.3   Land Tenure Improvement
Monitoring the development of this aspect was difficult
in the project agricultural monitoring system. This was due
perhaps to the limited manpower deployed in the areas
covered by the project, the program of priority of the
agency concerned, the difficulty of locating/identifying the
farmers specially along the boundaries of the Project and
other related problems. Inspeite of these problems however,
information gathered indicated that there were improvements
made on the tenurial status of many farm tenants in most of
the irrigation systems covered by the project.
In Ilocos subproject as per IOMP survey, share tenancy
decreaeed from 11,546 at project start to 9,132 at project
end. These improvement covered some 2,429 hectares. On the
other hand, leaseholders increased from 382 (at project
start) to 1,388 (at project end) and involving 635 hectares,
Table 8.
The  agrarian  reform program   at  Cagayan  subproject
could not be gauged because of the nonavailability of data.
The lack of information may be due to the prevailing peace
and order problem in the said area.
As in the Ilocos subproject, some share-tenants were
observed at Leyte subproject, though of lesser magnitude.
There are many leaseholders, however, at Leyte (2,066) than
in Ilocos.
In support to land tenure improvement, the program also
provides legal services and other forms of assistance to the
farmer-beneficiaries   to  expedite  early  resolutions   to
agrarian problems.
10.4.4   Farm Financina/Production Loans
The source of farm financing in the Ilocos subproject
came from relatives and friends and Masagana 99 (M-99)
program   of   the   government.   Production   loans   were
comparatively higher than in the other sub-projects. In most



- 93 -
of the irrigation systems, the M-99 program granted loans
only during wet season where irrigation water was more
assured. An average loan of P2,966/ha. was granted at the
project end. Similarly, during the some period, loans from
relatives and friends averaged P2,105/ha. but during dry
season a lesser amount of P1,803/ha. was provided.
In Cagayan subproject. the farmers within the three-
irrigation   systems  covered  by  the  project  got   their
production loans generally from their relatives and friends.
The size of credit was relatively low compared with the
credit required under the M-99 program. For example, during
wet season of 1980, the average size of credit was only
P509/ha. while during dry season, it was P512/ha. Two years
after (1982), it was P536.00 and P262.00 per hectare for the
wet and dry seasons, respectively. The average credit size
obtained by the farmers three years after (1985) was
P990.00/ha. (M-99) for the wet season and P455.00/ha. (from
relatives and friends) during dry season.
Farmers   in   Leyte  subproject  availed   of   credit
facilities at a higher rate per hectare, sourced mostly from
government lending institutions especially the M-99 program.
For example, during the five-year period (1981 - 1985), rice
production loans availed of by farmers (particularly in
Binahaan, Tibak and Guinarona Irrigation Systems) ranged
from P1,123 to P1,678 per hectare attaining an average
production loan of P1,332 and P1,557 per hectare during wet
and dry seasons, respectively, for the same period.
10.4.5   Monitoring and Evaluation
The   progress   of  agricultural   and   institutional
development during the project implementation had been
periodically  monitored  and  evaluated  to  determine   the
effects of the different development programs and services
as well as the benefits accruing from the proJect. This
monitoring scheme was established through the Input-Output
Monitoring   Program  (IOMP)  under  NISIP  Package  I   and
subsequently extended to the NISIP Package II.
Specifically, the IOMP which was envisioned to be
implemented in three (3) phases has already undertaken the
two (2) phases, namely:
a.   Phase I/ the establishment of benchmark agro-socio
economic   profile  of  all  the  systems   under   the
project/NISIP I, the purpose of which served as the



- 94 -
basis for the preparation of the 5-year agricultural
development plan (FYADP) and for evaluating the degree
of success attained after a certain period within the
project implementationi; and
b. Phase II/ the conduct of seasonal farm management
surveys  in  all  the   systems,  organization  of  the
agricultural     development      coordinating      body.
formulation   of   the   FYADP  and    preparation   of
agricultural progress reports.
c.   Phase  III  on  the  other  hand,  concerned  with
monitoring and evaluation of the FYADP implementation.
However, with the completion of the project, the
certainty of undertaking fully this phase appears dim
as a result of personnel services termination and/or
fund constraints.
10.5   Future Develovment Prorams
A   five  year  development  Program   was   recognized
necessary before the full benefits from the project will be
attained. The development will be realized through the re-
formulation and implementation of the Five-Year Agricultural
Duvelopment Program (FYADP) for the irrigation systems under
the project. Under this program, there will be three (3)
primary objectives which will require management support and
priority as follows:
first   :  strengthening/continuing the  institutional
development program of the agency in every
irrigation systems covered by the project,
second      establishment/adoption  of a  system  level
coordinating body/mechanism, and
third    : provision   of  a  sustaining   program  to
monitor and evaluate the agricultural and
institutional development undertaking in
each irrigation system.
10.5.1   Strengthening/Continuing Institutional Development
The organization and development of farmers into viable
and   functional   groups/associationss  will   be   pursued
vigorously   to   enhance  their  active   involvement   and
participation on the operation and maintenance of the



- 95 -
irrigation systems. Aside from this, various assistance and
support services rendered by concerned agencies shall be
coursed through these groups/associations in recognition of
the   organizational capability as effective participants in
the delivery of develop-ent programs.
In many of the newly rehabilitated/completed irrigation
systems, considerable attention relative to sustenance of
institutional development will be provided in order to
enlist the farmers active participation in the government
development programs. To wit, about 57% of the targetted lAs
will still be organized covering 65% of the total service
area of all the systems covered by the project. On training
and developing the capabilities of the farmers through their
organization/association, much have to be undertaken and
given priority.
10.5.2 Establishment/Adoption of a System Level Develovment
Coordination
A system level coordinating bodY shall be established
in order that implementation of the development programs
will be more effective and responsive to the needs of the
farmer-beneficiaries.    To   ensure   that   the    various
government/agencies development commitment are carried on,
this coordinating body shall initiate regular meetings to
trace out problems encountered in the field and formulate
solutions thereof, assess the program implementation and
make   periodic  adjustments  of  plans/programs   of   each
agencies.   NIA   shall  cause  to  provide  the   necessary
logistical support to come up with a workable coordinating
mechanism/system and to ensure active involvement of the
members of the body.
10.5.3 Sustain Development Monitorina and Evaluation
The   installation   of   an   information   management
system/scheme to sustain the monitoring and evaluation of
development programs in all the irrigation systems will also
be taken into account foremost of this wil will be the
implementation of an IOMP modified scheme which NIA is now
undertaking on a pilot basis. This modified scheme - the
Irrigation Management Information System (IIMS) - will be
expanded eventually to include all irrigation systems in the
Philippines.



- 96 -
Briefly. IMIS is a tool for managing efficiently the
operation of the irrigation system in order that equitable
and  adequate  amount  of  irrigation  water  delivery   and
distribution  to  the  points/areas of the  systems  at  the
proper time would be achieved. It aims to regularly monitor
and periodically evaluate the progress of system management
through timely gathering of data on system operations, its
financial status, conditions of irrigation water supply and
facilities. farming activities. farmers needs/production
input requirements, etc. Further, the coordination and
participation of other government and/or private entities
will be sought for whenever the issues/concerns call for
their direct attention/responsibilities.



- 97
FWWUREIOA TYPICAL ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF AN
IRRIGATORS ASSOCIATION
GENERAL ASSEMBLY/ NMEMBERS14
(FARMER - MEMBERS)
I
9OARD OF DIRaTORS
(FIG LEADERS/REPRESENlA1TWES)
r  -   ,   ----,--------     ------ a
on~ ~ ~~~~~~~~If Audits *b_             ,01(SpSdi /  }1
(Voi- Preskien) (Sact)   (Tmsurer)   (Auditor)
Cairman     Chainmn      Choin       C_hm
FIG                   I FIG
V - Presko
uresur
LADERS  LEADERS   LEADERS    LEAD          LEADERS  ,LEAOERSI
fARMER -MEMBERS/BENEFICIARIES
NOTE: ALL 9OD MEMBERS AND IA OFFCERARE  Fl 6 LEADERS/REFENTArIWS. BUT
NOrALL FIG LEADERS/RE.RESEN XErrVE ARE IA OFFICERS.THIS CONDMON DEPENDS
UPON THE HIN   WES / AREA OF THE SYSTEM OR PORTON OF  TSWTEM AN/OR
NUMBER OF FIG's / ROITATIONAL AREAS UDER 1HE NIA-IA CONTRACT OF
AGREEMWN.



- 98 -
XI. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
11.01     Project Economic Background
The National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project
(NISIP-1)   was  envisioned  for  the   rehabilitation   and
upgrading of various national irrigation systems. Selected
systems for inclusion, covering number of irrigation systems
spread over Northern Luzon and the island of Leyte in
Eastern Visayas, were evaluated on the basis of the degree
of need for improvement, the potential for improvement in
terms of land and water resources, including the technical
and economical feasibility of improvement. The proJect,
therefore, was intended to improve the performance of the
existing irrigation systems in the three regions.
The project _m expected to irrigate 49,400 ha., upon
its   completion  from  26,200  ha.  irrigated  during   the
appraisal  per±od  and  23,200 ha. rainfed  during  the  wet
season. Dry-season irrigated area of 14,400 ha. will be
expanded  to  35,950  ha.  Overall  cropping  intensity   is
expected to rise from 133% to 173%.
The  average   paddy yields in the  rainfed  areas  are
about 1.6 ton/ha. in Ilocos, 1.5 ton/ha. in Cagayan and 1.4
ton/ha. in Leyte. On the irrigated areas, the mean wet
season paddy yields are about 2.5 ton/ha. in Ilocos, 2.0
ton/ha. in Cagayan and 1.7 ton/ha. in Leyte. The irrigated
tobacco yield in Ilocos systems is about 0.8 ton/ha., while
the rainfed corn yield in Leyte is 0.4 ton/ha. At full
development, estimated paddy yields are expected to be 4.0
ton/ha. in the wet season and 4.2 ton/ha. in the dry season
in the Ilocos area. However, future paddy yields in the
Cagayan and Leyte subprojects are expected to be lower about
4.0 ton/ha. and 3.5 ton/ha. respectively, for both wet and
dry season crops. Total annual paddy production from the
proJect area at full development would be about 325,000 tons
compared to 121,000 tons at the time of appraisal.



_ 99 _
Ovherall   Summary  of  Cropping  Patterns   and   Production
(Appraisal)
i Cropped Area       Production  I
:Present:Future   Present! Future!
' _ _tha.)- _      _(1000 tons) ..
1. Rice
Wet Season
__________
Irrigated rice        26,200  49,400      58.0     191.1
Rainfed rice          23,200    -         34.30      -
Sub-Total           49,400  49,400      92.30    191.10
Dry Season
__________
Irrigated rice        13,100  34,650     28.50    134.10
Total               62,500  84,050    120.80    325.20
2. Corn
Dry Season
=_________
Rainfed Corn          2,000     -          0.80       -
3. Tobacco
Dry Season
Irrigated Tobacco     1,300  1,300         1.00     1.70
Total All Crops
Cropping Intensity (%)  133    173
The implementation of the project would be completed
over a five-year period from 1977 to 1982.
The total proJect cost are estimated at US$ 107.2
million, of which US$ 50.0 million or 47% is foreign
exchange and the remaining is local cost. ProJect costs are
based on quantity estimates from feasibility designs and
unit prices in mid-1976. All costs were indexed to a common
level in mid-1976.



- 100 -
Using the foregoing assumptions and discounting the
proJect costs and benefits over 50 years, the Economic
Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) for overall proJect was
evaluated at 15%. The following conditions were also assumed
in the economic analysis:
1. An economic farmgate prices for the following crops
at:    1) Paddy rice       P 1520/ton
2) Tobacco          P 14905/ton
3) Corn             P 1240/ton
2. An economic investment cost, expressed in mid-1976
at US$ 64.17 million.
3. An agricultural development period of five (5) years.
4. A shadow wage rate of P 2.95 per man-day and
5. A proJect life of 50 years.
11.02     Conditions During ProJect Implementation
In view of the changes in the implementation period,
project cost, irrigation service area, cropping intensity
yields, crop production, prices of farm inputs and output,
the economic viability of the proJect was re-evaluated to
determine whether the project can be economically justified.
Specific economic benefits flowing from the proJect were
indicated and compared with the appraisal expectations. The
economic internal rate of return (EIRR) has been calculated
using the same method used in the Appraisal Report. The
proJect cost have been converted into 1986 constant values
using the indices in Table 11.01
11.02.1   Project Implementation
At the time of appraisal; the project was programmed
for implementation over a five-year period from 1977 to 1982
(mid-1977   -  mid-1982),  however,  the   actual   project
implementation schedule took up ten (10) years. The project
was delayed for four (4) years or a time overun of 100%.
MaJor causes of the delays were discussed earlier in the
Report.
11.02.2   ProJect Cost
The actual total project cost amounted to US$ 76
million, of which US$ 38.206 million for loan proceed and
P385.98 million for GOP-contribution.



- 101 -
Discussion on the comparative analysis on costs between the
actual and appraisal were presented on the previous chapter
on Project Cost.
The   breakdown   of  the  actual  project   cost   and
expenditures by the year is presented in Table 11.02.
11.02.3   Service Area, Irrigable Area and Cropping Intensity
The total irrigation service area for the NISIP-1 as
firmed up and established at ProJect Completion is 44,409
ha. which is about 10% lower than the appraisal estimate of
49,400 has.
Cropping intensity is 185% slightly higher compared to
the appraisal proJections of 173%. The comparative irrigable
area and cropping intensity is presented below.
Service Area by Sub-Project Appraisal/Firmed-up
Appraisal        t         Firmed-up
t  Iocos tCagayan: Leyte : Total tIlocos ICagayant Leyte I Total
'Irrigated Wet (ha)117,600 118,700 113,100 149,400 116,695 116,460 111,254 144,409 t
lIrrigated Dry (ha) 110,400 113,750 111,800 135,950 114,190 113,176 110,691 138,057 1
1               1      1      1      1      1      1      ItI 
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ S S                 a      a      a    
ICropping       I      I      I      :      I      I      I      :      a
:Intensity (X)  : 1159% 1 174% 1 189Z 1 173% 1 185X 1 1807. 1195% 1 185% i
X       |      :      |      ,:_    :      t,,    1,       |~~~~~~~~~~aa 



- 102 -
11.02.4   Crops Yield
As expected during the project completion, crops yield
reaches 4.0 tons per hectare mean average and 3.89 tons per
hectare for irrigated wet and dry seasons, respectively. For
the future conditlon without project it was assumed at 3.22
and 2.6 tons per hectare for the irrigated wet and dry
seasons, respectively.
I                 APPRAISAL                           I                  APPRAISAL                           :
:        :      ~~~~~Future JO      :        Future 11/I                Future 1110       :        Future 111I
:              :a ________ ________ .____                                                   _ :  ,__:     _,__,_._:
SllocosICagaymnILeyteIfmn  IllocoslCgayaniLeytelffuea  llocoslCagayaniLeyteluNn 1J1ocoswCagayantLeyteIuan I
_l_et season    I     a       I        I         I       a        I  I      I                          a        _      S
lRainfed Ric a    a.90   1.70 a1.h0 :1.69:  -            I - a    -         a."    1.70 11.   11.70: -   :        - 1    -  I
:  :   :   :   S   :   :   :     :     :                    I a:
'IrigtSed icel30       .01.01.5 400140 D.0130  137     a.3  a35  1.2  140  I40  140  1140  1
1Dr            1      1s   I     I                I     I          I      I     I                I    1I              I     I
:              a      :       1     1     a      a       a     :     I      :       :     z         :           :     :     :
IRainfed Corn     I   -  19  1- 0.60 110.60     1,  -   I -  I -  I -1      I- 1. 0.60 10.60 S -   I  -   I - l         -
flrripted Ricel 3.00 1 2.40 12.00 12.60 S4.20 1 4.00 13.50 13.087  3.705    1.75 13.00 13.62 I4.00 I 3.50 13.50 13.76 1
ITobacco        1.00 I       I - 1   .00 I   1.30 1  -   I    11.30   1.00:   -           1. 100:      1       I     I 
:              a      a_      _:       : a  a                  :_,at                      :_        _      _      



- 103 -
11.03     Economic Analysis
11.03.1   Economic Cost
a) Investment Cost
The financial cost of the project was converted
into economic values by transforming the foreign exchange
cost into peso currency using a shadow exchange rate derived
from the following formula:
SER = OER x (1 + Fx)
Where: SER = Shadow Exchange Rate
OER = Official Exchange Rate
and
Fx = Foreign Exchange
Premium which is at 20%
Using the SERs above and the domestic and international
price indices in Table No.11.01, the proJect economic cost
at current prices and at constant 1986 values was computed
and is presented in Table No. 11.02. Also presented in Table
No.11.03 is the economic cost at current prices and at
constant 1986 values of the proJect.
Project Year   Official Exchange Rate   Shadow Exchange Rate
(P/$)                    (P/$)
1977                7.40                       8.88
1978                7.37                       8.84
1979                 7.38                      8.85
1980                7.51                       9.01
1981                7.87                       9.44
1982                 8.37                     10.04
1983                14.00                     16.80
1984                18.00                     21.60
1985               20.00                      24.00
1986               20.50                      24.60



- 104 -
b) Operation and Maintenance Cost
The operation and maintenance cost considered in the
analysis is the expected differences between that of "with"
and "without" proJect conditions. This was estimated based
on the 0 & M cost per hectare as indicated in the proposed 0
& M budget presented hereunder:
Year                 Proposed 0 & M Budget
1988                    P 22,758,461.00
1989                      24,249,685.00
1990                      25,827,604.00
1991                      27,485,070.00
1992                      29,285,467.00
1993-2026                995,705,878.00
c) Farm Production Cost
The maJor components of production costs are seeds,
fertilizers, pesticides and labor. The inputs application
rates, farm input, utilization and farm management practices
were discussed earlier in the report.
11.03.2   Economic Benefits
The quantifiable benefits of the project have been
treated in the same way as in the Appraisal Report. Only the
direct  economic benefits were considered in  the  analysis.
The economic benefits attributable to the proJect would be
the  difference  between  the economic   benefits  with  and
without project conditions. This was reassessed in the light
of   actual   agricultural   performance   during    project
implementation and the expected performance thereafter given
the improved irrigation facilities, delivery of farm inputs
and services. Result of the analysis are presented in Table
11.6a - 11.6d.
The major variations between the economic benefits of
the project assumed at appraisal and the actual events that
occured during proJect implementation have been indicated.
These include variations in implementation schedule, project
cost, irrigation service, cropping intensity, paddy yield
and prices of farm inputs and output. The economic farmgate
price was estimated as shown in Table No. 11.7a - 11.7f.



- 105 -
Based on the revised estimate of irrigable area and
cropping intensity, the incremental paddy production at full
development is about 162,020 tons of palay (unmilled rice)
valued at P 144.87 million, using an economic farmgate price
of P 3085 per ton, Table No. 11.8.
11.03.3   Economic Internal Rate of Return
On   the  basis  of  actual  performance   in   proJect
construction  and in the agricultural aspect during  proJect
implementation and an agricultural development the project's
Economic Internal Rate of Return EIRR was computed at 15%.
This is lower than the Appraisal estimate by 5%. The result
indicates that the 100% time overrrun on the project
implementation reduces proJect's viabilities. The result
would still indicate that the project is still economically
viable inspite of the delays in project implementation.
Other benefits and socio-economic impact attributable
to  the  project  were  the  creation  of  more   employment
opportunities during project implementation and operation,
improvement of the socio-economic status of the farmer-
beneficiaries, increase in the volume of business grain and
farm input dealers, acceleration of the regional economic
development,  increase  of  tax  revenues  and   substantial
contribution to the government goal of food sufficiency.
Table 11.9 shows the result of analysis.
11.03.4   Farm Income Analysis
Farm income analysis was conducted to show the effects
of the proJect on the two types of farmers in the project
area  before  the  implementation  of  the  project  -   the
irrigated farmer and the rainfed farmer. Results indicate
that irrigated farmers will realize an additional income of
P 3075 while the rainfed farmers will get higher marginal
income of P 4095 in an area of 0.95 ha. For an area of 2.75
ha. an irrigated farmer will realize an additional income of
P 8940 and P 13,580 for irrigated and rainfed areas
respectively Table 11.10.



- 106 -
Field   activities   of  MOH   personnel   consist   of
identification of prospective water-sealed toilets and water
hand-pump     recipients,    continuous       treatment      of
schistosomiasis cases including diagnosis and fact-finding
of the schisto victims, reconfirmation of endemic areas and
application of molluscide chemicals particularly Bayluscide
on those areas including irrigation and drainage canals.
3.03.7 Proct and 0 & M Fagliit1es
Completed and renovated various project and 0 & M
facilities for each system under the three sub-proJect areas
of NISIP I are listed as follows:
3.03.8 InDUt-OutDt Monitorina Program
General
The   Input   Output  Monitoring  Program   (IOMP),   a
mechanism/system designed for monitoring and evaluating
development program implementation, was first established
and implemented in the Upper Pampanga River Integrated
Irrigation System (UPRIIS) in 1976 with financial assistance
from the Bank under Loan Agreement No. 1227 PH. With its
significant and encouraging results, the program was also
adopted   for   implementation   in   the   NISIP   I   sub-
proJects/systems.
The objectives of the program were as follows:
a) To establish benchmark data necessary in the
development   of   a   Five-Year   Agricultural
Development   Plan   (FYADP)  for   each   sub-
proJect/system;
b) To prepare a FYADP which would indicate targets
and strategies to attain the desired level of
development;
c) To monitor the flow in build-up of farm inputs
in the sub-proJect area before and during each
cropping season to give NIA sufficient warning
of any likely shortfall so that it may take
appropriate actions.
The implementation of IOMP in the various NISIP I sub-
project were carried out in three (3) phases. The phase I
commenced simultaneously with the start of construction of
irrigation and drainage facilities for a period of two
years.   It  involved  that  the  training   of   monitoring
personnel,   conduct   of   agro-socio-economic   and   farm
management  survey and preparation of seasonal  Agricultural
Progress Report (APR). Phase II covered a period of one  (1)



- 107 -
year solely for the preparation of FYADP for each sub-
proJect. Phase III covered a period of five (5) years as the
implementation phase of FYADP. Field problems related to
input availability and use were monitored and evaluated, and
results were discussed with the members of Agricultural
Development Coordinating Council (ADCC) of each sub-project
for appropriate action. Likewise, outputs relative to actual
inputs   use  were  also  looked  into.  These   information
indicated agricultural development in the project area and
served as bases in assessing the degree by which the project
objectives were attained.
Inter-agency Coordination
For   the   purpose  of  implementing  a   Five-   Year
Agricultural Development Program and in compliance to MC#
90, S. 1980 mandating the creation and operation of Field
Agricultural Development Coordinating Council (FADCC) in
foreign    funded   project,   the    National    Irrigation
Administration   (NIA)   regional   office   initiated   the
establisments of FADCC in NISIP covered systems. The council
was regarded as an action body that put into concrete
accomplisments  the  plans  and  programs  of   agrioultural
development in the command areas of irrigation proJects.
In as much as NISIP I had three sub-proJects and each
sub-proJect covered two to nine (2-9) irrigation systems
located  in  the  different  provinces  of  the   respective
regions, the FADCC was organized separately in each system.
Thus, two to four coordinating council were established in
each sub proJect. The council was composed of five (5)
working committees with specific roles to perform in order
to avoid overlapping of functions.
The working committees and their respective functions
were as follows :
1. Management Group - the field level governing body headed
by the elected member of the group with a plan and
program sub-committee chaired by the Watermaster, with
member   -   representatives  from  the   Department   of
Agriculture and Food (DAF), Department of Agrarian Reform
(DAR), Department of Local Government (DLG), and lending
institutions. These committee took charge of planning,
organizing   and   directing   agricultural   development
programs implementation.
2. Farm   Management  Committee  -  chaired  by   the   Farm
Management   Technologist  (FMT)  from  the   DAF.   This
committee was responsible in providing assistance and
guidance to farmers in the timely acquisition of the
production inputs, repayment of productions loans and
marketing of palay in other farm produce.



- 108 -
3. Institutional Development Committee - headed by the
Municipal Government Officer of DLG with members from
DAF, DAR and NIA. In order sub-projects, this was chaired
by the Agricultural Cooperative Officer/Technologist of
the DAF. The committee was in-charged of institutional
development specifically organization, revitalization and
development of farmers organizations.
4. Credit, Collection and Marketing Committee - chaired by
the representative from the National Food Authority (NFA)
with members from RB, DAF, DAR, NIA and farmer-leaders.
this group was in-charged of providing farmers the
necessary price support and market outlets.
5. Land Tenure Committee - chaired by the DAR Technologist
or Team Leaders of Agrarian Reform Teams responsible in
implementing all agrarian reform laws and regulations
within the proJect area.
Personnel Complement
The number of personnel varied from one (1) sub-proJect
to another during implementation of IOMP from 1978 to 1986.
Generally, the IOMP Team was composed of Sr. Agricultural
Engineer who acted as the team leader and was responsible to
the implementation of IO0P activities. The other members of
the team were Economist, Agronomist, Research Aides, Clerks-
Typist and Drivers. Table 3.1 presents the number of IOMP
personnel from project start to implementation in 1986.
Personnel Training and Development
During implementation of IOMP series of capability build-
up  trainings/seminar  workshops  were  provided  to   field
personnel to equip them with the necessary knowledge and
provided skills in implementing the program smoothly. The
first training/seminar was the Benchmark Agro-Socio-Economic
Survey (BASES) held in November, 1979 at the NIA Training
Center, San Rafael, Bulacan. This was conducted by the Core
Staff with assistance from the Consulting Firm Scyip, Gorres
and  Velayo  (SGV).  The  training  aimed  to  provide   the
participants with the necessary knowledge and skills on the
conduct of the first activity of the teams aside from the
up-dating of farmer's listing.
The Second trairing was the Seminar/Workshop on Farm
Management Survey (FMS). This was conducted at the field
offices of the various NISIP-IOMP sub-projects by three (3)
members of the Core Staff from the Central Office. The FMS
training was held one year after the Seminar on Benchmark
Agro-Socio-Economic Survey.



- 109 -
The   third  seminar  was  the  Five   Year   Agricultural
Development Program (FYADP) preparation. This was conducted
for  five (5) days in MArch 1981 at the NIA Training  Center
in San Rafael, Bulacan. The preparation of FYADP was the
main activity for the Phase II of IOMP.
Another seminar on Agricultural Development Monitoring and
Evaluation  was  conducted  by the IOMP Core  Staff  at  NIA
Training Center, San Rafael, Bulacan, on April 1982. The
training   aimed  to  provide  the  field  personnel   basic
guidelines   on  the  conduct  of  surveys  and  the   basic
procedures on the preparation, processing and analysis of
statistical data fc.r the Phase III of the program.
The   type  of  training  and  corresponding   number   of
participants by region is included in Table 3.2.



- 1i0 -
XII.   IRRIGATION SERVICE FEE COLLECTION
12.01   General
One  of  tnie  primary objectives of the project  is  to
increase agricultural productivity through proper systems
operations, maintenance and management of better irrigation
facilities and the obligation to generate income to support
the   cost  of  operation  and  maintenance  of   associated
irrigation  facilities  through  collection  of   irrigation
service fees has been a vital concern of the National
Irrigation Administration (NIA).
In line with this task,  the NIA is exerting  concerted
efforts for better and improved irrigation service fee
collection performance.   The Treasury,  Systems Nanagement,
Institutional Development departments and other offices of
NIA Central Office have been burdened to bolster the
collection efficiency of the Agency.
In coordination with field offices of the NIA and other
government offices involved in rice production, the Revenue
Generation Division of the Treasury Department develops
improved collection strategies and techniques that will
enhance farmer's cooperation as well as the collection of
irrigation service fees.
12.02   Irrigation Service Fee (ISF)
The present irrigation fee structure of the NIA are as
follows:
(a) Gravity System (for rice crop)
Two (2) cavans of palay at 50 kg. net weight per
cavan per hectare or the cash equivalent computed on
the basis of the prevailing government support price
for the wet season crop.                        I
Three  (3) cavans of palay at 50 kgs,  net  weight
per cavan per hectare or the cash equivalent computed
on the basis of the prevailing government support
price for the dry season crop.
(b) Pump System (for rice crop)
Three (3) cavans of palay at 50 kgs. net weight
per cavan per hectare or the cash equivalent computed
on the basis of the prevailing government support'
price for the wet season crop.



- 111 -
Five (5) cavans of palay at 50 kg. net weight per
cavan per hectare or the cash equivalent computed on
the basis of the prevailing government support price
for the dry season crop.
(c)  Anxntiil Crops
For annual crops such as sugar cane, banana and
other   similar   crops,   the  equivalent   prevailing
government support price of five (5) cavans at 50 kgs.
net weight per cavan per hectare in gravity irrigation
system and eight (8) cavans of palay at 50 kgs. net
weight per cavan per hectare in the pump irrigation
system shall be applied.
(d) Other Crops
For all other crops, the same rates as that of
rice crop shall be applied   except that payment  shall
be in cash.
12.03   Collection o rriervi   Fs During Proect
During the implementation of the proJect, the NIA has
been  collecting irrigation service fees from water users in
the different   systems covered by the project of which  are
presented in Table No. 12.01 hereof.
12.04   Erolected  Irri&atloi   Service  Fee  Co1lection
Budaetary Reguirement for ODeration and Mainten~ance
LQ_i_MU_n  the Systems
The annual projected collectibles and 0 & M budgetary
requirements of the systems are presented in Table 12.02.
The collectibles are estimated to be more than enough to
cover the 0 & M cost of the systems, an indication of the
adequacy of the irrigation service fee collection to support
the required 0 & M budget of the Systems for the years under
review.
12.05   Collegtion Strateales
To achieve a satisfactory and acceptable level of
collection performance, the NIA is implementing financial
viability programs through various collection strategies not



- 112 -
only in the projects but in every irrigation systems in the
country. among others are setting of collection target per
NIA  ISF Collector,   creation of collection task  force  to
intensify   collection.   confirmation  of  individual   ISF
accounts; granting of collection incentive bonuses to NIA
ISF   Collectors   and  Farmers   Irrigators   Associations:
viability incentive grant to Regional/Provincial/System
Office  personnel;   10% discount granted to prompt  payors;
memoranda of agreement with NFA. MAR, and Land Bank of the
Philippines in relation to NIA collection in kind (paley); a
rigorous  campaign  to  collection of  unpaid   accounts  of
officials and employees of all government offices. The NIA.
through its Treasury Department, in its desire to further
enhance collection performance in every irrigation systems
in   the  country  has  made  available   the  printing  and
distribution of Billing and Collection Manual which is
useful guide to NIA ISF collectors.



113 -
XIII.  OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
13.01 General
The National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project I
(NISIP I) as implemented comprises four (4). two (2) and
four (4) groups of national systems in Regions 1, 2 and 8
respectively.   In the NISIP I organization,  Pamplona IS is
only part of the Abulog-Apayao-Pamplona Irrigation System
or simply Abulog-Apayao Irrigation System (AAIS).   Together
they form one responsibility area. While the whole Abulug-
Apayao Irrigation system is included under the NISIP rehabi-
litation program, as of this writing, only Pamplona portion
has so far been completed.   The Abra Pump IS is likewise on
project  status.   Thus,  the 0 & M organization for APIS is
not covered in this report. The corresponding service areas
and municipalities covered by the following systems are
presented hereunder:
Region I
A.   Group of Systems    : Ilocos Norte Irrigation  Systems
(Laoag-Vintar  RIS.   Bolo  RIS,
Pasuquin RIS, Dingras RIS, Cura
RIS and Bonga Pumps 1, 2 and 3)
Source of Water      : Vintar River,  Bolo River, Bonga
Ri"u'r and Laoag River
Aggregate Command   : 6,190 hectares
Area
Towns Served         : Laoag,  Vintar, Bacarra, Sarrat,
Bangui,    Pasuquin,    Dingras,
Marcos, Piddig and San Nicolas
all in Ilocos Norte Province
B.   System                 Amburayan    River    Irrigation
System
Source of Water      : Amburayan River
Aggregate Command   : 3,600 hectares
Area
Towns Served         : Sudipan. Bangar, Balaon and Luna
V                        all in La Union province.



- 14 -
C.  System                : Masalip River Irrigation System
Source of Water        Aringay River
Aggregate Command   : 1,620 hectares
Area
Towns Served         : Agoo.  Tubao,  Aringay and  Sto.
Tomas all in La Union province
D.   Group of Systems    :  Ilocos Sur Irrigation Systems
(Sta.   Maria-Burgos  RIS.  Sta.
Lucia-Candon RIS, Tagudin RIS
and Gaco RIS)
Source of Water     : Sta.  Maria  River,  Buaya River
and Chico river
Aggregate Command      4,344 hectares
Area
Towns Served         : Sta.  Maria, Burgos, Sta. Lucia,
Candon. and Tagudin all in Ilocos
Sur province
Region 2
A.   System                 Banurbur Creek Irrigation System
Source of Water      : Banurbur Creek
Aggregate Command   : 930 hectares
Area
Towns Served         : Sta.  Teresita and Buguey all in
Cagayan Province
B.   System               : Pamplona Pump Irrigation System
Source of Water      : Pamplona Creek and Gattu Creek
Aggregate Command      675 hectares
Area
Towns Served           Barangays  of Gattu,  San  Jose,
Capalalian,   Casitan.  and  San
Jose all in Cagayan Province



- 115 -
Region 8
A.   Group of Systems        Binahaan-TibaX-Guinarona-NP RIS
Source of Water      : Malirong   River,    Tibak   and
Cacillion River, Mbalog Creek,
Soong Lake and Guinarona River
Aggregate Command   : 8,140 hectares
Area
Towns Served         : Sta.  Fe,  Pastrana, Alangalang,
Dagami, Polo, Tacloban City and
Guinarona all in Leyte Province
B.   System               : Hindang-Hilongos        Irrigation
system
Source of Water      : Salug River
Aggregate Command   : 650 hectares
Area
Towns Served           Hindang and Hilongos in Northern
Leyte
C.   System               : Das-ay River Irrigation System
Source of Water      : Das-ay River
Aggregate Command      380 hectares
Area
Towns Served         : Hinunangan in Southern Leyte
D.   Group of Systems    : Bito-Daguitan,   BIG  Irrigation
System
Sources of Water    : Balire   Borth,   Belire  South,
Ibawon and Gibuga Rivers
Aggregate Command      3,300 hectares
Area
Towns Served           McArthur,Xayorga and La Paz  all
in Northern Leyte



- 116 -
13.02   Organizational Set-up and Functions
The operation and maintenance of the irrigation systems
or   group  of  systems  shall  be  under  their  respective
Irrigation Superintendents.   Figure 13.1 shows the existing
organizational structure for the operation and maintenance
of   the  national  systems.    A  temporary   Institutional
Development Section which is a new unit is proposed to take
care of implementing the agricultural development program of
the  system.   The positions provided in the new section are
co-terminous  with  the  program.    In  small  systems  the
regional office is expected to undertake the implementation
of the program.
Because of the small area coverage of Hindang-Hilongos
Irrigation System and Das-ay River Irrigation System, the
two systems shall be attached to the Irrigation Office of
the  province  where  they  are  located.    Thus,  Hindang-
Hilongos  Irrigation  System  shall  be  Placed  under   the
supervision   of  the  Provincial  Irrigation  Engineer   of
Northern Leyte (Figure No. 13.2), while Das-ay RIS shall be
under the Provincial Irrigation Engineer of Southern Leyte
(Figure No. 13.3). However, each shall be provided with the
needed positions for operation and maintenance.
Two other small systems rehabilitated under NISIP I are
Banurbur Creek IS (BCIS) and Abra Pump IS with an area of
930  hectares  and  650  hectares, respectively.   The  BCIS
operated as an independent system.   The maintenance of  all
canals within 930 has. of BCIS has been turned over to the
Irrigators Associations. On the other hand, Abra PIS as of
this writing is still on project status but is scheduled to
be completed before the year ends.
Balire-Ibawon-Gibuga   (BIG)  which  are  actually  new
systems generating new areas shall be merged with the
existing system of Bito-Daguitan to make up the new BD-BIG
RIS.    The  new  areas  are located  in-between  the  areas
covered  by  Bito  RrS and Daguitan RIS.    This  group   of
systems   shall   also   be  under   the   same   Irrigation
Superintendent.
The corresponding functions and responsibilities of the
Regional Irrigation Director. Irrigation Superintendents,
and each section are presented hereunder:
A.   Office of the Regional Irrigation Director
1. Oversee the implementation of rules, regula-
tions and policies of the agency within the
systems.



- 117 -
B.   Office of the Irrigation Superintendent
1.   Responsible for  the directions. supervision,
control, administration and maintenance of
the system.
2.   Implement     approved      guidelines     and
instructions on improved water management and
water distribution in the system to increase
production,   irrigated  areas  and  cropping
intensity in the service area.
3.   Coordinate  with  other  government  agencies
involved in the agricultural aspects and
other activities that may contribute to the
efficient management of the system.
4.   Exercise  supervision over the administrative
functions and agri-institutional activities
of the system.
5.  Plan  and  develop  strategies   to  increase
collection of irrigation service fees and
other income of the system.
6.   Prepare   and  submit  annual  programs   and
budgets for the operation and maintenance of
the system, prepare operation and maintenance
reports, crop reports, equipment reports, and
other    allied   reports   to    appropriate
authorities.
C.   Operation and Maintenance Section
1.  Operation and Maintenance Unit
a.   Responsible  for  the implementation  of
the 0 & M plans and programs within the
service area of the system.
b.   Prepare  and  submit monthly reports  of
activities      and      accomplishments
undertaken  by  0 &  M  field  personnel
concerning    water   requirements   and
deliveries,   irrigated  areas,  planted
areas,  areas harvested,  crops  damaged
and pertinent information on other crops
planted in the service area of the
system.



- 118 -
c.   Direct   and  supervise  activities   of
watermaster's,  gatekeepers,  and  ditch
tenders and farmers in the system as far
as  the  operation  of  the  system   is
concerned.
d.   Assist  in collecting irrigation service
fees especially during peak collection
period.
e.   Distribute   bills  and   statement   of
accounts to irrigation users.
f. Develop plans, programs and schedules
for water releases from the diversion
works to the lateral headgates along the
main  canal,   control  and   distribute
available irrigation water supply in
consultation    with   the    Irrigation
Superintendent.
g.   Monitor and evaluate the effectivity and
adequacy of water releases from the
diversion   works   to   the   different
laterals/areas.
h.   Prepare  and submit reports of all water
releases and water requirements of the
system   as  well  as  hydrologic   data
obtained from the system.
i.  Undertake    repairs    of    irrigation
facilities within the system.
j.   Provide   survey  services  and   submit
results to the Irrigation Superintendent
for evaluation.
k.   Submit monthly accomplishment reports on
the   repair  and  improvement  of   the
system.
1.  Recommend  for  exclusion/inclusion   of
irrigated areas within the system
2.   Equipment Management Unit
a.   Responsible  for  the management of  all
equipment, agricultural machineries and
motor vehicles of the system.



- 119 -
b.   Evaluate the performance and utilization
of equipment and procure spare parts,
fuel, tools and other materials needed.
c.   Undertake  inspection,  maintenance  and
effective utilization of equipment being
used in the field.
d.   Undertake minor repairs of all equipment
assigned in the system.
e.   Prepare  Plans  and  programs  for   the
repair   of  various  equipment  of  the
system.
D.   Administrative Section
Provide services relating to Personnel records.
accounting, procurement, property, cashiering and other
related activities.
1.   Disbursement and Collection Unit
a.   Takes    charge   of    cash    receipt,
disbursement,   control   of  funds  and
undertake    payment   of    obligations
including salaries, wages and leaves of
personnel within the system.
b.   Responsible  for  the  distribution   of
bills among irrigation users and for the
collection of irrigation service fees in
kind or in cash.
c.   Prepare     reports    on    collection,
disbursements, accountability and other
related matters.
2.   Accounting and Billing Unit
a.   Maintain  complete and accurate  records
of all financial transactions of the
system, consolidate accounting reports
and statement of oblizations incurred by
the system.
b.   Prepare   financial    reports  on   the
collection performance of the system for
submission to appropriate authorities.



- 120 -
C.   Recommend    court    action       against
delinquent water users for settlement of
over-due accounts.
d.   Conduct  regular inspection and checking
of all accountable forms, i.e. official
receipts issued to bill collectors and
assistant bill collectors.
e.   Responsible    for   the   billing   and
collection of irrigation service fees in
kind or in cash.
f.   Maintain accurate records of  irrigation
fee register, summarize bills for each
cropping season, and prepare bills and
statement    of   accounts   for   every
cropping season in coordination with
water     masters/water        management
technologists and ditchtenders to attain
client collection of irrigation service
fees.
3.   Procurement and Property Unit:
a.   Provide  services for the procurement of
equipment, materials and supplies for
the system.
b.   Keep records of all equipment, materials
and supplies received and issued.
C.   Prepare  annual inventory reports of all
equipment, materials, supplies and other
government properties including service
facilities and buildings for submittal
to proper authorities.
d.   Facilitate insurance and registration of
all vehicles of the system.
4.   Personnel and General Services Unit:
a.   Provide   security  for   all   records,
equipment, materials, supplies and other
government Properties of the system.
b.   Provide  clerical  and other  supportive
services to all systems personnel.



- 121 -
c.   Assist  in the collection of  irrigation
service fees in kind or in cash.
d.   Provide  communication  and   janitorial
services.
E.   Institutional Development Section
1.   In   coordination  with  the  Operation   and
Maintenance Section, organize and develop
viable/functional irrigators associations.
2.   Conduct  and  supervise trainings/  workshops
and similar undertakings for the organization
development   of   irrigators   associations,
including evaluation thereof.
3.   In   coordination  with  other   institutions
(local   government  and  private  agencies),
formulate   strategies  and  procedures   for
strengthening the capability of organized
associations    towards   integrated    agri-
institutional services delivery system.
4.   Develop  guidelines  and procedures  for  the
gradual takeover by irrigators   associations
of system operation and management activities
within their respective areas of coverage.
5.   Gather  and  evaluate feedbacks  and  renders
necessary follow-up assistance to distressed
or non-functional irrigators associations.
6.   Document   all   processes   and   strategies
implemented    in   the   organization    and
development of irrigators associations for
possible adoption in other system/projects.
7.   Assist the Operation and Maintenance  Section
in the establishment of demonstration farms
and in the delivery of other assistance
programs   to  enhance  the  development   of
irrigators associations.
8.   Prepare  and  submit periodic  accomplishment
reports.



- 122 -
13.05   Operation and Maintenance Budget
The   staffing  pattern  shown  under  13.04   in   the
preceeding   discussions   reflects  the  maximum   manpower
requirement  during  maximum  irrigation  of  the   expected
service area.   In the first year of operation,  however, it
is expected that not all of the service areas shall be fully
irrigated.   Hence,   not   all  positions  may  be   filled
immediately.   Filling  up of positions as indicated in  the
above staffing pattern, will be phased according to the
actual needs of the systems and their ability to generate
income     to   shoulder  the   additional   operation   and
maintenance expenses. On the other hand, in due time and as
envisioned, ditchtender sections shall be turned over to
farmers associations for maintenance of canals.   Thus,  the
number of positions especially ditchtznder shall be reduced
accordingly.   Table  13.05.1 shows the proposed budget  for
the  first  year  of operation.   As  stated  earlier,  only
Pamplona IS staffing pattern shall be included in this
report. The bigger portion of the group of systems to which
Pamplona  IS belongs is still under project  status.   Tbus.
the total number of positions, the firmed up area and the
necessary budget for the whole system could not yet be
determined.
Assuming an annual increase of 5% in salaries as well
as in other operating expense items based on the trend of
prices, the annual 0 & N budget of these systems for the
period 1985 - 1989 is presented also in Table 13.05.1'.
13.06   Operation and Maintenance Equipment 6 Vehicles
Presented in Table No. 13.2, is the distribution of the
project owned equipment and vehicles for Operation and
Maintenance of the irrigation systems of the three (3)
Regional Offices, in order to strengthen its capabilities.
13.07.  Concept on Water Management
The Operation and Maintenance Section of each system or
system of the Regional Offices is responsible in carrying
out water distribution, and to oversee the diversion.
conveyance,   regulation,  measurements,  distribution.  and
applicaion of the right amount of water at the proper time
and  removal  of excess water from  farms.   Normally,  this
section  is  headed by an Irrigation Engineer who   will  be
assisted by staff composed of watermasters, each covering
the area of at least 800 hectares. gatekeepers assigned to
operate major gates and at least 1.5 kms. of canal section
adjacent to it   to maintain and ditchtenders to maintain at
least 3.50 kms. of canal section.
!" -'



- 123 -
XIV.   CONCLUSION
14.01   Effects of the Project on the Reaion and Country
The most significant effect of the project on the
various regions and on the country as a whole would be the
increase  in  production of rice and other crops.   With  an
assured supply of irrigation water for the twenty six (26)
irrigation systems covered by NISIP I and the introduction
of  modern  agricultural  technologies  and  other   support
services,  it  is  expected that cropping  intensity   would
reach   an   average  of  1W   percent.   thus   increasing
significantly paddy yields during wet and dry seasons.
Farm  income  would  correspondingly  increase.    This
additional/increased income of the farmers would generate
more economic activities that would gradually uplift the
living standards and well being of the populace in the
project areas.
The project would also introduce new concepts and
better alternatives in rice culture and provide farmers with
an expanded financing scheme for farm inputs and extension
services.   The  extensive  networks  of farm-to-market  and
service   roads   would  greatly  facilitate  movement   and
transportation of farm produce as well as distribution of
farm inputs.
The project would also generate additional employment
opportunities   in   the  various   regions.    During   the
implementation of the project, a good number of skilled and
unskilled labor were employed.   Substantial permanent staff
of employees would also be required to operate and maintain
the irrigation facilities of the various systems under the
project  in  the three (3)   regional  offices.   Employment
opportunities would be enhanced for members of the rural
communities each year in the production of dry season crops
with irrigation as well as other   sectors in the pursuit of
other related endeavors such as milling, storage, marketing
and manufacture of farm inputs.
The country as a whole, the impact of the project
would be its contribution to the government program of self-
sufficiency in rice and balanced regional development. This
would greatly contribute to meeting the expected demand of
an    ever-increasing   population  without   resorting   to
importation  and savings or generation of precious   foreign
exchange.



- 124 -
14.02   Lessons Learned from the Project
During the project implementation, several lessons were
learned  from  factors which adversely affected the   timely
completion of the project.   Notable among these factors are
the problems in the acquisition of right-of-way. poor
performance    of  contractors  awarded  with  civil   works
contracts, delayed procurement of construction equipment,
funding constraints, natural calamities and adverse weather
conditions, and delayed prosecution of pre-construction and
detailed  engineering works.   Remedial measures  to some of
these negative factors/constraints, however, had since been
evolved and continually being improved and adopted by the
NIA management in the implementation of other projects.
A  brief   discussion of these  factors  are  presented
hereunder:
1.   ProJect Management and Implementation Aspects:
a)   Delays  due to Problems in the Acquisition of
Rights-of-Way
Most of the landowners in the project
area positively cooperated with the NIA in
the acquisition of rights-of-ways prior to
the construction of the various irrigation
and    drainage    facilities   and    roads.
Problems,   however,  were  encountered  when
processing   of  claims  for  payments   were
delayed    due   to   lack    of    necessary
documentations   and  conflicting  claims  of
other   landowners  and   tenants.    Another
problem    which      considerably    delayed
implementation   of  the  project   was   the
reluctance of some landowners for various
reasons  to provide  the necessary    rights-
of-way.   To settle these problems,  the  NIA
had to seek court action with consequential
lengthy process. It is, therefore, imperative
that this activity be carried out in advance
of actual project implementation so that
documents   of   ownership   and   properties
valuation could earlier be established and
conflicts  between  landowners  and   tenants
earlier   settled.    The  launching  of   an
intensive information campaign on the various
aspects of the project including the benefits



- 125 -
to be generated during pro-engineering stage
of project implementation is another positive
action to be taken   to minimize problems  in
the acquisition of rights-of-way.
b)   Poor   Performance  of  Contractors  in   the
Implementation of Civil Works Contracts.
Some of the contractors awarded civil
works    contracts   lacks   the    necessary
equipment, skilled manpower and financial
resources and expertise in carrying out the
contract works.   As a result, implementation
of some civil works contracts were delayed
and  some  were  subsequently taken  over  by
force  account.   A more effective method  in
the accreditation of prospective contractors
has since been evolved by NIA and continually
being improved and adopted in biddings for
other on-going projects.
c)   Delayed Procurement of Construction Equipment
The   procurement  of  the  construction
equipment for the proJect was considerably
delayed,   adversely  affecting  the  overall
implementation of the project. It is. there-
fore, necessary that this particular activity
be   given   proper  consideration  that   it
deserves in planning future projects.
Previous NIA practice was to procure O&M
equipment    together   with   the    regular
construction equipment intended for project
works   to  be done by  force  account.   The
presence of the 0 & M equipment during the
construction   phase,   has  tempted  project
management to use them for project works
construction resulting in the deterioration
of the equipment and higher 0 & N and repair
cost during the operation and maintenance
phase of the system when funding becomes
limited even for more frequent repair of used
equipment   resulting   in  degeneration   of
services.
It  is now the feeling of NIA that 0 & M
equipment should be purchased towards the
completion of the project and before loan
closing date.



- 126 -
d)   Delays Due to Natural Calamities
Numerous  typhoons  causing  floods   of
significant   magnitude  inflicted  extensive
damages to completed and on-going works.
This   considerably   delayed   the   overall
implementation of the project and subsequent
operation  of  the  system.    Similar  local
conditions in other project areas are now
being given due consideration during pre-
engineering   phase   with   provisions   for
minimizing damages and likely delays due to
natural calamities are included.
e)   Delayed  Decision  Making  on  Take  Over  of
Delayed Civil Works Contracts
Overall implementation of the project
are   sometimes   delayed  due  to   untimely
decisions on deletion and/or take over of
civil   works   contracts   from   defaulting
contractors.   It is essential that  progresi
in   the   implementation  of   civil   works
contracts should be properly monitored and
evaluated to effect timely decision-making.
It is also imperative that evaluation of the
performance of the contractors should not be
limited to periodic accomplishment but must
include determination of adequacy of his
available equipment, manpower and financial
resources to forestall contract failure and
afford   timely   management   decisions   on
alternative  solutions.    A more  effective
method in the evaluation of contractor's
performance and available resources has since
been evolved by NIA and continually being
improved and adopted in the supervision and
administration of civil works contracts.
f)   Delayed  Prosecution of Pre-Construction  and
Detailed Engineering Works
Some   contract   works,    particularly
involving construction of canal and drainage
networks and its appurtenant structures were
bid sometimes without first establishing the
firm-up quantities of the various contract
items.    During   implementation,   it  was
experienced that various major contract items



- 127 -
incurred   considerable   overrun    of   bid
quantities, thereby delaying implementation
of the contract works due to claims for
variation orders (change orders.   extra work
orders) and time extensions. The main reason
for this is due to the very limited time
alloted   in   the   preparation   of    pre-
construction   investigation   and   detailed
engineering   works.    Other  factor   which
contributed    to    the   delay    in    the
implementation of some major contracts is the
revision  of the previously bid  plans.   The
bidding   (ICB)   for   the   Schistosomiasis
Drainage Project in Leyte had already been
conducted when tte change/revision of the
design parameter for the whole drainage
system was recommended by the World Bank.
Subsequently, there was a significant change
in the overall scope of work for the contract
which was later undertaken thru local minor
and small package contracts.
At times, portions of contract works
were deleted and taken over by force account
or separate biddings (LMC, small package)
were conducted in order to fully complete the
contract works, however, these also involve
considerable time. To minimize these delays,
it    would   seem   imperative   that   pre-
construction and detailed engineering works
be given sufficient time and effort prior to
project  implementation.   This is now  being
implemented to some extent by NIA.
g)   Improvement   of  Project  and   Construction
Management Capability
While   the  project  organization   was
staffed with a good number of qualified   and
well experienced personnel coming from other
NIA projects earlier completed, there are
quite a number of new professionals and
workers  in the organization.   The continued
exposure   of these new and old personnel  to
the various aspects of the project works has
undoubtedly resulted in the enhancement of
the knowledge on the theory and practices of
sound  project and  construction   management
which will serve them well and the NIA in the
implementation of futre projects of similar
nature.



- 128 -
2.   Agricultural Aspects
a)   The   establishment   of  a   proJect   level
agricultural development coordinating council
was   an  effective  tool  in   the   overall
planning,   monitoring  and  evaluating   the
implementation    of   the   various    agri-
institutional development activities in the
different systems under NISIP.
In    the   implementation   of   the   agri-
institutional commitments, the different
organizational units are working under one
coordinating    body.      Consultation    and
coordination     with   the   line   agencies
concerned were undertaken regarding their
agency's participation in pursuing the agri-
institutional development commitments for the
proJect.     It   also   created   harmonious
relationship    between   the    coordinating
agencies    and   minimize   overlapping   of
functions and responsibilities.
b)   The use of contractual labor services, either
from   an   individual  farmer   or   farmer-
irrigators associations, in the maintenance
of  irrigation  facilities  is  significantly
cheaper and more effective than the use of
regular  NIA  employees.   Furthermore,  this
develops   the  spirit  of  involvement   and
participation on the part of the farmers
served by the project facilities generating
more   concern    in  the  preservation   and
maintenance    of    the    facilities    for
uninterrupted services.



