Document of
FILE CQP~ 1                     The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-2046-PH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR THE
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT
PROJECT
April 20, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reciplents only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Pesos (P) 7.50          US$1.00
P 1,000         =       US$133.00
P 1 million     =       US$133,000
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB    - Asian Development Bank
DAR    - Department of Agrarian Reform
DOH    - Department of Health
NIA    - National Irrigation Administration
NISIS  - National Irrigation Systems Improvement Study
SCC    - Schistosomiasis Control Council
SPO    -  Special Projects Organization
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FISCAL YEAR
1975: July 1, 1974 - June 30, 1975
1976: July 1, 1975 - December 31, 1976
From 1977: January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES FOR THE NATIONAL
IRRIGATION SYSTEKS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of the Philippines for the equivalent of $50.0 million
to help finance the National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project. The
loan would have an interest rate of 8.2% per annum and a term of 20 years
including 4.5 years of grace.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        An economic mission visited the Philippines in April/May 1975 and
its report, "The Philippines: Priorities and Prospects for Development, Basic
Economic Report" (No. 1095a-PH of May 5, 1976) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 18, 1976 (SecM/76/366). Paragraphs 3-16 below are an
updated summary of that report. Annex 1 contains country economic data.
3.        During the 1960s, the economy grew in real terms at an annual rate
of about 5-6%. However, the rate of growth was less than the level that
might have been achieved if the considerable natural and human resources
of the Philippines had been exploited more effectively. Moreover, the
benefits of growth were distributed relatively unevenly. As the population
and labor force continued to grow rapidly, unemployment rose. Low levels of
taxation accentuated these problems and resulted in inadequate public invest-
ment in necessary infrastructure and social services. A relatively weak
export performance combined with a failure to reduce the import dependence of
domestic industry resulted in a steady deterioration in the balance of
payments position.
4.        During 1970-72, the authorities adopted policies of monetary and
fiscal restraint in order to lay a firm basis for future growth. With
assistance from the Consultative Group for the Philippines, they succeeded in
improving substantially the maturity structure of the external public debt.
Real GNP during that period increased at about 5% a year. In 1972, the
Government initiated a series of social and economic reforms including an
agrarian reform program, tax reforms, and an administrative reorganization.
5.        In 1973, there was a sharp increase in the level of economic activity
in the Philippines and the growth in real GNP doubled to 10%. This upsurge
was led by the international commodity boom, which resulted in higher export
incomes, a strong recovery in agricultural and industrial production for the
domestic market, and an expansion in public and private investment.
]j This is the same discussion of the economy as that in the President's
Report for the Fourth Rural Credit Project (P-2021-PH) of March 24, 1977.
I This document has restricted ditribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance  |
of their officl duties. Its contents my not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorintion.



6.        Like most countries, the Philippines was profoundly affected by the
events in the world economy that began with the marked increase in the prices
for food and petroleum in late 1973. With international trade the equivalent
of almost half of its GNP, the Philippines was quite vulnerable to the impact
of world inflation, the increase in oil prices, and the prolonged recession
in the industrialized countries. While adverse effects of the recession were
cushioned somewhat in 1974 by a modest improvement in the external terms of
trade, the Philippines was more seriously affected in 1975 by the continued
rise in import prices and reduced demand for Philippine exports. While the
international economic situation has made it difficult for the Government to
realize its objective of accelerating the rate of development, GNP in 1974,
1975, and 1976, nevertheless, grew in real terms at an annual rate of about 6%.
7.        Agricultural production has grown at an average rate of 3.2% per
year during the 1970s, a period which has been characterized by unusually
adverse weather conditions. Rice production increased by 25% in 1973/74, but
because of damage by typhoons, grew by only 1% in 1974/75; the Government had
to import 200,000 tons in the first half of 1975 to ensure adequate stocks.
However, the rice harvest in 1975/76 was very good due to favorable weather
conditions and during this period the Philippines was nearly self-sufficient
in rice. The Government continues to give the highest priority to further
increasing agricultural production and has initiated a number of programs
designed to expand the use of fertilizer, irrigation and supervised credit.
It has also intensified efforts to expand the social services needed in rural
areas, including rural electrification, health and family planning services,
and village road and small-scale irrigation projects.
8.        Although progress has been slower than initially planned, the
Government has made some progress with its agrarian reform for the nation's
one million tenant farmers who grow rice and corn. By September 30, 1976, the
Government had issued Certificates of Land Transfer to 224,000 of the
424,000 tenants on holdings of over 7 ha; thus, title to 390,000 ha of the
total 825,000 ha of farms occupied by such tenants has been transferred. The
Government has raised the cash portion of the compensation package to landlords
to reduce their resistance to land reform, but strong administrative efforts
will be necessary to ensure continued progress in the implementation of the
program.
9.        Industry accounts for almost 30% of net domestic product, one third
of total fixed investment and 15% of total employment. Industrial production,
which grew by 12% in 1973, was adversely affected in 1974 and 1975 by the
worldwide economic slowdown and the depressed demand for Philippine exports.
As a result, industrial production increased by only 4% in 1974 and 5% in
1975. Stepped-up public sector spending for infrastructure development and
other priority projects has contributed significantly to sustaining the
higher level of domestic activity in 1976, especially in the construction
industry. The longer term prospects for industrial growth are favorable
because of the natural and human resource endowment of the Philippines and a
very active private sector.



10.       The Government has made significant progress in increasing public
investment. The ratio of public investment to GNP is currently over 4%,
having risen from 1.8% in FY72./1 The Government has also implemented a
series of long needed tax reforms and improvements in tax administration.
These reforms, aided by the increased economic activity, the boom in export
incomes, and domestic inflation, resulted in a 36% increase in national
government tax revenues in FY73, and an estimated 47% in FY74. The ratio of
national government tax revenues to GNP has increased from an average of 9%
in the early 1970s to about 12% during the period FY74-76.
11.       Significant financial reforms have also been introduced.    At the
beginning of 1976, the Central Bank issued circulars designed to help ration-
alize the level and structure of deposit and lending rates; deposit rates
were r4ised for the second time in 18 months; long-standing statutory ceilings
on the long-term lending rates of banking institutions were increased from
12-14% to 19% per annum; and the ceilings on short-term lending rates were
raised. Efforts were also made to control short-term money market operations
and to strengthen the organized banking institutions. These actions should
help to improve the mobilization and allocation of domestic resources in the
Philippines.
12.       In the latter part of 1973, inflation emerged as a major problem
in the Philippines. The increase in prices was caused by the large increase
in liquidity that came with the export boom in 1973/74, and by a number of
cost-push factors, including the higher rate of world inflation. To deal
with this problem, the Government adopted contractionary monetary and fiscal
policies, and attempted to reduce the impact of inflation on consumers by
subsidizing such essential goods as wheat, imported rice, and cooking oil.
The annual inflation rate fell from 35% in 1974 to 8% in 1975 and 6% in
1976.
13.       On the external side, the Philippines' balance of payments benefited
considerably from the international commodity price boom during 1973. High
prices for the country's chief exports, including coconut products, sugar,
copper and wood products, resulted in a 70% increase in export earnings
and a current account surplus of about $550 million. Since mid-1974, the
external trade position has deteriorated, due to the sharp increases in the
prices of oil and other imports, less favorable prices for Philippine exports,
and reduced volume of some exports resulting from the downturn in the econo-
mies of the Philippines' main trading partners. As a result, current account
deficits of about $900 million in 1975 and about $1,000 million in 1976 were
incurred. The current account deficits have been offset by direct foreign
investment, inflows of medium- and long-term loan capital, the use of IMF
facilities and some short-term borrowing by the Central Bank. External
reserves were about $1.2 billion at the end of 1976, equivalent to four
months' imports. Assuming continued sound debt management and the mainten-
ance of a reasonable maturity structure of foreign borrowings, the overall
level of external debt of the Philippines is expected to remain within
reasonable limits, as the ratio of debt service payments to exports and
/1 Fiscal year July 1 to June 30.



- 4 -
nonfactor services would average about 16-17% during the rest of this
decade. At present, the Bank/IDA share in total debt outstanding is about
17% and its share in debt service is about 4%. These shares are expected to
increase somewhat in the years ahead.
14.       Substantial foreign assistance will be essential to help finance the
large investment expenditures which will be necessary for the country's develop-
ment. In order to ensure that disbursement of external assistance reaches
levels commensurate with the level of development expenditures which will be
required during the latter part of the decade and that debt service obligations
remain within reasonable limits, total commitments of official assistance will
need to be maintained in real terms at least at the annual level of about $500
million which was achieved in 1974. The Consultative Group for the Philippines
at its meeting in Paris on June 15 and 16, 1976, agreed that it would be
reasonable for the Philippine Government to seek official aid commitments of
about $600 million in 1976 and $700 million in 1977. Total new commitments of
public and private medium- and long-term capital are estimated to have reached
$2 billion in 1976 and need to be maintained at approximately this level
through 1980.
15.       Despite the slowdown in the growth of the economy, which is pri-
marily a result of worldwide economic conditions, the Government remains
committed to regaining the growth momentum, which began in 1973, to provide
for a continued increase in incomes and employment. Both the Philippine
Government and the Bank's Basic Economic Report estimate that it should be
possible in the longer term for the Philippine economy to grow in real terms
at a rate of about 7% per annum provided that good economic management
continues and international economic conditions improve. High priority must
be accorded to expanding employment opportunities, because unemployment
and underemployment are still high and the labor force continues to grow
at 3% a year. Continued attention must also be given to expanding the
Government's effective family planning program to reduce the rate of growth
of the population and the labor force.
16.       The Government is pursuing a development strategy which focuses on
rural development with emphasis on food production, accelerated industriali-
zation, both in capital-intensive resource based industries and labor-intensive
export industries, and a substantial expansion in public sector investment in
infrastructure to support the growth of the productive sectors. In support
of these objectives, the Government plans to continue its efforts to increase
public revenues, to strengthen the capacity of public sector agencies and to
foster the growth of exports. The Government recognizes that the increased
cost of petroleum and other imports cannot be financed indefinitely by borrow-
ing abroad, and it is actively encouraging both local and foreign investors to
expand productive investments. It will, however, take time for Government
programs to have an impact on the balance of payments, and the Government is,
therefore, seeking increased support from the international financial community
to assist in the financing of its development effort.



- 5 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
17.       By April 15, 1977, the Philippines had received 43 Bank loans (of
which two were on Third Window terms) and three IDA credits for a total of
$1,113.7 million, net of cancellations. About 40% of Bank lending ($401 mil-
lion) has been for infrastructure projects in power, transportation, and
water supply and one-third ($355 million) has been for agriculture. Of the
remainder, about $250 million has been for industry and about $108 million
has been for social sector projects in education, population and urban
development. There has been a marked improvement in the execution of Bank-
financed projects in the last four years compared with experience in the
1960s, when there were serious problems caused by a shortage of peso counter-
part funds and poor administration. All ongoing projects are now being
implemented reasonably well. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans and IDA credits as of February 28, 1977, and IFC investments as of
March 31, 1977 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
18.       The Bank's lending program has been designed to continue to support
the Philippine development effort with its emphasis on agriculture and infra-
structure and its growing attention to the needs of lower income groups.
About one third of Bank lending planned for the next few years would be for
agriculture and rural development projects and another third would be for
needed basic infrastructure projects, mainly in the fields of transportation
and power. The amount of lending for social sector projects, including
education, population and urban development, is expected to continue to grow
rapidly and account for nearly 20% of future lending. The balance of future
lending would be for industrial development, where growing attention is being
given to the needs of small and medium industries with high employment
potential. The rapid growth in public revenues during the past five years
has allowed for a significant expansion in public investment and both the
ambitious Philippine development program and the Bank's growing lending
program have been designed to make good past neglect and to meet future
needs. Bank lending totalled $165.1 million in FY74, $208 million in FY75
and $268 million in FY76 compared to about $30 million a year in the preceding
five years.
19.       This loan and the one for the Provincial Cities Water Supply Project
are the fifth and sixth loans to be presented to the Executive Directors
in FY77. Other loans which may be ready for presentation within two months
are for a land settlement and a power project; a smallholder tree
farming/forestry project and a rural infrastructure project are also under
consideration and are well advanced in the appraisal cycle. A primary
objective of most of these projects is to help the Government meet its
objective of increasing the productivity and incomes of the poorer segments
of the population.
20.       As of March 31, 1977, IFC had made commitments in the Philippines
totalling $79 million for investment in 14 projects in the fields of devel-
opment banking, power, telecommunications, ceramic tiles, paper, petroleum
products, nickel mining and refining, chemicals and synthetic fibres and
edible oils. Of these investments, $27.4 million had been sold, cancelled
or repaid, leaving a net portfolio of $51.6 million, including $0.6 million
undisbursed. A Regional Mission for East Asia was established in Manila
by IFC on April 1, 1977.



- 6 -
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
21.       Agriculture is the predominant sector in the Philippine economy,
accounting for about one-third of net domestic product, over one-half of total
employment, and nearly three-quarters of export earnings. Over 70% of the
9 million ha of land under cultivation is used for the production of cereals,
of which rice and corn are the most important. The remaining land is taken up
by the major export crops: sugar, coconuts, abaca, pineapples, and tobacco.
22.       The performance of the agricultural sector will be crucial in deter-
mining whether the Philippines can increase incomes both rapidly and equitably.
At present, the domestic market for industrial products is limited by relatively
low rural incomes. Although in recent years there has been a substantial change
in the terms of trade in favor of agriculture, the problems of poverty and income
distribution continue to be particularly acute in rural areas; of the 15 million
people in the lowest 40% of the income scale, 12 million live in rural areas.
The Government is aware of these problems and, as noted in paras. 7 and 8, has
initiated a number of programs designed to assist the rural poor.
23.       A major Government objective is to increase rice and corn produc-
tion as a means of raising the incomes of small farmers and of attaining
national self-sufficiency in food grains. The deficit in rice, the main staple
crop, has been a persistent problem in the Philippines, and annual rice imports
have averaged about 200,000 tons in recent years. The ability to assure sus-
tained self-sufficiency in rice will depend largely on improving yields through
increased cropping intensity, the expanded use of fertilizer and agro-chemicals,
and the provision of adequate credit and other supporting services. In order to
achieve their full potential, high-yielding varieties, which helped to increase
production in the late 1960s, require a much greater degree of water control
than is possible under rainfed conditions or with the typical unimproved irriga-
tion systems in the Philippines. At present, out of 3.2 million ha planted with
rice, only 1.3 million ha, or 40%, is irrigated. A program to upgrade and
expand irrigation facilities is therefore of high priority.
24.       About one-half of the expected Bank lending for agriculture in the
Philippines in the next five years is expected to be for irrigation. The
Bank has already financed seven irrigation projects designed to increase rice
production in the Philippines. These projects - three in Central Luzon, two
in the Cagayan Valley of Northern Luzon, one on Mindoro Island, and one in
the Visayas /1 - have set the pattern for the type of irrigation rehabilitation,
/1 The Upper Pampanga River Irrigation Project (Loan 637-PH), Aurora-Pena-
randa Irrigation Project (Loan 984-PH, Credit 472-PH), Tarlac Irrigation
Systems Improvement Project (Loan 1080-PH), Mindoro Rural Development
Project (Loan 1102-PH), Magat River Multipurpose Project Stage I (Loan
1154-PH), Chico River Irrigation Project Stage I (Loan 1227-PH), and
Jalaur Irrigation Project (Loan 1367-PH).



- 7 -
new construction, and operations needed for increasing rice production. The
projects are providing improved irrigation and drainage facilities, better
road systems for efficiency of operations and maintenance and for the marketing
of farm products, stronger supporting services to assist farmers in adopting
the new techniques needed to increase production, and technical assistance
and training to help the National Irrigation Administration (NIA) expand and
improve its irrigation program. These projects, together with the project
now proposed, would bring about substantial increases in rice production on
about 284,000 ha and would benefit nearly 137,000 farmers, most of whom are
smallholders. The existing projects are being well executed although initially
there were some difficulties in attracting bids for civil works contracts and
there have been cost increases under two of the projects as a result of the
unexpectedly high rates of inflation during 1974 and 1975. These problems are
being overcome and progress under the projects is satisfactory; all of the
projects are expected to have high economic benefits.
25.       The major focus of irrigation projects in the past has been on the
large-scale gravity systems. Since the late 1960s the NIA, with the assis-
tance of the Bank and the Asian Development Bank (ADB), has been engaged in
upgrading and extending large national systems, mainly in Luzon and to a
lesser extent in Mindanao.   Particular attention has been given to the reha-
bilitation and new construction of canals and structures, the provision of
better drainage and access, and the introduction of water management and
rotational irrigation practices.   Additional water supply is being provided
in some areas through the construction of storage dams or by transbasin diver-
sion. In order to provide a basis for improving the badly deteriorated but
essential smaller systems scattered throughout the Philippines, a National
Irrigation Systems Improvement Study (NISIS) was financed under Loan 1080-PH
to inventory the smaller irrigation systems and to select a total of about
150,000 ha with the highest priority for improvement. The inventory of the
national systems has been completed and priority projects have been identified
on the basis of the need and potential of the system for improvement, the degree
of human poverty in the area served by the system and the capacity of NIA's
regional office to implement needed improvements. The proposed project is
the first to be prepared under NISIS.
PART' IV - THE PROJECT
Background
26.       The proposed project would support the Government's objectives of
achieving self-sufficiency in rice, increasing ir.comes of poor farmers and
providing for a better regional balance in the Philippines' development effort.
The project would improve and expand irrigation facilities on 22 existing
irrigation systems in three of the poorest regions of the country: the Ilocos
and Cagayan regions of Northern Luzon and Leyte in the Eastern Visayas.
In Leyte it would also provide for a schistosomiasis control program in one
of the most severely affected regions in the country. The proposed project
would be the first Bank-assisted irrigation project dealing with the relatively
small widely scattered systems operated by NIA's regional offices and the first
on the west coast of Luzon and in the Eastern Visayas. (See attached map.)



- 8 -
27.       The feasibility report for the project was prepared by NIA with
the assistance of consultants. The project was appraised in October-November
1976 and negotiations were held in April 1977. The leaders of the Government
negotiating team were His Excellency, Eduardo Z. Romualdez, the Philippines'
Ambassador to the United States, and the Honorable Alfredo Juinio, Administrator
of the National Irrigation Administration. The Appraisal Report (No. 1488a-PH)
on the project is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
Annex III of this report contains a loan and project summary and Annex IV
contains supplementary project data.
The Project Area
28.       Transplanted rice, both irrigated and rainfed, is the predominant
crop in all three subproject areas, although there is a small area (1,300 ha)
of dry-season irrigated tobacco in the Ilocos subproject area and some dry-
season rainfed corn (2,000 ha) in the Leyte subproject area. The Ilocos
region and the Eastern Visayas are rice deficit areas, while the Cagayan region
is one of the major rice surplus areas in Luzon. The majority of farmers in
the irrigated areas use improved rice varieties. In rainfed areas, farmers
rely almost entirely on the lower yielding but hardier local varieties. In
the irrigated areas, the mean paddy yields for both the wet and dry seasons
are 2.5 tons/ha in Ilocos, 2.0 tons/ha in Cagayan, and 1.7 tons/ha in Leyte.
In the rainfed areas the average paddy yields are 1.6 tons/ha in Ilocos,
1.5 tons/ha in Cagayan, and 1.4 tons/ha in Leyte.
29.       Inadequate irrigation has been a major factor contributing to rela-
tively low yields in subproject areas. The 22 existing NIA systems in these
areas, which cover about 27,600 ha, have seriously deteriorated due to poor
initial design and inadequate maintenance resulting from the lack of sufficient
funds and equipment. The existing systems also have poor distribution networks
which make it impossible for most farmers to obtain water at the right time and
in the right amount. There are also few access roads, which makes it difficult
for farmers to transport farm inputs and to market production.
30.       Seven of the ten irrigation systems in the Leyte subproject are
located on the island's northeastern plain, an area of natural and man-made
swamps, which causes it to be one of the worst schistosomiasis-endemic regions
in the Philippines. About 87,000, or 18% of the people living in northeastern
Leyte, have been infected with schistosomiasis. The climate and topography of
the coastal plain are particularly conducive to the disease, while the way of
life of the rural population, with its constant exposure to water, and the
low levels of public hygiene all work together to produce high infection rates.
In many areas, the high incidence of schistosomiasis seriously inhibits agri-
cultural production.
31.       Approximately 37,000 farm families, or a total of about 200,000
people, live in the project area. About 60% of the farmers are in the Ilocos
subproject area and the balance are evenly split between the Cagayan and
Leyte subprojects. The mean farm size is about 1.3 ha, although there are
substantial differences among the subproject areas; the mean farm size is 0.8 ha
in Ilocos, 1.5 in Leyte and 2.5 in Cagayan. Survey and census data indicate
that, in addition to farm operating households, there are approximately 6,000
landless agricultural households in the project area.



- 9 -
32.       Estimated present total net incomes vary considerably between sub-
project areas and within areas, depending on whether the farm is irrigated
or rainfed. Present per capita annual incomes in the £arm models examined
vary from a low of $45 for a 1.0 ha rainfed farm in the Leyte subproject to
a high of $100 for a 2.5 ha irrigated farm in Cagayan. These figures corres-
pond to between 10% and 23% of the national GNP per capita and are significantly
less than the absolute poverty income figure for rural areas in the Philippines
of $165.
33.        Since 1972, the Government has pursued a program of agrarian reform
aimed at the transfer of land ownership to tenant farmers on rice and corn
lands. Presidential Decree No. 27, the basic legislation of the new program,
provides for the transfer to the tenant, whether sharecropper or leaseholder,
of the land he tills up to 3 ha in an irrigated area and 5 ha in a rainfed
area.  According to information of the Department of Agrarian Reform (DAR),
the 49,400 ha of rice lands in the project area are owned by some 27,500
people, 97% of whom hold less than 7 ha, accounting for 77% of the land.      The
remaining 3% of the owners account for 11,330 ha, or 23% of the area, which
will be transferred to about 7,695 tenants under the provisions of the
agrarian reform program.
34.       There are a number of small towns scattered throughout the project
area. In the Ilocos and Leyte subproject areas the irrigation systems are
close to major commercial centers providing banking, storage and processing
facilities, as well as supplies of inputs to the agricultural areas. In the
Cagayan subproject area, there are also a number of small towns, but major
centers are fairly remote. The Ilocos and Leyte systems are served by good
road networks, while the Cagayan systems are more isolated; however, the
Government is engaged in a program of road improvement and bridge building in
the area with assistance from the Government of Japan.
Description of the Project
35.       The proposed project would finance the first phase of the National
Irrigation Systems Improvement Program which is directed to the rehabilitation
of small-scale irrigation schemes throughout the country. The project would
include:
(a) irrigation development, including the rehabilitation of 27,600 ha
of national irrigation systems in Northern Luzon and the Eastern
Visayas, and the construction of new irrigation facilities on
21,800 ha of currently rainfed land in the same areas;
(b) a schistosomiasis control program on the island of Leyte;
(c) a pilot land consolidation subproject of up to 500 ha in Ilocos
to determine the feasibility of introducing a degree of consolida-
tion in an area of highly fragmented small farms; and
(d) a study to determine the optimum density of on-farm water distri-
bution facilities for small farm holdings.



- 10 -
Project Execution
36.       NIA would be responsible for all components of the project, except
for the health aspects of the schistosomiasis control program, which would
be executed by the Department of Health (DOH) through its Schistosomiasis
Control Council (SCC). NIA would work closely with the Department of Agrarian
Reform (DAR) on the land consolidation pilot project.
37.       NIA was created in 1964 to develop, operate, and maintain all
national irrigation systems in the Philippines. NIA is governed by a Board
of Directors, which provides policy guidance. An Administrator, appointed by
the President of the Philippines, is responsible for the management of NIA's
operations. NIA was recently reorganized in order to be able to implement
more effectively the Government's program of accelerated irrigation development.
One of the first steps taken in the reorganization was the integration of the
major foreign-assisted projects under a Special Projects Organization (SPO)
headed by an Assistant Administrator. Even before the establishment of the
SPO, however, most of the foreign-assisted projects were not implemented by
the NIA field offices, but were entrusted to ad hoc project offices especially
created for the purpose. While these were necessary at the time to ensure
effective project implementation, the regional field offices have suffered in
terms of relative access to funds, staff, and equipment. The proposed project
would not be suitable for implementation by a special projects office because
it covers a large number of small systems scattered throughout a wide area;
it would therefore be best implemented by NIA's regional field offices. The
project would be the first major foreign-assisted project to be implemented by
the regional offices and would include features designed to help strengthen
their operational and maintenance capabilities. This would be achieved
through more and better staffing in the regional and field offices and through
the provision of an adequate supply of vehicles and equipment.
38.       An Assistant Administrator for Engineering and Operations is
responsible to the Administrator for the eight regional and two subregional
NIA offices. The Regional Offices are headed by Regional Directors who are
responsible for all NIA activities in the provinces constituting their regions,
unless the projects are assigned to the SPO. NIA has appointed a Project
Director to be based in Manila who would be directly responsible for the
execution of the proposed project under the overall supervision of the
Assistant Administrator for Engineering and Operations. The Project Director,
with a small support staff, would have day-to-day responsibility for coordinat-
ing the work at headquarters of three NIA departments with significant roles
in project implementation; he would also supervise execution at the field
level which would be under the immediate control of the Regional Directors
for NIA Regions I (Ilocos), 2 (Cagayan), and 6 (Leyte). A subregional office
would be established at Laoag in NIA Region 1, since the existing office of
Urdaneta is too far from most of the project works. The proposed project
would also provide for the construction of two new field offices and the
extension of office, storage and staff quarters facilities for eight existing
field offices.
39.       The technical responsibility for operating and maintaining all the
project systems would rest with the Operations Department in NIA's central
office and with the Operations Divisions in the regional offices. After



- 11 -
construction of the project, the eight field offices would become irrigation
districts, which in turn would be subdivided into irrigation divisions
covering about 2,500 ha. The divisions would each be controlled by a super-
visor and would be subdivided into units of 500 ha, each under a Water Manage-
ment Technician. In the Ilocos and Leyte subprojects, a Water Management
Technician would be responsible for 300 ha rather than the 500 ha which is
usual in the Philippines, because of the small farm sizes and large farm
population in Ilocos and the general backwardness of farming practices in
Leyte. The smallest organizational entity would consist of two 50 ha units
under a ditchtender.
40.       About 160 Water Management Technicians would be required at the
completion of project construction. NIA proposes to reserve up to 25% of
these posts as an incentive for competent and experienced ditchtenders. All
Water Management Technicians, whether directly recruited or promoted to the
post, would undergo a one-year training program in water management, crop
production, and farmer organization at one of the training centers being run
by the SPO.
41.       All of the NIA systems within the project areas are based on irriga-
tion rotation areas of 50 ha, which are divided into rotation units of about
10 ha each. This configuration was based on average farm sizes of from
2.0-2.5 ha, thus giving between 4 and 5 farms per unit and between 20 and 25
farms per rotation area. The layout allows practically all farms to have
direct access to irrigation water, thus minimizing potential conflicts between
farmers and providing a manageable number of farms for NIA staff to handle.
Census information, however, indicates that the sizes of farms located in the
NIA irrigation systems have been decreasing over the last ten years, and that
the trend will probably continue in the future. For this reason, an on-farm
water distribution facilities study would be made to establish several differ-
ent models of irrigation in areas characterized by holdings of less than 2.0
ha and with different cropping intensities to determine the most suitable
level of facilities in terms of the requirements of the farmers and of NIA
(see Section 3.01(a) and Part D of Schedule 2 of the draft Loan Agreement).
The SPO would be responsible for carrying out the on-farm facilities study.
42.       Although in the Cagayan and Leyte subproject areas there is little
fragmentation of holdings, in the Ilocos subproject area the degree of land
fragmentation is substantial and some degree of boundary realignment or consoli-
dation would be desirable. An immediate program of consolidation and boundary
realignment is unrealistic because of local inheritance practices, high popula-
tion densities, and the lack of alternative employment. However, a small pilot
project would be undertaken on up to 500 ha in selected areas of the irrigation
systems in Ilocos Norte Province to determine the acceptability to farmers and
landowners of land consolidation. Assuming agreement by farmers and owners, the
pilot project would determine the most economic and least socially disruptive
level of consolidation compatible with the greatest reduction in the number of
land fragments and would evolve a methodology for implementation. The land
consolidation pilot project would be carried out by NIA's Operations Department
in close cooperation with DAR, which would be responsible for all cadastral
work. It has been agreed that NIA and DAR would enter into a formal agreement
acceptable to the Bank for implementation of the land consolidation pilot pro-
ject by December 31, 1977 (see Section 3.01(b) (ii) of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 12 -
43.       The proposed schistosomiasis control program in Leyte would concen-
trate on making the habitat less favorable to the disease by improving
drainaRe. reducing the number of snails by use of molluscicides, lessening
the population's contact with water by the provision of foot-bridges, improving
general hygiene by environmental sanitation and health education, and reducing
the effects of the disease by chemotherapy. The main emphasis of the engineer-
ing component of the program would be on improving the existing swampy condi-
tions by opening up all existing drainage ways, increasing the intensity of
drainage works in cropped areas, and making provision for good access to all
drainage works so as to permit regular and efficient maintenance. The Govern-
ment would provide NIA annually with sufficient funds to effectively maintain
the drainage network built under the project (see Section 4.03 of the draft
Loan Agreement). The public health component of the program would provide for
a health education campaign, based primarily in the schools and barrio health
centers, to alert the population to dangers of the disease, and to supply
information on prevention and treatment. This would be backed up by an environ-
mental sanitation drive to furnish all unequipped households in the area with
water-seal toilets and improved water supplies. The elementary school popula-
tion in the endemic area would be monitored yearly for the disease and all cases
diagnosed would be treated. The Government established the Schistosomiasis
Control Council (SCC), attached to the DOH, to coordinate all projects and
activities aimed at controlling schistosomiasis. NIA, whose Administrator is
a member of the SCC, would be responsible for all engineering and procurement
aspects of the schistosomiasis control program, while the SCC would be respon-
sible for the public health aspects of the program. NIA and DOH would enter
into a formal agreement acceptable to the Bank for implementation of the schis-
tosomiasis control program by December 31, 1977 (see Section 3.01 (b) (i) of
the draft Loan Agreement).
44.       Under the Government's Masagana campaign for increased rice produc-
tion, provincial committees have been established by representatives of the
National Food and Agricultural Council, which is responsible for coordinating
all agencies concerned with agricultural production. The provincial commit-
tees would perform all the necessary coordinating functions for the various
irrigation systems within the project area. The Water Management Technicians
referred to in para. 40 would supplement the existing extension personnel
already provided by various Government agencies and would help to improve the
extension coverage in the project area.
45.       All subproject areas are well served by dealers of fertilizer and
agrochemicals who would handle the additional demand without difficulty.
No problems are anticipated in obtaining the certified rice seed requirement,
estimated at about 840 tons per year at full development. An increase in
production credit would be required because of the increase in irrigated
area, higher cropping intensity and better farming practices resulting from
the project. At full project development, the annual credit requirement for
all three subproject areas is expected to total $10.8 million; the existing
credit institutions should be able to meet this requirement. The Government
has agreed to use its best efforts to ensure that adequate production credit
is made available to project beneficiaries (see Section 4.03 (b) (iii) of the
draft Loan Agreement).



- 13 -
46.       Water samples from the majority of rivers in the subproject areas
indicate that the water quality is good. However, tests of water samples
taken from the Amburayan River in the Ilocos area show that mine tailings
from two copper mines located upstream on two tributaries of the river cause
silting in the canals and some deposition in the paddy fields. Although no
toxic chemicals have been found in the water samples, some physical damage
to crops from the polluted water has been reported during the dry season when
river flows are low. NIA has agreed to prepare for Bank review by June 30,
1979, a study evaluating the effectiveness of the two dams constructed to deal
with the problem of mine tailings in the valleys upstream of the Amburayan
irrigation system (see Section 3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
47.       The Agricultural Development Divisions in the regional offices
would be responsible for monitoring the deployment of extension and water
management personnel, the pace of land reform, the cropping patterns, use of
inputs and credits, and incidence of pests and diseases. However, because
these divisions are weak and understaffed, NIA has agreed to prepare a plan
of action by December 31, 1977, to strengthen the agricultural capabilities
of the regional offices in the project regions and, after submitting the plan
of action for review by the Bank, to proceed with its implementation (see
Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
48.       The project is estimated to cost a total of $107.2 million, of
which $50.0 million, or approximately 47%, would be in foreign exchange.
Project costs are based on quantity estimates from feasibility designs and
unit prices prevailing in the Bank-assisted Luzon projects in mid-1976,
adjusted to conditions in the three subproject areas. The cost estimates
include a provision for physical contingencies of 20% for civil works for
irrigation and the land consolidation pilot project, the on-farm facilities
study, and the health aspect of the schistosomiasis control program. A physi-
cal contingency of 25% was used for irrigation civil works in the Cagayan
extensions and for drainage works of the Leyte schistosomiasis control
program because the quantities obtained from small-scale maps were less
reliable and further refinements are likely to be necessary. A physical
contingency of 10% was allowed for the operation and maintenance facilities.
The cost estimates also include price contingencies, amounting to 24% of total
costs, which assume annual inflation rates in 1977-79 of 9% for civil
works and 7.5% for equipment and services, and in 1980-81 of 8% for civil
works and 7% for equipment and services. The cost estimates also provide
for 48 man-months of consultant services for the on-farm facilities study
and the land consolidation subproject at an average cost of $6,500 per
man-month. The Bank loan of $50.0 million would finance the foreign
exchange cost of the project. The Government would finance the balance
of $57.2 million from budgetary resources.
Cost Recovery
49.       NIA is authorized to collect fees from users of irrigation systems
to finance the costs of operation and maintenance and to recover construction
costs. Irrigation fees on national irrigation systems were raised in July
1975 to the equivalent of 2.0 cavans (100 kg) of paddy per ha in the wet



- 14 -
season and 3.0 cavans (150 kg) in the dry season, to be applied uniformly to
all national irrigation systems. As an exception to the uniform rate policy,
the Government has agreed to raise the rates on the Bank-assisted projects to
a level equivalent to about 3.5 cavans (175 kg) of paddy per ha in the wet
season and 4.4 cavans (220 kg) in the dry season. These rates would be
reached gradually over a period of five years from completion of construction
of the projects. It has been agreed that the same rates would apply to the
irrigation facilities financed under the proposed project. These rates would
result in a total cost recovery index (ratio of total revenue from water
charges to total public sector outlays - including operation and maintenance
costs - for the irrigation related work under the project) of 24%. About 25%
of the farms' total surplus (after deducting imputed returns to capital,
labor, management and uncertainty) would be paid in water charges. The costs
of the schistosomiasis control program would not be recovered from water
charges levied on farmers in the irrigation project systems because the
program would benefit a far larger population.
50.       NIA's total collection rate for the national systems was about 59%
in FY75, but fell to about 25% in FY76 after the increase in rates in July
1975. However, preliminary information indicates that the collection rate will
improve considerably in FY77. Historically, collection rates in the Cagayan
subproject area have been among the highest in the Philippines, while collec-
tions in both the Ilocos and Leyte subproject areas have been well below the
national average. Collection rates are expected to improve substantially as
better services are provided throughout the national systems. NIA is currently
preparing a plan of action for improvement of collections for review by the
Bank under the provisions of the loan for the Jalaur project (Loan 1367-PH).
The plan for improving collection of water charges would be for all NIA systems
and would therefore cover the project area. While it may take several years to
introduce the administrative and other improvements necessary to improve
collections, reasonable progress is being made and performance can be expected
to improve in the future.
Procurement
51.       Contracts for the construction of the diversion weir and main canal
of the Abulog right bank extension in the Cagayan subproject area ($5.0 mil-
lion) and main drains and operation roads of the schistosomiasis control
program in Leyte ($6.5 million) would be tendered on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. Most of the
remaining civil works ($37.8 million) would not be suitable for international
competitive bidding, however, as they consist of relatively small works
scattered over 25 separate locations in three different regions and would
have to be planned and executed to avoid as far as possible the growing
season and poor weather conditions. In the past, NIA experienced considerable
difficulty in attracting bids for such works. In the last two years, however,
several steps have been taken under Bank-asisted projects to strengthen local
contractors, including the financing of reconditioned equipment and the
provision of mobilization allowances. This has resulted in encouraging
results in recent bids. However, it is doubtful that all the remaining civil
works could be undertaken by local contractors. Some of the works would have
to be carried out by force account, although it would not be desirable for
NIA to expand its force account work too rapidly. For this reason, NIA would



- 15 -
ensure that the aggregate amount of civil works done by force account would
not exceed 40% of the total cost of the work. The balance of the civil works
would be carried out on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally
in accordance with Government procedures which are acceptable to the Bank.
Foreign firms would be eligible to participate. (See Schedule 4, B (a) of
the draft Loan Agreement).
52.       Equipment, vehicles and supplies for force account construction,
operation and maintenance for the project areas, strengthening of regional
operation and maintenance capability, and the schistosomiasis control pro-
gram, costing about $13.9 million, would be procured after international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. For purposes
of bid evaluation, a preference of 15% of the c.i.f. price of imported goods,
or the customs duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to local manufac-
turers. Off-the-shelf items costing less than $10,000 each and not more than
$300,000 in aggregate would be procured through existing Government procedures
which are acceptable to the Bank.
Disbursements
53.       The Bank loan would be disbursed for 100% of the cost of directly
imported goods, 100% of the ex-factory cost of such items manufactured locally,
and 65% of the cost of imported goods procured locally. Disbursements for
civil works would be for 35% of total expenditures. For civil works contractors'
mobilization and equipment, the loan would be disbursed for 100% of the
foreign exchange cost. For consultants and technical assistance, the loan
would be disbursed at the rate of 100% of the total cost.
Project Benefits and Risks
54.       The proposed project would increase yields on about 49,400 ha
currently dependent on run-of-the-river irrigation and rainfed cultivation by
providing better water control, improved drainage and the necessary agricul-
tural supporting services, and a substantial schistosomiasis control program
in one of the most severely affected areas in the Philippines. At full
agricultural development in 1987, total annual paddy production would be
about 325,000 tons compared to 121,000 tons at present and an estimated
143,000 tons in the future without the project. Annual per capita incomes in
the project area, which now vary between $45 and $100 (10% and 23% of the
national per capita GNP, respectively), would increase to between $135 and
$380 (23% and 64% of the projected per capita GNP in 1987). The project
would therefore help to narrow the income gap that now exists between the
project areas and other parts of the country.
55.       Approximately 37,000 farm families and 6,000 landless laborers'
families, for a total of about 240,000 people, would benefit directly from
the increased production. The project would also create a demand for an
additional 2.1 million man-days of farm labor per year, equivalent to some
10,500 full-time jobs, and would also provide farmers with increased access
to markets through an improved and denser network of roads to be constructed
along the canals and drainage system. In the Leyte subproject area, the



- 16 -
project would provide the largest comprehensive campaign against schistoso-
miasis in the Philippines, which would reduce the disease risk and increase
the productivity of a population of 475,000 people.
56.       The project would meet the Government's objectives of increased
food production and a more balanced regional distribution of development at a
capital cost of about $1,800 per farm family. This would be at the low end
of the cost range of irrigation projects in the Philippines, due to the high
proportion of rehabilitation compared with new construction and the high
population density in the Ilocos subproject. Assuming a 50-year project life
and a 5-year construction period, and applying a shadow price for foreign
exchange and a shadow wage rate for unskilled labor, the economic rate of
return of the project would be 20%; if shadow prices were not used in the
calculation the rate of return would be 18%. Rates of return for the sub-
projects using shadow prices would range from 18% for Ilocos to 20% for
Cagayan and 21% for Leyte; the rates of return without shadow prices would
range from 17% for Ilocos to 18% for Cagayan and 19% for Leyte. The rate of
return is only moderately sensitive to different assumptions about project
cost and the timing of benefits, and under all of the alternative assumptions
tested the economic rate of return was not less than 16%. At full agricultural
development, the project would result in rice import savings of $33.0 million
per year at the forecast world market prices. After deducting the incremental
cost of imported fertilizer, chemicals and fuel, the net foreign exchange
savings would amount to about $28.0 million.
57.       The risks normally associated with irrigation projects have been
accounted for in the estimates of yields and in the areas to be irrigated
during the dry season. Particular care has been taken in estimating yields
in the Leyte subproject area to take into account the greater risks caused
by the schistosomiasis problem and the difficulty of estimating the time lag
between implementing prophylactic and therapeutic measures and their effect
on the population.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Philippines
and the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for under Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the text of a
draft Resolution approving the proposed loan are being distributed sep-
arately to the Executive Directors.
59.       Special features of the Loan Agreement are listed in Section III of
Annex IV to this report.
60.       I am satisfied that the agreement would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank.



- 17 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
61.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
April 20, 1977






TA8L( 3A                                           Page 1 of 4 pages
PHILIPPINES             $QSCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2I                     ........................
------------                                    PHILIPPINES                            REFERENCE COUNTRIES ( 1970)
TOTAL       3 00.0a                                        MUSY RECENT
AGRIC.       116.3                        1960       1910    ESTIMATE            THAILAND        TURKEY          KOREA,RV. OF*
GNP PER CAPI TA (USS)                      1.0          300        7.02.0                           8.0         20.
POPULATION ANO VITAL STATISFICS
POPULAtIIN (MID-YR. MILLION)              27.-4       36. 9      42. 5                36 .3       35.7         31. 4
POPULATION DENASITY
PER SgUARE KM4.                         91 .0     123.0      142.0                 71 .0       4 6 .0      3 19. 0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL. LAND            .       219.0       326.0k /d                        6 7.0      1 320. 0
9 1141 STATISTLCS
AVERAGE BIRTH RATE (/THOU)             4.5. 1      4 4.2       4 3. 8              44 .3       4 0. 6       35. 0
AVERAGE DEATH RATE (/THOU)             I17. 9      1 3.2       10. 5               1 3.?        14. 4       55.6
INFANT MORTALITY NATE CITHOU)             a. 0. 0             68.0 /               80.0       145.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)         4 9. 4      5 5. 6     58. 4                55.5        5 4 .4       51 .1
0.OSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  1.5/       3 .3        3. 3                3.2         2 .6  .b     2. 6
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (XI
SOIAL                                    3 .0       3 .0        2. 9                3.1          2 .5        2.3
URBAN                                    4.0        4.-0        4. 0                4 .9         4~.2        6. 4
USRAN POPULATION (I OF TOTAL)             25. 3      27T. 6      29.0                 15.0        31.2         41. 2
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 10 14 YEARS                          45.7       4 5. 6     44J.0                4 5.3       4 1.8        42. 1
is TO 64 YEARS                         51. 6       5 1.6      54 0                 52.3        5 3.9        54. 6
65 YEARS AND OVER                        Z.1        2.A        2.0                  3 .0        4 .3         3 .3
AGE UEPENOENCY RATIO                       0.9        0.9         0.9                 0.9          0.9          0.9
ECUONOIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                  I .3 A      1.5        1.A                  I 1.1       1 ILs        1. 4
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, T HOU)             .       35 4. 0   28 72. 5              4 70. 0
USERS (Z OF MARRIED WOMEN)                ..        2. 0       19. 0               10.82,                   42.0
E MPL OYENT
rOThL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANO)           10103. 0   1 4300 .0  14200.0              1 6 70 0 .  14 50 0 . 0  10 400 .0
LAV0R FORCE IA AGRICULTURE CI)            61I. 0     55.0/a      56. 0 /              7 9.3       67.0         5.5/
JNE4PLOTED (Z OF LABOR FORCE)              6.0         7.0        4.0                   .          4.0 L        5.O0
INCOME UISTRIAUTION
Z OF PRIVATE INCOME RECID BY-
HIIGHEST  5X OF HOUSEHOLDS              28.8    .     .8       24.8/d.                         3Z.8         11.1I
HIGHEST 300 OF HOUSEHOLDS               56 .2        .        54. O/d                 .        6 0.6 f      4 4. 5
LOTWEST  20Z OF HOUSEHOLDS               4.-2        ..         3.9                   .2. 9                  1.1L
LOWEST   401 OF HOUSEHOLDS              11. 9        *          1. 9 d                          9.4    ~    11. 1
01,TRIBTVUION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
& UWNLD BY TOJP 10% OF OANERS               ..          ..         .                              5 3.0       e8. 0
I UWNED VI SMHALL ES T 10X OWNER S          .           ...0.9                                                  2. 0
HEKLITH AND NUTR IT ION
POPULATION PER PHTOICIA N.                              ..     3220.0 /a           1910.0      2 22 0.0     22610.0 /c
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON               .           .      2000.0 r            46 50 .0     1A8O0j0 Z   1160.0   a
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED             11 83.0     850.0          a. 50.0                       49 0. 0    1920. 0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES 1z OF REOUIAREmNTS)            8 3 .0    100. 0       97.0               105.0       110.1        10 3. 0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER OAY)                 4 4 .0     4 5.0       4 7.0               52.:0       78.0         65. 0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PUL-E           19.0/ OL.    2.0          .11. 0                        22.OA        19 .0
DEAFH RATE 1/iHOUT AGES 1-4                9.0a        9. 0       9. 3L                ..          5.I0a
EDACAr ION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOJOL                         91O/      to: D~     110.04                82.0        I II.0 Li   1 04. 0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                        260        4.         48.016.80                                    4.
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED                64                          4'                          80          4.
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)                10. 0      10.0       10. 0                12. 0       1 1. 0       12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(I OF SECONDARY)                       14. OLL      6.O ,      9.                  14.3        L 14.:0      16. 0
ADOULT L ITERA CY RAT E () Z.                           ..       720                 79.0         5.     ~    8.
ADO 5 190~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~72 1 a55 
PERSONS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)                    .        2. 1        ...                              .           2. 7
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (Z)                         80. 0      76.0          .                             664. 0       80.0 /
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(Z OF ALL DWELLINGS)                   11.0        213.0         ..                            4 1.0        50. 0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (1)                        .         7 .0         .                             1 8. 0       30. 0
CONSUMPTION
RAOTU RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)            2Z. 0       4 5. 0     45. 0                78.0       a89 .        12I6. 0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)              3.0         8.0        9.0                  5.0         4. 0         2. 0
ELECtRICITY lAWA/YR PER CAP)             100.0      235.0       315.0                124.0       247.0       301.0
NEAWSPRINT (AG/YR PER CAP)                 1 .3        2. 0       1. 5                 1.0         0.17         3. 4
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



Page 2 of I pages
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to a" year batesa        1959 end 1961, for 1970 beteen 1968 and 1970, end for Yst Recat         etiesta bet.ee
19173 end 1975.
-e Korea bee been selected as en objective centry on th. basis of its siilar popuiatison         location and incise is-s    and, like the Philippines. it is
expected to grows epidly in the co.og years.
PHXLTFMES    1360     A    1950-55;  a4  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 end over to total labor force;       A4  1960-62;   Ld  1962;   /4  7-12
sod 13-16 years of age respectively; If Rot including wecatisoal short-tee caress.
1970 /a As percetage of espleyment; A4 7-12 end 13-16 years of age respectivel; Z. Net inc-luing private vocational
schools or vocational short-tees etsress.
ND? RflIT ETDEATRS         IA  1972;1 /bRatio of population      Ddtr 15 and 65 and ove    to total labor force;    La h   percentage of
of -ploysent; /d 1371; /4 Including midwives /f 1969-Tl average; /g 7-12 and 13-16 years
of age respectively.
THACILAN            1l970      5196h-66;    14   7-13 end 11-18 Years of ag    respectively;   A4  Public schools wh6ch incluede tenhutinal education at the
poet-secondary level.
TURIM         ~19120     a   MRaludes 17 eastern provinces;    /b 1965-67;    14  Ratin of populAtion under 15 aNd 65 end ovr to labor force 15
Years end over; 1d 15 years end over, excludes uonmployed; /e Reg,stered only,'; /t Disposable incise; LS In-
cluding assistant nurses end midwives; A4 196h-66; /t 7-fl years of age; /4 Pwrsons 6 years old end over wdso
tell the census takser they can rend and wrte.
M~M, REP. CI        1970      /a  As percentage of amploysent;    1b  Registered;   /c  Registered, oct eli precticing in the comntry;      /d  Water piped
Inside.
R8, Roamaber 3, 1976
DEFINfITIONSl OF SOCIAl. uTiDICtoiS
Land Area (thou ha,2)                                                               Pupulatian Per nursing person - Pupuietlue divided by nonhr of practicing
T.i.1 - Tut.i -craco area ce-prining laod arcs and inland wateec.                      _1ie and ifaiol graduate noen     "t-ot-d" or "certified" eunn,ad
Agric. - Hunt r        -etstiate oif riutas      arcs unod tonporarily ar             s_iliar    prsonnel wth training at experience.
Per-nannly fur crps, psataros, caner & hitch,, gardena or in Ii.                  Pupulation per honpirsi bed - PopuLtiton divded by nonher af hanpital beda
fallow.                                                                             -oilable in public and private general and specialioed honpitel and
rehsbiiitstin teeters, secludes nurslig h-se      and -stablialssnti fur
IsP  ar  stii  (  GNP l P.r perspita -uimates .icrrnt       k- prices,          -usiuda    an-d prevn iJese
calclate  by  ho uon cnvor ionmethd a World Bank Als(1973-75           Per tsotta Suoply of isore      (I ofraieeie             epid     rneeg
hue,i   9h0,1970 and 1975 dais,                                                   equivalent uf net food unpplina avilable in cunty per          ita.pir .e day,
avilabte iuppi.n. canprl- dnetlie pr-d-ctian,        mpots leuu    ponuts,
Populatian and chat.lt stoiurirs                                                      and changes in crock; net aupplies euclude animal iced, snedn, qoanti-
P.pul.ti-o meid-yr. "iltan) - us of July first'      if nor av-clblo,                 ti-a used in fuod ptooessing aed lonneu in distnibotinn, reqoiron.ets
-nrageu vf -w ned-year e-s Lease; 1960, 1970 snd 1975 data                          were osti-ated by PAO base.d an pbysilnlgical nee ds fcrc   . veI activty
ond hethb conaidonrig     nvirnnests1 teeperture, body weights, ace and
PuPul tion deenity - per squar    us - Mid-yea   PoPulation per square kil-           aen dtutrihutions of population, and allowing 107. for waste at hones-
eter (100 hectunes)   f totala.   a                                                 adlvl
Populatio  desn-ty - per uquare ganof    u       laud - Canpuied aabove for         per cspta spply af prutein (gras,     per day) - Pratein content cf pot
agriraltura1 land only.                                                             capti. unt supply of toad par day; no t sapply at food Jc defined a
shove;require-ents for all     -teati.a eatab=ia   d by US11 econ-nic
Vital attirhc                                                                           ereah Services providel far a olei-c slleuI         of 60" er-n  nf tntal
Crude birth rate got thnusand -Antsi H io      births per thovuand of mid-            protein per dsy, and 20 grana of      i1 animlsd pulse protein, uf which
year popnlatioe; ten-year art   -ntcvrag-en nding te 1960 and 1970,                 10 grae   shuuld he aniasI protini; these stadardu are Ineer thac thuse
endf fleya      vrg     nig     c 1975 for uns   recer - Cs s-i-te.                 of 71 gron   nf total protein and 23 gre-on   f anLIsu  protein as as
Crude death ros   torhu-sad -lAunn-I deuths per ihouad of eid-year                    avrage for the world, proposed by PAO in the Third WrdSe-'rvy
population, ten-yrar arithesetic averagos ending is 1960 and 1970, and            Per apt    ert ni   supply fr   in   e animlsd oulue - Protein supply of toad
fine.-ya   avrago ending in 1975 fvr ..ot r.eect estimate,                          de.raived iro2nlanimals and!pulue-  In grams per day.
In.fant ourtIeiM_tar   .(,Lthgou  - t-aeal deurk  of infants   d. onon on  ser f    Dciu-h   .yzth.l esI-A - Aunus 1 deaths per th-.sead in ages         ru
age per thousad live b-rth.                                                         1-4 years, to children is this sag gr-sp,..nggeuted -a an indicator ci
Life eceectancy atI birth (yes) - Average naher of yearu fi life rem,aining           malntrition.
at hirth, usualy (Av-yea      -veegen endIng in 1960, 1970 and 1971 fur
d evelp ingcn-nrie-                                                               Education
nus, reproduction rse- -urrags e,uvber       i lIve daughtor   a  es     ill        Adjusted euru1lseci rstio - priu,ary -hbno    - coroIl.nLs vi all ages e
hea.r Sc her norma  reprod-t-v perod it she _peer_-           Presen.t age-         peroestage uf primary    cnlaepopulation , includes child- meagd
specific fertility raron    usual..ly five-year -vr-gnu ending in 1960,             h-l1 years hut adjusted for diltferrt 1egthu of primary eduration;
1970 and 1975 fcc de-tpncooro.fcc cuonti.e with univeral educu.tlon, enulunicy nre..d 1007.
population crowt rare al oal-C             o    nd ...nuI growth rates of sid-        al-c uon    pupiln are below or above the nffti1 school age.
yea  puutrio  to  llt-O,19h0-7(, and 1970-71.                             Adjusted Ienlnn      railn -seods       schoul - Ceapted as above;
p'oplio   growth 'rae()      ure - Ceaue         ie   rwhrt           na              ecnayeuatton requires at 1eaut font yeses nf approved primary
PoPulation, different dafinitium    of urban areas nay affet teapra-                inetruction, provides general, vocational or teacher training
b!.i~ityefdata, ann   countries.                                                    in-iructions far pupils at 12 tu 17 yearo of age, correspondence
pehas eeltios (7. nt total) - Rtaito      f orbs, t  total papultuian,                0 aras   are gene.rally .exluded.
different definiti   ons niburbanreau may affect ceapersbility of dots            Yearo uf ucolsheeided (first and second level) - Tote1 years of
anong onuerien                                                                       chneling, at secodary level, voational instruction any he par-
denstuctre(perer)- Children (0-14 years),.-kiorig-age (15-64 years),             'Iay nr -eplt.ly encloded.
adrtired (61 yearn. an d ave r) au p-rrnrage   of sid-yeer   -Pnpltion         Vocational enrulo1u    (7 of a.eodaryl - Vocational ioutitutions
Age depenadency rutio - gari.of n  popultion under 15 and 65    ed over in            inclade technical,tindustrial nr urban programs     hbih operate
these of ages 11 throgh 64.                                                         Ludependen tly or as dpeparntsr   ut secondary iuttltuion..
irEnoic   eednyr.l           - b.ib  uf pnpnltsicc under 15 and 6) aud ovr          Adult literacy rate (7    - Literate adults (ahle to read snd write) 
,.iy    !ig_cet:,to he lohr Iere in ug  group of 15-64 yearo.-                       percenrage uf sntal adult populatiun aged 11 years and ovr.
fuclyplanig -aceporuicaultie.thou) -        . Ceutive sanber vf
-cept-r of birth-contrl devices under so pises of national fontly                 H-ouJag
PIoonieg protea'neoc    inception.                                                Peruon  par ruon (-vragel -Average nonber      f persas   per eson is
Folly planeing -ua.rs (7. of earned wone) - Perteetugeu ufrearned                     occupied coneeional dwellisgu in urban seed; dwellings seclude
wae nf ihtld-hbating age il5-be yesrs) wb. -s birth-cotrol devices                  .-o-p-eannt atructure     and unoccpied peers.
to al eurrird wane   in saut age group.                                         Occupieddwelliaa1a wihou~t pipd wae.r (7.)1 -    ccupied govantlona1
dwelling  torbsan     repe   area  without J-ids at ousteida piped
emplooneet                                                      wa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-ter fscilities as per-entage-of all oneupied delIlimgs.
utl urfore. (houad) - Eronealclly striv         potions, iecluding           Access ta ele selcity (M af all dweIllne) - Convetiue,sl dwellings
soud fcrces and ceoplnyod but encludieg hovuewives, students,        tet.,         with electricIty in Iving quarters as percen.t af total dwellings in
dsfiuitiouiscrtn        couctrie   are cut eapsrable.                               urban end mrurlres
Lahbar force inaJ   tutr     (%.1 - Agriculturallao    foce(i     (oiog,            Rrldelgsconnected to Ieetricity (7.            - Ceapted as sh,n fee
hsetr,bntieg and fiuling) as percen.tage sf minI1 lbor force,                  rura  dwelligs only.
ceeplaed(7.oflabor fore.) -. ueplynd are usually defined as peruo..
who see ahle and willieg to tkabsuJab, our of a Jab on a give       day,         loseLio
remined ont sf a job, and seeking week for a speified einiza        period       Hedia~ r       -svr  (pae thou nun) - All types ef raeeiver  fur n-die hbmd-
eaoet   eedin  one week, nay sot he conparable betwen cuetri.s due re               tests te  eee     public per thouseed of papulation; secludes
di ffereutd dfinition  of uempluyod sod sonrue of data, e.g., employ-               onie         ..e reclvre in ca.-tn.. add tn years wh.e -gistretion ol
met ofice tstuiticu, sample cu-vys, conpulusry veployneet           rnsres.         edi   sets ses  in effect; deta far recant year   ey net h.e oparable
.stoe east countries abelish.d liconeing.
incoas distribution - Pocrtonge of privus       Je Ic   (herb in cash end hind)     Ps.assemr care (par thas epp) -     -a-se eds cre esprise ester seor
rceived by richest It, rinheut 207., psonees 207.. snd peereet A0l of              sea ting less than eight p-esoa, eunluden ambolase, hearses and
husasha1ds.                                                                        silitary vehicles.
Electricis  (kwh/yr per tsp) - Annua    taseonption at industrial, cn
Diarribotion of land -sserhip - Perceetagee of land owed by weahibtet                serial, Ipublic and private electricity in kilawtct hones pat c.pit.,
10. and peerest 107. uf land ownrs.                                                generally besed on production data, without s11waste fee lasses. in
grids but el11sein fee mports sod sap-err of slentricity.
Hnahth and Nusrition                                                               N-weeint Cha/y      Pr -ee P) - Per ssPita ea-I con-suption is kilegren
Papulstbou per ebjysiclu  - Pa.pel&tton divided.by auberif precticing                estimated Hfs dostln p-eduetim piu- ses Imports of nesspniet.
phy sians qualifed troam a-dite        .shool as onivenity leve.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1976                                ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ million        X              1965-70    1970-75     1976
GNP at Market Prices                     17,515       100.0               5.7        6.3      6.3
Gross Domestic Investment                 5,408        30.9               1.6       12.5      3.7
Gross National Saving                     4,382        25.0               3.6        7.6     -2.0
Current Account Balance                  -1,026        -5.9
Exports of Goods, NFS                     3,105        17.7               4.5        2.2     17.2
Imports of Goods, NFS                     4,201        24.0               7.2        6.5      0.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1975
Value Added                    Labor Force            V.A. per worker
US$ million     _____            Million   %_   _             US$       Z
Agriculture                          4,606        29.0              7.8     51.6              591      56,2
Industry                             5,323        33.5              2.2     14.6            2,420     230.0
Services                             5,961        37.5              4.5     29.8            1,325     126.0
Unemployed                              .           *               0.6      4.0               .      _
Total/Average                     15,890       100.0             15.1    100.0            1,052     100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                        Central Government
(Million)          % of GDP            (Pesos million)          x of GDP
197          197      196 -7                1975         1975       1973-75
Current Receipts                 ..          ..         ..              16,838          14.6        14.0
Current Expenditure              .                       .              14,773          12.8        11.0
Current Surplus                  ..          ..         ..               2,065           1.8         3.0
Capital Expenditures             ..          ..         ..               3,425           3.0         2.8
External Assistance (net)        ..          ..         ..                 287           0.2         0.3
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                         1970      1971       1972       1973      1974       1975
(Million Pesos Outstanding End Period)
Money and Quasi Money                           9,001    10,325     11,872     14,021    16,773     19,254
Bank Credit to Public Sector                    3,263     3,087      2,994      2,860     3,462      6,296
Bank Credit to Private Sector                   8,442     9,688     11,646     15,464    23,098     26,977
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP                22.1       20.4      20.9       19.6       16.8      16.7
General Price Index (1965 = 100)                137.7     159.3      175.4      218.4     337.5      364.8
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                              23.6       15.7      10.0       24.6      54.5        8.1
Bank Credit to Public Sector                     -2.4      -5.4       -3.0      -4.5       21.0      181.9
Bank Credit to Private Sector                    17.2      14.8       20.2       32.8      49.4       16.8
Niote: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the
period covered.
Not available.
Not applicable.



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                             MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1974-76)
1974    1975     1976                                       US5 million       X
(US$ million)
Exports of Goods, NFS              3,357   2,954    3,105       Coconut Products                     539          21.5
Imports of Goods, NFS              3,782   4,036    4,201       Sugar Products                       607          24.3
Resource Gap (deficit = -)          -425  -1,082   -1,096       Forest Products                      289          11.6
Mineral Products                     437          17.5
Interest Payments (net)              -55    -110     -161       Fruits & Other Agric. Products       119           4.7
Workers' Remittances                           72     106       Other Manufactures                   511          20.4
Other Factor Payments (net)                 -121     -118         Total                            2,502         100.0
Net Transfers                        271     318      243
Balance on Current Account          -210    -923   -1,026
Direct Foreign Investment             59      125      94     EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1975 /e
Net MLT Borrowiag
Disbursements                      402     677      883                                                 US$ million
Amortization                       339      320     355
Subtotal                          63     357      528       Public Debt, including Guaranteed              1,554
Capital Grants                                                  Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                    1.417
Other Capital (net) /a               373      547     581       Total Outstanding and Disbursed                2,971
Other Items n.e.i. /b                  4     -182    -109
Increase in Reserves (+)             289     -76       68     DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1975 /f
Gross Reserves (end year) /c       1,978    1,360   1,640                                                        x
Inter. Reserves (end year) /d      1,165    1,089   1,157
Public Debt, including Guaranteed               7.7
Non-Guranteed Private Debt                      8.9
Fuel and Related Materials                                       Total Outstanding and Disbursed               16.6
Imports of Goods, NFS              3,782    4,036   4,201
of which:   Petroleum              653      710     800     IBRD/IDA LENDING, February 28, 1977 (US$ million)
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                     IBRD         IDA
1965-69         1970-71
Outstanding and Disbursed         319.2       27.0
US$ 1.00 = Ps.           3.92            6.43                    Undisbursed                      606.3         5.2
Ps. 1.00 = US$           0.26            0.16                   Outstanding, incl. Undisbursed    925.5        32.2
April 1972-July 1975        Since July 1975
US$ 1.00 = Ps. 6.78         US$ 1.00 = Ps. 7.5
Ps. 1.00 = US$ 0.15         Ps. 1.00 = US$ 0.133
/a  Includes SDRs, short-term private loans, Central Bank liabilities and use of IMF credit.
lb  Errors and omissions.
/c  Gross reserves of the Central Bank.
/d  Gross reserves of Central Bank plus net reserves of commercial banks.
/e  Excludes short-term debt and IMF standby credit and is on a disburse'ment basis.
/f  Ratio of Debt-Service to Exports of Goods and Nonfactor Services.



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
As of February 28, 1977 /I
Loan or
Credit                                                     Amounts (US$ millions)
Number     Year       Borrower        Purpose            Bank     IDA    Undisbursed
Fourteen loans and one credit fully disbursed           196.5     10.0
637-PH     1969    Republic of the
Phllippines      Irrigation        34.0               0.7
720-PH    1971                       Rice Processing
".            and Storage      14.3               6.9
809-PH    1972     National Power
Corporation      Power              22.0              8.2
349-PH    1973     Republic of the
Philippines      Education II               12.7      4.7
891-PH     1973          "           Fisheries           11.6              5.4
939-PH     1973                      Ports               6.1               5.0
950-PH    1973                       Highway II         68.0              28.1
472-PH     1974                      Aurora-Penaranda
Irrigation                9.5      0.2
984-PH     1974                      Aurora-Penaranda
Irrigation        9.5               8.6
998-PH     1974                      DFC-DBP I          50.0              12.0
1010-PH    1974                       Third Rural
Credit           22.0               0.0
1034-PH    1974     National Power
Corporation      Power              61.0             36.1
1035-PH    1974     Republic of the
Philippines      Population         25.0             23.1
1048-PH    1974           "           Shipping           20.0              18.1
1052-PH    1974     Philippine
National Bank    DFC                30.0             23.2
1080-PH    1975     Republic of the   Tarlac
Philippines        Irrigation       17.0             15.8
1102-PH    1975                       Rural
Development      25.0              24.6
1120-PH    1975                       Small and Medium
Industries       30.0              11.9
1154-PH    1976                       Magat
Irrigation       42.0              41.0
1190-PH    1976           *           DFC-DBP II         75.0              75.0
1224-T-PH  1976                       Education III      25.0              22.8
1225-PH    1976           "           Livestock II       20.5              17.7
1227-PH    1976           "           Chico Irrigation   50.0              50.0
1272-T-PH  1976                       Manila Urban       10.0              10.0
1282-PH    1976                       Manila Urban       22.0              22.0
1269-PH    1976                       Second Grain
Processing       11.5              11.5
1270-PH    1976           "           Second Fisheries   12.0              12.0
1353-PH    1977                        Third Highways    95.0              95.0
1367-PH /2 1977                        Jalaur Irrigation 15.0              15.0
Total                                         1,020.0    32.2     604.6
of which has been repaid
(Bank and third parties)                       93.3       -
Total now outstanding                           926.7    32.2
Amount sold                       14.2
of which has been repaid
(third parties)                12.6             1.6       -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange rate
adjustments)                                 925.1    32.2
Total undisbursed                               599.7     4.9     604.6
/1 A loan of $25 million for a fourth education project was approved by
the Executive Directors on March 1, 1977, and signed on March 25, 1977.     A
loan of $36.5 million for a fourth rural credic project was approved by the
Executive Directors on April 5, 1977, and was signed on April 11, 1977.
/2 Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of March 31, 1977
Fiscal                                                     Amounts ($ million)
Year                     Company                          Loan   Equity    Total
1963 & 1973  Private Development Corporation of the
Philippines                               15.0      4.4     19.4
1967         Manila Electric Company                       8.0       -       8.0
1967         Meralco Securities Corporation                  -     4.0       4.0
1970          Philippine Long Distance
Telephone Company                          4.5        -      4.5
1970 & 1972  Mariwasa Manufacturing Inc.                   0.8     0.4       1.2
1970          Paper Industries Corporation of
the Philippines                              -      2.2      2.2
1971          Philippine Petroleum Corporation             6.2      1.8      8.0
1972          Marinduque Mining and Industrial
Corporation                               15.0        -     15.0
1973          Victorias Chemical Corporation               1.9     0.3       2.2
1974          Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation        1.5        -      1.5
1974          Maria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.    1.5     0.5       2.0
1974          Republic Flour Mills Corporation             1.2        -      1.2
1975          Philippine Polyamide Industrial
Corporation                                7.0        -      7.0
1976          Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                   2.6     0.2       2.8
Total gross commitments                     65.2     13.8     79.0
Less sold, acquired by others,
repaid or cancelled                       20.2      7.2     27.4
Total commitments now held by IFC           45.0      6.6     51.6
Undisbursed                                  0.6        -      0.6



ANNEX II
Page 3
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Loan No. 637    Upper Pampanga River Irrigation; $34.0 Million Loan of
August 18, 1960; Date of Effectiveness: October 15, 1969;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
This is the first major irrigation project in the Philippines and
will supply water year-round to nearly all its 84,000 ha command area. The
project's on-farm development scheme is setting a pattern for future irriga-
tion development in the country. Some delays were caused by the 1972 floods,
but construction has progressed satisfactorily since then. All works will
be substantially completed and the Loan fully disbursed by the Closing Date
of June 30, 1977. Project costs have increased 72% over appraisal estimates,
largely as a result of rapid inflation, the effects of successive devaluations
of the peso, and design changes in the dam (which accounted for about one-
quarter of the increase in costs). However, as a result of the close coordi-
nation established between irrigation and agricultural support services, the
project is expected to reach full development sooner than was anticipated at
the time of appraisal. Also, there are added benefits from early closure of
the dam resulting in water storage and releases sooner than planned, and
nearly 7,000 ha have been added to the project. Finally, there has been a
considerable increase in the projected world market price of rice. As a
result the estimated rate of return is about the same as at appraisal.
Loan No. 720    Rice Processing and Storage; $14.3 Million Loan of
February 4, 1971; Date of Effectiveness: May 10, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This project provides long-term credit through the Development
Bank of the Philippines to finance a program for the development and modern-
ization of the rice and corn processing industry. Originally the project
was restricted to rice and to the private sector, and the emphasis was on
the construction of new integrated large capacity rice mills. Due in part
to poor harvests and in part to,large cost increases for rice mills, the
demand for subloans for new integrated rice mills turned out to be small
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evalua-
tion of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4
and, as explained in the President's Memorandum, dated June 8, 1972 (R72-40),
the Loan Agreement was amended to shift the project emphasis to rehabilita-
tion of existing rice milling facilities. The Loan Agreement was further
amended in April 1974 to (a) expand the scope of the project to include corn
in addition to rice, (b) enable local governments and the National Grains
Authority to borrow funds under the project, and (c) streamline procurement
procedures (President's Memorandum SeciM74-244 of April 15, 1974). As a
result of these amendments, the project is now progressing satisfactorily.
However, because of long construction period required for the large subprojects,
full disbursement will be delayed by about two years and the Closing Date has
been postponed to June 30, 1979.
Loan No. 809    Fifth Power; $22.0 Million Loan and $10.0 Million
Credit No. 296 Credit of April 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness
July 1, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The project is helping the National Power Corporation (NPC) to
finance the construction of a second thermal unit of 150 MW at Bataan and
transmission facilities in Luzon. Although there has been some minor delay
due to the late delivery of transformers, the project is proceeding satis-
factorily, and the unit is expected to be commissioned shortly. The erec-
tion of transmission lines has been somewhat delayed due to unfavorable
weather and poor soil conditions and is now expected to be completed in
April 1977. A tariff increase was approved in October 1976. However, it
was too late for NPC to achieve the expected rate of return of 8% on its
net fixed assets in operation in 1976.
Credit No. 471 Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation; $9.5 Million Credit and
Loan No. 984     $9.5 Million Loan of May 14, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
August 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Although there has been some delay in constructing the two diversion
dams because of the need for more extensive foundations and abutment area
grouting than originally expected, most difficulties have been overcome and
the work is progressing satisfactorily. Diversion of 75% of Aurora water
into the Pantabangan Reservoir was achieved in September 1975, one year ahead
of the appraisal schedule. All remaining engineering work on the second
diversion dam was completed in July 1976, one year ahead of schedule. In the
area served by the project, lack of competition caused some delay in the
awarding of contracts, but this has been overcome. Efforts to attract bids
from more local contractors have been very effective. Urgent work is being
done by Government force account. Project costs have increased about 54%
over appraisal estimates, largely as a result of inflation. There would be
added benefits from early diversion, however, resulting in additional water
for irrigation sooner than planned, but the rate of return is expected to
fall from the 17% estimated at the time of appraisal to 14%. The credit has
been fully disbursed and disbursement on the loan has now begun.



ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan No. 998     Industrial Investment and Smallholder Tree-Farming:
$50.0 Million Loan of June 12, 1974: Date of
Effectiveness: September 9, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The proceeds of the Loan are being relent to the Development Bank
of the Philippines (DBP). The industrial portion of the Loan ($48 million)
is being used by DBP to finance direct imports for medium and relatively
large industrial projects. DBP is using the balance ($2 million) to finance
about 1,300 smallholders in a pilot tree-farming project. The Loan is now
fully committed for subloans and disbursements are expected to be completed
before the closing date.
Loan No. 1010     Third Rural Credit; $22.0 Million Loan of June 17, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: August 27, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977
The Loan was fully committed by December 31, 1975 and disbursements
are expected to be completed well before the closing date.
Loan No. 1034     Sixth Power:  $61.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974:
Date of Effectiveness: November 15, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
The project is helping the National Power Corporation (NPC) to
finance a 100 MW hydro plant at Pantabangan and transmission lines for the
further expansion of the Luzon grid and feasibility studies by consultants
for a future power project. Major equipment for the plant has been con-
tracted and project commissioning is expected this year. The transmission
component of the project is behind schedule because necessary design work has
been delayed due to NPC's heavy construction program. It is now expected
that this part of the project will be completed by the end of 1978, i.e. one
year behind schedule.
Credit No. 349 Second Education; $12.7 Million Credit of January 5,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: April 11, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
The Credit provides $12.7 million to f-nance improvements to
existing middle and higher level agricultural education institutions,
curriculum development, and new technical and vocational institutions
in rural areas. The physical facilities are nearing completion but are
about 11 months behind appraisal schedule due to earlier delays. All
project institutions are expected to be in full use by mid-1977. The
technical assistance program, however, is not expected to be completed
until late 1978. Therefore, the postponement of the Closing Date to
December 31, 1979 is being considered.



ANNEX II
Page 6
Loan No. 891    Fisheries; $11.6 Million Loan of May 21, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
This project is designed to provide long-term credit to the private
sector through the Development Bank of the Philippines for marine and inland
fisheries development. The demand for subloans has been adequate, and the
organization to implement them has been properly established. The project is
progressing satisfactorily, and all funds were fully committed by July 1976
and are likely to be disbursed by the closing date.
Loan No. 939     Second Ports; $6.1 Million Loan of October 24, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: December 19, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1977
Progress on civil works construction for both General Santos
and Cagayan de Oro has been slow, due mainly to frequent breakdowns of the
contractor's dredger in General Santos, and the slow mobilization of con-
tractor's plant in Cagayan de Oro. The contractors are making efforts to
overcome the difficulties. By February 1977, work was 17% completed in
General Santos, whereas in Cagayan de Oro progress has so far mainly been
in mobilization and site preparation. The present estimated total project
cost is 75% higher than the appraisal estimate due to worldwide price
increases. However, foreign exchange costs are lower than appraisal esti-
mates as the contractors are locally based. Total traffic at the project
ports is in line with appraisal forecasts and a reasonable financial rate
of return is being earned.
Loan No. 950     Second Highway; $68.0 Million Loan of December 12,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: December 27, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Overall construction progress is satisfactory with about 80% of
the works completed. However, progress on one of the national roads is
not satisfactory and this is expected to delay project completion by about
12 months compared to the appraisal estimate. UNDP-financed road feasi-
bility studies were completed in June 1975, and detailed engineering for
the Third Highway Project (Loan 1353-PH) was completed in August 1976.
Detailed engineering for the proposed Fourth Highway Project is underway
and expected to be completed by August 1977. The total cost of the project
has risen substantially (about 40% above appraisal estimate) because of
inflation following the oil price increase in late 1973.



ANNEX II
Page 7
Loan No. 1035   Population; $25.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: November 13, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project is assisting the Government in expanding rural health
infrastructure, and in providing staff training facilities and technical
assistance for the development of a management information system and for
training. Under the direction of the Project Management Staff in the Depart-
ment of Health, overall project implementation is progressing well. Training
activities are well ahead of schedule in all 12 regions; the civil works
component lags by 9 months, but is projected to be completed ahead of the
appraisal report timetable due to simplification of construction design.
Progress under the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1048   Interisland Shipping; $20 Million Loan of October 29,
1974; Date of Effectiveness:   January 15. 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
The Government is relending the proceeds of the Loan to the
Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) for onlending to beneficiaries
for the acquisition of new and used ships and for major repairs and con-
versions. Progress under the project is satisfactory. Commitments were
originally slow, because of lack of demand from the private sector and
DBP's restrictive collateral requirements. These problems are now being
resolved and subloan commitments are expected to increase during the coming
months.
Loan No. 1052   Private Development Corporation of the Philippines;
$30 million Loan of November 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: February 7, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
The project assists in the financing of industrial subprojects,
the bulk of which are expected to go to export-oriented manufacturing
projects. As of March 31, 1977, commitments for subloans totalling
$12.5 million had been made. While subloan commitments have been some-
what slower than originally expected due to the generally slow pace of
business activity, the implementation of the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1080   Tarlac Irrigation; $17.0 Million Loan of January 27,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 27, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
The project is assisting the Government to improve 21,000 ha of
land under three existing national irrigation systems and expand irrigation
on 13,000 ha of additional land in Central Luzon. Progress on the groundwater,



ANNEX II
Page 8
water management training and NISIS components of the project has been good.
Force account work on the irrigation component is about 38% completed, but
contract construction which will amount to 80% of the total work has only
started. However, all major civil works contracts are now awarded and the
remaining work is all under way. Also, most equipment contracts are awarded.
Loan No. 1102    Rural Development; $25.0 Million Loan of April 16,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: July 28, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project is assisting the Government to carry out a rural devel-
opment project on the island of Mindoro.    This includes constructing and
improving 150 km of national highways and 280 km of provincial roads, rehabil-
itating and upgrading Calapan port, improving and extending two national
irrigation systems to serve 12,000 ha of rice land, and 3,000 ha under
communal irrigation systems, providing an agricultural program involving seed
testing laboratories and rat control, providing protection programs in four
watersheds, schistosomiasis control and assistance to Mangyan tribes. Pro-
gress is satisfactory on irrigation and roads, which are being implemented
by agencies having experience with Bank-funded projects, and construction has
begun on Calapan Port. With the exception of the Mangyan Assistance Program,
however, there was little progress under the other programs because of
inadequate budgeting by the various agencies for the new programs. Adequate
1977 budgets have been approved and all work is now expected to proceed
rapidly.
Loan No. 1120    Small and Medium Industries Development; $30.0 Million
Loan of June 5, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 20,
1975; Closing Date: August 31, 1979
The DBP portion of the funds has been fully committed. After a
slow start, commitment of funds under the Industrial Guarantee Loan Fund and
National Electrification Administration is now proceeding well. Overall
progress of the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1154    Magat Multipurpose Project; $42.0 Million Loan of
August 7, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is assisting the Government to improve and expand
irrigation on 35,000 ha of land in the Cagayan Valley of Northern Luzon.
Consultant's work on the engineering and economic evaluation studies is
making good progress. The water management training is underway and satis-
factory progress is being made on civil works.



ANNEX II
Page 9
Loan No. 1190    Industrial Investment; $75.0 Million Loan of
January 28, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 6, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The proceeds of the Loan are being relent to the Development Bank
of the Philippines for subloans to finance direct imports for medium and
relatively large industrial projects. Commitments of funds, which were
initially much slower than expected due to a slowdown of investment in the
industrial sector as a whole over the past twelve months,have recently
improved. As of April 11, 1977, commitments for subloans totaling $7.7 mil-
lion had been made. The Executive Directors approved a proposal to
reallocate $25 million of the funds for small and medium industries on
February 25, 1977, and an amendment to the Loan Agreement to this effect
was signed on March 16, 1977.
Loan No. 1224    Third Education Project; $25 Million Loan of April 8,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 29, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project covers the first phase (1976-80) of the Government's
eight-year textbook program and provides for the development, production
and distribution of 27 million textbooks. It also provides for curriculum
development, teacher training and technical assistance. Progress under
the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1225    Second Livestock; $20.5 Million Loan of April 8, 1976; Date
of Effectiveness: September 13, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The Loan became effective on September 13, 1976, and initial progress
is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1227    Chico River Irrigation Project; $50.0 Million Loan
of April 8, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project will assist the Government to improve and expand
irrigation on 19,700 ha in the Cagayan Valley. Initial progress under the
project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1269    Second Grain Processing Project; $11.5 Million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project provides long-term credit through the Development Bank
of the Philippines to assist in modernizing and expanding the Philippine
grain processing industry. The Loan became effective on November 12, 1976,
and initial progress under the project is satisfactory.



ANNEX II
Page 10
Loan No. 1270    Second Fisheries Project; $12.0 Million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project provides long-term credit through the Development Bank
of the Philippines to assist in increasing fish production for domestic con-
sumption. The Loan became effective on November 12, 1976 and initial progress
under the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1272T Manila Urban Development Project; $10.0 Million and
Loan No. 1282    $22.0 Million Loans of June 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
December 9, 1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1981
The loan will finance (a) improvements in basic sanitary services for
families living in the Tondo Foreshore and Dagat Dagatan area, and (b) improve-
ments in transportation and traffic in the Greater Manila Area. Tendering is
underway for construction of 1,500 of 2,000 serviced lots at Dagat Dagatan,
secondary water mains for Tondo, and the interceptor sewer for Tondo.
Loan No. 1353    Third Highway Project; $95.0 Million Loan of
January 12, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: March 30, 1977
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project will assist the Government in improving the national
and rural road systems and their maintenance. The loan became effective on
March 30, 1977.
Loan No. 1367    Jalaur Irrigation Project; $15.0 Million Loan of
February 14, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: Not Yet Effective
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This Loan will assist the Government in rehabilitating about
22,000 ha of existing irrigation schemes and constructing new irrigation and
drainage facilities for about 2,900 ha of rice land on the island of Panay.
The Loan is not yet effective.
Loan No. 1374    Fourth Education Project; $25.0 Million Loan of
March 25, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: Not Yet Effective;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project is for agricultural education and training. It
includes assistance for: specialized facilities for forestry, animal science,
and veterinary medicine; a regional agricultural college in the Visayas; and
training for extension workers and farmer leaders. The loan is not yet effec-
tive.



ANNEX III
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Republic of the Philippines
Amount:          $50.0 million equivalent
Terms:           The loan would be for a term of 20 years, including a grace
period of 4.5 (four and a half) years at an interest rate of
8.2% per annum.
Project
Description: The project includes:
(a) Irrigation Development:
(i) rehabilitation of 22 existing NIA irrigation
systems serving a total area of about 27,600 ha;
(ii)  construction of new irrigation drainage and road
facilities for about 21,800 ha of rainfed land;
(iii)  construction of a subregional headquarters
building; two new field offices; and the extension
of office, storage, and staff quarters facilities
for eight existing field offices; and
(iv) procurement of vehicles and equipment;
(b) a Schistosomiasis Control Program:
(i) improvement and construction of drainage facilities
covering a total area of about 20,000 ha;
(ii)  construction of footbridges on irrigation and
drainage channels;
(iii)  provision of a health education program in all
schools and health centers in 21 disease-affected
municipalities;
(iv)  establishment of a diagnostic screening campaign
in all elementary schools, and chemotherapy treat-
ment for 45,000 cases;
(v) provision of about 20,000 water-seal toilets;



ANNEX III
Page 2
(vi) improvement of about 5,000 wells;
(vii) provision of molluscicides to assist snail control;
and
(viii) procurement of vehicles and equipment.
(c) a Pilot Land Consolidation Project in Ilocos to determine
the feasibility of introducing a degree of consolidation
in an area of highly fragmented small farms; and
(d) an On-Farm Facilities Study to determine the optimum
density of terminal on-farm facilities best suited to very
small holdings.
Estimated Cost:
Foreign
Local     Foreign      Total     Exchange
-------- ($ Million) ------        (%)
Irrigation works                       31.5       23.8        55.3        43
Strengthening of O&M capability         0.2        1.2         1.4        85
Land consolidation                      0.4         0.3        0.7        41
On-farm facilities study                0.3        0.5         0.8        57
Schistosomiasis control program         6.9        6.2        13.1        48
O&M equipment                           0.1        1.9         2.0        95
Base cost estimate                     39.4       33.9        73.3        46
Physical contingencies                  6.7        6.3        13.0        48
Price contingencies                    11.1        9.8        20.9        47
Total project cost                     57.2       50.0       107.2        47
Financing:                             Government        Bank            Total
-------------- $ Million -------------
57.2           50.0            107.2



ANNEX III
Page 3
Annual            Cumulative
Disbursements:          Fiscal Years       Disbursements        Disbursements
(July 1 - June 30)    ------------ $ Million ----------
1978                 2.4                 2.4
1979                 9.7                12.1
1980                 13.2               25.3
1981                 13.2               38.5
1982                 8.0                46.5
1983                  3.5               50.0
Procurement:         Equipment, vehicles and supplies for force account
construction, operation and maintenance for the project
areas, strengthening of regional operation and maintenance
capability, and the schistosomiasis control program
(costing a total of about $13.9 million) would be procured
after international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank Group Guidelines. A preference limited to 15%
of the c.i.f. price of imported goods, or the customs duty,
whichever is lower, would be extended to local manufacturers
in the evaluation of bids. Off-the-shelf items costing
less than $10,000 each and not more than $300,000 in
aggregate would be procured through existing Government
procedures which are acceptable to the Bank.
Civil works contracts for construction of the diversion
weir and main canal of the Abulog extension in the
Cagayan subproject ($5.0 million) and main drains
and operation roads of the schistosomiasis control
program in Leyte ($6.5 million) would be procured on the
basis of international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank Group Guidelines. Up to 40% of the civil works
($37.8 million) would be carried out by force account
because of the difficulty of finding local contractors.
The balance of the civil works would be procured on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in
accordance with local procedures which are acceptable to
the Bank.
Consultants:         Provision would be made for consultants' services to:
(a) assist in implementing the land consolidation pilot
project (12 man-months) and (b) assist in carrying out
the on-farm facilities study (36 man-months).
Rate of Return:     The economic rate of return of the project is estimated
to be 20%; rates of return for the subprojects would
range from 18% for Ilocos to 20% for Cagayan and 21%
for Leyte.
Appraisal Report:    No. 1488a-PH, dated April 12, 1977.



ANNEX IV
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare project: 20 months. The project was
prepared by the NIA with the assistance of Sanyu Consultants Incorporated
of Japan.
(b) First presentation to the Bank: April 1974.
First Bank mission to consider the project: April 1974.
(c) Departure of Appraisal Mission: October 1976.
(d) Completion of Negotiations: April 1977.
(e) Planned date of effectiveness: August 1977.
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
(a) The Bank and the Philippine Government have agreed on an implementation
timetable to ensure effective project implementation.
(b) A Bank mission would visit Manila during the coming months to review
progress in project implementation.
(c) In particular, Bank staff will, during the coming months, need to review:
(i)  the draft agreement between NIA and DOH for the schistosomiasis
control component and, in particular, arrangements for the imple-
mentation of the public health component;
(ii) the draft agreement between NIA and DAR for the implementation
of the land consolidation pilot project;
(iii) NIA's plans for strengthening the agricultural capabilities of
its regional offices in regions 1, 2 and 6; and
(iv) the progress being made by NIA in improving the rate of collection
of water charges.



ANNEX IV
Page 2
Section III: Special Conditions
The Borrower agreed during negotiations that:
(a) NIA would prepare a study for Bank review to deal with the problem of
mine tailings in the valleys upstream of the Amburayan irrigation
system by June 30, 1979 (para. 46);
(b) NIA would ensure that the amount of civil works done by force account
would not exceed 40% of the total cost of the work (para. 51);
(c) NIA and DAR would enter into a formal agreement acceptable to the
Bank for implementation of the Land Consolidation Pilot Project
by December 31, 1977 (para. 42);
(d) NIA and DOR would enter into a formal agreement acceptable to the
Bank for implementation of the Schistosomiasis Control Program
by December 31, 1977 (para. 43);
(e) The Government would use its best efforts to ensure that an adequate
supply of production credit is made available to project benefi-
ciaries (para. 45);
(f) NIA would prepare by December 31, 1977 a plan of action for
strengthening the agricultural capabilities of the regional
offices in Regions 1, 2 and 6 and, after reviewing such plan of
action with the Bank, would proceed with its implementation
(para. 47);
(g) NIA would make annual budgeting provisions to supply the funds
necessary for O&M of the project works; would take all necessary
action to ensure full and prompt collection of irrigation fees;
and would gradually increase irrigation fees over a period of five
years from completion of construction to a level equivalent to
about 3.5 cavans of paddy/ha in the wet season and 4.4 cavans in
the dry season (para. 49); and
(h) the Government would provide NIA annually with sufficient funds
to effectively maintain the anti-schistosomiasis drainage network
built under the project (para. 43).






IBRD 12507
1160                                     1200                                     124°                                   JANUARY 1977
CLASSIFICATION OF PROVINCES                                                         PH ILIPPINES
BY GEOGRAPHICAL REGIONS                                 Nationol Irrigation Systems Improvement Project I
ILOCOS              WESTERN VISAYAS
I  Iocos Norte    37  Akianl
2 AobrfoasNon      38 CAakPiTzn                                      SYSTEMS           LOCATIONS
3 l..cos Sur      39 Antique                             8
2  4  Mounta,,n       40  110110                             8200-
5 La Union        41 Negros Occidental                                          A     Project areas
S6La Unget          CENTRAL VISAYAS
6PBengaes         42 Cebu                                                      (D     Previous IBRD project areas
7 Pao1ganieon     43 Negros Oriental
CAGAYAN VALLEY    44 Bohol                                                            Roads
8 Batanes         45 Siquilor
9 Cagayan           EASTERN VISAYAS                                                   Railways
10 Kahnga-Apayao   46 Northern Samar
11 Isabela         47 Samar                                                            Rivers
12Itgao            48 Eastern Samar*               k3
12 Nueag           49  Leyte  Aaa               A         p\                    _ 3   -NIA  regional boundaries  and  numbers
13 N.reaV,zcaya    48eVSA                                AOrI_____
14 Oainno     ~~~~50 Southern Leyte  Laoa.           9 A                   nn~NArgoa           fie
CENTRAL LUZON       WESTERN MINDANAO                1Cuov3n NIA regional offices
15N.ena Ealta      51 Zameboanga del Norte   ,~     l      oleaa
16 Taralc          52 Zamboanga del Sur Ce                       RIVER        - - - -_____Provincial boundaries
17 Zambales        53 Basilan                4    J        IRRIATONPROJLcT
18 Pampanga         54 SUlu                1 ,          /    2
19 Bulacan         55 Taw,taw,              A3
20 Bataan            NORTHERN MINDANAO    *     1   n tl
SOUTHERN TAGALOG 56 Surigao del Norte     *7
21 Quezon          57 Camiguin       SFen   5   6 -        ISAGAT RIVER
22 RICai            58 Agusan del Norte,  nando /   V. 4 \    I     PROJECT             55   t00  150  206  2bO  306
24 Luna             59 MNsarns OrIental                                             0    50 t1,  L5    2 I       300
o16'  25 Batangas       60 Misa.els Occidental                                                      KILOMETERS
26 Marinduque       61 Lanao del Norte     Dagar\ y0 \                                                             2100
27 Mindoro Oriental  62 Lanao del Sur    r           -, PAMPAAuGA RIVER PROJECT
28 Mindoro Occidental  63 Buk,dnon                AURRA PFIJARAIVDA IRRIGATIOIV PROJECT           MILES
29 Romblon         64 Agusan del Sur
30 Poloswao]       65 SArI900 del Sur  1 t). a     u |4RLAC IRRIGA TI STE              ThehrndAC 1RRIoTION SYSTpIdoS -Ply -,d-- 1> .'p'- b,
BICOL               SOUTHERN MINDANAO   AI I     19  ,MPROVEMENrPROJECT               W-laId ae-k ,dIt ,fjifitec
3t CamarmIles Norte  66 Magu,ndanao
32 Camarnnes Sur    67 North Cotabato  OlongaRe  '     21
33 Catanduanes     68 Davao                2         in
34 Albay           69 Oavao Oriental
35 Sonsogon         70 Davao del Sur              3
36 Masbate          71 Sultan Kudarat          t-         'Pablo  .+   o Does
72 South Cotabato      N    5
\ «Batarstil \ ~~~~~~~~~~32  )  33
M4INDIIORO I .J  aetn\ 26 \   \ IA
OEVELGPAVEN1 PROJECT?                    3
MINDa8RO        -                       /
28  4)
N       I htonosalorera  2     36            46
120                                                                                                7 
JAARIRGTION XV
30'
PALAWAN
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                       ~~~~~~~ 60}   1)r 5 / 5\
''~~                                           ~      ~     ~     ~~~~~~~~~~ Pagd \ '- 62U 6S
, /  >         m       J rlf )   {~~~~~~~ 1 69
CHINA    .    TAIWAN                                             / /                     < 1    67           -
,.   >                            _    __;Z/amboangA     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/t:olatb ao  7
(   53/                                 0
_LUZON
SJVIE^T           PhILIPPINES                                                          8 -A,     72   Genrwal Santos
,AM              VISA YAS                             0"54 4
-                  .,, .,,I
_       MINDANAO                      N
eRNe                                    55/
MALAYSIA f
N    O   E SI A
120°                                        1240



