Report No. 1488a-PH                                                         FIlE  COPY
Philippines: Appraisal of the National
Irrigation Systems Improvement Project: I
April 12, 1977
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
U
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00   =  Pesos (P) 7.50
P 1.00    =   US$0.133
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES - METRIC SYSTEM
1 hectare (ha)                        2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)                  =   0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (sq  km)       =   0.3886 square miles
1 meter (m)                       =   39.37 inches
1 square meter (sq m)             =   10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter (cu m)              =   35.31 cubic feet
1 million cubic meters (M cu m)  =   810.7 acre feet
1 millimeter (mm)                 =   0.039 inches
1 kilogram (kg)                   =   2.2 pounds
1 cavan (paddy)                   =   50 kg
20 cavans                         =   1 metric ton
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB          -   Asian Development Bank
ADCC         -   Agricultural Development Coordinating Council
AMIADP       -   Angat-Magat Integrated Agricultural Development Project
BAE          -   Bureau of Agricultural Extension
BPI          -   Bureau of Plant Industry
DAR          -   Department of Agrarian Reform
DLGCD        -   Department of Local Government and Community Development
DOH          -   Department of Health
NFAC         -   National Food and Agriculture Council
NGA          -   National Grains Authority
NIA          -   National Irrigation Administration
NISIP:  I    -   National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project:  I
NISIS        -   National Irrigation Systems Improvement Study
O&M          -   Operation and Maintenance
PVTA         -   Philippine Virginia Tobacco Association
SCC          -   Schistosomiasis Control Council
SPO          -   Special Projects Organization
UPRP         -   Upper Pampanga River Project
WMT          -   Water Management Technician
GOVERNMENT OF THE PHILIPPINES
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF THE
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION .. . . .i-ii
1.  INTRODUCTION  ....  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..  1
2.  BACKGROUND  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . . . . . . . . .  .   1
General   .....  .  .  .  .  .    .1....  .  .  .  .  .  .    . .
The Agricultural Sector ....  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  2
The Critical Role of Water Development  . . . . . . . .       2
Project Formulation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       3
3.  THE PROJECT AREA  . . . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . .       4
General. .                                                    4
Climate..                                                     4
Topography, Drainage and Soils  . . . . . . . . . . . .       5
Land Tenure and Farm Size . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       6
Existing Irrigation Facilities  . . . . . . . . . . . .       7
Agricultural Production ..                                    7
Transportation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       8
4. THE PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        8
Irrigation Works ..                                           9
Water Supply, Demand and Quality  . . . . . . . . .          10
Status of Engineering    ..12
Strengthening of Regional O&M Capability  . . . . . . .      13
Land Consolidation Pilot Project  . . . . . . . . . . .      13
On-farm Facilities Study  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      13
Schistosomiasis Control Program . . . . . . . . . . . .      14
Cost Estimates   ..14
Financing   ..16
Procurement .16
Disbursements . .                                            17
Accounts and Audit    . ..17
Environmental Effects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      17
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission
composed of Messrs. E.G. Giglioli, A. N. Khan, J.W. van Holst Pellekaan,
V. Talvadkar (Bank), A.L. Gram and A. Yambao (Consultants).
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
5.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      17
Project Management. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      17
Supporting Agricultural Services  . . . . . . . . . . .      19
Cost and Rent Recovery  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      20
6.  PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES AND FARM INCOMES . .      22
Production    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  22
Market Prospects  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  23
Prices  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  23
Farm Incomes  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  24
7.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS . . . . . . . . . . . .      25
8.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION . . . . . . . . . .      26
ANNEXES
1. Development of National Irrigation Systems
2. Climatological Data
3. Land Tenure and Reform
4. Project Irrigation Works
5. Water Supply, Demand and Quality
6. Strengthening Regional O&M Capability
7. Land Consolidation Pilot Project
8. On-farm Facilities Study
9. Schistosomiasis Control Program
10. Cost Estimates
11. Equipment List
12. Estimated Schedule of Expenditures and Disbursements
13. Organization and Management
14. Supporting Agricultural Services
15. Present and Projected Cropping Patterns and Production
16. Market Prospects and Prices
17. Crop and Farm Budgets
18. Farm Labor Analysis
19. Cost and Rent Recovery
20. Economic Analysis
21. Schedule of Early Events



CHARTS
Implementation Schedule - Ilocos Subproject No. 17108
Implementation Schedule - Cagayan Subproject No. 16865
Implementation Schedule - Leyte Subproject No. 17109
NIA Organization for Engineering and Operations No. 16866
Proposed Organization for Project Construction No. 16867
Proposed Organization for Operation and Maintenance No. 16868
Proposed Cropping Calendar for Ilocos Subproject No. 16862
Proposed Cropping Calendar for Cagayan Subproject No. 16863
Proposed Cropping Calendar for Leyte Subproject No. 16864
Estimated Marginal Economic Cost of Labor in Three
Subproject Areas No. 16861
MAPS
Systems Locations No. 12507
Regions 1 and 2 Irrigation Systems - Ilocos and Cagayan
Subprojects No. 12508,
Region 1 Irrigation Systems - Ilocos Subproject No. 12613
Region 6 Irrigation Systems - Leyte Subproject No. 12509






PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF THE NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION
i.         The Government of the Philippines has requested Bank assistance to
carry out the National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project: I, covering
a number of irrigation systems spread over Northern Luzon and the island of
Leyte in the Eastern Visayas. The project consists of the rehabilitation
and upgrading of some 27,600 ha of existing irrigation systems and extension
of irrigation to 21,800 ha of rainfed land, lying under the jurisdiction of
three of the National Irrigation Administration's (NIA) regional offices.
The operation and maintenance (O&M) capabilities of the three offices would
be strengthened under the project. In addition, assistance would be provided
to NIA for implementation of a land consolidation pilot project and a study
of on-farm facilities. The project would also include provision for assis-
tance to the Department of Health (DOH) and NIA to carry out a schistosomiasis
control program in the area of high endemicity of the disease in the island
of Leyte.
ii.       Major Government objectives in the agricultural sector are to
achieve self-sufficiency in basic foods and to correct regional economic
and social imbalances.  The project would help to meet both objectives by
improving and expanding irrigation facilities for the rice crop in the
Ilocos area, which suffers from high population densities and small, frag-
mented holdings, and in the Cagayan and Leyte areas which are in two of
the poorest regions in the nation.
iii.       The deficit in rice, the main staple crop, has been a persistent
problem for the Philippines, and annual rice imports have averaged about
200,000 tons in recent years. With improved water control being a pre-
requisite to obtaining optimum results from the new high-yielding rice
varieties, an annual total of about 50,000 ha of rice lands would have to be
rehabilitated or provided with new irrigation facilities during the next decade
to allow the country to achieve rice self-sufficiency. The proposed project
would be the eighth Bank-assisted project aimed at helping the Government to
achieve this goal. The Pampanga (Loan 637-PH), Aurora-Penaranda (Loan/Credit
984/472-PH) and Tarlac (Loan 1080-PH) projects are in Central Luzon; the Magat
(Loan 1154-PH) and Chico (Loan 1227-PH) projects are in the Cagayan Valley of
Northern Luzon; the Rural Development Project (Loan 1102-PH) is on the island
of Mindoro; and the Jalaur project (Loan 1367-PH) is on the island of Panay
in the Western Visayas. The proposed project would be the first Bank-
assisted project dealing with the relatively small, widely scattered systems
operated by NIA's regional offices, as well as being the first Bank-assisted
irrigation project on the west coast of Luzon and in the Eastern Visayas.
The total area covered by the seven ongoing projects, plus the present one,
amounts to about 283,000 ha or nearly 30% of all irrigated lands. Work on
83,000 ha covered by the first project is nearly completed. The NIA
engineering, construction and management standards on all the projects have
been uniformly high.



- ii -
iv.       Total cost of the project is estimated at P 804.0 million (US$107.2
million), of which US$50.0 million, or approximately 47%, would be in foreign
exchange. The Bank would finance the foreign exchange component. Civil
works costing US$11.5 million and equipment costing US$13.9 million would be
procured after international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
Group Guidelines. The remaining civil works would not be suitable for inter-
national competitive bidding because of their nature and would be carried out
by locally advertised contract (US$22.7 million) or by force account (US$15.1
million).
v.        The National Irrigation Administration (NIA) would be the executing
agency for the project, except for the public health component of the schisto-
somiasis control program which would be carried out by the Department of
Health (DOH) through the Schistosomiasis Control Council (SSC). The irri-
gation components of the project, unlike previous Bank-assisted irrigation
projects, would be implemented by NIA's engineering and operations organiza-
tions organization. A Project Director located at NIA's headquarters would
coordinate the work of the NIA departments involved in the project and super-
vise execution of the project at the field level, which would be under the
immediate control of the directors of three of NIA's regional offices. The
project would strengthen the design, procurement, and O&M capabilities of
the engineering and operations organization, both at the center and in the
three regions of Ilocos, Cagayan and Leyte.
vi.       At full development of the project, nine years after commencement
of construction, annual paddy production from the project area is expected
to reach 325,000 tons compared with a current level of 121,000. The increased
production would make a contribution to the national campaign for self-
sufficiency by providing enough rice to feed nearly 1.3 million persons per
year.
vii.      Under the Government's program of Agrarian Reform, share-cropping
has been abolished and title to land in holdings over 7 ha is being trans-
ferred to the cultivators. When transfer is completed, probably by the end
of 1978, about 54% of the land in the project area will be farmed by owner
operators and the remainder by leasehold tenants of small landlords. Some
37,000 farm families cultivate the project area, working an average unit of
1.3 ha. The project would increase the annual per capita income on a typical
Ilocos subproject farm of 0.8 ha from a current range of between US$50 and
US$75 to US$135 in 1987. For a 2.5 ha Cagayan subproject farm per capita
income would rise from an existing range of between US$70 and US$100 to
between US$355 and US$380. On a typical Leyte subproject farm annual per
capita income would increase from a present range of between US$45 and US$60
to between US$155 and US$165. By comparison about 97% of the project's farm
families are presently at or below the country's estimated absolute per
capita poverty level of US$165. These comparisons indicate that the project
would narrow the income gap between the project area and other parts of the
country.
viii.     The project would result in about a 40% increase in cropping
intensity, which in turn would create an increase in farm labor employment
opportunities equivalent to about 10,500 full-time jobs. The economic rate



- iii -
of return of the project is expected to be about 20%. The rate of return is
only moderately sensitive to a delay or a reduction in benefits. However,
even under adverse conditions, the rate of return would not fall below 16%.
ix.      The proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$50.0 million
for a period of 20 years, including a 4.5 year grace period. The borrower
would be the Republic of the Philippines.






PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF THE NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Philippines has requested Bank assistance in
financing the National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project: I, covering
a number of irrigation systems spread over Northern Luzon and the island of
Leyte in the Eastern Visayas. The project would provide a dependable water
supply to irrigate about 49,400 ha of rice in the wet season and 35,950 ha of
crops in the dry season, of which about 1,300 ha of tobacco and the balance
of rice.
1.02      A feasibility study for the project was prepared under the provis-
ions of Loan 1080-PH by the National Irrigation Administration (NIA) with the
assistance of Sanyu Consultants Incorporated of Japan.   This report is based
on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission which visited the Philippines in
October-November 1976, composed of Messrs. E. G. Giglioli, A.N. Khan,
J.W. van Holst Pellekaan, V. Talvadkar (Bank), A.L. Gram and A. Yambao
(Consultants).
2. BACKGROUND
General
2.01      The Philippines covers some 297,000 sq km  scattered over more than
7,000 islands between the Pacific Ocean and the China Sea. The 45 largest
islands account for 98% of the area. The population is around 43 million
(1975), growing at a rate of about 2.8% annually. Real GNP, which had a
trend growth rate of 5-6% in the 1960s, grew by 10% in 1973 due to high
prices for export commodities, but has grown at about 6% in 1974-76 as some
industries have been adversely affected by the recession in the Philippines'
trading partners-. Inflation related to high export prices and increased oil
and food prices was a major problem in 1974, but abated markedly in 1975-76.
Unequal income distribution and underemployment remain major economic problems.
2.02      Out of a total land area of some 30 million ha, more than half
is forest and about one third under cultivation or in plantations. About
2.0 to 2.5 million ha of fairly level land is still available for growing
crops, although some 1.0 million ha of this is cogon grassland which would
be difficult to reclaim. Bringing this additional land under cultivation
would be insufficient to meet increasing food needs or to improve rural
income significantly. These goals also call for increasing production from
currently cultivated areas through yield improvements and increased cropping
intensity where water is available.



-2-
The Agricultural Sector
2.03      Agriculture accounts for about one quarter of net domestic product,
about 55% of total employment and between 50% and 70% of export earnings
depending on commodity prices. During the 1960s the rate of growth of agri-
cultural output accelerated gradually and averaged 4.7% per year for the
1965-70 period, stimulated by the spread of improved rice varieties. During
the next five years, the rate of spread of new varieties decreased; typhoons
in 1972 and high fertilizer prices in 1974 further affected agricultural
output, which grew by only 3.2% a year on the average from 1970-75.
2.04      The growth rate of rice production from 1970 to 1976 was only 2.8%
a year. However, on average the rate of growth of rice production has not
kept pace with the rate of growth of demand. As a result, the ratio of food
prices to prices in general increased over the 1970-75 period. This, combined
with a short period of high world prices for sugar and coconut products, led
to a substantial shift in the internal terms of trade in favor of agriculture,
which has prevented a widening of the disparity between rural and urban
incomes. In the face of sluggish growth of manufacturing employment, much of
the growth of the labor force in recent years has therefore taken place in
agriculture. Although value added per worker in agriculture has increased in
current prices, it has declined in real terms, implying growing rural under-
employment.
2.05      Agricultural sector performance will be crucial in determining
whether the drive towards a rapid but more equitable income distribution
succeeds. The major goals for the sector are self-sufficiency in cereals,
particularly rice and corn; development of the livestock and fisheries sector;
expansion of agricultural exports; intensification of agrarian reform; better
conservation of natural resources; and strengthening of institutional support.
Self-sufficiency in cereals is important not only to strengthen the balance
of payments, but also to raise incomes for much of the rural population.
The Critical Role of Water Development
2.06      After allowance for increases in rainfed rice production, the
Philippines cannot reach self-sufficiency in rice without substantial invest-
ment in irrigation expansion and improvement. Performance of existing systems
falls far short of their potential. The Sector Survey/li estimates that, out
of a total of 960,000 ha which could be served by existing systems, only
630,000 ha are served in the wet season and 254,000 ha in the dry season.
Almost all the irrigated area is devoted to rice. The NIA's gravity systems
are the main component. In addition, NIA has constructed and rehabilitated a
substantial part of the small privately operated communal systems, averaging
300 ha. The Irrigation Services Unit, now under NIA's administrative super-
vision, is responsible for pump irrigation schemes. The NIA gravity systems
built before 1965 are usually run-of-the-river schemes with insufficient con-
trol structures in the canals, few terminal facilities, inadequate drainage
/1 IBRD Agricultural Sector Survey, Philippines, May 2, 1974 (Report
No. 39a-PH).



and little provision for access. The systems were not designed for the level
of water control required by the modern high yielding rice varieties. Even
when the systems are new, water distribution is uneven during the wet season
and limited during the dry season. Maintenance has been minimal due to
shortages of staff and funds and the lack of access roads for maintenance
machinery. A vicious circle has developed by which lack of maintenance
discourages farmers from paying O&M charges, which in turn precludes further
maintenance.
2.07      In the late 1960s when the NIA was reorganized, this unsatisfactory
situation began to change. More funds and staff were made available and a
major program of upgrading and expansion of the national irrigation systems
was initiated. More advanced irrigation designs were introduced and much
higher levels of water management became a goal. Simultaneously, the need
for intensified agricultural supporting services on irrigation projects was
accepted. The Bank-assisted Upper Pampanga River Irrigation Project (UPRP)
(Loan 637-PH) and the Asian Development Bank (ADB)-assisted Angat-Magat
Integrated Agricultural Development Project (AMIADP) typify the new approach.
The pattern of rehabilitation, new construction and operation exemplified by
these projects is essential for large-scale rice producion. To meet the
growing domestic rice demand, a program of rehabilitation and new construc-
tion in rice lands for some 50,000 ha per year will be needed over the next
decade. The proposed project would thus be entirely compatible with Govern-
ment objectives for water resources development.
Project Formulation
2.08      The main thrust of NIA's program of rehabilitation and expansion
has been directed to the large rice growing irrigation systems in Central
Luzon and in the Cagayan Valley of Northern Luzon. The ADB-assisted Angat-
Magat project and the Bank-assisted Pampanga, Penaranda, Tarlac, Magat and
Chico projects were all components of the NIA program of development of
large-scale systems in the principal grain producing areas of Luzon. At
the same time, NIA has been carrying out a smaller, but steady irrigation
development program of some 55,000 ha in Mindanao with ADB assistance. In
addition to rehabilitation of existing canals and structures, the construction
of new ones, the provision of better drainage and access and the introduction
of water management and rotational irrigation practices, the program also has
included the provision of extra water supplies in some areas through the
construction of storage or by transbasin diversion.
2.09      NIA has not neglected the need for rehabilitation and upgrading of
the badly deteriorated, smaller systems scattered through the Philippines.
The National Irrigation Systems Improvement Study (NISIS) was set up in 1975
with Bank assistance (Loan 1080-PH) to inventory the smaller systems and to
select a total of about 150,000 ha with the highest priority for improvement,
allowing for a balanced regional distribution. All national systems were
inventoried. Systems included in ongoing projects were excluded, as were
systems earmarked for rehabilitation under already identified ADB-, Bank- or
bilaterally-assisted projects. The remaining systems were then evaluated on
the basis of the degree of need for improvement, the potential for improve-
ment in terms of land and water resources, the technical and economical



- 4 -
feasibility of improvement, the human need in the area, in terms of poverty
and disease, and the institution building aspects in terms of strengthening
the capabilities of NIA's regional offices. The proposed project would be
the first one prepared under NISIS.  It would include 22 existing irrigation
systems spread over three NIA Regions in Ilocos and Cagayan in Luzon and in
Leyte in the Eastern Visayas. The selected systems would meet in the highest
degree all the priority criteria for rehabilitation set by NIA (Annex 1).
3. THE PROJECT AREA
General
3.01      The project would cover three distinct subproject areas which fall
into the jurisdiction of NIA's regional offices for Regions 1, 2, and 6. The
Region 1 or Ilocos subproject would include 12 existing irrigation systems
lying along the Western coast of Northern Luzon, between the Babuyan Channel
in the North and Lingayen Gulf in the South. The Region 2 or Cagayan subpro-
ject would include three irrigation systems lying at the mouth of the Cagayan
Valley along the Northern coast of Luzon island. The Region 6 or Leyte sub-
project would include seven existing and three new irrigation systems on the
island of Leyte in the Eastern Visayas. (Maps No. 12507, 12509 and 12613).
Aside from a small area of dry-season irrigated tobacco in the Ilocos subpro-
ject, and some dry-season rainfed corn in the Leyte subproject, transplanted
rice, whether irrigated or rainfed, is the only crop in the project area.
The Ilocos and the Eastern Visayas regions are rice deficit areas, while the
Cagayan region is one of the major rice surplus areas in Luzon. The Ilocos
subproject area suffers from high population densities and small, fragmented
holdings, while the Cagayan and Leyte subprojects are located in some of the
poorest regions in the country.
3.02      There are a number of small towns scattered throughout the project
area. In the Ilocos and Leyte subproject areas the irrigation systems are
close to major commercial centers providing banking, storage and processing
facilities, as well as supplies of inputs to the agricultural areas. There
are a number of small towns in the Cagayan subproject area, but major centers
are fairly remote. The Ilocos and Leyte systems are served by good road net-
works, while the Cagayan systems are more isolated. However, the Government
is currently engaged in a program of road improvement and bridge building in
the area with assistance from the Government of Japan.
Climate
3.03      The climate in the project area is tropical and monsoonal.  Warm
temperatures throughout the year allow a twelve-month growing season with
irrigation. The average annual rainfall in the three subproject areas
ranges between about 2,000 and 2,300 mm, but there are marked differences in
the rainfall distribution pattern. Each of the three subprojects lies in a
different climatic region. In the Ilocos subproject area the winter and
spring months (Nov.-Apr.) are dry, while the summer and fall months are wet.
In the Cagayan subproject area there is a short dry season of one to three
months (Mar-May), while in the Leyte subproject area there is no well-defined



- 5 -
dry season, but rainfall is heaviest in the winter months. The rainfall,
together with river flows in the wet season, is generally adequate for a
single rice crop. Dry-season cropping, however, entails a greater risk and
irrigation is essential to ensure a crop. The Ilocos and Cagayan areas of
Northern Luzon are likely to be hit by about two typhoons per year, with the
highest frequency between the months of July and November. This does not
mean that all systems within the two subproject areas would be hit at any one
time as there are some 300 km between the Pamplona system in the northeast
and the Masalip system in the southwest. The Leyte subproject systems are
likely to be subjected to an average of 1.5 typhoons per year, with November
as the most probable month of occurrence. The systems obtain a substantial
degree of protection by lying to leeward of the island of Samar (Annex 2).
Topography, Drainage and Soils
3.04      The systems in the Ilocos subproject are all located on the narrow
plain running along the western coast of Northern Luzon. The slope of the
land tends to be from east to west. The slope is steeper in the eastern
edges of the systems, but it flattens out towards the sea with most of the
area fairly level. The Cagayan subproject systems are all situated in
the coastal plain at the mouth of the Cagayan Valley. While the land is
generally flat, there are occasional ridges and some of the main canals would
traverse moderately broken country. Seven of the proposed systems in the
Leyte subproject are located in the northeastern quadrant of the island,
south of Tacloban City, in the broad flat plain along the east coast. Two of
the remaining systems are situated in small coastal plains at the southeastern
end of the island and one is on the broad coastal plain on the southwestern
side of Leyte. Land is exceptionally flat in all Leyte areas. Surface
drainage in the Ilocos subproject area is generally excellent. In the
Cagayan subproject area there are some drainage problems in the immediate
vicinity of the coast and special provisions would be made to deal with them
under the project. Drainage is inadequate throughout the Leyte subproject
systems, particularly south of Tacloban City. The area is interspersed by
natural and manmade swamps which are associated with high incidences of
schistosomiasis.- Special provisions would be made under the project to deal
with the drainage problem and the consequent disease situation.
3.05      While soils in the Ilocos subproject area show a considerable
degree of variability, clays of the Bantog series and silt and clay loams
of the San Manuel series predominate. All are of alluvial origin, the
Bantog clay is greyish brown, fine textured, with poor internal drainage and
a slightly acidic reaction. The San Manuel soils are pale or grayish brown,
loose and friable with excellent drainage, pHs of 6 to 7, good fertility and
are suitable for diversified crops. In the Cagayan subproject systems there
is little soil variability. The most common soil is a poorly drained, pale
brown, granular silty clay of the Toran series. It is a difficult soil to
work, being sticky when wet and hard when dry, it has poor internal drainage
and is slightly acidic. Soils in the Leyte subproject area are uniform. The
most typical soil is a brown, non-calcareous clay loam of the Palo series,
developed from recent alluvial deposits, with a fine granular structure,
fairly rich in organic matter and a slightly acidic reaction. All the soils
are suitable for rice which has been grown in all three subprojects areas
for many years without problems.



-6-
Land Tenure and Farm Size
3.06      Since 1972 the Government has pursued a program of agrarian reform
aimed at the transfer of land ownership to tenant farmers on rice and corn
lands. Presidential Decree No. 27 (PD 27), the basic legislation of the new
program, provides for the transfer to the tenant, whether sharecropper or
leaseholder, of the land he tills up to 3 ha in an irrigated area and 5 ha in
a rainfed area. According to PD 27, the landlord may retain up to 7 ha if he
tills the land himself. Since there are some 2 million rice and corn farmers
on about 4 million ha, of which less than I million ha are irrigated, there
is little prospect of achieving the 5 ha rainfed and 3 ha irrigated family
farms nationwide. Furthermore, some 85% of the landlords have holdings of
less than 7 ha and there are no firm plans at present for transfer of lands in
this category. The Department of Agrarian Reform (DAR) completed the issue
of land transfer certificates to tenants for all land in holdings over 24 ha
in 1975. In November 1974 the Government decided to proceed with the transfer
of land in holdings between 24 and 7 ha. In October 1976 the Government
extended the provisions of PD 27 to holdings of less than 7 ha, belonging to
landowners with more than 7 ha of other agricultural land, or belonging to
landowners with residential, commercial or urban land from which they derive
adequate incomes to support themselves. At present it is not known how many
landlords and tenants would be affected by the new legislation.
3.07      NIA surveys show that some 37,000 farm families, averaging 5.5 mem-
bers for a total of about 204,000 people, live in the project area. About
60% of the farmers are in the Ilocos subproject area and the balance are
evenly split between the Cagayan and Leyte subprojects. The mean farm size
is about 1.3 ha. There are, however, substantial differences between subpro-
ject areas. In the Ilocos systems the mean farm size is 0.8 ha, in Cagayan
2.5 ha and in Leyte 1.5 ha. The farm size distribution on 49,400 ha of
project lands is as follows:
Farm Size           No. of Farms         Area of Farms
(ha)             …-… …(-
Less than 0.5             18                    3
0.5 - 1.5                59                    40
1.6 - 2.0                10                    15
2.1 - 4.0                  9                   22
4.1 - 7.0                  3                   11
More than 7.0              1                    9
Total      100                  100
In the Ilocos systems about 90% of the farms covering 80% of the area are
below 1.5 ha, in Cagayan some 60% of the farms are under 2.0 ha but only
account for 30% of the area, while the farm size distribution in the Leyte
systems falls in between these extremes with 77% of the farms under 1.5 ha
covering 43% of the area. Survey and census data indicate that in addition
to farm operating households, there are approximately 6,000 landless agri-
cultural households.



- 7 -
3.08      According to DAR information the 49,400 ha of rice lands in the
project area are owned by some 27,500 people, 97% of whom hold less than 7 ha,
accounting for 77% of the land. The remaining 3% of the owners account for
11,330 ha or 23% of the area, which will be transferred to former tenants
under the provisions of the Agrarian Reform. There is considerable variation
in the degree of skewness of land ownership in the subproject areas. The
Ilocos systems show the least inequality, with the Cagayan systems at the
other extreme and the Leyte systems in the middle. Owner-operators accounted
for 27% of the farmers and the remainder were all tenants. The proportion of
owner-operators appeared to parallel farm size, the largest proportion of
owner-operators is in the Cagayan systems where the largest farm sizes are
found, and the lowest proportion of owner operators is in the Ilocos systems
where farm sizes are smallest. The Leyte systems fall in the middle on both
criteria.  Although the Government proposes to complete the issue of land
transfer certificates under the Agrarian Reform by the end of 1977, a more
realistic target date would be the end of 1978. At this time some 26,900 ha,
or 54% of the project area, will be cultivated by about 18,000 owner-operators,
the equivalent of 48% of the farmets. The greatest changes would take place
in the Cagayan and Leyte systems where owner-operators would account for
about 66% of the farms compared to the existing 30-40%. The remaining 19,000
tenant farmers on holdings of less than 7 ha would operate under a written
lease agreement (Annex 3).
Existing Irrigation Facilities
3.09      Approximately 27,600 ha of land in the project area fall within
the 22 existing systems operated by NIA through three regional offices.
The systems range in age from 55 to 10 years and in size from a minimum of
150 ha for the Cumunga-an river system in Leyte to a maximum of 8,000 ha for
the Abulog river system in Cagayan. Irrigation in the dry season is limited
to some 14,400 ha, partly because of inadequate river flows, but mostly
because of reduced canal capacities due to siltation and a lack of on-farm
distribution facilities. The systems have suffered from insufficient main-
tenance due to lack of funds and equipment. They also have poor distribution
networks which make it impossible for the majority of the farmers to get
water at the right time in the right amount. In addition, there is a genieral
lack of access roads which renders movement of inputs and produce difficult.
There are drainage deficiencies in a few of the Cagayan and Leyte systems due
to insufficient collector drains and inadequate outlet conditions.
Agricultural Production
3.10      Transplanted rice is the principal crop in the project area.  In
the Ilocos systems about 1,300 ha of irrigated tobacco are grown in the dry
season and in the Leyte subproject area about 2,000 ha are cropped to rainfed
corn. The majority of farmers in the irrigated areas use improved rice
varieties, with Ilocos farmers making the greatest use and Leyte farmers the
least. In rainfed areas farmers rely nearly entirely on the lower yielding,
but hardier local varieties. The average paddy yields in the rainfed areas
are about 1.6 ton/ha in Ilocos, 1.5 ton/ha in Cagayan and 1.4 ton/ha in Leyte.
On the irrigated areas, the mean wet-season paddy yields are about 2.5 ton/ha
in Ilocos, 2.0 ton/ha in Cagayan and 1.7 ton/ha in Leyte. Dry-season crop



- 8 -
yields are similer to wet-season yields. The irrigated tobacco yield in the
Ilocos systems is about 0.8 ton/ha, while the rainfed corn yield in the Leyte
subproject area is an exceedingly poor 0.4 ton/ha.
3.11      Some 90% of the rainfed areas rely entirely on animal power for
land preparation. In the irrigated areas machinery is used for land pre-
paration on about 15-25% of the area cultivated in both wet- and dry-season
crops. Mechanical cultivation is mostly done by four-wheel tractors and
rotary tillers. Threshing of both rainfed and irrigated rice crops is almost
entirely manual.
Transportation
3.12      A national highway located along the northwestern coast of Northern
Luzon passes through nine irrigation systems of the Ilocos subproject and two
of the Cagayan subproject, thus interconnecting these systems with each other
and with the provincial capital cities of Laoag, Vigan and San Fernando.
Paved provincial roads link the national highway with the remaining three
systems of the Ilocos subproject and with the Banurbur system in the Cagayan
subproject. Nine of the Leyte systems located near the eastern and south-
eastern coast of the island are served directly by a national highway or
connected to it by paved provincial roads. Another national highway along
the western coast of the island serves the 10th irrigation system. The road
network of provincial and municipal roads is adequate in the Ilocos subproject.
The Department of Highways has a long term plan to upgrade some of the existing
limited network of largely unpaved provincial and municipal roads serving the
subproject areas of Cagayan and Leyte. The project would increase the road
network density by building additional farm roads and O&M roads for the irri-
gation facilities.
4. THE PROJECT
4.01      The project proposed for Bank financing would:  (a) upgrade exist-
ing irrigation systems and extend irrigation service to currently rainfed
rice lands in three NIA Regions, a total of 49,400 ha, to standards adopted
for similar Bank-assisted projects in the Philippines; and (b) provide for a
schistosomiasis control program covering most of the affected areas of Leyte.
The project would include:
(a) Irrigation Development
(i)  rehabilitation of 22 existing NIA irrigation sytems serving a
total area of about 27,600 ha;
(ii)  construction of new irrigation, drainage and road facilities
on about 18,300 ha of currently rainfed land adjoining 18
existing NIA irrigation systems;
(iii)  construction of new irrigation, drainage and access facili-
ties, including diversion and conveyance works, for three
new national irrigation systems to serve about 3,500 ha of
currently rainfed areas;



- 9 -
(iv) construction of a subregional headquarters building, two
new field offices and extension of office, storage and staff
quarters facilities for eight existing field offices; and
(v) procurement of vehicles and equipment.
(b) Schistosomiasis Control Program
(i)  improvement of existing drains, natural creeks and new
secondary and farm drains covering a total area of about
20,000 ha;
(ii)  construction of footbridges on irrigation and drainage
channels at short intervals of 250 m to 1,500 m;
(iii) provision of a health education program based on all schools
and health centers in 21 disease-affected municipalities;
(iv)  establishment of a diagnostic screening campaign in all
elementary schools to establish levels of incidence and
monitor progress of the control program, and provision of
chemotherapy for treatment of 45,000 cases;
(v)  provision of about 20,000 water-seal toilets;
(vi)  improvement of about 5,000 household wells;
(vii) provision of molluscicides to assist in snail control;
and
(viii) provision of vehicles and equipment.
The project would also provide for a pilot land consolidation subproject
to determine the feasibility of introducing a degree of consolidation in an
area of highly fragmented small farms. An additional project component would
be a study aimed at determining the density of terminal on-farm facilities
best suited to very small holdings. The project would also make provision
for strengthening the O&M capabilities of the three NIA Regional Offices
covered by its activities.
Irrigation Works
4.02      In the Ilocos subproject area, a total of 12 NIA systems serving
about 14,900 ha would be rehabilitated and upgraded by repairing existing
canals and structures and by providing additional canals, control structures,
drains and turnouts to manage water deliveries effectively. Similar upgrad-
ing and rehabilitation would be carried out in the Cagayan subproject area
on three systems serving 8,900 ha and in the Leyte subproject area on seven
systems covering about 3,800 ha. Of the 25 systems included in the project,
three systems covering 2,650 ha are pump irrigation systems and the remaining
22 are gravity, run-of-river systems.



- 10 -
4.03      A total of about 18,300 ha of currently rainfed land immediately
adjacent to existing systems would be furnished with new irrigation, drainage,
and access works to provide efficient water control and would be connected up
to the conveyance, drainage and road networks of the existing irrigation sys-
tems. In the Ilocos subproject area about 2,700 ha would be developed in
this way in the vicinity of nine systems, in the Cagayan subproject area
about 9,800 ha would be brought into service in three systems, and in the
Leyte subproject area some 5,800 ha would be newly irrigated on six systems.
4.04      In the Leyte subproject area three new national irrigation systems
totalling 3,500 ha would be built on the Balire, Gibuga and Ibawon rivers,
respectively. In addition to irrigation, drainage and access facilities,
the systems would require construction of new diversion and conveyance works.
4.05      Rice has been grown in all three subproject areas for many years
as the principal crop and the land is reasonably level and well laid out.
Therefore, no land leveling would be required. In the Cagayan and Leyte sub-
project areas there is little fragmentation of holdings, while in the Ilocos
subproject area the degree of fragmentation is substantial. While there is
no need for boundary realignment or consolidation in the Cagayan and Leyte
subprojects, some consolidation with boundary realignment would be desirable
in the Ilocos subproject systems. An immediate program of consolidation and
boundary realignment is unrealistic due to high population pressure on the
land, lack of alternative employment and local inheritance practices. How-
ever, a small pilot project would be provided to test the feasibility of some
consolidation in the Ilocos systems (para. 4.14). In the Cagayan and Leyte
subproject systems, the main farm ditches, serving units of approximately
50 ha, would have a turnout for each 10 ha block, from which supplementary
farm ditches built as part of the project would provide direct delivery of
water to about 80% of all the holdings. Each 10 ha block would also be
served by a collector drain, except in steeper areas with slopes in excess
of 0.4% where farm drainage would be from field to field with a provision
of collector drains for about 50% of the steep area. All canals would be
unlined except in selected short portions, where the soils are erosive.  In
the Ilocos subproject systems, because of the much smaller size of farm, the
basic size of unit would be reduced from one of 50 ha and five 10 ha sub-
units to one of 30 ha and five 6 ha subunits. Small buildings would be
provided for Water Management Technicians operating 300-500 ha of irrigated
land apiece, and rice drying floors of about 200-400 sq m would be provided
near or adjacent to the buildings. About 70 km of new access roads would
be built. Some 1,100 km of roads for O&M would be built along the major
canals, laterals and drains, as well as about 740 km of farm roads along
some of the major farm ditches. A detailed description of the project
irrigation works is given in Annex 4.
Water Supply, Demand and Quality
4.06      Each of 21 irrigation systems obtains its water supply from a sep-
arate river source, using its own diversion and conveyance systems. Of the
remaining four systems, two receive water from one river and the other two
systems obtain their supply by the interception of three different water
sources. Eleven irrigation systems do not have any stream gauging station at



- 11 -
or near the diversion point, the available data for six systems is fragmentary
and for short periods and the data for the remaining eight systems is from
gauging stations located downstream of the diversion point. By correlation
with data from other stations of similar characteristics, adequate stream
flow data were built up at each diversion point to cover the years 1948-1974,
a period including exceptionally low dry-season flows and considered repre-
sentative of normal water supply flow conditions.
4.07      Water requirements for the project were based on two rice crops
per year, except for about 1,300 ha under an irrigated dry-season tobacco
crop. Taking into account the higher farm irrigation efficiencies expected
after project development, anticipated conveyance and operational losses and
effective rainfall, annual diversion requirements are estimated to vary
between subproject areas from 2.0 to 3.4 m for rice of which 1.3 to 2.3 m
would be required in the dry season. The diversion requirement for tobacco
is estimated to be 1.1 m. The proposed cropping calendar would maximize the
use of rainfall for both wet- and dry-season crops without exceeding local
manpower constraints.
4.08      The size of the project area was determined from simulated opera-
tion studies using the 25-year period of synthesized discharge records at
each diversion point and the estimated seasonal water requirements for rice.
The irrigable areas selected for the project and the currently irrigated
areas are as follows:
Subproject Area
Ilocos       Cagayan      Leyte       Total
Selected irrigable area (ha)
Wet season                      17,600         18,700    13,100      49,400
Dry season                      10,400 /a      13,750    11,800      35,950
Currently irrigated area (ha)
Wet season                      13,500          8,900     3,800      26,200
Dry season                       7,500 /a       4,200     2,700      14,400
/a Includes 1,300 ha of tobacco.
Although the selected irrigable area for each system in the project was
determined taking into account the water rights of existing users, assurances
were obtained that the necessary water rights for both existing and expanded
and/or new systems would be granted to NIA and no other water rights which
could adversely affect the project water supply would be granted except
by mutual agreement with the Bank.
4.09      Tests of water samples from Binaha-an, Gibuga, Ibawon and Balire
rivers in the Leyte subproject area show good water quality with total
dissolved solids under 300 ppm. Water samples for the other rivers in the
Ilocos and Cagayan subproject areas, except for the Amburayan river, have not



t,een analyzed. However, water diverted from these rivers has been used for
irrigation for periods ranging from 10 to 50 years without adverse effects
on soils or crops in the project area. Tests of water samples taken from the
Acmburayan river in the Ilocos subproject show the solids to approach 3,700 mg/l
due to mine tailings from two copper mines located upstream on two tributaries
of the river. The tailings cause some silting in the canals and some deposi-
rLon on the paddy fields.  Although no toxic chemicals have been found in the
water samples, some physical damage to crops from the polluted water has been
reported during the dry season when river flows are low. Two mine tailings
dams are under construction; one has been in operation since 1974 and the
second one, to detain tailings from the bigger of the two mines, is expected
to be operative shortly. Assurances were obtained that NIA would prepare for
Dank approval a study evaluating the effectiveness of the two dams constructed
Fo deal with the problem of mine tailings in the valleys upstream of the
Amburayan irrigation system by June 30, 1979 (Annex 5).
Status of Engineering
4.10      Project planning studies, designs and estimates of the irrigation
and drainage systems and associated works were carried out by NIA with
assistance of Sanyu Consultants Incorporated of Japan. For rehabilitation
of the existing systems, surveys were made of the main canals, major creeks
and drains and within the sample areas for secondary canals, by taking cross
sections at 20 to 50 m intervals to determine excavation quantities. Rehab-
ilitation costs of the remaining laterals, drainage and on-farm facilities
;,re based on unit quantity estimates per hectare of each major item
obtained from sample areas applicable to a particular system for which
designs were prepared.  Canal structure requirements in the rehabilitation
area were determined in the field by NIA inspectors and costs were estimated
for repairs, replacements or additions. O&M roads were based on canal
capacity and needs within the service area and were checked in the field to
ensure that adequate access to project works would be provided. Access roads
were also provided as a link between service and existing major roads.
Surveys were made of the new main canals proposed in the extension areas to
determine construction quantities. Existing 1:50,000 scale maps were used to
determine lateral and drain locations and costs were based on unit quantities
of a sample area within each extension area. Requirements for structures in
the extension areas were determined according to basic irrigation design
practices. Repair work on river diversion structures was determined from
£ield inspection of each structure. Sufficient investigations have been made
to ensure that suitable materials are available for construction of canal
emnbankments and maintenance roadways.
4.11      The topographic maps of 1:4,000 scale used in the sample area
studies were prepared by conventional ground survey methods. The topographic
maps of the service area on a scale of 1:4,000 would be prepared using recent
aerial photographs in the Ilocos and Cagayan subproject areas. In the Leyte
subproject, maps of similar scale would be prepared from ground surveys.
These maps would be used for detail planning and design of on-farm facilities
for the project area and new distribution as well as drainage systems in the
extension areas. The base maps for land classification were prepared by
enlarging old aerial photographs of 1:15,000 scale to a scale of 1:10,000.



- 13 -
4.12      Construction of the irrigation and drainage system would begin at
the beginning of 1978 with preconstruction activities starting in the middle
of 1977 (see Charts Nos. 17108, 16865 and 17109). All project works are
expected to be completed by end-1981.
Strengthening of Regional O&M Capability
4.13      The proposed project would deal with NIA Regions 1, 2 and 6 cen-
tered on Urdaneta, Cauayan and Tacloban City, respectively. The project,
in addition to providing O&M equipment necessary to adequately maintain the
systems rehabilitated and expanded under the project, would also supply
enough equipment to operate and maintain the remaining systems covering about
36,500 ha in each of the three regions. In the absence of additional regional
equipment, maintenance on the project systems would suffer by attempting to
stretch the project equipment too thinly on the ground. The result would be
a more or less rapid return to the existing situation of badly deteriorated
systems through lack of maintenance. In making provision for regional O&M
equipment requirements, account has been taken of the amount and condition of
existing equipment and of the existence within a region of any system where
O&M equipment is being provided for by NIA's Special Projects Organization
(Annex 6).
Land Consolidation Pilot Project
4.14      The 12 systems included in the Ilocos subproject area show a
remarkable degree of holding fragmentation, as a result of the high pressure
of population on the land, the absence of other employment opportunities and
local inheritance practices, by which all heirs get an equal share of the
land. The situation is aggravated by the small size of farms in the area.
The proposed land consolidation pilot project would attempt to determine
the acceptability to farmers and landowners of land consolidation on up to
500 ha in selected areas of the irrigation systems in Ilocos Norte Province.
Assuming agreement by farmers and owners, the pilot project would determine
the most economic and least socially disruptive level of consolidation com-
patible with the greatest reduction in number of land fragments and would
evolve a methodology of implementation (Annex 7).
On-farm Facilities Study
4.15      All of the NIA systems upgraded and expanded with Bank assistance
are based on irrigation rotation areas of 50 ha, divided into rotation units
of about 10 ha each. This configuration was based on average farm sizes of
from 2.5 to 2.0 ha, thus giving between 4 and 5 farms per unit and between
20 and 25 farms per rotation area. The layout allows practically all farms
to have direct access to irrigation water, thus minimizing potential conflicts
between farmers, while NIA staff have a manageable number of farms to deal
with in the rotation areas and units. Census information indicates that
farm sizes have been decreasing over the last ten years and it is reasonable
to assume that the trend will continue in the future. The study would
establish several different models of irrigation in areas characterized by
holding sizes of less than 2.0 ha and with different cropping intensities,



- 14 -
to determine the most suitable level of facilities in terms of the require-
ments of the farmers and of NIA. Details of the models to be studied would
be worked out in agreement with the Bank (Annex 8).
Schistosomiasis Control Program
4.16      Seven of the ten irrigation systems in the Leyte subproject are
located on the island's northeastern coastal plain, one of the worst schisto-
somiasis-endemic regions in the Philippines. The average disease prevalance
rate runs at 18%, ranging from a low of 5% in Tacloban City to a high of 45%
in the rural municipality of Santa Fe. The climate and topography of the
coastal plain are particularly suitable to the snail vector of the disease,
while the way of life of the rural population, with its constant exposure
to water, and the low levels of public hygiene all work together to produce
the optimum combination needed for high infection rates. The proposed con-
trol program would make the habitat less favorable to the vector by improved
drainage, reduce the number of snails by use of molluscicides, lessen the
population's contact with water by provision of foot-bridges, improve general
hygiene by environmental sanitation and health education and reduce the para-
site reservoir by chemotherapy. The combination of public health and engi-
neering measures is based on pilot work previously done in Leyte and similar
campaigns carried out in other schistosomiasis affected countries.
4.17      The main emphasis of the engineering component of the program would
be to improve the existing swampy conditions by opening up all existing
drainage ways, increasing the intensity of drainage works in cropped areas
and making provision for good access to all drainage works, so as to permit
regular and efficient maintenance. The drainage program would include the
enlargement, realignment, deepening and reshaping of about 150 km of existing
natural drainage ways, together with the construction of an additional 60 km
of main drains and about 240 km of secondary drains. To reduce nonessential
contact of the population with water about 800 footbridges would be installed.
4.18      The public health component of the program would provide for a
health education campaign, based primarily on the schools and barrio health
centers, to alert the population to dangers of the disease, and to supply
information on prevention and treatment. This would be backed up by an
environmental sanitation drive to furnish all unequipped households in the
area with waterseal toilets and improved water supplies. Following the pro-
vision of drainage, the reclaimed areas would be treated with molluscicides
to destroy surviving snail populations. The elementary school population in
the endemic area would be monitored yearly for the disease and all cases of
schistosomiasis diagnosed would be encouraged to seek treatment, which would
be provided to anyone requesting it (Annex 9).
Cost Estimates
4.19      Total project costs are estimated at US$107.2 million, of which
US$50.0 million or 47% is foreign exchange. Project costs are based on
quantity estimates from feasibility designs and unit prices prevailing in
the Bank-assisted Luzon projects in mid-1976, adjusted to conditions in the
three subproject areas. Unit prices for equipment, materials and supplies



- 15 -
are based on recent quotations received by NIA. NIA's costs for design and con-
struction supervision are included under engineering. All costs are indexed to
a common level, June 1977, and this is the base cost level for the project. A
physical contingency factor based on the degree of investigations completed to
date was applied. A factor of 20% was used for irrigation civil works and for
the civil works components of the land consolidation pilot project, the on-farm
facilities study and the health aspect of the schistosomiasis control program.
A higher factor of 25% was used for irrigation civil works in the Cagayan exten-
sions and for drainage works of the Leyte schistosomiasis control program, where
the accuracy of quantities obtained from small-scale maps was less reliable. In
view of this, it was agreed at negotiations that NIA would submit detailed designs
and revised cost estimates for Bank review before implementation of these works.
A contingency of 10% was used for the O&M facilities. Costs due to expected price
increases over the implementation period amount to about 24% of total project
costs, assuming the following annual inflation rates:
Annual Inflation Rate (%)
1977-79       1980-81
Civil Works                        9              8
Equipment and Services             7.5            7
4.20      Details of the project costs are presented in Annex 10 and are
summarized below:
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
=--- (Pesos M) ------   ------ (US$ M)-------         (%)
Irrigation works       236.1   178.4   414.5    31.5    23.8    55.3          43
Strengthening of
O&M capability         1.6      9.0    10.6      0.2      1.2     1.4       85
Land consolidation        2.8     2.0      4.8     0.4      0.3      0.7      41
On-farm facilities
study                  2.5      3.3      5.8     0.3      0.5     0.8       57
Schistosomiasis
control program      51.9    47.2    99.1   96.9         6.2    13.1       48
O&M equipment            0.8    14.2    15.0       0.1      1.9     2.0       95
Base cost estimate    295.7   254.1   549.8    39.4    33.9    73.3           46
Physical contin-
gencies              50.4    46.9    97.3       6.7     6.3    13.0        48
Expected price
increases            82.9    74.0   156.9    11.1       9.8    20.9        47
Total project cost    429.0   375.0   804.0    57.2    50.0   107.2           47



- 16 -
Financing
4.21      The proposed Bank loan of US$50.0 million would finance the full
foreign exchange cost of the project. It would cover 47% of total project
costs. The Government would provide the remaining P 429 million (US$57.2
million) to NIA and to the Department of Health for the Schistosomiasis
Control Council (SCC) from annual budget appropriations.
Procurement
4.22      Equipment, vehicles and supplies for force account construction,
0&M for the project areas, strengthening of regional O&M capability and the
schistosomiasis control program, costing about US$13.9 million, would be
procured after international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
Group Guidelines. A preference limited to 15% of the cif price of imported
goods, or the customs duty, whichever is lower would be extended to local
manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. Local procurement practices are
appropriate for off-the-shelf items costing less than US$10,000 each because
the advantages of international competitive bidding would be clearly out-
weighed by the administrative costs involved. The total cost of such items
would not exceed US$300,000. Bank staff have reviewed the local procedures
and they are acceptable. There is adequate competition and foreign firms can
participate. A detailed list of equipment requirements is given in Annex 11.
4.23      Construction of the diversion weir and main canal of the Abulog
right bank extension in the Cagayan subproject area (US$5.0 million) and
main drains and operation roads of the schistosomiasis control program in
Leyte (US$6.5 million) would be the only project works suitable for inter-
national competitive bidding. The remaining works on the project service
area (US$37.8 million) would be scattered over 25 separate locations in three
different regions. They would include rehabilitation of 27,600 ha, extension
of facilities for 18,300 ha, construction of new sytems for 3,500 ha, secondary
drains for the schistosomiasis control program and O&M buildings. These
works have to be planned and executed to avoid as far as possible the growing
season and bad weather. In the past, NIA experienced considerable difficulty
in attracting bids for such works. Over the last two years several steps
have been taken on Bank-assisted projects to strengthen local contractors,
including financing of reconditioned equipment and providing mobilization
allowances, as a result of which there has been an encouraging response on
the recent bids. However, it is doubtful that all civil works could be done
by contract and some of them would therefore be carried out on force account.
Nevertheless, in light of NIA's large work program in the years ahead, it
would not be desirable to expand its force account work too rapidly. In
previous Bank-assisted irrigation projects outside of Central Luzon the
amount of civil works to be done by force account was limited to 40% of the
total cost, as lower limits were found to be unrealistic. An assurance was
obtained that NIA would ensure that the aggregate amount of civil works done
by force account would not exceed 40% of the total cost of the work. Competi-
tive bidding in accordance with local procedures is appropriate for the
balance of the work. Bank staff have reviewed the local procedures and they
are acceptable. There is potentially adequate competition and foreign firms
can participate.



- 17 -
Disbursements
4.24      Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% of the foreign
exchange cost of directly imported equipment, and 100% of the ex-factory
price of locally manufactured equipment and 65% for imported equipment pro-
cured locally. Disbursements for civil works would be 35% of certified
monthly progress payments or expenditures. Disbursements for force account
works would be made against certificates of expenditure, the documentation for
which would not be submitted to the Bank for review, but would be retained by
the borrower and made available for inspection by the Bank's supervision
missions. For civil works contractors' mobilization and equipment, disburse-
ment would be at 100% of foreign exchange cost. For costs of consultants and
technical assistance, disbursements would be at the rate of 100% of total
cost.
4.25      Disbursement of the Bank loan would be against import documentation,
contracts and certified records of payment or expenditure. It is expected
that disbursements would be completed by December 31, 1982, approximately one
year after the end of construction. In consultation with the Bank, savings
under the project would be used to finance similar additional work in the pro-
ject area. An estimated schedule of expenditures, a semi-annual disbursement
schedule and a proposed allocation of loan proceeds are given in Annex 12.
Accounts and Audit
4.26      The NIA and the SCC are Government agencies and their accounts are
audited annually by Government's Commission on Audit. Assurances were obtained
that these agencies would maintain separate accounts for the project and that
after audit by the Commission on Audit, the project accounts, together with
the auditor's comments and opinion on the certification of expenditure for
force account works, would be sent to the Bank within six months of the close
of each financial year.
Environmental Effects
4.27      In all three subproject areas malaria is effectively controlled by
a Government program of house spraying with residual insecticides. The prin-
cipal health problems in all three areas are protein deficiencies in small
children, enteric diseases and tuberculosis. The proposed project would have
little impact on these. The project would have a beneficial effect on the
schistosomiasis-infested areas of northeastern Leyte as a result of the pro-
posed control program.
5. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Management
5.01      NIA would be responsible for all components of the project, except
for the health aspects of the schistosomiasis control program in Leyte, which
would be executed by the Department of Health (DOH) through the Schisto-
somiasis Control Council (SCC). NIA would work closely with the Department
of Agrarian Reform (DAR) on the land consolidation pilot project.



- 18 -
5.02      NIA was created in 1964 and given responsibility for developing,
operating and maintaining all national irrigation systems in the Philippines.
The Government finances NIA through the sale of bonds or from appropriations.
A Board of directors is responsible for the agency and the Administrator, who
is appointed by the President of the Philippines, handles management. NIA
has recently been reorganized to better deal with the requirements of the
Government's policy of irrigation development. The integration of the major
foreign-assisted projects under a Special Projects Organization (SPO) headed
by an Assistant Administrator was one of the first results of the reorganiza-
tion. Even before establishment of the SPO, most of the foreign-assisted
projects were not implemented by the regular NIA field offices, but were
entrusted to ad hoc project offices specially created for the purpose. The
regional field offices have suffered in terms of access to funds, staff and
equipment, compared to the various special project offices. The proposed
project, covering a large number of small systems scattered over a wide area,
would not lend itself to implementation by a special project office, but
would be suitable for execution by NIA's field offices. The project would be
the first major foreign-assisted project to be implemented by the regional
offices and would help to strengthen their construction, operations and
maintenance capabilities.
5.03      The Assistant Administrator for Engineering and Operations is
responsible to the Administrator for the eight regional and two subregional
NIA offices covering the Philippines. In headquarters there are a number of
support departments headed by directors. These departments are represented
at the regional level by divisions with similar functions. The regional
offices are headed by Regional Directors who are responsible for all NIA
activities in the provinces constituting their regions, except for projects
assigned to the SPO (Chart No. 16866). The Ilocos subproject would be in
Region 1, the Cagayan subproject in Region 2 and the Leyte subproject in
Region 6. NIA has created a post of Project Director, based in Manila, to be
directly responsible for execution of the project under the overall super-
vision of the Assistant Administrator for Engineering and Operations. The
Project Director, with a small support staff, would have day-to-day responsi-
bility for coordinating the work at headquarters of the three NIA departments
with significant roles in project implementation. He would also supervise
execution at the field level which would be under the immediate control of
the Regional Directors of Regions 1, 2 and 6. NIA has appointed an exper-
ienced senior engineer acceptable to the Bank to be Project Director. A
subregional office would be built at Laoag in Region 1, as the present
office at Urdaneta is too far from most of the work. Three existing field
offices in Region 1, two in Region 2 and one in Region 6 would be expanded
and two new ones would be built in Region 6 (Chart No. 16867).
5.04      The technical responsibility for operating and maintaining all the
project systems would be with the Operations Department in the central office
and the Operations Divisions at the regional level. At the end of construc-
tion, the eight field offices would become irrigation districts, which in
turn would be subdivided into irrigation divisions of about 2,500 ha. The
division would be controlled by a supervisor and would be subdivided into
500 ha units, each under a Water Management Technician (WMT). The smallest
organizational entity would be made up of two 50 ha units under a ditchtender.



- 19 -
In Regions 1 and 6, the Ilocos and Leyte subprojects, a WMT would be respons-
ible for 300 ha rather than the standard 500 ha. The greater staffing
intensity would be justified by the small farm sizes and large farm population
in Ilocos and the general backwardness of farming in Leyte (Chart No. 16868).
5.05      At completion of construction, about 160 WMTs would be required.
Most of the technicians are agricultural or agricultural engineering graduates.
NIA proposes to reserve not more than 25% of the WMT posts as an incentive
for competent and experienced ditchtenders. All WMTs, whether directly
recruited or promoted to the post, would undergo a one-year training program
in water management, crop production and farmer organization at one of the
training centers being run by the SPO (Annex 13).
5.06      The Land Consolidation Pilot Project (para. 4.14) would be carried
out by NIA's Operations Department working in close cooperation with DAR, who
would be responsible for all cadastral work. Assurances were obtained that
NIA and DAR would enter into a formal agreement acceptable to the Bank for
implementation of the Land Consolidation Pilot Project by December 31, 1977.
The SPO would be responsible for carrying out the On-farm Facilities Study
(para. 4.15). The Government has established (PD893) the Schistosomiasis
Control Council (SCC), attached to the DOH, to coordinate all projects and
activities aimed at controlling the disease. The NIA Administrator is a
member of the SCC. NIA would be responsible for all engineering and procure-
ment aspects of the schistosomiasis control program in the Leyte subproject
area (para. 4.16), while the SCC would be responsible for public health
aspects. Assurances were obtained that NIA and DOH would enter into a formal
agreement acceptable to the Bank for implementation of the schistosomiasis
control program by December 31, 1977. The substance of the two agreements
was reviewed and agreed upon at negotiations.
Supporting Agricultural Services
5.07      Under the Government's Masagana campaign for increased rice produc-
tion, provincial committees have been established by representatives of the
National Food and Agriculture Council (NFAC). The council is responsible for
coordinating all agencies concerned with agricultural production. The pro-
vincial committees would perform all the necessary coordinating functions
for the various irrigation systems within the project area (Annex 14). The
water management staff (para. 5.05) would be additional to the existing
extension personnel provided by the various Government agencies and would
help to improve the already good extension coverage in the project area. The
number of farmers per extension worker ranges from a low of about 225 in the
Ilocos subproject provinces, through 495 in the Cagayan subproject to a high
of 830 in the Leyte subproject. The technicians in the project area are all
graduates and come mainly from the Bureau of Agricultural Extension (BAE)
and the Bureau of Plant Industry (BPI).
5.08      Annual consumption of fertilizer in the subproject areas currently
amounts to about 3,000 tons for Ilocos, 1,050 tons for Cagayan and 800 tons
for Leyte. About 30% is in the form of urea and sulphate of ammonia and
the balance is equally divided between ammonium phosphate and compound formu-
lations. At full development the project area would require some 16,000
tons of fertilizer, of which 4,400 tons in the Leyte systems and the balance



- 20 -
evenly divided between the Ilocos and Cagayan systems. All subproject areas
are well served by dealers of fertilizer and agrochemicals, who would handle
the additional demand without difficulty. The certified rice seed requirement
at full development would total 840 tons per year and no problems are expected
in obtaining the amount.
5.09      The increase in the irrigated area, higher cropping intensity and
better farming practices resulting from the project would require an increase
in production credit. Under the Agrarian Reform and Masagana programs the
Government has strengthened the credit institutions and eased credit to small
farmers, previously dependent on the landlords and private lenders for their
requirements. A system of "supervised credit" is used which includes the
provision of technical services to the borrower to ensure that recommended
practices, such as variety, fertilizer and agrochemical inputs, are adopted.
Under the system no collateral is required. At full project development the
annual credit requirement for all three subproject areas would total P 80.7
million (US$10.8 million), of which P 47.4 million for the wet-season crop
and P 33.3 million for the dry-season crop. There has recently been a sharp
curtailment of officially sponsored production credit following on the dis-
appointing repayment of previous loans. An assurance was obtained that the
Government would use its best efforts to ensure a supply of short-term produc-
tion credit in accordance with the needs of the project.
5.10      The Agricultural Development Divisions in the District Offices would
be responsible for monitoring the deployment of extension and water management
personnel, pace of land reform, preparation of farmers to receive irrigation,
cropping patterns, use of inputs and credits, incidence of pests and diseases,
etc. The Agricultural Development Department of the SPO already performs
these functions on the other Bank-assisted projects. However, the Agricultural
Divisions of NIA's regional offices are weak and understaffed. Assurances
were obtained that NIA would prepare a plan of action by December 31,1977
for strengthening the agricultural capabilities of the regional offices in
Regions 1, 2 and 6 and, after reviewing such plan of action with the Bank,
would proceed with its implementation.
Cost and Rent Recovery
5.11      Republic Act No. 3601 establishing NIA gave it the authority to
collect fees from users of irrigation systems to finance operations and to
reimburse construction costs. Fees on the national irrigation systems were
increased in July 1975, to the equivalent of 2.0 cavans of paddy per ha in
the wet season and 3.0 cavans in the dry season, to be applied uniformly to
all national irrigation systems. As an exception to the uniform rate policy,
the Government has agreed to raise rates on Bank-assisted projects to the
equivalent of 3.5 cavans of paddy/ha in the wet season and 4.4 cavans in the
dry season. These rates would be reached gradually over a period of five
years from completion of construction. Rates in the UPRP have already been
raised to the equivalent of 2.5 and 3.5 cavans of paddy/ha in the wet and dry
seasons respectively.
5.12      NIA's total collection rate for the national systems was about 59%
in FY75, but fell to about 25% in FY76 after the increase in rates in July



- 21 -
1975. However, preliminary information for 1977 indicates a substantial rise
in collections. Historically, collection rates in the Cagayan subproject
area have been among the highest in the Philippines, while collections in
both the Ilocos and Leyte subproject areas have been well below the national
average. NIA is currently preparing a plan of action for improvement of
collection of water charges for review by the Bank under the provisions of
the Jalaur project (Loan 1367-PH). The plan for improving collection of
water charges would be for all NIA systems and would therefore cover the
project area systems. In the meantime, NIA proposes to apply to the NISIP:
I systems the same rate used on other Bank-assisted projects, i.e. the
equivalent of 3.5 cavans of paddy/ha in the wet season and 4.4 cavans in the
dry season.
5.13      Various indices are used to compute the proportion of cost recov-
ered and the relationship of the proposed water charge to the ability of
the farmers to pay. Definitions of the indices used and detailed computations
are in Annex 19. In brief, the ratio of total water charges to total public
sector outlays (total cost recovery index) is 24%, while the incremental cost
recovery index is 17%. The ratio of total water charges to total farm rent
(farm rent recovery index) is 25% while the incremental project rent recovery
index is 24%. The farm rent recovery index shows that 25% of the farm's
total surplus (after deducting returns for capital, labor, management and
uncertainty) is paid in water charges. In view of this large contribution
and the low income levels of project beneficiaries, the proposed water
charges are acceptable.
5.14      To ensure sound O&M practices and an equitable contribution by bene-
ficiaries toward recovery of project capital costs, assurances were obtained
that:
(a) the NIA would make annual budgetary provision to supply the funds
necessary for O&M of the project works;
(b) irrigation fees would be levied to provide NIA with sufficient
funds to ensure sound O&M practices and to contribute towards
recovery of as much as possible of the investment cost within a
reasonable period, taking into account farmers' incentives and
capacity to pay. A gradual increase in irrigation fees over a
period of five years from completion of construction to a level
equivalent to about 3.5 cavans of paddy per ha in the wet season
and 4.4 cavans in the dry season would meet the requirement;
(c) the NIA would take all necessary actions to ensure full and prompt
collection of the irrigation fees; and
(d) the Government and the Bank would consult annually on the adequacy
of water charges and the collection thereof.
5.15      Drainage works far in excess of what is normally required for an
irrigation system would be carried out in the Leyte subproject systems and in
neighboring areas as part of the schistosomiasis control program (para. 4.17).
NIA would be responsible for O&M of this additional drainage network after



- 22 -
completion of construction. It would be inequitable to try to recover the
O&M cost of these drainage works from water charges levied on farmers in
the irrigation systems as the schistosomiasis control program would benefit
a far larger population. Assurances were obtained that the Government would
provide NIA annually with sufficient funds to effectively maintain the anti-
schistosomiasis drainage network built under the project.
6.  PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES AND FARM INCOMES
Production
6.01       Upon completion of the project the irrigated area would increase
to 49,400 ha, of which at present 26,200 ha are irrigated and 23,200 ha are
rainfed during the wet season. The project would not increase the dry-season
water suppply, but the greatly improved and expanded distribution system and
better water management would allow the present dry-season irrigated area of
14,400 ha to be expanded to 35,950 ha. Annual cropping intensity would
increase from 133% to 173%. The rise in cropping intensity would be modest
in the Ilocos subproject, from 143-159%, but it would be substantial in the
Cagayan and Leyte subprojects, from 122-174% and from 136-189% respectively.
Better w ter control, improved extension services and expanded credit facili-
ties would encourage increased planting of high-yielding rice varieties,
heavier fertilizer applications and greater use of crop protection chemicals.
The use of machinery for land preparation and threshing would increase to
meet more exacting crop calendars. It is expected that at full agricultural
development about 50% of the threshing would be mechanical compared to less
than 10% at present and that there would be an increase in the use of mach-
inery for land preparation to about 50% of cropped area from the current
level of about 20%.
6.02       At full development, estimated paddy yields are expected to be
4.0 ton/ha in the wet season and 4.2 ton/ha in the dry season in the
Ilocos subproject area. However, future paddy yields in the Cagayan and
Leyte subprojects are expected to be lower, about 4.0 ton/ha and 3.5 ton/ha
respectively, for both wet- and dry-season crops. A lower yield is used for
Leyte to compensate for the possible presence of residual levels of schisto-
somiasis, and in Cagayan to allow for losses due to the higher incidence of
typhoons. There is no differentiation between wet- and dry-season yields
because there is no appreciable difference between the two seasons in terms
of sunlight, etc. in Leyte and because of the typhoon factor in Cagayan. For
tobacco in the Ilocos systems the future yield is expected to be 1.3 ton/ha.
These yields would be realized five years after completion of construction
and rehabilitation of the systems. Total annual paddy production from the
project area at full development in 1987 would be about 325,000 tons compared
to 121,000 tons at present and an estimated 143,000 tons in the future
without the project. More grain storage would be required at full development.
The NGA is engaged in a long-term program of building rice storage and
private warehouse owners are enterprising. There is currently considerable
spare rice milling capacity in the project area, but some expansion would be
required at full development. The private milling sector is extremely active
and can be expected to meet all project requirements (Annex 15).



- 23 -
Market Prospects
6.03      A major objective of the Government in the agricultural sector is
self-sufficiency in basic foods, especially rice and corn. The deficit in
rice, the main staple food crop, has been a persistent problem for the
Philippines and in recent years annual rice imports have averaged around
200,000 tons. The Bank's Philippines 1975 Basic Economic Report projects the
1985 Philippine demand for milled rice to be 5.0 million tons, equivalent to
8.5 million tons of paddy, including seed requirements. To meet this demand
local production would have to increase over the next decade by slightly more
than 3.5% per year and the incremental paddy production from the project area
would be marketed without difficulty. The Ilocos area has always been a rice
deficit area importing rice from Cagayan and from overseas. The incremental
production from the Ilocos and Cagayan subprojects would easily be sold for
consumption in Ilocos. The island of Leyte is marginally self-sufficient,
but the Eastern Visayas are a deficit area, hence future production from the
Leyte project systems would easily be consumed in the region.
Prices
6.04      In 1957 the Government introduced an annual farm-gate support price
for paddy to encourage production and to allow purchases of paddy by Govern-
ment to build stocks. From 1965 to 1970 the support price was about 10%
higher than the market price, but since 1971 the market price has generally
exceeded the support price. In December, 1975 the official farm-gate support
price for paddy was P 1,000/ton, which was considerably lower than the
corresponding price of imported rice (P 2,650/ton c.i.f. Philippines), which
would correspond to a farm-gate price for paddy of about P 1,500/ton. The
low farm-gate price was maintained by Government sales of imported rice on the
domestic market below cost. In 1974 this subsidy cost the Government about
US$20 million. At the end of 1976 the price of imported rice had fallen and
the support price was raised to the point where the prices of domestic and
imported rice were nearly the same. The latest Bank commodity price fore-
casts show the world market price in 1985 of Thai 25-35% broken rice to be
about US$270, c.i.f. Philippines (in June 1977 constant dollars). The
corresponding financial farm-gate price (in June 1977 constant dollars) would
be P 1,380/ton of paddy in the Ilocos and Leyte subproject areas and P 1,340/
ton in Cagayan. The use of the shadow exchange rate gives an economic farm-
gate price for the Ilocos and Leyte systems of P 1,535/ton of paddy and
P 1,490/ton in the Cagayan systems.  It is assumed that the paddy farm-gate
price in each subproject area in the future would equal the financial cost to
the Government of importing equivalent amounts of rice. For Virginia tobacco
in the Ilocos subproject the existing market price is P 5,000/ton.  The Bank's
projected 1985 price (in June 1977 constant dollars) of US$1,720/ton f.o.b.
India, plus a 15% premium attracted by tobacco from the Philippines, is equiv-
alent to a farm-gate price of P 13,110/ton. For the economic analysis, the
use of a shadow exchange rate gives a 1985 farm-gate price of P 14,900/ton.



- 24 -
6.05      The Government has subsidized fertilizers used to grow foodcrops.
With the recent fall in international prices for fertilizer, the farm-gate
fertilizer prices are nearly equivalent to the "subsidized" fertilizer prices.
At full development, the financial prices for urea, triple-superphosphate
and muriate of potash used in the project areas are assumed to correspond to
the Bank's forecasted world market prices, and farm-gate prices were accord-
ingly derived from them for each of the three subproject areas (Annex 16).
Farm Incomes
6.06      Farm models have been prepared for three subproject areas, for two
water supply situations, for six typical farm sizes and for two types of
tenure. These are presented in detail in Annex 17. Estimated and projected
incomes are summarized below for currently rainfed and irrigated farms of
sizes typical for each subproject area and with the prevailing form of tenure
at full development, i.e. leaseholders in Ilocos and amortizing owners in
Cagayan and Leyte.
Subproject   Farm   Present         Cropping
Size   Status        Intensity             Farm Family Income
(ha)              Present Future   Present Future Present Future
(%)                (P)            (US$)
Ilocos       0.8   Rainfed         100    159      2,050   5,650    275      755
Irrigated      155    159      3,050   5,650    405      755
Cagayan      2.5   Rainfed         100    174      2,900  15,650    385   2,085
Irrigated      147    174      4,150  14,650    555   1,955
Leyte        1.0   Rainfed         122    189      1,850   6,900    245       920
Irrigated      171    189      2,450   6,500    325      865
6.07      Estimated present total net incomes vary considerably between sub-
project areas and within areas, depending on whether the farm is irrigated or
rainfed. According to NIA data, farmers with small farms and/or growing rain-
fed rice derive a substantial proportion of their "other" income by off-farm
work and employment on neighboring farms as they have more time available for
these activities. It was assumed that, except for farmers who would increase
their cropping intensity and hence significantly decrease the time available
for other employment, "other" income would remain, in constant 1977 prices,
at present levels. At full development in 1987 incomes for Ilocos subproject
farmers are expected to increase between 85 and 175% depending on whether
they are on currently irrigated or rainfed land. For a 2.5 ha amortizing
owner in the Cagayan subproject income would increase by about 250% if his
farm is presently irrigated and by 440% if he is on rainfed land. For a
typical Leyte subproject 1.0 ha farm the respective increases would be 165
and 275%.
6.08      Assuming a household of 5.5 members, present per capita incomes in
the farm models examined vary from a low of US$45 for a 1.0 ha rainfed farm
in the Leyte subproject to a high of US$100 for a 2.5 ha irrigated farm in
the Cagayan subproject. These figures correspond to between 10% and 23% of



- 25 -
the national GNP per capita. About 97% of the project's farm families are at
or below the Bank's estimated absolute per capita poverty level of US$165
(expressed in 1977 constant price levels). At full project development in
1987 the projected per capita incomes would range from a low of US$135 for an
0.8 ha farm in the Ilocos systems to a maximum of US$380 for a 2.5 ha farm in
the Cagayan subproject. Per capita incomes would be some 23-64% of the 1987
projected per capita GNP of US$595. The comparisons indicate that the project
would help to narrow the income gap between the various subproject areas and
other parts of the country.
7. BENEFITS. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
7.01      The proposed project would increase yields on about 49,400 ha
currently dependent on run-of-the-river irrigation and rainfed cultivation by
providing better water control, improved drainage and the necessary agricul-
tural supporting services and a substantial schistosomiasis control program
in one of the worst affected areas in the Philippines. Except for a small
acreage of tobacco in the Ilocos subproject, rice would be the principal crop
grown throughout the project area. Approximately, 37,000 farm families and
6,100 landless laborers' families, for a total of about 240,000 people, would
benefit directly from the increased production and consequent employment.
The project would also create a demand for an additional 2.1 million man-days
of farm labor per year equivalent to some 10,500 full time jobs (Annex 18).
It would also provide farmers with increased access to markets through an
improved and denser network of roads to be constructed along the canals and
drainage system. In the Leyte subproject area the project would provide for
the largest comprehensive campaign against schistosomiasis mounted in the
Philippines, which would be aimed at reducing the disease risk for a popula-
tion of 475,000 people. The project would meet the Government's objectives
of increased food production and more balanced regional distribution of devel-
opment at a capital cost of about US$1,800 per benefited farm family. This
would be at the low end of the cost range for irrigation projects in the
Philippines, due to the high proportion of rehabilitation compared to new
construction and the high density of farm population in the Ilocos subproject
area. The cost of the schistosomiasis component of the project would amount
to about US$180 per family at risk.
7.02      Assuming a 50-year project life, a 5-year construction period, full
agricultural benefits being attained in 1987, farm-gate prices for rice and
fertilizer based on the Bank's commodity price forecasts for 1985, a shadow
price for foreign exchange, and a seasonally variable shadow wage rate for
unskilled farm labor, the economic rate of return of the project would be 20%.
The rate of return of the Ilocos subproject would be 18%, with rates of return
of individual systems ranging from 13 to 22%. For the Cagayan subproject, the
rate of return would be 20% and the range between 19 and 21%. The rate of
return of the Leyte subproject would be 21% and the range between 17 and 23%
(Annex 20).



- 26 -
7.03      The rate of return showed only moderate sensitivity to the estimates
of project costs or assumptions made concerning the timing of agricultural
benefits. In none of the cases tested, however, did the rate of return fall
below 16%. On the other hand, if the world market price for rice turns out
to be 25% higher than forecast, the rate of return would be 23%. Even
charging the full cost of the Leyte schistosomiasis control program to the
project only reduced the rate of return to 17%.
7.04      At full agricultural development the project would result in rice
import savings of US$33.0 million per year at the forecast world market prices.
After deducting the incremental cost of imported fertilizer, chemicals and
fuel, the net foreign exchange savings would amount to about US$28.0 million.
7.05      The risks normally associated with irrigation projects have
been accounted for in the estimates of yields and in the areas to be irri-
gated during the dry season. Particular care has been taken in estimating
yields in the Leyte subproject systems, to take into account the greater
risks caused by the schistosomiasis problem and the difficulty of estimating
the time lag between implementing prophylactic and therapeutic measures and
their effect on the population.
8. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations, agreement with the Government was reached on
the following principal points:
(a) the necessary water rights for both existing and expanded and/
or new systems would be granted to NIA and no other water rights
which could adversely affect the project water supply would be
granted except by mutual agreement with the Bank (para. 4.08);
(b) NIA would ensure that the aggregate amount of civil works done by
force account would not exceed 40% of the total cost of the work
(para. 4.23);
(c) NIA and DAR would enter into a formal agreement acceptable to the
Bank for implementation of the Land Consolidation Pilot Project
by December 31, 1977 (para. 5.06);
(d) NIA and DOH would enter into a formal agreement acceptable to
the Bank for implementation of the Schistosomiasis Control
Program by December 31, 1977 (para. 5.06);
(e) the Government would use its best efforts to ensure a supply of
short-term production credit in accordance with the needs of the
project (para. 5.09);
(f) NIA would prepare by December 31, 1977 a plan of action for strength-
ening the agricultural capabilities of the regional offices in
Regions 1, 2 and 6 and, after reviewing such plan of action with
the Bank, would proceed with its implementation (para. 5.10);



- 27 -
(g) NIA would make annual budgeting provisions to supply the funds
necessary for O&M of the project works; would take all necessary
action to ensure full and prompt collection of irrigation fees; and
would gradually increase irrigation fees over a period of five
years from completion of construction to a level equivalent to
about 3.5 cavans of paddy/ha in the wet season and 4.4 cavans in
the dry season (para. 5.14);
(h) the Government and the Bank would consult annually on the adequacy
of water charges and the collection thereof (para. 5.14); and
(i) the Government would provide NIA annually with sufficient funds to
effectively maintain the antischistosomiasis drainage network
built under the project (para. 5.15).
8.02      The proposed project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$50.0
million, with a 20-year maturity including a grace period of 4.5 years. The
borrower would be the Republic of the Philippines.






ANNEX 1
Page I
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Development of the National Irrigation Systems
General
1.        According to the 1972 Sector Survey,/1 the gravity irrigation
systems operated by the National Irrigation Administration (NIA) accounted
for about 40% of the total irrigated area of 960,000 ha. Since 1969, the
Government has pursued a vigorous policy of rehabilitation, upgrading and
expansion of the national irrigation systems. At the present time, NIA is
operating about 525,000 ha of irrigation, of which some 170,000 ha are
currently being rehabilitated. At the same time, construction of new irriga-
tion facilities to serve an additional 175,000 ha is in process. Both the
Asian Development Bank (ADB) and the Bank Group have substantially assisted
the Government's irrigation program. The ADB has provided assistance for
rehabilitation and extension for a total of about 115,000 ha through a series
of six loans. The Bank has assisted NIA with a program of irrigation rehabi-
litation for 133,000 ha and construction of new facilites for 102,000 ha, for
a total of 235,000 ha over a series of seven loans.
2.        The main thrust of NIA's program of rehabilitation and expansion
has been directed at the large rice growing irrigation systems in Central
Luzon and in the Cagayan valley of Northern Luzon. The ADB-assisted Angat-
Magat project and the Bank-assisted Pampanga, Penaranda, Tarlac, Magat and
Chico projects were all components of the NIA program of development of
large-scale systems in the main grain producing areas of Luzon. At the same
time, NIA has been carrying out, with ADB assistance, a smaller, but steady
program of irrigation development in Mindanao amounting to some 55,000 ha
since 1969. In'addition to rehabilitation of existing canals and structures,
the construction of new ones, the provision of better drainage and access and
the introduction of water management and rotational irrigation practices, the
program also includes the provision of extra water supplies in some areas
through the construction of storage or by transbasin diversion.
The National Irrigation Systems Improvement Study
3.        While giving initial priority to development of the larger systems
in Central Luzon, Cagayan valley and to a lesser extent in Mindanao, NIA has
not neglected the need for rehabilitation and upgrading of the badly deterio-
rated, smaller systems scattered through the Philippines.  The National
Irrigation Systems Improvement Study (NISIS) was set up in 1975 with Bank
assistance (Loan 1080-PH) to inventory the smaller systems and to select a
/1 IBRD Agricultural Sector Survey, Philippines, May 2, 1973 (Report No.
39a-PH).



ANNEX 1
Page 2
total of about 150,000 ha with the highest priority for improvement. In
addition to considering economic factors, the selection process took into
account the desirability of a balanced regional distribution, the general
poverty of the area and the institution building aspects, in terms of
strengthening the capabilities of NIA's regional offices. The selected
area was divided into convenient packages for the preparation of feasibility
grade studies.
4.        All national irrigation systems were inventoried.  Those systems
included in ongoing rehabilitation and/or expansion projects were excluded,
as were systems earmarked for rehabilitation under already identified ADB,
Bank or bilaterally assisted projects. The remaining systems were then
evaluated on the basis of the degree of need for improvement, the potential
for improvement in terms of land and water resources, the technical and
economical feasibility of improvement and the human need in the area, in
terms of poverty and incidence of waterborne disease.
Selection Criteria and Results
5.        A standardized selection checklist was established, taking into
consideration seven factors, with a weight given to each factor. Details of
the checklist are given in Attachment 1. Priority was given to systems with
a potential for area expansion, with surface water rather than groundwater,
with low levels of irrigation efficiency, with low cropping intensities,
yields and farm incomes, with high rates of unemployment and farm population,
with disease problems and with poor operations and maintenance capabilities.
6.        As a result of the screening procedure, 61 national irrigation
systems are included in NISIS, which, allowing for potential expansion, would
cover about 150,000 ha. The chosen systems have been broken down into four
packages of 35 to 40,000 ha each; details are shown in Table 1. The first
proposed project to come out of NISIS would cover systems in the Ilocos and
Cagayan areas of Northern Luzon and on the island of Leyte in the Eastern
Visayas. Three NIA Regions would be involved. The Ilocos systems were
chosen principally because of the poverty of the region and the high farm
population pressure. The Cagayan systems were chosen because of the present
backwardness of the area and the considerable potential in terms of available
land and water resources. The Leyte systems were chosen on the grounds of
the poverty of the area, the high incidence of schistosomiasis in the popula-
tion and the potential for high production levels.



ANNEX I
Attachment 1
Page 1
NISIS Priority Rating Checklist
Factor                                                              Points
1. Land Resources (15 points)
(a) Possible Area of Expansion
More than 1,000 ha                                            5
1,000-500 ha                                                  3
Less than 500 ha                                              I
(b) Unirrigated Area in System
Wet season:  more than 40%                                    6
40-20%                                          4
Less than 20%                                   2
Dry season:  more than 60%                                    4
60-20%                                          3
Less than 20%                                   2
2. Water Resources (20 points)
(a) Irrigation water available:
In excess of suitable land area                              15
In excess of existing area                                   10
Adequate for existing area                                    5
(b) Existence of wells in area:
For irrigation                                                5
Domestic use                                                  2
None                                                          0
3. Water Management (15 points)
(a) System efficiency
Very poor                                                     6
Inefficient                                                   4
Adequate                                                      2
Good                                                          0
(b) Canal/Farm Ditch Density
More than 50 m/ha                                             1
50-20 m/ha                                                   2
Less than 20 m/ha                                             3



ANNEX 1
Attachment I
Page 2
Factor                                                                 Points
(c)  Drain Den8sty
More than 40 a/ha                                                1
40-20 m/ha                                                      2
Less than 20 m/ha                                               3
(d) Access Road Density
More than 75 n/ha                                                1
50-15 m/ha                                                      2
Less than 50 m/ha                                                3
4.  Agro-Economics (20 points)
(a) Cropping Intensity
Over 120%                                                        2
Below 120%                                                      4
(b) Mean Paddy Yield/ha
Over 4.0 ton                                                    2
3.9 - 3.2 ton                                                   4
3.2 - 2.5 ton                                                   6
Under 2.5 ton                                                    8
(c) Mean Annual Farm Income
More than P 4,500                                                2
P 4,500 - P 3,500                                                4
I 3,500 - P 2,500                                                6
Less than P 2,500                                                8
5. Social (10 points)
(a) Rate of Unemployment
More than 8%                                                     2
Less than 8%                                                     1
(b) Waterborne disease
Serious                                                         2
Negligible                                                       1



ANNEX 1
Attachment 1
Page 3
Factor                                                              Points
(c) Benefited Families - No./sq km
Over 80                                                       6
80-30                                                         4
Under 30                                                      2
6.  Operations and Maintenance (10 points)
(a) Capability
Inadequate                                                   10
Fair                                                          5
Adequate                                                      0
7.  Other Factors (10 points)



ANNEX 1
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
DEVELOPMENT OF THE NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS
Grouping of NISIS Systems
Package No.      NIA Region and Location         No. of Systems /a       Area /b
(ha)
I            Region 1, Ilocos                         12               17,460
Region 2, Cagayan valley                 3               13,250
Region 6, Eastern Visayas                7                7,140
Subtotal              22                37,850
II           Region 7, Mindanao                        2                6,100
Region 8, Mindanao                       3                6,100
Region 8A, Mindanao                      4               19,800
Subtotal               9                32,000
III          Region 3, Southern Luzon                  5                7,920
Region 3A, Southern Luzon                7                7,120
Region 4, Bicol                          7                6,860
Region 5, Western Vi6ayas                4               13,520
Subtotal              23                35,420
IV           Region 1, Central Luzon                   6               34,300
Region 3, Central Luzon                  1                5,800
Subtotal               7               40,100
TOTAL                 61              145,370
/a Existing systems. NISIP I would construct 3 new systems in Region 6.
/b Estimated and subject to refinement in the course of project preparation.



PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Climatolosical Data: Ilocos Subgroiect
Jan.     Feb.       Mar.    Apr.        May      June      July      Aug.       Sept.      Oct.      Nov.       Dec.    Total
Laoag City, Ilocos Norte
Rainfall (mm) /a
Average                               4         1         2         13       108       399       434       542        368       119        47         14       2,051
Maximum                              33         6        21       122       276      1,135     1,457       989     1,007        496       195       120        3,248
Minimum                               0         0         0          0        11        50        26        76         40         0         0          0       1,199
Number of rainy days /b                 2         1          2         2         8        16        19         21        18         7         6          2         104
Relative humidity (X) /a               73        72        71         72        75        81        84        86         85        78        76         74
Temperature (0C) /b
Mean                                 24.4      24.8      26.4       28.0      28.9      28.2      27.7      27.4       27.2      27.2      26.5       25.4
Mean maximum                         29.9      30.5      31.7       33.0      33.4      32.1      31.5       30.9      30.8      31.7      31.1       30.5
Mean minimum                         19.0      19.1      21.0       23.0      24.4      24.2      23.9       23.9      23.6      22.7      21.8       20.2
Evaporation (mm) /c                   192       186       215       214        209       173       170       157        154       187       179       189        2,225
Prevailing wind direction /b            N         N         NW         NW        NW        SW        SW         SW        N         N         NE         N
Wind velocity (Km/hr) /b                6         6          5         5         5         5         5          5         5         5          6         6
Number of typhoons /d                   0         0          0         3         4         6         9          5         6         9          6         2           50
/a  Period of observation:  1949-75.                                                                                                                                      M |
/b  Period of observation:  1951-70.                                                                                                                                      m X
/c  Period of observation:  1957-43 (Pait, Ilocos Norte)                                                                                                                  '
/d  Period of observation:  1948-75.



PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
ClimatoloRical Data: Capavan Subprotect
Jan.     Feb.      Mar.    Apr.        May      June     July      Aug.      Sept.      Oct.      Nov.      Dec.    Total
Aparri. Cagayan
Rainfall (mm) /a
Average                            153        87        43.       35        88      166       183       242       288       355       416       208       2,264
Maximum                            419       237       141       137    1,114       429       577       617       574       695    1,342        488       3,203
Minimum                             13         5         1         0         1       22        20        17        41        85        34        33       1 603
Number of rainy days /b               15        11         7         5         8        13       12        15        16        18        20        19         159
Relative humidity (%) /a              84        82        81        79        78       78        79        81        83        83        85        86
Temperature (OC) b
Mean                                23.0      24.0      25.9      27.6      29.1      29.2     28.8      28.5       27.9      26.9     25.5      24. 7
mean maximum                        26.3      27.3      29.5      31.5      33.6     33.6      33.0      32.3      31.4      30.0      28.2      26.6
Mean minimum                        20.5      20.7      22.1      23.5      24.6      24.8     24.7      24.6      24.3      23.7      23.0      21.5
Evaporation (mm) /c                  157       150       188       202       210      193       195       184       180       164       146       142       2,111
(Computed by Penman's method)
Prevailing wind direction Lb           NE        NE        NE        NE        NE        S        S         s        NE        NE        NE        NE
Wind velocity (Km/hr) Jb               7         7         6         6         S         5         5        5         5          7         7         7
Number of typhoons /d                  0         0         0         3         4         5         9        5          7         7        4          2          46
(Northeastera Luzon)
la  Period of observation:  1949-75.
la  Period of observation:  1951-70.
|c  Period of computations:  1949-73.
/d  Period of observation:  1948-72.



PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Climatological Data: Leyte Subproject
Jan.     Feb.      Mar.    Apr.        May      June      July      Aug.      Sept.      Oct.      Nov.      Dec.    Total
Tacloban City
Rainfall (mm) /a
Average                            257       179       148       113       151       137       153       135       147       171       242       279       2,112
.Maximum                            862       377       366       356       434       321       247       303       306       345       390       543       2,884
Minimum                             46        36        i3        30        41        35        59        73        65        49        94        69       1,477
Number of rainy days /a               20        18        17        16        15        16        18        15        16        18        20        22         211
Relative humidity (Z) /a              83        83        81        80        81        81        80        79        80        82        84        84
Temperature (OC)/b
Mean                                26.0      26.0      26.7      27.5      28.0      28.0      27.8      28.1      28.1      27.8      27.2      26.5
Mean maximum                        29.0      29.0      30.1      30.9      31.1      31.2      31.2      31.5      31.5      31.2      30.4      29.2
Mean minimum                        23.0      22.7      23.3      24.2      24.8      24.7      24.5      24.7      24.7      24.3      24.0      23.5
Evaporation (mm) /c                  131       124       162       170       172       154       153       152       147       150       134       125       1,774
(Computed by Penman's method)
Prevailing wind direction /d           NW        NW        NW        NW        SE        SE        NW        NW        NW        NW        NW        NW
Wind velocity (Km/hr) /d               6         6         5         5         5         4         4         4         4         5         5         5
Number of typhoons /e                  2         0         0        .2         6         4         1         1         1         4        13         4           38
(Leyte Gulf - Samar)
/a  Period of observation:  1949-73.
/b  Period of observation:  1951-70.
/c  Period of computations:  1950-73.                                                                                                                                   m X
/d  Period of observation:  1951-70                                                                                                                                     ' s
/e  Period of observation:  1948-75



ANNEX 3
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Land Tenure and Reform
Background
1.        Since 1972, the Government has pursued an agrarian reform program
aimed at the transfer of land ownership to tenant farmers on rice and corn
lands. Presidential Decree No. 27 (PD 27), the basic legislation of the new
program, provides for the transfer to the tenant, whether sharecropper or
leaseholder, of the land he tills up to a total of 3 ha in an irrigated area
and 5 ha in a rainfed area. The Decree lays down a system of valuing the
land and provides for the tenant to pay for it in 15 equal annual installments
at an interest rate of 6% per annum.
2.        It is estimated that the total number of rice and corn tenants is
about 1.0 million on some 1.5 million ha owned by about 430,000 landlords.
Some 85% of these landlords have holdings of less than 7 ha. In addition,
the total number of rice and corn farmers probably exceeds 2 million, while
the total area of rice and corn lands is not much more than 4 million ha, of
which less than 1 million ha are irrigated. There is, therefore, little
prospect of achieving the objective of 5 ha rainfed or 3 ha irrigated family
farms nationwide.
3.        A recent survey by the Department of Agrarian Reform (DAR) reports
that 55% of the tenants farming 45% of the tenanted area are under landlords
with holdings smaller than 7 ha. The Government is anxious not to antagonize
the small landowners, and is looking for a solution equitable to both tenants
and landlords. For holdings under 7 ha the Government has announced its
intention to enforce leasehold with security of tenure. To prevent abuses
pending the issue of rules and regulations under the various decrees, the
Government has forbidden evictions, and has declared sharecropping illegal.
DAR is proceeding with the transfer of land in holdings over 24 ha, and by
September 1976, had issued land transfer certificates to 224,000 tenants
covering 390,400 ha in 64 provinces but valuation and payment have been slow.
DAR reports that landlords and tenants have submitted to the DAR valuations
for 76,600 ha, involving 1,945 landlords and 56,100 tenants in 43 provinces.
The Land Bank has paid compensation to 1,320 landlords for 54,400 ha,
involving 28,500 former tenants.
4.        In November 1974, the Government decided to proceed with the trans-
fer of land in holdings between 24 and 7 ha. This work began in January 1975
and is targeted to be finished by the end of 1977. To expedite land transfer
and resolve land valuation disputes, barrio (hamlet) land valuation committees
began functioning in April 1975. The committees consist of the barrio
captain, four tenant farmers, two owner cultivators, two landowners, a
representative from the DAR and one from the samahang nayon (precooperative
organization).



ANNEX 3
Page 2
5.        The most important recent development in agrarian reform has been
the President's Letter of Instruction No. 474 (LOI 474), dated October 21,
1976, extending the provisions of PD 27 to tenanted rice and corn landhold-
ings of less than 7 ha, belonging to landowners with more than 7 ha of other
agricultural land, or belonging to landowners with residential, commercial
and urban land from which they derive adequate incomes to support themselves
and their families. The practical effects of the new legislation are not yet
known.
Situation in the Project Area.
6.        According to DAR and NIA data, an estimated 27,500 people own the
49,400 ha of rice land in the project area with some 97% of the owners having
properties of less than 7 ha, accounting for 77% of the area. The remaining
3% of the holdings larger than 7 ha, the operational limit for land transfer
before LOI 474, comprise 23% of the area (11,330 ha), which will be trans-
ferred to former tenants. There is a considerable variation in the degree of
skewness of landownership in the three subproject areas. The Ilocos systems
show the least inequality with the Cagayan systems at the other extreme and
the Leyte systems in the middle. The landownership pattern by size of
holding in the project and subproject areas as of December 1975 is shown in
Table 1.
7.        The average project farm unit is 1.3 ha.  There are, however, sub-
stantial differences between the three subproject areas. The Ilocos systems
with a mean farm size of 0.8 ha and little variation from the mean reflect
the high population density and the scarcity of level land found in north-
western Luzon. The systems in Cagayan, an area of ongoing immigration, show
an average farm size of 2.5 ha with a considerable degree of dispersion
around the mean. The average farm size in the Leyte systems is 1.5 ha and
the degree of variation from the mean is intermediate between the low in
Ilocos and the high in Cagayan. Details on farm size distribution are given
in Table 2.
8.        In January 1975, owner-operators accounted for 27% of the farmers
and the remainder were all tenants. The proportion of owner-operators
appeared to parallel farm size, the highest proportion of owner-operators
is on the Cagayan systems where the largest mean farm sizes are seen, and
the lowest proportion of owner-operators is on the Ilocos systems where farm
sizes are smallest. The Leyte systems fall in the middle on both criteria.
Details on tenure in the project area are shown in Table 3.
9.        The transfer by DAR of all landlord holdings larger than 7 ha
would involve an estimated 11,330 ha and 7,695 tenants. The transfer would
result in some 26,900 ha or 54% of the project area being cultivated by
about 18,000 owner-operators, the equivalent of 48% of the farmers. The
greatest change would be in the Leyte and Cagayan systems where owner-
operators would account for 66 and 67% of all farmers respectively, com-
pared to the current levels of 33 and 39%. The 19,000 tenant farmers on
holdings of less than 7 ha would operate under leasehold contracts.



PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Land Ownership
Subprojects                                               Project
Size of               Ilocos                      Cagayan                       Leyte
Holding        Owners         Area         Owners         Area          Owners         Area           Owners         Area
(ha)        No.    %        ha    %     No.    %        ha    %      No.    %       ha    %         No.   %       ha    %
<7.0      12,051   97  15,074   86   6,342   98  14,448   78   8,344   97   8,549   66   26,737   97  38,071   77
7.1-24.0       321 }       2,306   13      115 }       1,381    7      232 }       2,532   19        668 }       6,219   13
24.1-50.0        11 }  3      158 }           7 }  2      198    1        37 )  3   1,054    8         55 }  3   1,410    3
1
>50.0            1 }          62 }          16 }__    2,673   14         12 }         965    7        29 }__    3,700    7
Total     12,384  100  17,600  100   6,480  100  18,700  100   8,625  100  13,100  100   27,489  100  49,400  100
H 
tD X



PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Farm Size Distribution
Subprojlects                                                Project
Ilocos                     Cagayan                      Leyte
Farm Size      Farms          Area         Farms         Area          Farms         Area           Farms            Area
(ha)      No.    %        ha    %    No.      %       ha    %    No.    %         ha    %      No.     %       ha    %
< 0.5      4,680   22   1,205    7    220    3          65    -  1,695   20        405    3   6,600   18   1,675    3
0.5-1.5    14,800   70  12,655   72  3,065   41   3,160   17  4,200   49   4,145   32  22,060   59  19,960   40
1.6-2.0      1,190    6   2,220   13  1,385   18   2,765   15  1,130   13   2,228   17   3,700   10   7,210   15
2.1-4.0        470    2   1,405    8  1,895   25   5,965   32  1,160   13   3,585   27   3,530    9  10,955   22
4.1-7.0         15    -        75    -    590    8   3,260   17    345    4   1,912   15            950    3   5,250   11
> 7.0          5    -       40    -    390    5   3,485   19          90    1      825    6       485    1   4,350    9
Total       21,160  100  17,600  100  7,545  100  18,700  100  8,620  100  13,100  100  37,325  100  49,400  100
Mlean Farm Size               0.8                         2.5                         1.5                         1.32



PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Existing Land Tenure (January 1975)
Subprojects                                                Project
Ilocos                     Cagayan                     Leyte
Tenure            Farmers        Area        Farmers        Area        Farmers        Area          Farmers          Area
No.    %       ha    %    No.    %        ha    %    No.    %        ha    %       No.    %      ha      %
Owner-operator  4,505   21   3,590   20  2,910   39   8,195   44  2,870   33   3,770   29  10,280   27  15,560   31
Leaseholder        135    1      110    1      85    1       140    1    435    5       630    5      655    2       880    2
Sharecropper   16,520   78  13,900   79  4,550   60  10,365   55  5,315   62   8,700   66  26,390   71  32,960   67
Total     21,160  100  17,600  100  7,545  100  18,700  lOO  8,620 100         13,1 100       37,325  100  49,400  l00
Hm
(D X



PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Expected Post Reform Land Tenure
Subprojects                                                Project
Ilocos                     Cagayan                     Leyte
Tenure               Farmers        Area        Farmers        Area         Farmers        Area         Farmers           Area
No.    %       ha    %    No.    %        ha    %    No.    %        ha    %       No.    %       ha    %
Owner-operator      4,505   21   3,590   20  2,910   39   8,195   44  2,870   33   3,770   29  10,280   27  15,560   31
Amortizing owner   3,005   14   2,525   14  1,880   25   4,255   23  2,810   33   4,550   35   7,695   21  11,330   23
Leaseholder        13,650   65  11,485   66  2,755   36   6,250   33  2,940   34   4,780   36  19,350   52  22,510   46
Total         21,160  100  17,600  100  7,545  100  18,700  100  8,620  100  13,100  100  37,325  100  49,400  100
& z
M
> W



ANNEX 4
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Project Irrigation Works
1.        The National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project:  I would
provide irrigation service to 49,400 ha of rice land by rehabilitation and
improvement of irrigation works on 27,600 ha and construction of new irriga-
tion and drainage facilities in a presently rainfed area of 21,800 ha. The
project would be subdivided into three subprojects in Ilocos, Cagayan and
Leyte; it would cover 22 existing national irrigation systems and would build
3 new ones. The area of each system to be rehabilitated aru extended is
shown in Table 1. The project works would consist of:
(a) rehabilitation and upgrading of irrigation, drainage and road
facilities on some 27,600 ha of existing irrigation systems in
the following subprojects:
(i)  Ilocos subproject - 12 systems and about 14,900 ha;
(ii)  Cagayan subproject - 3 systems and about 8,900 ha; and
(iii) Leyte subproject - 7 systems and about 3,800 ha;
(b) construction of new irrigation, drainage and road facilities on
about 18,300 ha of currently rainfed land adjoining existing
irrigation systems in the following subprojects:
(i) Ilocos subproject - 9 systems and about 2,700 ha;
(ii) Cagayan subproject - 3 systems and about 9,800 ha; and
(iii) Leyte subproject - 6 systems and about 5,800 ha;
(c) construction of new irrigation, drainage and access facilities,
including diversion and conveyance works, for the three new national
irrigation systems in the Leyte subproject to serve currently
rainfed areas of 3,500 ha.
2.        The locations of the irrigation systems and principal works are
shown on Maps No 12613, 12508 and 12509. Table 2 summarizes the main
features of the project; the estimated number of structures which would be
modified, repaired or newly provided under the project are listed in Table 3.
Costs per hectare and the density of on-farm facilities for each subproject
and the project as a whole are given in Tables 4 and 5, respectively.
Rehabilitation of Existing Systems
3.        The improvements would include minor repairs to existing diversion
structures and outlet works, the construction and/or enlargement of canals
and drains, repairs and modification of existing, and provision of new,



ANNEX 4
Page 2
water-regulating and delivery structures, and the construction of O&M, access
and farm roads.  General features of the improved irrigation systems would
include additional canal structures such as checks, turnouts and installation
of gates on existing canal structures to more effectively control water
deliveries and to provide water more efficiently to each field as needed.
Constant head orifice turnouts to sublaterals, or a water measuring and
control device of an equivalent nature, would be provided for water deliveries
to rotational areas of about 50 ha. Turnouts would be provided for each
10 ha unit from which farm ditches, constructed as part of the project, would
convey water directly to most farms. In the case of the Ilocos subproject, a
rotational area of 30 ha with a subunit of 6 ha is assumed because of the
much smaller size of farm. Farm drains would convey excess water from each
10 ha unit to the main project outlet drains in flat areas. For more steeply
sloping areas, such as a major part of the Ilocos subproject, where the land
gradient in the direction of flow is in excess of 0.4%, the farms would drain
from field to field, and consequently the intensity of farm and collector
secondary drains would be somewhat lower. In the Cagayan subproject area,
nearly all farms would obtain water directly from a farm ditch; in the Leyte
and Ilocos subproject areas, some farms would still receive water through
their neighbors' fields. Canals would be unlined except in selected portions
of short length where the soils are erosive. Working stations for Water
Management Technicians (WIMT) would be provided for about each 500 ha of
irrigated land in the Cagayan subproject and for each 300 ha in the Ilocos
and Leyte subprojects. The stations would provide space for temporary
storage and drying of paddy. Due to a lower cropping intensity, the drying
floor space for the Ilocos subproject would be less than for the other two
subprojects. Gatekeeper quarters would be constructed at the major checks
and turnouts of main canals and diversion sites for proper, safe and effective
operation.
4.        Gravel surfaced O&M roads would be constructed on the canal banks.
Canals with a design flow greater than 5.0 cu m/sec, would be provided with a
roadway 5 m wide-on both banks, if the service area is on both sides of the
canal and one bank where the canal serves the area on one side. Canals with
capacities between 2.0 and 5.0 cu m/sec would be provided with a 3.5 m wide
road on one bank. The roadway along waterways with capacities less than
2.0 cu m/sec and along some of the major farm ditches would be a nongravel
2.0 m wide cycle or cart path.  Access roads 5.0 m wide would also be
provided as links between the existing major roads of the area and the canal
O&M roads. These roads would also serve as farm-to-market roads. Gravel
surfacing on some of the major existing farm-to-market roads would be provided.
The surfacing of the roads would be 20 cm thick for 5.0 m wide roadways and
15 cm thick for 3.5 m roadways. To allow continuous passage along the 0&0
roads, bridges and/or culverts across the existing drainage waterways would
be built. However, on major streams or rivers, the O&M roads would be
connected to existing bridges by short access roads instead of constructing
expensive, multispan bridges.
5.        The proposed level of on-farm distribution and drainage is similar
to that being implemented in other Bank-assisted projects, and would be a
substantial improvement on the present, practically nonexistent system.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Due to smaller farm holdings, the density of farm ditches would be greater
in the Ilocos subproject area and the density and depth of farm drains would
be increased in the Leyte subproject area to provide for control of schistoso-
miasis. Rice has been grown in the project area for many years and the land
is reasonably level and generally well laid out so no land leveling would be
required at this stage. The landholdings are small and fragmented in the
Ilocos subproject area and boundary realignment and land consolidation would
be desirable. Due to population pressure, lack of alternative employment and
inheritance practices, a large-scale program of land consolidation would not
be practical at the present time. However, provision would be made under the
project for a land consolidation study and small pilot scheme covering up to
500 ha in the Ilocos area to test the feasibility of achieving a reduction in
the degree of farm fragmentation (Annex 7). No boundary realignment or land
consolidation would be required in areas of the Cagayan and Leyte subprojects.
Extension of Existing Systems
6.        All of the extension areas, except parts of Abulog and Pamplona
systems in the Cagayan subproject, would use existing diversion structures.
The main canal, with related structures and outlet works, would be enlarged
to carry the additional flow required for the extension areas of each system.
New distribution, drainage, access and on-farm facilities would be built
according to the standards and densities described for rehabilitation works.
7.        For the extension area of the Abulog system in the Cagayan subpro-
ject, a diversion dam would be constructed at the recently completed intake
works for the Abulog east main canal. The dam would consist of a concrete
overflow section about 250 m long with a maximum height of about 3 m above
streambed. The recently completed sluiceway structure, equipped with two
4.3 m x 2.5 m slide gates, would be provided with mechanized gate operation.
The present capacity of the intake works would be increased from 13.0 cu m/sec
to 22.0 cu m/sec by two additional gates of the same size as the existing
four 1.4 m x 1.4 m slide gates.  The east main canal would be enlarged for
about the first 7.0 km of its length to accommodate the increased capacity.
Due to the deep cut and rock formations in an initial stretch of 2 km, the
canal capacity would be increased by slightly enlarging and lining the
existing canal section.
8.        The Pamplona system of the Cagayan subproject is served by a
gravity diversion structure on the Gattu creek. To improve the presently
inadequate supply situation, to extend the system from the currently irrigated
area of 200 ha to 800 ha and to increase the cropping intensity to 200%, the
source of water supply would be shifted to the Pamplona river. The change in
water source would require the construction of a pumping station equipped
with three 60 cm diameter pumps powered by three 150 horsepower diesel
engines for a lift of about 8 m, together with a link canal, 3 km long,
connecting the pumping station to the existing main canal.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
New Irrigation Systems (Leyte Subproject)
9.        The Balire River Irrigation System would serve 1,500 ha through
diversion works constructed on the Balire river, about 7 km southwest of the
town of Macarthur. The diversion structure would be a concrete weir of ogee
type about 40 m long, 1.5 m high, with intake structures on both sides to
serve areas on the northern and southern banks of the river. The north and
south main canals would each be about 5.6 km long.
10.       The Gibuga River Irrigation System would be served by a concrete
diversion weir of ogee type about 55 m long, 2 m high located on the Gibuga
river about 5 km southwest of the town of Mayorga. The service area of
1,300 ha would obtain its water through intake structures on each bank and
two main canals, each about 5.6 km in length.
11.       The Ibawan River Irrigation System would require construction of a
1 m high concrete diversion weir of ogee type about 60 m long across the
Ibawan river located about 5 km west of the town of Macarthur. An intake
structure at the left side would deliver water to a main canal about 5.4 km
long to serve 700 ha of irrigable land.
O&M Buildings
12.       A subregional office would be established at Laoag, in Ilocos Norte
in Region I, as the present regional office at Urdaneta is too far removed
from the bulk of the irrigation systems of the Ilocos subproject. The con-
struction of subregional facilities would include offices, an infirmary,
staff quarters, laboratory facilities, a warehouse and a workshop for repairs
and maintenance of O&M equipment. Two new field offices to be located in the
towns of MIayorga and Tanauan in the Leyte subproject would be constructed to
serve the three new irrigation systems and the extension area of the Binaha-
an Sur system respectively. The existing offices, workshops and staff quar-
ters, etc. are inadequate at the following locations and would be expanded
under the project:
(a) the field offices of the Bolo, Santa Maria, Amburayan and Masalip
irrigation systems of the Ilocos subproject, located in or near the
towns of Bangut, Santa Maria, Bangar and Agoo, respectively;
(b) the field offices of the Abulog and Banurbur systems of the Cagayan
subproject, located in or near the towns of Libertad and Buguey,
respectively; and
(c) the field offices of the Binaha-an Norte, Hindang-Hilongos systems
of the Leyte subproject, located in the towns of Palo and Hindang,
respectively.



ANNEX 4
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Irrigation Systems by Subproiect
Irrigable Area (ha)                Cost /a
Rehabili-
Subproject        Irrigation System            tation      Extension    New    Total         (US$/ha)
Ilocos            Bolo River                      400           400        -        800        1,230
(NIA Region 1)   Pasuquin                         600           100        -        700        1,150
Laoag-Vintar                  2,300          100        -      2,400        1,230
Dingras                       1,100           -         -      1,100        1,080
Cura River                      500          300        -        800        1,370
Bonga Pump                   1,200            -         -      1,200          890
Abra Pump                       650           -         -        650        1,190
Santa Maria-Burgos              850          100        -        950        1,120
Santa Lucia-Candon           1,600           200        -      1,800        1,030
Tagudin                      1,350           100        -      1,450        1,000
Amburayan River              3,050           800        -      3,850          990
Masalip River                1.300           600        -      1,900        1,070
Subtotal                  14,900        2,700         -    17,600         1,090
Cagayan           Abulog River                  8,000         9,000        -    17,000         1,575
(NIA Region 2)   Banurbur River                   700           200        -        900        1,570
Pamplona Pump                   200          600        -        800        1,960
Subtotal                   8,900         9,800        -    18,700         1,590
Leyte             Binaha-an (Norte) River    1,000           1,500         -      2,500        1,280
(NIA Region 6)   Binaha-an (Sur) River            600        2,400         -     3,000         1,515
Guinarona River                 450          350        -        800        1,430
Tibak River-Soong Lake          750        1,250        -      2,000        1,190
Hindang-Hilongos                600           50        -        650        1,105
Das-ay River                    250          250        -        500        1,515
Cumunga-an River                150           -         -        150        1,490
Balire River (new)               -            -       1,500   1,500         1,615
Gibuga River (new)               -            -       1,300   1,300         1,710
Ibawon River (new)               -            -         700      700        1,600
Subtotal                   3,800         5,800      3,500  13,100         1,430
TOTAL                  27.600       18,300      3,500  49,400          1,370
/a Includes all costs except price contingencies.



ANNEX 4
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Principal Project Features
Subproject              Total
Ilocos   Cagayan   Leyte
Number of systems                           12         3        10          25
Net irrigable area (ha)                 17,600   18,700   13,100       49,400
Diversion dam (no.)
Temporary brush dam                        6        -         -            6
Existing concrete weir                     5         2       11           18
New concrete weir                          -         1         3           4
Pumping station (no.)
Existing                                   2        -         -            2
New                                        -         1        -            1
Ma4n canal (km)
Existing                                 165       78        51         294
New                                      16        37        55         108
Laterals (km)
Existing                                321       187       170         678
New                                       42      165       147         354
Project drains (km)
Existing                                  81       85       180 /a      346
New                                       54      170       330 Ia      554
Farm ditches (km)
Existing                                 180      210       170         560
New                                      868      707       502       2,077
Farm drains (km)                           288       700       516       1,504
Service roads:
O&M roads
Along main canals (3.5-5 m)           145        90        95         330
Along laterals (3.5 m)                230       210       190         630
Along main & secondary drains
(3.5-5 m)                             -         -       150         150
Access roads (3.5 m)                      18        28        24          70
Farm roads (2.0 m)                       140       260      340 /a       740
/a  Includes drains for Schistosomiasis Control Program.



ANNEX 4
Table 3
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
List of Structures
Subproject            Total
Ilocos   Cagayan   Leyte
Diversion structures
New diversion weir (no.)                                       -         1         3        4
Replace existing gates (no.)                                   4         -         9       13
Mechanized gates operation (no.)                               -         2         -        2
New intake structure (no.)                                     -         1         3        4
Repair existing structures (no.)                               6         1         2        9
Pumping stations
New station (no.)                                              -         1         -        1
Repair existing intake channel (no.)                           2         -         -        2
Main canals
Modification of existing structures:
Install gates on checks, siphons & check-drops (no.)   29               26        22       77
Repairs of existing structures (no.)                         69         38        45      152
Extension of existing drainage structures (m)               240        80        140      460
New additional structures:
Check or check-drops (no.)                                    52        26        25      103
Bridges across canals (no.)                                    3         3         2        8
Operation road bridges (no.)                                   3         2         3        8
Culverts or thresher crossings (no.)                         22         20        25       67
Drainage structures (no.)                                    28        25         10       63
Foot bridges for schistosomiasis control (no.)                 -         -        20       20
Secondary canals
Modification of existing structures:
Install gates on existing checks (no.)                      110        70        80      260
Repair of existing structures (no.)                         220       120       200      540
Extension of existing drainage structures (m)               200       140       120      460
New additional structures:
Parshall flumes (no.)                                        15        30        20       65
New checks with gates (no.)                                  10        40        30       80
New checks without gates (no.)                               40       110       100      250
C.H.O. turnouts (no.)                                        28        35        22       85
Operation road bridges (no.)                                   3        4          2       9
Culverts or thresher crossings (no.).                        10        60         20      90
Foot bridges for schistosomiasis control (no.)                -         -       600      600
Main and Secondary Drains
Drops (no.)                                                  40        40         50     130
Road crossings (no.)                                        160        80        130     270
Drainage inlets (no.)                                       160       120       300      580
Foot bridges for schistosomiasis control (no.)                -         -       250      250



ANNEX 4
Table 4
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Irrigation Facilities Cost
Subprojects
Ilocos   Cagayan   Leyte         Mean
--------- (US$/ha) /a -----------
I.  Rehabilitation Area (ha)                       14,900     8,900     3,800       27,600
(a) Diversion works:
Diversion dam, intake works and
pumping station                         55         24        63          45
(b) Canal system
Main canal                                129       122        87          121
Secondary canals                          93        119        84         100
Subtotal                            222       231       171          221
(c)  Drainage system                              48        107       132          79
(d)  Road system                                 156        181       200         170
(e)  On-farm distribution and drainage           289       251        279         275
Subtotal                            770       794       845          790
II.  Extension Area (ha)                             2,700     9,800     9,300      21,800
(a) Diversion works:
Diversion dam, intake works and
pumping station                         56       242         99         157
(b) Canal system:
Main canal                                133       380       183         265
Secondary canals                          95        165       131         141
Subtotal                              228       545       314         406
(c)  Drainage system                              48       101       137          110
(d)  Road system                                 156       213       242          218
(e)  On-farm distribution and drainage /b   290            306       297          300
Subtotal                              778    1,407      1,089       1,191
Total                                 771     1,121     1,018         967
/a  Not including contingencies (20-25%) and engineering, supervision and adminis-
tration (10%).
/b  Includes Water Management Technician stations, gate keeper quarters and
topographic surveys and mapping.



ANNEX 4
Table 5
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Density of Terminal On-farm Facilities on IBRD Projects
On-farm Facility                         Roads
Project          Irrigation   Drainage                O&M      Farm   Total
……                      (in-------------(m/ha) ----------------…----------
UPRP                  57           12                  13         -       13
Tarlac                55           40                  13         -       13
Magat                 60           40                  15         -       15
Chico                 59           40                  18         -       18
Jalaur                47           24                  17         7      24
NISIP-I               53           31                  23        15       38 /a
Ilocos             60            16                  22         8      30
Cagayan            49            37                  18        14      32
Leyte              51            39                  32       26       58
/a Higher road density due to:
(i) small system size in Ilocos;
(ii) absence of existing village road network in Cagayan;
(iii) requirement for additional roads along anti-schistosomiasis
drains in Leyte.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Water Supply, Demand and Quality
Water Supply
1.        Each of 21 irrigation systems obtains its water supply from a sepa-
rate river source, using its own diversion and conveyance systems. Of the
remaining four systems, two receive water from one river and the other two
systems obtain their supply by the interception of three different water
sources. The project would not develop additional irrigation supplies
through construction of storage, but would improve and expand the area
covered by 21 existing irrigation systems, shift the source of supply for
1 system and provide diversion from new sources for 3 new systems. About
70%, of the project area would be supplied with water during the dry season.
2.        Six irrigation systems in the Ilocos subproject area, one system in
the Cagayan subproject area and four systems in the Leyte subproject area do
not have any stream gauging station at or near the diversion point, and the
available data for the remaining six systems in Leyte are discontinuous and
for short periods. tIost of the stream gauging stations in the Leyte subpro-
ject area are located downstream of the diversion points, requiring estimation
of upstream withdrawals. For the seven systems in the Ilocos and Cagayan
subproject areas, the long-tern flows at each diversion point were developed
by using the streamflow data of nearby river basins of similar physical
characteristics and adjusting them on an area basis. Flows of the Baguitan
river were used for the systems in the Leyte subproject area. Reliable
streamflow records for the Baguitan were available for the 11-year period
1957 to 1968. These were extended back to 1948 and up to 1973 by use of
rainfall records. The missing data for the other project rivers were synthe-
sized for the same period. The generated streamflows were found to be in
reasonable agreement with concurrent actual streamflows wherever available.
3.        The remaining six systems of the Ilocos subproject area, covering a
total irrigable area of 7,600 ha, have stream gauges located downstream of
the diversion point. The available streanflows were adjusted for upstream
withdrawals using the figures for the benefited area available for the period
from 1966-74. The missing long-term discharge records were synthesized from
rainfall records of the concurrent period. The river used, catchment area at
point of diversion and first year of diversion and stream gauging for the
six systems are as follows:



ANNEX 5
Page 2
Catchment        First Year
System                River            Area       Diversion   Gauging
(sq km)
Dingras               Bonga              534        1923         1946
Bonga pump            Laoag            1,355        1959         1958
Santa Lucia-Candon   Buaya               195        1951         1948
Santa Maria-Bongos   Santa Maria         123        1962         1951
Abra                  Abra             2,575        1966         1959
Masalip               Aringay            274        1962         1946
4.        The Abulog and Banurbur systems of the Cagayan subproject area,
with irrigable areas of 17,000 ha and 900 ha and catchments of 1,432 sq km
and 112 sq km respectively, were opened for irrigation in 1969. Streamflow
recording at a gauging station located downstream of diversion point started
in 1952. The streamflow data for the missing period and adjustment of
upstream withdrawals for the period from 1969-74 were determined according
to the procedure described earlier for the Ilocos subproject.
Water Demand
5.        About 26,300 ha are presently under irrigated rice cultivation in
the wet season, out of which 13,100 ha are cropped to rice during the dry
season. In addition, an area of about 1,300 ha is currently under irrigated
crops other than rice, predominantly tobacco, in the Ilocos subproject area
during the dry season. It was assumed that transplanted rice using 120-day
nonphotosensitive varieties in both the wet and dry season would remain the
dominant crop in the project. Water requirements for rice were based on the
following cropping calendar for the three subproject areas:
Sub-                                                         Dates
project          Operation                 Wet Season                 Dry Season
Ilocos   Land preparation & nursery  early May to mid-Sept.   mid-Oct. to mid-Feb.
Transplanting                early July to mid-Sept.  early Dec. to mid-Feb.
Harvesting                   mid-Oct. to mid-Dec.       mid-Mar. to mid-May
Cagayan  Land preparation & nursery  early Aug. to mid-Nov.   early Jan. to mid-Apr.
Transplanting                mid-Sept. to mid-Nov.    mid-Feb. to mid-Apr.
Harvesting                   mid-Dec. to mid-Feb.       mid-May to mid-July
Leyte    Land preparation & nursery  early Sept. to mid-Dec.  early Feb. to mid-May
Transplanting                mid-Oct. to mid-Dec.       mid-Mar. to mid-May
Harvesting                   mid-Jan. to mid-Mar.       mid-June to mid-Aug.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
6.        Land preparation and nursery were estimated to take 30 days with
water requirements for saturation, evaporation and percolation of 300 mm,
310 mm and 320 mm in the wet season and 320 mm, 330 mm and 300 mm in the dry
season for Ilocos, Cagayan and Leyte subproject areas respectively. Flooding
requirements to provide a minimum depth of water in the field for cultivation
in each season were estimated to be 20 mm immediately after transplanting
followed by additional 50 mm about two weeks later. Field percolation losses
were estimated to be 2.0 mm/day. Evapotranspiration rates were estimated to
be equal to the observed Class A pan evaporation at Pait, between 1957 and
1973 for the Ilocos subproject area. For the Cagayan subproject area,
evapotranspiration rates were estimated by Penman's method from meteorological
data recorded at Aparri for the period 1949-73. The same method was used to
compute evapotranspiration rates for the Leyte subproject area from data
collected at Tacloban City between 1949 and 1973. The effective rainfall
was determined from observed daily rainfall records at Laoag between 1949 and
1971 for the Ilocos subproject systems, at Aparri between 1949 and 1975 for
the Cagayan subproject area and at Tacloban City between 1949 and 1973 for
the Leyte systems, allowing water depth to fluctuate with the growth of the
rice plants and limiting maximum depth to 150 mm.
7.        The overall irrigation efficiency was estimated to be 43% in the wet
season and 50% in the dry season at full development, based on farm irrigation
wastes of 40% in the wet season and 30% in the dry season, system operation
losses of 10% and conveyance losses of 20%.
8.        The consumptive use of tobacco was assumed to be a ratio of the
observed monthly evaporation at Pait in the Ilocos subproject area. The
following crop coefficients were used to obtain the consumptive use for
tobacco:
State of Growth                Crop Coefficient
Cultivation & Transplanting             0.7-0.9
Transplanting - 3 months                  0.7
3-4 months                                0.6
As tobacco is grown during the dry season with negligible rainfall, the
effective rainfall was assumed to be zero. An overall irrigation efficiency
of 60% was used to derive the diversion requirements for the crop.
9.        Monthly water requirements of the three subprojects for the rice
and tobacco crops are shown in Tables 1 and 2; seasonal and total annual
diversion requirements are developed in Table 3. Monthly water requirements
and average river flows for those systems where water supply would be a
significant constraint are shown in Tables 4 for the Ilocos subproject
systems and in Table 5 for the Cagayan and Leyte systems.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
10.       The size of the irrigated area for each system was determined from
simulated operation studies using synthesized discharge records for the
25-year period 1948-73, and the estimated seasonal water requirements for
rice. The cropping calendar was chosen to maximize the use of rainfall
without exceeding local manpower constraints. No use of return flow was
assumed. About 36,000 ha can be irrigated during the dry season in the three
subproject areas. Adequate water supply is available to meet the supplemen-
tary irrigation demand of each system during the wet season. For five
systems in the Ilocos subproject area, where temporary brushwood diversion
weirs are used for dry-season diversion, proper allowances were made for
seepage through the structures. In the Amburayan system in the Ilocos
subproject area, dry-season cultivation was limited to 3,000 ha. The wide
channel of the river at the point of intake does not allow for sufficient
head at low flows to command a greater area, unless a temporary weir is
constructed by bulldozing gravel from the riverbed. The area of dry-season
irrigation for the Binaha-an (Sur) system in the Leyte subproject area was
taken at 1,700 ha. The system would obtain its water from a river and two
creeks, which would also provide water to the Binaha-an (Norte) and Tibak-
Soong systems. As the Binaha-an (Sur) system is downstream of the other two
systems, the dry-season irrigated area was determined by taking 80% of the
residual flow in the months of April and May.  The currently irrigated areas
and the irrigable areas selected for development under the project for each
system are given in Table 6.
Water Quality
11.       Tests of water samples from the Binaha-an river, serving a major
part of four existing systems, and for the Gibuga, Ibawon and Balire rivers
near the proposed diversion sites for three new systems in the Leyte sub-
project area, indicate good water quality with total dissolved solids under
300 ppm. The waters are of low salinity, slightly alkaline (pH 7-S) and free
of toxic elements. Water samples from the rivers in the Ilocos and Cagayan
subproject areas were not taken for analysis. However, no adverse effects
have been noted on the soils or crops irrigated with these waters for periods
ranging from 10 to 50 years.
12.       Tests of water samples from the Amburayan river near the Amburayan
system intake indicate that solids contained in the water reached 3,700 mg/l.
The water is of milky color and contains suspended fine silt and clay from
mine tailings of two copper mines located on two upstream tributaries of the
river. The tailings cause some silting in the canals and there is some
deposition in the paddy fields. Although no toxic chemicals have been found
in the water samples, some physical damage to crops from the polluted water
has been reported during the dry season when river flows are low. The
NIational Pollution Control Commission, in close cooperation with the Bureau
of Mines and the Department of Agriculture, has been actively pursuing the
control of mine tailings, as a result of which two mine tailing dams are
under construction. One has been in operation since 1974 and the second one,
to control tailings from the bigger of the two mines, is expected to be
operational in February 1977.



ANNEX 5
Table I
PhILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEHENT PROJECT: I
Estimated Water Requirement for Systems included in the Ilocos Subproject Area
I ~ 1        1         F        I        F         I        T                           IF 
|  Jan. |  Feb.    M Nar. | Apr.  |  May   | June  | July          Aug.  | Sept. |  Oct. |  Nov. I  Dec. | Total
Systems in Ilocos Sur                  I                 I         I        I                                                          _
and La Union                        I         I        I        I         I         I t
Wet-season paddy               I        I        I                  I         I                        T + M
Dry-season paddy                                             .JII                                         II
l        I        I         I        I         I        I        I _       I         I        I         I        I
Systems in Ilocos Norte                I        I         I        I        I         I        I        I         I         I         ..,L  _
and Abra                            I         I        I        I         I         I        I                           I                           I
Wet-season paddy                  L Lp+N |                                    I                           IT+M|       -  |               i
I    I     _   l     l    _          I  _-I Lp+                     I        rI        I              . 
~T + M       l
Dry-season paddy              |. |                           i-.J   L. H |                      I         I        I                    p
L Lp - Land preparation, N - Nursery, T = Transplanting, M - Management, D = Drainage, H = Harvest
Systems in Ilocos Sur & La Union |
Paddy Water Requirement (m)
Land preparation and nursery            120  I         I        I         |   20  |   90  |  120  |   65  |              I   30  |   75  I  100  I   620
Flooding for cultivation            |   25  |                   I         I         I   151    351    20  |                |           201    251    140
Evapotranspiration                  I  128  |  186  |  143  I   71  |               I        I   56  |  144  |  154  I  125  |   15  |   62   | 1,084
Deep percolation                    |   401       601       40|   20  |                      I   201    551    601    401                5       20       360
Field requirement                   I  313  |  246   |  183  |   91  I   20  I  105  I  231  |  284  |  214  I  195  I  115  |  207  I 2,204
Effective rainfall /a               |     0       0 |0 0 |0                          84    I 111  I  208  I  162  I   11  I    7               U 0  |   583
Net farm requirement                I  313  |  246  |  183  I   91  |   20  I   21  I  120   |   76  |   52  I  184  |  108  I  207                     1,621
Overall efficiency  (%)             |   50  |   50  |   50  |   50  |   43  |   43  I   43  |   43  |   43  |   43  |   48  |   50  |
Diversion requirement               I  626/bl   492  |  366  |  182  |   47  |   49  |  256  |  176  |  121   1  429   |  225   1  414   1 3,382
Tobacco Water Requirement (mm) /c               I        I         I         I        I         I        I        I         I        I
Evapotranspiration                  I  134  |  130  I  123  I             I         I        I        I         I        I         |  125   |  170  I   682
Effective rainfall /a               |    01        01        0            I        I         I                                             I                 0
Net farm requirement                |  134  |  130  I  123  I             I        I         I        I         I        I         I  125   I  170   I   682
Diversion requirement /d            I  223  I  217   I  205   I           I         I        I        I         I        I         I  208   1  283   I 1,136
Systems in llocos Norte & Abra    I             I        I         I        I         I        I         I        I         I        I         I        I
Paddy Water Requirement (mm)           I        I        I         I        I         I        I         I        I         I        I         I        I
Land preparation and nursery    |  120  I   30  |               I         I         I  100  I  110  |   70           20  I         I   40  |  130          6 620
Flooding for cultivation            I   35|   10  |                       I         I   101    201    30             101           I         I   251    140
Evapotranspiration                  |  128  |  170  |  198  |  107   |              I        I   28  I  118  I  154  I  156  |   45  |                | 1,104
Deep percolation                    |   401    551          551      30             I        I   10        45        601    501         15  |              360
Field requirement                   I  323  I  265  I  253  I  137  |               |  110  I  168   |  263  I  244   I  206  |  100  I  155  I 2,224
Effective rainfall /a            |        0    |   0  I    0    O   0           O  I   84    I 111  I  208  I  162   |  11    |   7   | 0   O  583
Net farm requirement                I  323  I  265  I  253  I  137  I               I   26  I   57  I   55  I   82  I  195  I   93  I  155  I 1,641
Overall efficiency  (X)             I   50  I   50  I   50  I   50  I               I   43  I   43  I   43           43  I   43  I   48  I   50  I
Diversion requirement               I  644  I  528   I  504  |  274  I              I   59  |  132  |  128  I  191   |  451  I  194  |  309   I 3,414
/a  Effective rainfall exceeded in four out of five years (1949-74).
/b  Water duty for diversion and conveyance facilities = 2.30 1/s/ha e 200X cropping intensity.
/c December planting.
/d Based on 602 overall efficiency.



ANNEX S
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATIOU SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT:  I
Estimated Water Requirement for Svstems included in the Leyte and Cagayan Subproiect Areas
i  Jan. F  Feb. |  Mar. I Apr.   |  May  I June   l July   | Aug.  F Sept. |  Oct.              Nov. I  Dec. | Total
F       F         I        I                           F        I        F         F        F         I        F     
Leyte Subproject                      I                                    F _                I _               F              N
First crop paddy                              H                                           I             IT+!
Second crop paddy             F        F            p--            F         F            H             I         F        I        F         F
__ __ __ _ __ __ _ __ __ _ __ __ _ _ I   _ _ __   L _ _ - __ I _ I __ _ L  __ _ _-   _ _ _ _ I J _ _ - I _ I __ _ t _ I  __ _ _    _ _ __   I _ __ __ I __ _ I _
*            5         i~~~~~~~ I F        -    I F             I             F         I        F        F         F        F
Cagayan Suborolect                    I T+ M,'H          F        F        F         F        F        F        F         F             .
Wet-season paddy                         H      F         I        I _         _               I                     ==  F   T-IM  (
Dry-season paddy              |         p+ U              F  T+M   | _-     |    H  F          F        F        F         F        F        F
F                                                               F         F        F        I         F               I
1   Lp   Land preparation., N = Nursery, T = Transplanting, M   Management, D = Drainage, H = Harvest
_ __ __ _ __ _ __  _ __ _ __ _i_  _                I             I          1  .   .                       I __ _ _   -I                   i   __ _ _
(Leyte Subproject)
Land preparation and nursery    F            F   40  F  130  F   90  1   40  F             F                      90  1  130  1   80  F   20  F   620
Flooding for cultivation                     I        F   40  F   15  F   15  F            F         F        F   10        15  F   35F        10  F   140
Evapotranspiration                  F  120  F   41  I           F   71  F  158  F  141  F  114                F        F   13  F   89  F  125  F   872
Deep percolation                    F   55S      20  |         |   25  F   55  |   55F    45                  F        |     5       40  F   60  F   360
Field requirement                   F  175  F  101  F  170  F  201  |  268  F  196  F  159  I                 |  100  F  163  F  244  F  215  F 1,992
Effective rainfall /a                  134  F   87  F   81  F   61  F   68  F   69              82  F         F   63  F   90  F  149  F  151   F 1,035
Net farm requirement                F   41  F   14  F   89  F  140  F  200  F  127   F   77   F               F   37  F   73         95  F   64  F   957
Overall efficiency                  F   43  F   47  F   50  F   50  F   50  F   50  F   50  F                 F   43  F   43         43  F   43  F
Diversion requirement               F   95  F   30  F  177  1  279   1  398/hl  253  1  154  F                F   85  1  167        221  F  149  F 2,008
_ __   __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   I  _ _ _   I _ _ _ _   I   _ _ __ I   __ __ _   L |  __ _   I   __ __ _ I   __ __        f __ __ _   __ _ _ _ I _ _
Paddv Water Requirement (mm)          F        F        F         F        F        F         I                           F        F        F         F  
(Cagayan Subproject)               F        F         F        F        F         F        F                  F 
Land preparation and nursery    F   35  F  130  F  130  F   35  F                 F        F         F   Q0  F  120  F   80  F   20  F             F   640
Flooding for cultivation            |        F   40  F   20         10  F         F        F                  | 40  |   20  |   10  F              F   140
Evapottanspiration                  F   53  F         F  110  F  185  F  193  |  113  F              F        F   30       110  F  146       118  F 1,058
Deep percolation                    F   20  F         |   35S       55F      55l   35  |                           10  F   40  F   60          50  F   360
Field requirement                   F  108   F  170      295  F  285  F  248   F  148  F                 90  F  200  j  250  F  236  F  168  F 2,198
Effeccive rainfall /a               F   53  F   24  F    3  |    0  F   17  F   66  F                F   90  |  138  F  142  |  142  F  107  |   782
Net farm requirement                F   55  F  146  F  292  |  285  F  23t  F   82  F               F    0  F   62  F  108  F   94            61      1,416
Overall efficiency                  F   48  F   50  F   50  F   50  F   50  F   50  F                F   43  F   43         43  F   43  F   43  F
Divergion requirement               F  LL5   F  291  1  58Z/cN    568  F  460    l t63  F            F    0  F  *4Z   F  Z51  F  2L9  F  139   F 2,930
______                    I_II   L    lI_   _   _I_ f   i_I                                                                       F 
/a  Effective rainfall exceeded in four out of five years (1950-73).
/b Water duty for diversion and conveyance facilities = 1.50 1/s/ha @ 200% cropping intensity.
/c  Water duty for diversion and conveyance facilities = 2.15 1/s/ha @ 200% cropping intensity.



PHILIPPINES
NATIOA   RIAINSYTM   MRVMNT PROJECT: I
Pro ject Water Requirements Summary for Various Subpro ject Areas
Leyte                         Caya an                Ilocos Sur and La Union         hlocos Norte aad Abra
First   Second   Annual         Wet        Dry    Annual        Wet        Dry    Annual         Wet       Dry     Annual
Crop     Crop                Season   Season                 Season   Season                 Season   Season
_______________________________-_____--__-----  (mm) -----------------------------------------------
Paddy
Land preparation:
Saturation                              90         60       150         90        80        170         75         70       145         80         70       150
Evaporation                            170        180       350        160        190       350        160        195       355         160       190       350
Percolation                             60         60       120         60        60        120         60         60       120          60        60       120
Subtotal                          320       300       620        310        330       640        295        325       620         300       320       620
Flooding for cultivation                   70        70       140          70        70       140          70        70       140          70        70        140
Crop water requirements:
Evapotranspiration                     388        484       872        457       601      1,058        494        590     1,084         501       603     1,104
Deep percolation                       180        180       360        180       180        360        180        180       360         180       180       360
Subtotal                          568       664    1,232          637       781     1,418         674       770     1,444         681       783     1,464
Total field water requirement             958     1,034     1,992      1,017      1,181     2,198      1,039      1,165     2,204       1,051     1.173     2,224
Less effective rainfall                  640        395     1,035        679        103       782         576         7       583         583       -          583
Net farm irrigation requirement           318       639       957         338     1,078     1,416         463     1,158     1,621         468     1,173     1,641
Farm irrigation efficiency  (X)            60        70                    60        70                    60        70                    60         70
Farm requirement (turnout)               530        916     1,446         563     1,547     2,110         772     1,663     2,435         780     1,676     2,456
Conveyance efficiency (X)                  80        80                    80        80                    80        80                    80         80
System operation efficiency (X)            90        90                    90        90                    90        90                    90         90
Diversion requirement (headworks)         736     1,272     2,008         782     2,148     2,930      1,072      2,310     3,382       1,083     2,331      3,414
Overall irrigation efficiency              43        50        48          43        50        48          43        50         48         43         50        48
Tobacco
Evapotranspiration                                                                                                             682
Less effective rainfall                                                                                                          0
Net farm irrigation requirement                                                                                                682
Overall irrigation efficiency  (%) /a                                                                                           60
Diversion requirement (headworks)                                                                                            1,136                                       - 
/a Estimated efficiencies - farm 802, conveyance 80% and system operation 95%.



1Ž IC
j                              '                               -                              CO                       00  0
CO                           0                              0                        0   0
or'  -   0                                                        00-   0                           0000                           COO                      CO    0
OO.'g                               -                            0<    0                          00.                            00                        00
00<   0   0'                                                      0'0                               00                             00'                      00'  0
00    0   -                                                                                                                                                 80    0
<0<   0   '0                                                      0;                               0                              0                                        I
C              -   00          0-         0   '0  00        0          CO  -C  000         C          0   H   000         IC         OH    000        "-000
0          -   0   rO          0              0   -0        0          -   0   "-'0        0          -   0   0          0          00    00         00.0"'
CO  CO  00    000<      H0    0'  00         CC"      H00    0   00    000         HOC    0-  00         00<      '0000   0'  00         COO      H   00    00         0-0
0   00       00       000    0   00    <o          00-CO    0   00       <0       OC'O    0   00        <CO      0   00    00         Oop
"'0    0  r- 0   0               0   0  0' 0   0  0-0    0  0' 0   0-000-   0   0   0000"' 0   0   0  0
00    H0   0        0 C<       00    HO    0       0 CO    00    '00   0        UC<        00    '00    0      CcO        00    oCO   0    CC<               0
00.0   00    0   ".000         0.0   00    0   -. "C COO   00    00    0   '-'<00          00    00    0   .-.<COCO       00    00    0  -'000
C   0   0      00    0           0''-<<0      0-0   <           CO'<<0    -'0    0           CO'0"'0      o''0   0          00<0          "''V    <       0-0<0             0               0
-   0      0   0               C-  0      0   0             -   0      <   CC              -   0      0   0               0'  0      <0                    -              0'
'0'0   0'    0   ".00          '0'0  CO      0   0.000000                 CO  -'.00        '0'0CO        00.00            '0'0   C-'    0  ".00              0
0            .0     00         0            .0     g                    .0     00         0            .0     00         0            .0    00              0               CC
0"-          0      00         0                                         0      00         0'.-         0      00         0."          0    00               0              0
-     00         <0'           0     00          <00          -    00              0               0
o                      2-    :       <            <
00                                                                       0          <      00           0          0    00               -
00      IŽ-i'0        0      00         Žo'.         0      00         I-y         *                     o
0.  0   0                    W                ".0           0                                                                                          0    00              o               0
0   0   0                    0     0-0                      0     0-0-                   0     00                       0      00                      0    00
C                                                                                                                               0
0                                                                                                                               0      00
0               0     H
00  0   0                                                                                                                                                                    0                     0
C     0
0-  '0                                                                                                                                                                  0-0-                CO     H
0        0                                    CO     -   -                                                                                                              0-CO       CO       0      -
0   '0  CO     o      olco                    CO    '00-C                  ,,     o00-                    CO     000                      -      0-0'-'                 COO'       0        0      0
0          .                                                           -                                                                                                       0              0
0-  0   00    CO    0-10-CO                   CO    0.'.OC                 C      000                     -      CCCC-o                  '0      00-C                              '        0"'
*   0                                                                                                                                                                                   0     0.  C
0        0                                                                                                                                                 I                                0'     00   CO
C            0-CO                0     HO"
'0                                    0-     -   -        CO                                                                                                               0        0     0'  0'
0        0     0.     0.joo      -            CO     000.                         0-ICOCO    0-            C     CCC        0-                   -.10-    -             '00-       0        0'    .0'0
0        0     *                 CO                                                 I        C             '                0                    "I'"      C                       0
0        0      .0    -I0-'O     CC           0'    0.0-C       COC        0'    COICOCO     0             '0-    0'CO 0-    C            C      -40-0    Co                                C          0'
C C CO 0
C0-                 o
0100-                   0-    '-C'--                 0-    -C-.                     CO     COO                                                               r
""0-0                   -      0-OCO                 0-    0010.0.                  C      0-00-                   '0
N"'                                                                                                                                                           00
0                              0                            0                                                                                                    H
I                                                                                                 -            '       0'     .0
'0                          0-                   0          0010'                          0-CC               0/           0-    0            0   00
0-   OICX                                                   C&"                            0   0' 0-                                         0<  CO
0.                                                                                                                         CO       00        -
CO    CO  CO          0        0-    .'1"'          0      0.    olO             A        -      CO  CO         CC       CO    CO  C           A                   0        0      0'
C'                          "IC.                         'II'                           'I.                                 "                             '0       0
0' '0'0 CO 0-IC CO .4... '0 C. 0 0' .0 '0 0
0                                              0'                                                                                                                                            0
0'                                            CO                                                                                                                           CO       0        0'
0      0   CO                  0      --.                          00                       0-    COb                     0.    CO  C                      '0       0
*      'C"                     "      "II.                        .11.                     -      "IC"                                                              0
'0  '0                  CO    '01.0                  0.                                    0.10                     "'0   '01  '0                                     0
0'                            CO                                                                                                                           0        0
-                            '01.0                                                                                                                         0'
0.0.                    C                                   olo                     0                                                               0-      '0
C     001.0                        tI'0                            0.10'                   0-     0-0'                                        0
o     olo            '0               0-0'           CO     0      0-  C.        0.       0-    -.  -           0.        0      H  CO         C          0-       00
*     "IC.            CO              "Ii            0.     *     'C"             0.       "         I'          CO              'I"            C
0                     C-.Io          CO       -      CIC            CO    0.      0<0'            CO       -     -   0.                   0.     0-10-         0
CO                                                                                                                                                                                  CO
CO             C                              0                                                                                                                            0-       0
CO1  CC                 -      0.  0.                0.                             '0     -   -                    0.                              -        .0
ML                              {C.                         <1                                I"
0              CO                                                                                                                                                         0-        0
'0                    .JC                                                         JC"                            <I:                                                      C   0
0'                                             ii                             I                                           CC'-      00
O   00'>                             WC                             I                             LKL
.00-C          0      0.                                                             0-    -CO                     COO                                   'oH
0-                               0.0-     00.           C                                         "                         000-C
COICOO                  0.                                  0-Ic-.      I           CO     0 COO
r " I



I-   i;'  1-                            o2                                     r;                                                         o
n2   g;   -F                           -F                           (g  0   Fw
F;   2                                                          F; -c   n(                           g-n
F;      F;                           n                                     F;     
o;  n2  .c                             F--                               0    F; 
g;    0: C                           W' -O        F;            -.  F;    F-F O--                                                                OF--F--b x    H
n     -      F-F     F-F Z     ( LC                  o2D F;  F;;F  F;    (OF     F-C    F-2-D      gLCD       F-D Z    C         CDC        OCmOtpo 
F;              OF oFDF                      LF;    OF;= ~   u   -         O         F =           F-DC =OF -=           r  -       
n  ~~.   =  za       n     DF zD        F;             .o        (LCD          CD        F;   F;CD          F;        .o   CDD r                L        
=- n            ; *-F                      F- oF                  F-F-o      -    o0            F-Fn            oF                 o         
~~~~~~F    OF                                           F-       F;F              0 =;   OF                    2       F- w       v         _ n oF;8
F;  F-                     ; n   20            [- =                   020                     F; =0 =                            0202n  =n
=~ ~~~~F nF =F                                          F-    __                          F-  _F;                      F-  o0
p    .1    H          9s                                s                                 W                             W                      C                  -
n    c    z                                                                                                                                    B                  n  2  F
~~~~ c  n                                                        A                            A                                     n   r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
<~~~~~~~~ ~ =  f02lfl > s                                                       1                                    f_N                                v          r
O ~ ~    ~    ~    0                     02 o2 F0                  o-                            0°                 o0                         nO                            E
O   t  ti                 gn        I  _                         .       o                    >       r.>                     >          r/t   C  I  F
o ~      ~ ~~ .    .                     _; o l                                                                                              F;         2    .     .
02               02                   O2       |(  C                                  I 02                                                                       02:
O          02             F              2      02(02                           F-     .                            F            .S2 o.
Ck'   a  _                w       co   o                         o       in         I         >       in                       V~~~02F-             C
Oo   vo  @°   fl   f   >   _  14  ,  1w  1_ _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
n z  w  s  s  u  n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20
n~~~~0                                02                          02                                                                         w           q    -  ° 2
02               02                   02      I2 0                            2-0
4 ~ ~   ~     ~    ~    0 F-   H |2                                    02 -20                                                                                           F; |02 F |Z9    @n
I  a   cc  ,          so      LS _F-ICC     02                                ,                                                                                       CDF-FCD



O  ks    V            v                                                o              su                                         W  1§                                       =  X  (D                 &  S               no~~~~CD  CD  C
CD       C         CD                                              CD                                                                                                        CC 3-C                                                               CDCD ...
*1            CD ,~                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ct                  C
ZD V C  ___ ______  _____ ________________V
O  o  U:   <  <'   <  IDO                 X        *         rl ID O             CH.                     <         <    g  e ba                      o                oCD    gC'   CD                     xZ
a                    a  CD                                                                                                                                                        C-                                               CD              VCD o>&  
o)    n-                                                                                                                                                                       -                                               'C             CCC                                                  tn   cC=C    fi(<i
C                    °5V  Y   .==enXZXaY8c ovB  
CD  'w   =D                      Irc            eCDB-W                                                                                          I                                                CN             Vj         
D   CD        nD                                                                           °nC                 0             C-                                               SC                 W                                                             I - n=
a             CD                                               CD SD 5D eD sD eC                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CD'   
CC        C-       CD                 CC         w        CC-C                         DC        C         CrC CClC                                   CD        C         C'DC                     C CH                                        C'DD             ICC
CD       n         D =.                                   A    |DDC                   CD        _D        AD D  |             CIV _D                           C-         |D    C                 CDC                     CD                       | C C         CnD                                                   >
'CD  CC       _C vDC                       rD CD                              CDF CD                           FD CDC                        CDC           CD        CDCC                        rD CDCCC
'CD        , 'CD          oC-          CD        CDCD                     C'C         C     C     C      v D         _-C                 C        -    D C        '       CD             _C            "       C           VD       CD    .-t                                                  e              r
'C            CC             CDC         _D          CD  CD                    C C          C       C        C       C D         - C         C        C           oD                         C-C            CCC           _     C     oC                     'CC
WD       nD             .V             .-        .CC      .D C-C                                                                                       O CDDC  CD  CD  C-'  C'  <D      CC              n-CD              C"             C
CC        D              CDC            D        CDDC                    CD'CD         VC CD C                      _D CDC                            CD         _D     C                 SD CC CC                                   CDDDV
BD  o                                 o-          oC C                   C-'C                   _CCC                  rC  o-                                     rD C                    oCC           C    DC                       .D     C            DCS
nD O' CCC                                                                                                           V= '< C   _0C                                                                                                                                                                              _ 'D-C   CC  CV C  DC'DC'-  CCCD C  DD C L
D  CC  'C                      FD CD                                           CD                           -C                                -D        -                                                          FD CD  ' 
CD.  _C 'C         oC CD                                         C -                                                             rC           CD                                 C        V   C- -C               CDC                                                                  C        
C-  C '<              C-       C                                                                                                               C                                   <C                              V    
D  CD                                                            O D           CC                                                    C           8  OD C-C                                                                                                           .
CDI  oD                                                                                                                                                                                                                 o --IC                                               D
CC                             lV 'V       Al                    C              C-C                                              v             s              C                  C              C                   v.                                                                 C-             C
r.'            -                                c              C                            'C                  C             C-                                                                                                                                                      H           
'C                                                                                                                                                                               C             C-     T    
' C                D                     '              ' C                                             '             '.                                                                                                                   CC                  C-             C- E   e0



ANNEX 5
Table 6
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Present and Future Irrigated Areas
Irrigable Area (ha)
Present                  Future
Wet         Dry          Wet         Dry
Subproject           System            Season    Season          Season    Season
Ilocos        Bolo River                   400        400           800        800
Pasuquin                    600        600            700        100
Laoag-Vintar              2,300        900          2,400      1,000
Dingras                   1,100      1,000          1,100        900
Cura River                  500        100            800        300
Bonga Pump                  400        200          1,200      1,200
Abra Pump                    100          -           650        650
Santa Maria-Burgos          850        200            950        250
Santa Lucia-Candon        1,600        400          1,800        400
Tagudin                   1,300        700          1,450        600
Amburayan River           3,050      2,300          3,850      3,300
Masalip River             1,300      1,200          1,900        900
Subtotal               13,500      7,500        17,600     10,400
Cagayan       Abulog River               8,000      3,700        17,000     12,500
Pamplona                    200         50            800        800
Banurbur                    700        450            900        450
Subtotal                8,900      4,200        18,700     13,750
Leyte         Binaha-an (Norte)          1,000        600         2,500      2,500
Binaha-an (Sur)             600        350         3,000       1,700
Guinarona River             450        350            800        800
Tibak-Soong                 750        500         2,000      2,000
Hindang-Hilongos            600        600           650        650
Das-ay River                250        170            500       500
Cumungaan River             150        130            150       150
Balire River (new)            -          -         1,500      1,500
Gibuga River (new)            -          -         1,300      1,300
Ibawon River (new)            -          -           700        700
Subtotal                3,800      2,700        13,100     11,800
TOTAL              26,200    14,400          49,400    35,950



ANNEX 6
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS ItWROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Strengthening Regional O&M Capability
1.        About 150,000 ha of existing systems operated by the National
Irrigation Administration (NIA) have been selected for rehabilitation and
upgrading under the National Irrigation Systems Improvement Study (NISIS).
The systems are distributed throughout the ten NIA regions. The area
included in NISIS accounts for about 20% of the total a-ea under NIA's juris-
diction. One of the important objectives of the series of projects coming
out of NISIS would be the strengthening of the overall operational and main-
tenance capab4lities of NIA's regional offices, to improve their ability to
deal effectively with all the systems in the region. This would be achieved
through more and better staff in the regional and field offices and through
the provision of an adequate supply of vehicles and equipment.
2.        The proposed project would deal with Regions 1, 2 and 6, centered
on Urdaneta, Cauayan and Tacloban City respectively. The project, in addi-
tion to providing the O&M equipment required to adequately maintain the sys-
tens rehabilitated and expanded under the project, would also supply enough
equipmenc to operate and maintain the remaining systems in each of the three
Regions. In the absence of additional regional equipment, maintenance on the
project systems would suffer by attempting to stretch the proiect equipment
too thinly on the ground. The result would be a more or less rapid return
to the existing situation of badly deteriorated systems through lack of
maintenance. In making provision for regional O&M equipment requirements,
account has been taken of the amount and condition of existing equipment and
of the existence within a Region of any system where O&M equipment is being
provided for by NIA's Special Projects Organization. Thus, systems included
in the Tarlac Project (Loan 1080-PH) have been excluded from Region I and
systems included in the I4agat Project (Loan 1154-PH) and the Chico Project
(Loan 1227-PH) have been excluded from Region 2. The three Regions currently
have little O&M equipment available and what is there is obsolete and in poor
condition.
3.        Under the strengthening of regional capabilities component, the
project would supply vehicles and equipment for operation and maintenance of
12 irrigation systems covering a total area of about 36,500 ha.  Two systems
are in Region 1, five in Region 2 and five in Region 6. Details on the
systems are given in Table 1. Provision would also be made for a small
number of vehicles to be allocated to a regional pool under the immediate
control of the Regional Director. A list of the equipment, the distribution
by Region and the allocation between the systems and the regional pools are
shown in Table 2.



Ai'IAEX 6
Page 2
Cost
4.        The new subregional office at Laoag in Region 1 which would be
built under the project, would also control the Laoag-Surrat and Cabugao
(Gaco) systems which are not included in NISIP: I. A part of the cost of
the Laoag subregional office, US$230,000, is allocated to strengthening of
regional cability. The purchase of equipment and vehicles for operations and
maintenance is estimated to cost US$1,200,000. The total cost estimate is
US$1,430,000, of which US$1,210,000 is foreign exchange. Annex 10 gives
details of the cost estimates, and Annex 11 lists the equipment to be pur-
chased and its cost.



ANNEX 6
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
STRENGTHENING REGIONAL O&M CAPABILITY
Irrigation Systems Outside NISIP: I
Service Area
Region              Irrigation System                   (ha)
Region 1            Laoag-Surrat                      2,600
(Ilocos)            Cabugao (Gaco)                    1,500
Subtotal                       4,100
Region 2            Baggao                            5,000
(Cagayan)           Solana Pump-Tuguegarao            4,200
Tamauini                          6,100
Zinundungan                       3,200
Dummon                            3,000
Subtotal                     21,500
Region 6            Daguitan                          3,000
(Leyte)            Mtainit                            4,400
Bao                              1,500
Bito                             1,000
Pongso                           1,000
Subtotal                      10,900
Total                         36,500



PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
STRENGTHENING REGIONAL O&M CAPABILITY
O&M Equipment
Region 1                 Region 2                  Region 6
Ilocos subproject         Cagayan subproject         Leyte subproject
2 systems   Regional    5 systems   Regional   5 systems   Regional              Total
(4,100 ha)    pool       (21,500 ha)    pool    (10,900 ha)    pool           (36,500 ha)
Truck, dunp 6-8 cu yd                  -            1             4            2            2            1            10
Truck, flatbed, 6 ton                  1            1             2            1            1            1             7
Truck, pickup, 3/4 ton 4x4             1            -             3            -            3            -             7
Station wagon, 4x4                     -            1             -           1             -            1             3
Jeep, utility vehicle, 4x4             2            1             7            1            5            1            17
Motorcycle, 100 cc                      8           2            34            5           18            3             70
Mixer, concrete 1/4 cu yd               3           -            12            -            8            -            23
Wlater pump, 2-4" size                  2           -            11            -            7            -            20
Weed cutter                           24            -           135            -           71            -           230
Radio transceiver (single Sb)          2            -             5            -            5            -            12
Meteorological station                  2           -             5            -            3            -            10
Leveling instrument with
staff and steel tape                2           -              8           2             6           2             20
Transit with staff and tape             2           -             5            -            5            -            12
Current meter                          2            1            10            3            7            2            25
oZ



ANNEX 7
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Land Consolidation Pilot Project
General
1.        A farm survey carried out by the National Irrigation Administration
(NIA) showed a remarkable degree of holding fragmentation on the 12 systems
included in the Ilocos subproject area. The situation is most acute on the
six systems in Ilocos Norte province, where only 6% of the farms are unfrag-
mented, while 38% are split up in more than six pieces. In the five systems
in the provinces of Ilocos Sur and La Union, 17% of the farms are unfragmented
and about half are in two or three parcels. The situation is aggravated by
the small size of the farms in the area. The unusual degree of fragmentation
is due to the high pressure of population on the land, the absence of alterna-
tive sources of employment and local inheritance practices, by which all heirs
get an equal share of the land.
2.        Fragmentation of small holdings militates against good water
management, makes adherence to cropping timetables more difficult and pre-
cludes the use of machines for cultivation. When a farmer has a substantial
number of small parcels of land scattered over a large area, it becomes
difficult for him to effectively manage them and the amount of time spent
traveling between fragments and turning implements at the headlands becomes
disproportionately high. Fragmentation also reduces direct access to roads,
irrigation channels and drains. Farms on the irrigation systems in Ilocos
Norte province badly need land consolidation. The situation is further com-
plicated by the high degree of tenancy. At present, about 80% of the farmers
are tenants and-even after the implementation of land reform, some 65% of
them will remain leaseholders. In addition, farmers are frequently tenants of
more than one landlord. While the problems of fragmentation, farm size and
land tenure are at the acute stage in Ilocos, trends in the same direction
are already apparent on other national irrigation systems. The Government
has stated that land consolidation will be the next step in the program of
agrarian reform initiated with the accelerated land reform program of 1972.
The proposed Land Consolidation Pilot Project would be an attempt to find
some of the answers to the complicated problems encountered on the Ilocos
systems.
Objectives
3.        The objectives of the pilot project would be to:
(a) determine the acceptability to the farmers and landowners of
land consolidation in selected areas of the irrigation systems
in Ilocos Norte province;



ANNEX 7
Page 2
(b) determine the most economic and least socially disruptive level
of consolidation, compatible with the greatest reduction in number
of land parcels;
(c) evolve a methodology of implementation, including an assessment
of the feasibility of carrying out land consolidation as a farm
cost rather than a project cost; and
(d) evaluate the effects of land consolidation on farm incomes and
efficiency of water management.
Implementation
4.        Project implementation would be in three main stages.  The first,
or preconstruction stage, would consist of selecting possible sites, ascer-
taining the willingness of farmers and landowners to participate in the
project, cadastral and topographic surveys and designs. The most important
prerequisite for successful implementation of the project would be the active
cooperation of the farmers and landowners. A period of 24 months is estimated
for the first stage to allow sufficient time for persuasion of the affected
farmers. The second, or construction stage, would take about one year and
would involve the implementation of the level of land consolidation decided
on in the first stage on up to a total of 500 ha on one or more systems in
Ilocos Norte project. The design and physical work of consolidation would
have to be phased in with the rehabilitation and upgrading of the irrigation
system. The third stage would involve monitoring of farm incomes and water
management efficiencies for a period of not less than three years after the
end of construction, to allow for any effects on fertility as a result of
top soil movement. The second and third stages of the project would be
conditional on obtaining the cooperation of the farmers in the first stage.
5.        NIA would be the lead agency in implementation of the project, but
would have to maintain very close coordination with the Department of Agrarian
Reform (DAR) who would play a major role in obtaining farmer cooperation and
in all the cadastral aspects of the project. NIA would enter into a formal
agreement with DAR, outlining each agency's role and responsibilities. Proj-
ect staff would be attached to the Regional Office and would receive its main
technical support from NIA's Operations Department. Staff from NIA and DAR
would implement the project. However, as some specialist consultant input
might be required in the technical aspects of land consolidation, a lump sum
equivalent to about 12 man-months of consultant services is provided in the
cost estimates.
Costs
6.        The pilot project is expected to cost a total of US$0.70 million,
including a foreign exchange component of US$0.28 million for the purchase of
equipment, consulting services and some overseas training visits by project
staff to observe land consolidation in neighboring countries. Details of the
estimate are given in Annex 10 and a list and cost of the proposed equipment
to be purchased is shown in Annex 11.



ANNEX 8
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS I1IROVEMENT PROJECT:  I
On-Farm Facilities Study
General
1.        All of the National Irrigation Administration (NIA) systems upgraded
and expanded with Bank assistance are based on irrigation rotation areas of
50 ha. The rotation areas are further divided into rotation units of about
10 ha each. Constant head orifice turnouts to the sublateral or main farm
ditch are provided for water deliveries to the rotation areas. There are
turnouts for each of the five 10-ha rotation units, from which supplementary
farm ditches convey water to most of the farms. At the lower end of each
10-ha unit, there is a farm drainage ditch removing excess water to the main
system drains. The 10-ha rotation unit was arrived at on the basis of
average farm sizes of from 2.5 to 2.0 ha, thus giving between 4 and 5 farms
per unit and between 20 and 25 farms per 50-ha rotation area. At the assumed
farm size, the layout permits practically all farms to have direct access to
irrigation water, thus minimizing potential conflicts between farmers, while
the NZIA staff have a manageable number of farms to deal with in the rotation
units and areas.
2.        The average farm size on the various Bank-assisted irrigation
projects at the time of project appraisal was as follows:
Project                  Mean Farm Size              Appraisal Year
(ha)
Pampanga                       3.2                        1968
Penaranda                      2.5                        1973
Tarlac                         1.9                        1974
Magat                          3.1                        1974
Chico                          2.5                        1975
Jalaur                         2.0                        1976
Information collected by NIA in 1976 in the Pampanga service area indicates
that mean farm size has decreased to about 2.0 ha in the last eight years.
In the Ilocos subtroject area of the proposed project, the mean farm size is
0.8 ha and in the Leyte subproject area 1.5 ha. It is only in the Cagayan
valley systems that the average farm size is as large as 2.5 ha. The smaller
size of farms found in the Ilocos and Leyte areas is also associated with a
higher degree of fragmentation than was encountered in the earlier projects.
Census information indicates that farm sizes have been decreasing over the
last ten years and it is reasonable to assume that the trend will continue in
future.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
there would be about 13 farms in a 10-ha unit, compared to the 4 to 5 farms
on the earlier projects. Assuming a farm fragmented in 3 parcels, which
would be a modest degree of fragmentation in Ilocos, there could be some 40
farms in a 10-ha unit. The overcrowding in the unit and the high proportion
of farms without direct access to the farm ditch would be a fertile ground
for conflict among farmers and would place a heavy burden on their capacities
for organization. An alternative would be to reduce the size of both the
rotational unit and area, thus increasing the density of on-farm facilities.
4.        The proposed On-Farm Facilities Study would establish several
different models of irrigation in areas characterized by holding sizes of
less than 2.0 ha and with different cropping intensities, to determine the
most suitable level of facilities in terms of the requirements of the farmers
and of NIA.
Objectives
5.        The objectives of the study would be to:
(a)  design, implement and evaluate over several years, a number of
different models of on-farm irrigation in areas of small farm sizes
and in the presence of different levels of cropping intensity;
(b)  determine the costs and benefits accruing to the farmers and to NIA
f or each model;
(c)  provide information on the management requirements of each model;
(d)  assess the farmers' attitudes and reactions to each model; and
(e)  select the model or models most suitable for adoption as NIA
standards in varying conditions of cropping intensity and in areas
of small farm size.
Implementation
6.        The Agricultural Department of NIA's Special Project Organization
would have primary responsibility for implementing the study. The Department
is located at HIunoz in the service area of the UPRP and next to the Central
Luzon State University. Department staff have had a long working association
with the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI) on various aspects of
water management for a number of years. NTIA proposes to associate IRRI with
the study. The study would be undertaken on a pilot basis to evaluate four
or five models of on-farm development with the UPRP model as the control,
and three levels of cropping intensity (100%, 140% and 200%). All three
pilot sites would be located in areas where farm sizes would be representative
of irrigated rice farms ten years hence. Details of the models to be studied
would be worked out in agreement with the Bank.



AN1NEX 8
Page 3
7.        The first phase of the study, lasting up to two years, would
include selection of suitable sites based on surveys of farm sizes and the
design and construction of the models to be studied. Operation of the models
and data collection and evaluation would go on for several years to provide
an adequate data base for selection of the most suitable model. A prelimi-
nary evaluation of the models studied would be made at the end of the third
year of operations to coincide with completion of the main project. While
there is considerable expertise in NIA on the subject, consultant input might
be required in some aspects of on-farm facility design, water management and
determination of farmer attitudes. A lump sum, equivalent to about 36
man-months of consultant time, is included in the estimates to cover the
eventuality.
Costs
8.        The study is estimated to cost a total of US$0.8 million, includ-
ing a foreign exchange component of US$0.45 million for the purchase of
equipment, vehicles and consultant services. Details of the estimate are
given in Annex 10 and a list and cost of the proposed equipment to be pur-
chased is shown in Annex 11.



ANNEX 9
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Schistosomiasis Control Program
Background
1.        Schistosomiasis is the most important public health problem in the
Leyte subproject area. Seven of the ten systems included in the project are
located on Leyte's northeastern coastal plains, one of the worst schistoso-
miasis-endemic regions in the Philippines. The coastal plain covers an area
of about 110,000 ha in the northeastern quadrant of the island. It is
roughly 15 km wide and extends some 70 km from Carigara Bay in the north
to the town of the Abuyog in the south. Much of the land within 10 km of
the east coast along Leyte Gulf is near sea level elevation and there are
large areas of permanently inundated swamp. A number of rivers rising in
the central mountain range traverses the plains and empties into Leyte Gulf.
The mean annual rainfall is about 2,112 mm, but even in April, the driest
month in the year rainfall averages 113 mm. The combination of constant
rain, flat relief and poor drainage has made the area particularly dense in
snail habitats.
2.        The parasite of schistosomiasis in the Philippines is Schistosoma
japonicum, and the vector snail is Oncomelania quadrasi. These snails have a
narrow pointed shell and are quite small, rarely exceeding 5 mm in length.
They are amphibious, and migrate at will in and out of water. Their normal
habitat is swamps. They are fairly sensitive and do not do well in turbid
water, nor can they stand prolonged desiccation. However they can survive
drought periods by burrowing into the mud and remaining there until the land
again becomes flooded. The snail is bisexual. Mature females lay eggs at
the rate of one or two every few days. Eggs are usually laid above the water
surface, but hatch only after a period of immersion. The infant snails are
aquatic for about two weeks, and thereafter spend most of the time out of
water. Females reach egg laying maturity about ninety days after hatching.
3.        In 1953 the Philippine Government established a schistosomiasis
control pilot project at Palo, Leyte. Extensive research was carried out on
the natural history of flukes and snails, and the initial results have been
thoroughly described in a WHO publication, Studies on Schistosoma Japonicum
Infection in the Philippines (Pesigan et al, WHO, 1958). Development of
infection in the snail requires about 60 days, as measured between the time
of successful penetration of a miracidium to the onset of cercaria shedding.
Cercariae are released at an average rate of about three per day for several
months, or effectively, for the rest of the snail's life. Although the life
span of a cercaria is only a day or two, they can always be found in concen-
trations of a few per liter in the vicinity of infected snails. In addition,



ANNEX 9
Page 2
they occur in the waters of even fairly large rivers downstream from snail
colonies, though at much lower concentrations. Since there is considerable
laundering and bathing in the rivers they are probably important sources of
infection. The existence of nonhuman reservoir hosts significantly increases
the difficulty of controlling Schistosoma japonicum. Other animals which
readily acquire the infection include the dog, cow, carabao, pig, and rat. A
rule-of-thumb estimate is that humans are responsible for about 50% of the
actual transmission, with 25% coming from domestic animals and 25% from wild
rats.
4.         The endemic area in northeastern Leyte contains 22 municipalities
and a total population of about 475,000 people. The estimated number of
persons infected with schistosomiasis is 87,000, for an average infection
rate of 18%. The capital city of Tacloban has a population of 84,000, some
17% of the population at risk, with a rate of infestation of about 5%. A
good proportion of the population resides in essentially urban surroundings
which offer little opportunities for exposure to the parasites. Eleven
municipalities running along the outer edges of the coastal plain from Barugo
in the north to Abuyog in the south and then up the east coast to Tolosa,
have a combined population of about 236,500 people or about 50% of the total
subproject population with an infestation rate of 13%. There are then four
municipalities in the central portion of the plains immediately inland of the
coastal strip with a population of 55,000 people, 12% of the total and an
infestation rate of 26%. The highest prevalence rates are found in a group
of six municipalities lying west and south of Tacloban city. There are
102,400 people in these municipalities, 21% of the population, and the mean
prevalence rate is 38%, with the Santa Fe municipality showing an index of
45%. The areas to be rehabilitated and/or expanded under the project involve
some of the areas with the highest incidence of diseases. Map No. 12509
shows the relation between the irrigation system and the infested areas.
5.         Although the natural history of schistosomiasis in the Philippines
has been thoroughly established, there is no good information to indicate
which aspects of the people's way of life are most responsible for their
contraction of the disease. It is possible that no particular activities
stand out in this regard, but rather that multiple opportunities of exposure
to water, together with the widespread distribution of 0. quadrasi make
infection highly probable for all of the rural population - laundering
bathing, swimming, rice cultivation, animal watering, reed gathering, fishing
and water course fording are all commonplace activities likely to result in
aquisition of schistosomiasis. Infection of the snails derives mainly from
the common practice of defecation in the open. Since the disease is chronic
and has no distinct symptomatology, it is not feared and there is no strong
motivation to avoid it and to cure it. As a result it is difficult to induce
the people to construct and use sanitary facilities. However some progress
has been made as a result of the constant pressures exerted by the rural
health sanitarians. Recent prevalence surveys made by the Schistosomiasis
Research Station at Palo show that the rate of infection has decreased
somewhat since the 1950s.



ANNEX 9
Page 3
Proposed Control Program
6.        It is essential that the proposed upgrading, expansion and intensi-
fication of irrigation should not worsen the schistosomiasis situation by
creation of new snail habitats. The principal aim of the control program
would be to provide ample drainage works and drain maintenance facilities to
ensure that all irrigation water and field runoff would remain channelized.
In addition, foot bridges would be built to lessen exposure to water. Drain-
age facilities would not only be provided for the 12,300 ha included in the
irrigation systems, but also to an additional 8,000 ha of adjacent, low-lying
snail infested terrain. Besides the engineering aspects of the control
program, the Department of Health proposes a series of control measures to be
applied throughout the endemic area without regard to the irrigation system
boundaries. The health component of the project would include diagnosis and
treatment of the disease, a health education compaign, environmental sanita-
tion and application of molluscicides in snail infested areas.
Engineering Aspects
7.        Drainage Works.  The areas of highest endemicity are characterized
by poor drainage. The natural drainage ways are shallow in depth and water
flow in the coastal reaches is retarded due to the flat topography and con-
straints at the outlets to the sea.  Stagnancy of the water encourages growth
of the sago palm (Metroxylon sagu).  The wetted perimeter of small drainage
creeks is densely covered with these fast-growing, deep-rooted and difficult
to eradicate plants.  Eradication is further complicated by the inaccessa-
bility of the creeks.  Secondary and farm drains are virtually nonexistent.
The inadequate drainage has transformed many low lying areas into permanent
swamps which serve as breeding grounds for the snails.
8.        The main emphasis of the engineering aspects of the schistosomiasis
control program would be to open up all existing drainage ways, to increase
the intensity of drainage works in cropped areas and to make provision for
good access to drainage works, so as to permit regular and efficient mainte-
nance. The drainage network would be designed to drain the runoff produced
by a rainfall of one day duration and a 25 year return period. Drainage
would take place in 48 hours and water depth in the rice fields would not
exceed 30 cm during the 48 hour period of detention. Main and secondary
drains would be designed to carry flows at a minimum velocity of 0.5 m/sec.
Where the minimum velocity criteria would not be feasible in the flat lower
reaches of the main drains, the invert would be lowered to allow the entry of
sea water in the slow flowing sections, as the snails are adversely affected
by salinity. Gravel surfaced O&M roads 5.0 m wide would be constructed on
one side of the main drains. Along the secondary drains the surfaced road-
ways would be 3.5 m wide. Along.the upper portions of secondary drains and
along farm drains in the endemic area there would be a 2.0 m wide nonsurfaced
road. Surfacing would be 20 cm thick on the 5.0 m wide roads and 15 cm on
the 3.5 m roads.



AN-NEX 9
Page 4
9.        About 250 km of existing creeks and natural channels would be
enlarged, realigned, deepened and properly shaped to serve as drainage
canals. The drainage network in the endemic area would be expanded with an
estimated additional 60 km of main drains and about 240 km of secondary
drains. This would result in a drainage intensity for main and secondary
drains of about 22 n/ha, compared to about 12 m/ha in similar areas unaffec-
ted by schistosomiasis. The total drainage density in the affected area
would be 62 m/ha compared to the standard 47 m/ha.  Farm drains would not be
provided in nonirrigated land, but the secondary drains would be extended in
these areas to drain low-lying ground. New topographic maps of 1:4,000 scale
would be prepared for planning of the drainage network and for design of the
drains.
10.       Foot Bridges.  To reduce contact of the population with water about
800 foot bridges would be built. Bridges with abutments made of U or T
shaped precast elements and bamboo decks would be erected at 250 m intervals
on major ditches, drains and the lower portions of secondary laterals or
drains. On the major irrigation and drainage channels there would be 2.5 m
wide concrete foot bridges at an average interval of 1.5 km to service
villages and cattle crossings.
Health Aspects
11.       Health Education.  Posters describing the disease and methods of
avoiding it would be issued to the 800 schools and health centers in the
affected area. Brochures containing the same information in more detail
would be given out to farmers in municipalities with the highest levels of
infestation. In addition some 800 teaching guides would be furnished to
schools and health centers for the use of school teachers, who would incor-
porate schistosomiasis education in their curricula. Provision would also
be made under the project for the Schistosomiasis Control Council (SCC) to
bring in a high level health educator to manage a program of health educa-
tion, which in addition to preparing and issuing printed matter, would also
organize a grassroot network of volunteer health workers supervised by the
barrio midwife or barrio captain. The chain of supervision would proceed
through the health educators attached to the rural health units to the
provincial educator's office. The advice and cooperation of the Philippine
Institute of Public Health would be obtained in setting up this organization.
The health education component would be one of the least expensive aspects of
the control program, but it would be one of the most important and without it
the effectiveness of other control measures could be disappointing.
12.       Diagnosis and Treatment.  Diagnostic screening efforts would be
concentrated on the elementary school children. Repeating the examinations
anually for the duration of the project through three grades of school
would provide excellent information on the incidence of new cases in each
locality and would provide an automatic evaluation of the success of control
measures. By using the school system, much greater efficiency in collection
of samples and data recording can be achieved than would be possible by



ANNEX 9
Page 5
canvassing the adult population. Provision would be made for administering
about 250,000 tests over the five year project life. Adults would be encour-
aged to submit to screening by means of publicity campaigns, and all cases
of schistosomiasis diagnosed would be encouraged to accept treatment, which
would be provided to anyone requesting it. Provision is made for treating
45,000 people during the five years of the project, or about 52% of the
number estimated to be infected. This is considered a realistic estimate of
potential acceptors of treatment in view of the innate reluctance of the
population to come forward, the difficulty of treatment and the side effects
of the chemotherapy.
13.       Environmental Sanitation.  Surveys by the Leyte Regional Health
Office show that about 22% of the households lack toilet facilities. The
project would provide water seal toilet facilities, consisting of a concrete
slab, bowl and pit lining to some 20,000 families. Installation of the units
and erection of a superstructure would be done by the recipients. In addi-
tion, water well improvements in the form of pitcher pumps would be provided
for about 5,000 installations which are currently inadequate.
14.       Mollusciciding.  Snail control through the application of mollusci-
cidal chemicals would be limited initially to the fringes of newly drained
irrigated areas, but would be carried out on a continual basis on selected
habitats which have not been drained and which are in close proximity to
population clusters. Organization of an efficient system of snail monitoring
would be of high priority, not least because of the exceedingly high cost of
the molluscicidal compounds.
15.       Supporting Services.  The bulk of the work would be carried out by
two control teams of about 21 people each. Two operations offices would be
set up for the teams, one in the northern end of the endemic area and one in
the south. Each team would be headed by a medical parasitologist and would
include a sanitary engineer and a malacologist. The remaining staff would
consist of technicians and laborers. In addition five physicians and five
technicians would be drafted into the endemic area to deal with the massive
diagnostic and treatment requirements of the project.
Implementation
16.       There would be a memorandum of agreement between the Department of
Health (DOH) and the National Irrigation Administration (NIA) formally
setting out the respective responsibilities of the two agencies for implemen-
tation of the schistosomiasis control program. NIA would carry out all the
engineering work associated with the program, while the SSC would be respon-
sible for the health aspects. However, procurement for all elements of the
program would be handled by NIA. NIA would be responsible for O&M of the
drainage facilities built to control schistosomiasis and the SSC would be
responsible for making provision for a continuing molluscicidal maintenance
program and monitoring of snail populations and clinical infestations.



ANNEX 9
Page 6
Costs
17.       The schistosomiasis control program is estimated to cost a total of
US$15.7 million, including a foreign exchange component of US$7.4 million.
The engineering aspects would account for US$12.2 million of the total cost
and the health aspects for US$3.5 million. Details of the estimates are
given in Annex 10 and lists and costs of the proposed equipment are shown in
Annex 11.



PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Cost Estimate
Foreign
Local     Foreign       Total   Local    Foreign        Total   Exchange
(Pesos '000)       -    --         (US$ '000) ------    --(…)--
A. IRRIGATION SYSTEMS
1. Civil Works
Diversion dam, intake works & pumping stations         17,620     17,630    35,250      2,350     2,350        4,700       50
Main canal                                             27,380    41,100    68,480       3,650     5,480        9,130       60
Secondary distribution system                          21,900    21,900    43,800       2,920     2,920       5,840        50
Main and secondary drainage system                     17,100     17,100    34,200      2,280     2,280        4,560       50
Service, access and farm roads                         35,400    35,400      70,800     4,720     4,720       9,440        50
On-farm ditches and drains                             54,380    36,300    90,680       7,250     4,840      12,090        40
Water management stations                               7,120      3,080     10,200       950       410        1,360       30
Gate keeper quarters                                    1,050        300      1,350        140        40         180       30
Topographic surveys and mapping                         1,870      1,880      3,750       250       250          500       50
Physical contingencies 10-25% /a                       39,230    37,720      76,950     5,230     5,030      10,260        49
Engineering, supervision & administration 10%          43,720          -    43,720    5,830           -       5,830-
Subtotal                               266,770   212,410   479,180   35,570   28,320           63,890       44
2. O&M Buildings
Project headquarters                                    2,470      1,130      3,600       330        150         480       30
Field offices                                           6,080      2,620      8,700       810        350       1,160       30
Physical contingencies 10%                                900        380      1,280       120         50         170       30
Subtotal                                  9,450     4,130      13,580     1,260       550       1,810        30
3.  O&M Equipment                                                750    14,250      15,000       100    1,900        2,000        95
SUBTOTAL ITEM A                         276,970   230,790   507,760   36,930    30,770         67,700        45
B. STRENGTHENING REGIONAL O&Ml CAPABILITY
1. Civil Works
Project headquarters                                    1,130        450      1,580        150        60         210       30H 
Physical contingencies 10%                                 80         70        150         10        10          20                        5    Z
Subtotal                                  1,210        520      1,730       160        70          230       30              Cs a z
2.  O&M Equipment                                                450      8,550      9,000        60    1,140         1,200       95
SUBTOTAL ITEM B                           1,660      9,070     10,730       220     1,210        1,430       85



Foreign
Local      Foreign      Total   Local       Foreign      Total   Exchange
(Pesos '000) ------    ------- (USS '000) ------    --(%)--
C.  LAND CONSOLIDATION PILOT PROJECT
1.  Project personnel and training                              1,420        230      1,650        190        30         220        15
2.  Survey and mapping                                             80         70        150         10        10           20       50
3.  Consultants                                                     -        600        600          -        80           80      100
4.  Equipment                                                       -        150         150         -        20           20      100
5.  Civil works (pilot schemes)                                 1,350        900      2,250        180       120          300       40
Physical contingencies (civil works) 20%                   300        150         450        40        20           60       40
SUBTOTAL ITEM C                           3,150       2,100      5,250        420       280         700       40
D.  ON-FARM FACILITIES STUDY
1.  Project personnel and training                              1,430        220      1,650        190        30         220        15
2.  Consultants                                                     -      1,730      1,730          -       230          230      100
3.  Equipment,and vehicles                                        220        750        970         30       100          130       80
4.  Civil works (pilot schemes)                                   830        600      1,430        110        80          190       40
Physical contingencies  (civil works) 20%                  150          70        220        20        10           30       40
SUBTOTAL ITEM D                           2,630       3,370      6,000        350       450         800        55
E. SCHISTOSOMLIASIS CONTROL PROGRAM
1. Civil Works
Drainage system and service roads                       30,000    27,000    57,000    4,000    3,600             7,600       47
Foot bridges on canals and laterals                      3,220      2,400       5,620       430       320          750       40
O&M buildings                                            1,130         450      1,580       150         60         210       30
Topographic survey and mapping                             300         300        600        40         40          80       50
OEM equipment                                              150      2,100       2,250        20       280          300       95
Physical contingencies 25%                               8,630      7,570      16,200     1,150     1,010        2,160       47
Engineering, supervision & administration 10%            8,100           -     8,100      1,080          -       1,080        -
Subtotal                                 51,530    39,820    91,350    6,870    5,310            12,180        44
2. Health Component
Diagnosis and treatment                                       -     8,780       8,780          -    1,170        1,170      100
Health and education                                       900         220      1,120       120         30         150       20
Environmental sanitation                                 5,180      2,700       7,880       690        360       1,050       34
Snail control                                              150      2,100       2,250        20       280          300       95
Buildings                                                   220        150        370        30         20          50       40
Equipment, supplies and material                           230         970      1,200        30        130         160       80
Project personnel                                        2,400           -      2,400       320          -         320        -
Physical contingencies 20% Lb                            1,050         980      2,030       140        130         270       50
Subtotal                                  10,130     15,900    26,030      1,350      2,120       3,470        61
SUBTOTAL ITEM E                          61,660    55,720   117,380    8,220          7,430      15,650        44
SUBTOTAL ITEMS A-E                      346,070   301,050   647,120   46,140   40,140            86,280        47
Expected price increase                  82,930    73,950   156,880   11,060    9,860            20,920        47
TOTAL COST                              429,000   375,000   804,000   57,200   50.000           107,200        47
/a  Physical contingencies; Cagayan extension 25%, all other subprojects 20%,gate keeper quarters 10%.                       
/b  Contingencies for environmental sanitation and snail control only.                                                                                  C,



PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
IRRIGATION SERVICE AREA
Cost Estimate
Ilocos               Cagayan                 Leyte            Total
Rehab.   Exten.      Rehab.    Exten.       Rehab.    Exten.       Cost      Local    Foreign
- -----------------------------------…   (US$  ' 000)   …-…              -      -        --  -  -
1. Irrigation and Drainase Facilities
Diversion dam, intake works & pumping
stations                                      820       140         210      2,370         240        920      4,700      2,350      2,350
Main canal                                    1,930       360       1,090      3,720         330      1,700      9,130      3,650      5,480
Secondary distribution system                 1,380       240       1,060      1,620         320      1,220      5,840      2,920      2,920
Main and secondary drainage,system               720      130         950        990         500      1,270      4,560      2,280      2,280
Service, access and farm roads                2,320       410       1,610      2,090         760      2,250      9,440      4,720      4,720
On-farm ditches and drains                    3,780       670       1,910      2,580         860      2,290    12,090       7,250      4,840
Water management stations                       310        60         220        280         140        350      1,360        950        410
Gate keeper quarters                              70       10          20         30          20         30        180        140         40
Topographic surveys and mapping                 150        30          80        110          40         90        500        250        250
Subtotal                                11,480    2,050       7,150    13,790         3,210    10,120    47,800    24,510    23,290
Contingencies /a                              2,300       410       1,430      3,450         640      2,030    10,260       5,230      5,030
Engineering, supervision and
administration (10%)                        1,380       250         860      1.730         390      1,220      5,830      5,830        -
Subtotal                                15,160    2,710       9,440     18,970       4,240    13,370    63,890    35,570    28,320
2. O&M buildings
Project headquarters                             180 /b    30 /b       60        90           40         80        480        330        150
Field offices                                   310        50         180        210         100        310      1,160        810        350
Subtotal                                   490        80         240        300         140        390      1,640     1,140        500
Contingencies (10%)                              50        10          20         30          20         40        170        120         50
Subtotal                                   540        90         260        330         160        430      1,810      1,260        550
3.  O&M eouipment                                    -         -           -          -           -          -       2.000         100     1,900
Total                                   15,700    2,800        9,700    19,300        4,400    13,800    67.700    36,930    30,770
/a  Physical contingencies:   Cagayan extension 25%, all other subprojects 20%, gate keeper quarters 10%.
/b  An equivalent amount allocated to strengthening of regional capability component.                                                                 a 
C



ANNEX 10
Table 3
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
STRENGTHENING REGIONAL O&M CAPABILITY
Cost Estimate
Local     Foreign      Total
(US$ '000) --------
1. Civil Works
Project headquarters                              150           60         210
Contingencies (10%)                                10           10          20
Subtotal                            160           70         230
2.  O&M Equipment                                       160        1,140       2,000
Total                               220        1,210       1,430



ANNEX 10
Table 4
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
LAND CONSOLIDATION PILOT PROJECT
Cost Estimate
Local         Foreign          Total
-     …------ (US$'000)  …-_-_-_-_
1.  Project Personnel                        170              -              170
2.  Training of Project Personnel             20             30               50
Subtotal                          190             30             220
3. Contractual Services
(a)  Survey and Mapping                   15             5               20
(b)  Consultants                           -            80               80
Subtotal                           15             85             100
4.  Equipment                                   -            20               20
5.  Civil Works                               180           120              300
6.  Contingencies (20%-Item 5)                35             25               60
TOTAL                             420            280             700



ANNEX 10
Table 5
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
ON-FARM FACILITIES STUDY
Cost Estimate
Local         Foreign         Total
…--------   (US$'000)    ------------
1.  Project personnel                       170             -              170
2.  Training of project personnel            20            30               50
Subtotal                          190             30             220
3.  Consultant services                      -            230              230
4.  Equipment and vehicles                   30            100             130
5.  Civil works                             110             75             185
6.  Contingencies (20% - Item 5)             20             15              35
Total                             350            450             800



ANNEX 10
Table 6
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
SCHISTOSOMIASIS CONTROL PROGRAM
Cost Estimate
Local     Foreign      Total
…-----  (US$   '000)  …------
1. Civil Works
Main and secondary drains                       2,500        2,500       5,000
Extra for on-farm drains                          700          300       1,000
Service roads along drains                        800          800       1,600
Foot bridges on main canals                       200          180         380
Foot bridges on secondary laterals                 70           50         120
Foot bridges on farm ditches                      160           90         250
O&M buildings                                     150           60         210
Topographic survey and mapping                     40           40          80
O&M equipment                                      20          280         300
Subtotal              4,640         4,300       8,940
Contingencies (25%)                             1,150        1,010       2,160
Engineering, supervision and
administration (10%)                         1,080             -       1,080
Subtotal              6,870        5,310      12,180
2. Health Component
Diagnosis and treatment                             -        1,170       1,170
Health education                                  120           30         150
Environmental sanitation
Water seal toilets                              240           60         300
Domestic water supply                           450          300         750
Snail control                                      20          280         300
Buildings                                          30           20          50
Equipment, supplies and materials                  30          130         160
Project personnel                                 320            -         320
Contingencies (20% of environmental
sanitation and snail control)                   140          130         270
Subtotal               1,350       2,120        3,470
TOTAL                 8,220         7,430      15,650



ANNEX 10
Tab le 7
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Expected Price Increases
Calendar Year
1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    Total
……------------- (US$ '000)  …__________
1. Civil Works
Irrigation systems                   1,500  11,000  19,500  18,000  15,700   65,700
Strengthening of O&M capability         30      200                                 230
Land consolidation pilot project         -      170      230     140       40       580
On-farm facilities studies               -      120      170     110       40       440
Schistosomiasis control program         70   1,810   3,800   4,530   3,300   13,510
Subtotal               1,600  13,300  23,700  22,780  19,080   80,460
Annual inflation rate (%)              9        9        9       8        8
Expected price increases /a             40   1,300   4,650   6,720   7,480   20,190
2.  Equipment  nd Services
Irrigation systems                     100   1,500      400                       2,000
Strengthening of O&M capability         50      950     200                       1,200
Land consolidation pilot project        10       40       30      20       20       120
On-farm facilities studies              20      160      100      50       30       360
Schistosomiasis control program         60      680     600      400      400    2,140
Subtotal                 240   3,330   1,330       470      450    5,820
Annual inflation rate (%)              7.5      7.5      7.5     7        7
Expected price increases /a              -      270     200      110      150       730
Total without price increases              1,840  16,630  25,030  23,250  19,530   86,280
Expected price increases                       40   1,570   4,850   6,830   7,630   20,920
Total with price increases                 1,880  18,200  29,880  30,080  27,160  107,200
/a Calculated by compounding the estimated rate of price increases in prior years
and one-half the rate of increase in the year concerned.



ANNEX 11
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
IRRIGATION SERVICE AREA
Equipment for Force Account Work
Unit         Total
Item                                       Quantity        Cost          Cost
-- (US$'000) ---
Tractor, swampy, 140 hp                               6           70             420
Tractor, crawler, 140 hp                             10           75             750
Tractor, crawler, 90 hp                               9           50             450
Crane, crawler, dragline 3/4 cu yd                    5           90             450
Hydraulic backhoe, crawler 0.4 cu yd                  10          37             370
Tractor, industrial w/backhoe loader                 20            30            600
Front end loader, wheeled 1.5 cu yd                   6           35             210
Farm tractor with blade attachment, 75 hp            10            16            160
Truck tractor with 25 ton trailer                     3           53             160
Motor grader, 125 hp                                   6           53            320
Roller, 3 wheel steel, 12 ton                          1           30             30
Roller, 5 ton                                         4            15             60
Roller, 1.0 m wide                                   16           10             160
Truck, dump 6-8 cu yd                                20           27             540
Truck, water                                          4           22              90
Truck, forklift                                        3          20              60
Truck, fuel and lubrication service                   3           43             130
Mobile repair shop, truck mounted                      3           77            230
Air compressor, 125 CFM                               4            15             60
Generator                                             3           20              60
Mixer, concrete 1/2 cu yd                             10          12             120
Mixer, concrete 1/4 cu yd                            20             4             80
Compactor, 19 x 24 in plate with generator           18            6            110
Water pump 4-6" size                                 20            1.5           30
Welding equipment                                     3            3              t f
Truck, flatbed, 6 ton                                 6           22            130
Station wagon, 4 x 4                                  4           12             50
Jeep, utility vehicle, 4 x 4                         22            9            200
Truck, pick up, 3/4 ton, 4 x 4                       12           10            120
Miscellaneous tools and equipment                                L.S.           140
Subtotal                                                                6,300
Spare parts, 10%                                                                700
Total                                                                   7,000



ANNEX 11
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
IRRIGATION SERVICE AREA
Equipment for Operation and Maintenance
Unit         Total
Item                                          Quantity        Cost           Cost
-- (US$'000) ---
Truck, dump, 6-8 cu yd                                  13            27             350
Truck, flatbed, 6 ton                                   12            22             260
Truck, pickup, 3/4 ton 4 x 4                            17            10             170
Station wagon, 4 x 4                                     5            12              60
Jeep, utility vehicle, 4 x 4                            17             9             150
Motorcycle, 100 cc                                     170             1             170
Mixer, concrete 1/4 cu yd                               35             4             140
Water pump, 2-4" size                                   40             1              40
Weed cutter                                            500             0.3           150
Weed cutter attachment for industrial
tractor                                               16             1.2            20
Radio transceiver (single Sb)                           25             4             100
Meteorological station                                  20             2              40
Levelling instrument with staff and
steel tape                                            27             1.5            40
Transit with staff and tape                             14             1.5            20
Current meters                                          25             0.4            10
Miscellaneous tools and equipment                                     L.S.            80
Subtotal                                                                     1,800
Spare parts (10%)                                                                    200
Total                                                                        2,000



ANNEX i1
Table 3
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
STRENGTHENING REGIONAL O&M CAPABILITY
Equipment for Operation and Maintenance
Unit         Total
Item                                         Quantity /a   Cost            Cost
-- (US$OOO) ---
Truck, dump, 6-8 cu yd                                 10           27             270
Truck, flatbed, 6 ton                                   7           22             160
Truck, pickup, 3/4 ton 4 x 4                            7            10             70
Station wagon, 4 x 4                                    3           12              40
Jeep, utility vehicle, 4 x 4                           17            9             150
Motorcycle, 100 cc                                     70             1             70
Mixer, concrete 1/4 cu yd                              23             4             90
Water pumps, 2-4" size                                 20             1             20
Weed cutter                                           230            0.3            70
Radio transceiver (single Sb)                          12             4             50
Meteorlogical stations                                 10             2             20
Levelling instrument with staff and
steel tape                                           20            1.5            30
Transit with staff and tape                            12             1.5           20
Current meters                                         25            0.4            10
Miscellaneous tools and equipment                                   L.S.            30
Subtotal                                                                   1,100
Spare parts (10%)                                                                  100
Total                                                                      1,200
/a See Annex 6, Table 2.



ANNEX 11
Table 4
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
LAND CONSOLIDATION PILOT PROJECT AND ON-FARM FACILITIES STUDY
Equipment List
Item                                 Quantity       Unit       Total
Cost      Cost
-- (US$ '000) -
(A) Land Consolidation Pilot Project
Jeep, utility vehicle, 4x4 plus spares            2          10           20
(B) On-Farm Facilities Study
Jeep, utility vehicle, 4x4                        3           9           27
Truck, pickup, 3/4 ton, 4x4                       3          10           30
Motorcycle, 100 cc                               15           1           15
Vehicular spares                                L.S.                       8
Portable Parshall flume                          15           0.2          3
Rainfall recorder, automatic                      5           0.8          4
Water stage recorder                              5           2           10
Soil investigation equipment                    L.S.                       3
Current meter                                     5           0.4          2
Survey equipment                               L.S.                        5
Office equipment and supplies                   L.S.                      23
Subtotal                                                      130
Total                                                         150



ANNEX 11
Table 5
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
SCHISTOSOMIASIS CONTROL PROGRAM
Equipment for Force Account Work
Unit         Total
Item                                       Quantity        Cost          Cost
-- (US$ '000) --
Tractor, swampy, 140 hp                               3           70             210
Tractor, crawler, 140 hp                              3           75             230
Tractor, crawler, 90 hp                               3           50             150
Crane, crawler, dragline 3/4 cu yd                    2           90             180
Hydraulic backhoe, crawler 0.4 cu yd                  3           37             110
Tractor, industrial w/backhoe loader                  5           30             150
Front end loader, wheeled 1.5 cu yd                    1          35              30
Farm tractor with blade attachment, 75 hp             2            16             30
Motor grader, 125 hp                                  2           53             110
Roller, 3 wheel steel, 12 ton                          1           30             30
Roller, 5 ton                                         2            15             30
Roller, 1.0 m wide                                    4            10             40
Truck, dump 6-8 cu yd                                 6           27             160
Truck, water                                           1          22              20
Generator                                              1          20              20
Mixer, concrete 1/2 cu yd                             5            12             60
Mixer, concrete 1/4 cu yd                              5            4             20
Compactor, 19 x 24 in plate with generator            2            6              10
Water pump 4-6" size                                 12             1.5          20
Truck, flatbed, 6 ton                                 3           22              70
Jeep, utility vehicle, 4 x 4                          3            9             30
Truck, pick up, 3/4 ton, 4 x 4                        2           10             20
Miscellaneous tools and equipment                                 L.S.           70
Subtotal                                                                 1,800
Spare parts (10%)                                                               200
Total                                                                   2,000



ANNEX 11
Table 6
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
SCHISTOSOMIASIS CONTROL PROGRAM
Equipment for Health Component
Unit         Total
Item                                        Quantity        Cost          Cost
-- (US$'000) ___
1. Vehicles and Equipment
Jeep, utility vehicle, 4 x 4                        2        9            18
Truck, pickup, 3/4 ton 4 x 4                        3       10            30
Power sprayer, 4.5 HP                               8        0.75          6
Weed cutter, 2.8 HP                                 8        0.3            2.4
Microscope, binocular, w/accessories                8        3.25         26
Stereoscope, binocular, w/accessories               4        3.25         13
Centrifuge                                          4        0.4           1.6
Electric generator, 4 Kw                            2        0.75           1.5
Typewriter                                          4        0.5            2
Hand compass                                        4        0.1           0.4
Range finder (1,000 m)                              4        0.15          0.6
Office furniture                                            L.S.           5
Miscellaneous equipment                                     L.S.           3.5
Subtotal                                                       110.0
2. Supplies and Materials
Diagnostic kits                              250,000                      45
Drugs and hematinics (doses)                   45,000                  1,125
Molluscicide                                  10 tons                    280
Subtotal                                                     1,450
Total                                                        1,560



ANNEX II
Table 7
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
SCHISTOSOMIASIS CONTROL PROGRAM
Equipment for Operation and Maintenance
Unit         Total
Item                                         Quantity       Cost           Cost
-- (US$'O0O) ---
Truck, dump, 6-8 cu yd                                  3            27             80
Truck, flatbed, 6 ton                                   2            22             50
Truck, pickup, 3/4 ton 4 x 4                            2            10             20
Station wagon, 4 x 4                                    2            12             30
Jeep, utility vehicle, 4 x 4                            2            17             30
Motorcycle, 100 cc                                     10             1             10
Water pump, 2-4" size                                  10             1             10
Weed cutter                                            33             0.3           10
Weed cutter attachment for industrial
w/backhoe loader tractor                              5             2             10
Miscellaneous tools and equipment                                   L.S.            20
Subtotal                                                                     270
Spare parts (10%)                                                                   30
Total                                                                        300



ANNEX 12
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Estimated Schedule of Expenditures
Total
Item                                           Cost    FY78 /a   FY79    FY80    FY81    FY82
-…------- (US$ '000)                …-_
Irrigation systems service area                55,700   6,500   14,000  18,500  17,700   9,000
Strengthening of regional O&M capability          230      200       30        -        -        -
Land consolidation pilot project                  700      100       250     230       90       30
On-farm facilities study                          800      150       280     220      110       40
Schistosomiasis control program                15,350      950    3,640   4,650   4,500   1,610
O&M equipment /b                                3,500   1,900    1,600         -        -        -
Subtotal                    86,280   9,800   19,800  23,600  22,400  10,680
Expected price increases                       20,920      500    3,200   5,900   7,700   3,620
Total Project Cost         107,200  10,300   23,000  29,500  30,100  14,300
/a IBRD fiscal years.
/b Includes equipment for irrigation systems, O&M regional capability and schistosomiasis
control program.



ANNEX 12
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year and Semester                           Accumulated Disbursements
(US$ '000 Equivalent)
FY78
1st                                                      200
2nd                                                    2,400
FY79
Lst                                                    6,300
2nd                                                   12,100
FY80
1st                                                   18,600
2nd                                                   25,300
FY81
1st                                                   32,200
2nd                                                   38,500
FY82
1st                                                  43,500
2nd                                                  46,500
FY83
1st                                                  50,000



ANNEX 12
Table 3
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT:  I
Proposed Allocation of Proceeds of Loan
Costs            Proposed
Category                                                  Total      Foreign        Loan
------- (US$ million) -------
I. Civil Works
Irrigation systems /a                             42.6        17.0         28.5 *
Strengthening of regional O&M capability           0.2         0.1
Land consolidation pilot project                   0.5         0.2
On-farm facilities study                            0.6        0.2
Schistosomiasis control program /b                 7.8         2.5
Expected price increases                          19.2         8.5
Subtotal                        70.9        28.5
* Of which (a) US$4.0 million for mobilization and contractors' equipment
and (b) US$24.5 million for other civil works. Disbursement for (a) will
be 100% of foreign expenditure and (b) 35% of total expenditure.
1I. Equipment and Supplies
Irrigation systems /c                              9.0         8.7         16.0
Strengthening of regional O&M capability /d         1.2        1.1
Schistosomiasis control program /e                 4.1         3.8
Expected price increases                            1.7        1.4
Subtotal                        16.0        15.0
Disbursement will be 100% of foreign expenditure for directly imported
equipment, 100% of expenditure (ex-factory) for locally manufactured
equipment and 65% of total expenditure for imported equipment procured
locally.
III. Technical Assistance /f
Land consolidation pilot project                    0.1        0.1           0.3
On-farm facilities study                            0.2        0.2
Subtotal                         0.3         0.3
Disbursement will be 100% of total expenditure.
IV. Unallocated /g
Physical contingencies                             13.1        6.2          5.2
(Administrative and engineering)                  (6.9)                      _
Total                          107.2        50.0         50.0
/a Force account equipment (US$7.0 million), excluded and transferred to
category II; Annex 11, Table 1.
/b Excludes cost of force account equipment (US$2.0 million), transferred
to category II; Annex 11, Table 4.
/c Includes equipment for force account (US$7.0 million) and O&M (US$2.0 million);
Annex 11, Tables 1 and 2.
/d O&M equipment; Annex 11, Table 3.
/e  Includes equipment and supplies;  Force account                (US$2.0  million)
O&M                       (US$0.3  million)
Diagnosis and treatment (US$1.2  million)
Health and education    (US$0.15 million)
Snail control             (US$0.3  million)
Supplies, etc.            (US$0.15 million)
/f Other than civil works in category I and equipment in category II.
/g See Annex 10, Table 1.



ANNEX 13
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
NTATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IIPROVEMENT PROJECT:  I
Organization and Management
1.        Since 1964 overall responsibility for the national irrigation
systems in the Philippines has been vested in the National Irrigation Admini-
stration (NIA). The NIA was set up under Republic Act No. 3601 to investigate,
study, improve, construct and administer all national irrigation systems. It
was given the power to investigate all available water resources in the country
in order to utilize them for irrigation and to collect water rates from the
beneficiaries of the national irrigation systems. Presidential Decree No.552
of September 11, 1974 has further widened flIA's scope by giving it "...broader
powers and authority to undertake concomitant projects such as flood control,
drainage, land reclamation, hydraulic power development, domestic water
supply, road or highway construction, reforestation and projects to maintain
ecological balance, in coordination with the agencies concerned." The NIA is
financed by the Government through the sale of bonds or from appropriations.
2.        The governing body of the NIA is the Board of Directors, composed
of a Chairman and five members, who are all ex-officio except for one member
appointed by the President of the Philippines on the recommendation of rice
and corn growers. Management of the NIA is the responsibility of an Admini-
strator appointed by the President. The Administrator is also Vice-Chairman
of the Board. Directly below the Administrator there are three Assistant
Administrators, respectively responsible for Engineering and Operations,
Special Projects, and Finance and Administration. Field services are managed
by eight regional and two subregional offices, together with a number of
special project offices.
3.        The NIA has recently been reorganized and expanded to meet the
wider responsibilities imposed on it by Presidential Decree No. 552 and by
the Government's policy of accelerating irrigation development. One of the
principal results of the reorganization was the integration of all the major
foreign-assisted projects under a Special Projects Organization (SPO) office,
thus avoiding duplication and increasing transfer of experience between
projects. Even before the establishment of the SPO most of the foreign-
assisted projects were not implemented by the NIA regional field offices, but
were entrusted to ad hoc project offices specially set-up for the purpose.
The regional field offices have suffered in terms of access to funds, staff
and equipment, compared to the various special project offices. The proposed
project, consisting of a large number of small systems scattered over a wide
area, would not lend itself to implementation by a special project office,
but would be suitable for execution by NIA's field offices. The project would
be the first major foreign-assisted project to be implemented by the regional
offices and would help to strengthen their construction and operations and
maintenance capabilities.



ANNEX 13
Page 2
4.        The Assistant Administrator for Engineering and Operations is
responsible to the Administrator for the eight regional and two subregional
NIIA offices covering the Philippines. In the central office there are four
support Departments under him, i.e. Project Development, Construction
Management, Equipment Management and Operations. Each Department is made
up of a number of Divisions and is headed by a Director.   The central
departments, except Project Development, are represented at the regional
level by divisions with similar functions; in addition there are accounting
and administrative divisions. The regional offices are headed by Regional
Directors who are responsible for all activities of NIA in the provinces
constituting their regions, with the exception of projects assigned to the
SPO (Chart No. 16866). The proposed project would involve NIA Regions
Nlos. 1, 2 and 6.  Region No. 1 covers the eight provinces of Ilocos Norte,
Abra, Ilocos Sur, Mfountain, La Union, Benguet, Pangasinan and Tarlac, in
Northwestern Luzon. Region Nlo. 2 includes the six provinces of Kalinga-Apayao,
Cagayan, Isabela, Ifugao, Nueva Viscaya and Quirino in Northern Luzon. Region
No. 6 comprises the seven provinces of Samar, Northern Samar, Eastern Samar,
Leyte, Southern Leyte, Bohol and Cebu, on the islands of Samar, Leyte, Bohol
and Cebu respectively in the Eastern Visayas. The regional headquarters are
located in Urdaneta in Pangasinan province for Region No. 1, in Cauayan in
Isabela province for Region No. 2, and in Tacloban City in Leyte province
for Region Nlo. 6.
5.        ITIA would appoint a Project Director, based in lIanila, who would be
directly responsible for execution of the project under the overall supervision
of the Assistant Administrator for Engineering and Operations. The Project
Director would have a small support staff for planning, procurement, monitoring
and accounting. He would have day-to-day responsibility for coordinating the
work at headquarters of the Construction Management, Equipment and Operations
Departments, all of which would have significant roles to play in project
implementation. The Project Director would also supervise implementation at
the field level which would be under the immediate control of the Regional
Directors of Regions 1, 2, and 6. In Region 1 a subregional office would
be established at Laoag, as the present regional office at Urdaneta is too
far from the bulk of the work. Three existing field offices in Region 1, two
in Region 2, and one in Region 6 would be expanded and two new ones would be
built at Tanauan and MIayorga in Region 6 to deal with the construction of new
systems in Leyte. The proposed organization is shown in Chart No. 16867.
6.        The Construction MIanagement Department at headquarters would design
plans and prepare estimates for all project works, except for on-farm facili-
ties, and would also undertake contract administration work. The Engineering
Divisions of the three project Regional Offices would be responsible for the
preparation of plans, programs, designs and estimates of on-farm facilities,
as well as revisions dictated by field conditions of those works designed in
the central office. The Divisions would undertake inspection and supervision
of works carried out by contract and would be responsible for force account
construction. The Equipment Divisions would be responsible for the operation
and maintenance of all force account equipment used on the project.



ANNEX 13
Page 3
The Administrative and Accounting Divisions would be responsible for person-
nel and records management, accounting, property administration, procurement
and other services.
7.        Each of the eight Field Offices to be strengthened or established
under the project would be headed by a Project Engineer. He would be sup-
ported by Administrative, Engineering and Operations Sections. The Field
Office to be set-up at Tanauain in Leyte would also be responsible for
implementation of the civil works component of the schistosomiasis control
program.
8.        The proposed organization for operation and maintenance is shown in
Chart No. 16868. The technical responsibility for operating and maintaining
all the project systems would be with the Operations Department in the
central office and the Operations Divisions at the regional level. At the end
of construction the eight Field Offices would become Irrigation Districts under
an Irrigation Engineer. He would be supported by Administrative, Engineering,
Operations, and Agricultural Sections. Each district would be subdivided
into divisions. An operations division of about 2,500 ha would be controlled
by a supervisor and would be subdivided into 500 ha units, each under a Water
Ilanagement Technician. The 500 ha unit would consist of ten 50 ha rotation
areas, the basic units of the irrigation system. The smallest organizational
entity would be made up of two 50 ha units and would be supervised by a
ditchtender. In Regions 1 and 6, the Ilocos and Leyte subprojects, a Water
Management Technician would only be responsible for 300 ha instead of the
standard 500 ha proposed for Region 2 and used on the Special Projects
systems. The greater staffing intensity would be justified in the Ilocos
subproject by the large number of widely scattered irrigation systems, the
very small farm sizes and the big population of farmers. In Leyte the higher
staffing intensity would assist the farmers to make up for the backwardness
caused by disease and poor irrigation and drainage facilities.
9.        At completion of construction the project area would require 21
Water Management Technologists and 140 Water Management Technicians. The
Technologists have the same qualifications as the Technicians, but are senior
in service and have supervisory functions at the divisional level. Most of
the Technicians are agricultural or agricultural engineering graduates.
However, a small proportion is composed of high school graduates promoted
from the ditchtender cadre. NIA proposes to reserve not more than 25% of the
Water Management Technician posts as an incentive for competent and experi-
enced ditchtenders. All technologists and technicians, whether recruited
directly to the post or promoted to it, would undergo a one-year training in
water management, crop production and farmer organization at one of the
training centers being run by the Special Projects Organization with Bank
assistance. The Region personnel would be trained in the Upper Pampanga
River Project Center, the Region 2 staff in the Magat River Mfultipurpose
Project Center and the Region 6 staff in the Jalaur Irrigation Project
Center. The annual costs of operation and maintenance for the three sub-
projects and the average for the project as a whole are shown in Table 1.



PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT I
Cost of Irrigation Operation and Maintenance
Annual Cost
Ilocos             Cagayan              Leyte                 Total
Subproject          Subproject          Subproject             Project
(P/ha)  (US$/ha)   (P/ha)  (US$/ha)   (P/ha)  (US$/ha)   (P/ha)  (US$/ha)
Salaries & wages         125      16.70       100     14.90       120      16.00       120      16.00
Equipment operation        40      5.30        35       4.70        35      4.70        37       4.80
Materials & supplies        5      0.70         5       0.70         5      0.70         5       0.70
Administrative &
general expenses        40       5.30        35      4.70        35       4.60        38      4.90
TOTALS              210      28.00       185     25.00       195      26.00       200     26.40
Note:  An additional cost of P 150/ha (US$20/ha) would be used for operation of pumps in three
pump irrigation systems.
F- tl
rD Ix



ANNEX 14
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Supporting Agricultural Services
1.        Mfany Government organizations currently have dealings with the
farmers in the various subprojects. The principal agencies are:
(a) Bureau of Agricultural Extension (BAE);
(b) Bureau of Plant Industry (BPI);
(c) National Food and Agriculture Council (NFAC);
(d) Department of Agrarian Reform (DAR);
(e) Agricultural Credit Administration (ACA);
(f) Department of Local Government and Community Development (DLGCD);
(g) National Grains Authority (NGA);
(h) Philippine Virginia Tobacco Administration (PVTA);
(i) National Irrigation Administration (NIA); and
(j) Philippine Nlational Bank (PIB).
2.        In the Upper Pampanga River Project (UPRP), the need for coordin-
ating the various agencies providing services to the farmers was clearly
felt. An Agricultural Development Coordinating Council (ADCC) was estab-
lished for the project to provide day-to-day control and coordination of
the activities of the various agencies within the project area. The ADCC
consisted of the Provincial Heads of all the participating agencies. The
arrangement worked well in UPRP and similar organizations were set up for
subsequent Bank-assisted projects. However, under the Government's Hlasagana
campaign for increased rice production, provincial committeees have been
established which have the same functions and similar membership as the
ADCCs. These committees are organized by the provincial representatives
of the National Food and Agriculture Council (NFAC).  The Council has the
responsibility for coordination of all agencies concerned with agricultural
production. The ADCCs have become redundant and none would be established
under the proposed project.
3.        The project would be organized on the basis of irrigation units
of 50 ha in the same manner as the Pampanga, Tarlac, Mfagat, Chico and Jalaur
projects. The 20 to 25 farmers in such a unit would be given every incentive



ANINEX 14
Page 2
to work together as a group.  The NIA would schedule irrigation on a rota-
tional basis thus promoting a uniformity of operations within each unit at
any given time. The rotational area would also be the basic unit for the
provision of credit and the building block for the eventual organization of
irrigation associations and cooperatives. In the earlier Bank-assisted
irrigation projects, the NIA is assigning a Water Management Technician to
every ten units or 500 ha. The same staffing pattern would be applied to the
Cagayan subproject area. In the Ilocos and Leyte subproject areas there
would be one Water M4anagement Technician to every 300 ha. The greater
staffing intensity would be justified by prevaiiing local circumstances in
the two areas (Annex 13). The water management staff would supplement the
existing extension personnel provided by the various government agencies and
would help to increase the already good extension coverage in the project
area. The number of farmers per extension worker ranges from a low of about
225 in the Ilocos subproject provinces, through 495 in the Cagayan subproject
to a high of 830 in the Leyte subproject. The BAE is mainly responsible for
agricultural extension, with technical back-up provided by the BPI. The
technicians in the project area, all graduates, come mainly from BAE and DAR.
4.        13ew extension work items to be emphasized eonIJ include improved
irrigation and drainage practices, the importance of scheduling operations,
the use of good quality seed and even planting, proper fertilizer application,
weed and pest control, and the use of tilling and threshing machinery.
Research
5.        There are three research stations servicing the Ilocos subproject
area:  the BPI's facility at Bantay, the PVTA's Naguilisan station at Laoag
and the Don Mariano MIarcos Memorial College at Batac. The Cagayan subproject
would draw on four BPI stations in the area: +he Cagyavn Valley station at
San HIateo and the stations at Ilagan, Luna and 4htsoc;   The Cagayan Valley
station deals principally with rice and the work 1s focused on varietal
screening, foundation seed production and pure seed certification. There is
also a Bureau of Soils unit at Ilagan working on fertilizers, soil fertility
and erosion. The Leyte area is served by the Visevas State College of
Agriculture at Baybay.  This institute has been desglnated by the Philippine
Council of Agriculture and Resources Research (PC)I,R) as the research center
for the Eastern Visayas, with a research emphasis on rice, corn and soil and
water resources.  The ITIA-PCARR Research and Devel1Dment Field Station is
located on one of the project irrigation systems.  ExLeriments conducted in
this station include studies on effective rainfall and Ty,-ater use efficiency,
field soil moisture stress, and growth and yield response s of HYV to different
rates of fertilizer and irrigation applications.  The Philippines-Japan Pilot
Farm Project, which is located in the vicinity oF the proiect area, also
conducts trials on fertilizer rates and times of ''pIction on rice, as well
as investigations on plant densities and cropping int2nsities.



AIqIIEX 14
Page 3
Fertilizer
6.        Annual consumption of fertilizer in the subproject areas currently
amounts to about 3,800 tons for Ilocos, 1,050 tons for Cagayan and 800 tons
for Leyte. About 30% is in the form of urea and ammonium sulphate and the
balance is evenly divided between ammonium phosphate and compound formu-
lations like 15-15-15. Application rates vary considerably between the
subproject areas, being highest in Ilocos and lowest in Leyte. At full
development the project would require about 16,150 tons of fertilizer, of
which 5,900 tons in Ilocos, 5,800 tons in Cagayan and 4,450 tons in Leyte.
Urea would account for 75% of the total requirement and triple superphosphate
and muriate of potash for 24% and 1% respectively.  The potash would be
reserved for the small area of tobacco in the Ilocos subproject. In terms
of nutrients, the average rate of application per crop season for rice would
be 60 kg/ha nitrogen and 20 kg/ha phosphoric acid in the Leyte and Cagayan
systems. In the Ilocos systems the phosphoric acid application rate would
be similar, but the nitrogen rate would be 70 kg/ha. For tobacco the rate
of application would be 20 kg/ha nitrogen, 40 kg/ha phosphoric acid and
60 kg/ha potash (Annex 17). All project areas are well served by dealers
of fertilizer and agro-chemicals, who would handle the additional demand
without difficulty.
Seed
7.        A total of about 3,700 tons of rice seed is used in the three
subproject areas annually. The great bulk of the seed is obtained by reten-
tion from the farmers' commercial production and only a small amount is
purchased from BPI-registered seed-growers. At full development, the project
would use approximately 4,200 tons of rice seed per annum.  There would be a
decrease in the existing 60 kg/ha seed rate to 50 kg/ha. Assuming that rice
seed would be renewed every five crop seasons, the estimated annual require-
ment of certified seed for the project area at full development would amount
to 840 tons. At a conservative paddy yield estimate of 3 tons/ha and allowing
a safety factor, about 300 ha of certified seed production would be required
to meet the project needs, of which 95 ha in Region 1, 115 in Region 2 and 90
in Region 6. No difficulties are foreseen in establishing the necessary seed
growing facilities to produce the required quantity of seed.
Farmers' Organizations
8.        As part of the Agrarian Reform program, the Government, through
the DLGCD, is promoting the formation of precooperative farmer organizations,
based on a barrio or hamlet. The organizations would serve as channels for
the inflow of technical services, credit and inputs and as assembly points
for produce intended for markets. It is hoped that these organizations
will grow into fully-fledged, formally constituted cooperatives. This
approach to cooperative organization fits in well with the 50 ha irrigation
unit approach by NIA on Bank-assisted irrigation projects.



AINNEX 14
Page 4
9.        The NIA is committed to the creation of irrigation associations
among the farmers which would eventually assume a large part of the
responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the national irrigation
systems. Without losing sight of the ultimate objective, the main thrust
of NIA's efforts in the Bank-assisted projects has been to organize the
farmers within the 50-ha units, primarily for production and water manage-
ment. The immediate aim is to demonstrate to the farmers that working
together and using water efficiently is possible and profitable. Once
this has been established, a realistic framework for setting up irrigation
associations would exist. The subproject areas would be expected to follow
the pattern and gain from the experience of the earlier projects in Luzon.
Credit
10.       The extent to which farmers in the subproject areas provide their
own funds for financing their requirements of farm inputs and hired labor
varies. Data for 1974-75 indicate that some 40% of farmers in the Ilocos
subproject use their own resources compared to about 70% in the Cagayan and
Leyte subprojects. The remainder use some form of credit, the principal
sources of which are:
(a) banks, notably the Rural Banks (RB), the Philippine National Bank
(PNB), the Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) and private
banks;
(b) the Agricultural Credit Administration (ACA);
(c) input dealers, marketing organizations and millers; and
(d) money lenders.
11.       To ensure the success of the Agrarian Reform program and to
increase food-crop production, the Government has proceeded to strengthen
the credit institutions and. to facilitate the granting of production credit
to small farmers who previously depended on the landlords and private money
lenders for their requirements. RBs have been authorized rediscounting
privileges of 100%, Government guarantees of up to 85% of the loans made and
low-cost money is available from the Central Bank. The easier credit thus
made available is employed under a system of "supervised credit", which
includes the provision of technical services to the borrower to ensure that
recommended practices, including seed variety, fertilizer and agro-chemical
inputs, are adopted. Loans granted under supervised credit are not secured
by collateral, but the Government guarantee mentioned above is available
which will reimburse the banks up to 85% of the amount loaned in the event
that there is a crop failure caused by factors beyond the control of the
farmer. The interest is at 12% per annum and the loan is for a period of six
months. Information for Phase VI of the "Htasagana 99" program covering the
1975-76 dry-season crop shows that for the Ilocos Norte, Ilocos Sur
and La Union provinces of the Ilocos subproject, total loans under the
program amounted to about P 2.6 million (US$350,000).  In Cagayan province



ANNEX 14
Page 5
the figure was about P 7.3 million (US$970,000). For the whole of Leyte
island, Phase VI loans were about P 4.7 million (US$625,000), but, in the
subproject municipalities loans amounted to a total of only P 110,000
(US$14,670). On average the Masagana loans in all subproject areas were
about P 1,000 per farmer.
12.       Under the earlier phases of the Masagana program, production
credit was given up to P 800/ha, consisting of P 430 for inputs and P 370
for labor and subsistence. The Government has since raised the rate to
P 1,200/ha, made up of P 680 for the inputs and P 520 for labor and subsis-
tence. The increased rate is a little below the production costs estimated
at full development. Assuming that at full project development about 20%
of the farmers in the project area would find their cash requirements for
inputs and hired labor from their own resources, some 30,000 farmers would
need credit from institutional sources. At a loan level of P 1,200 ha, the
annual credit requirement for all three subproject areas would total P 80.7
million (US$10.8 million), of which P 47.4 million for the wet-season crop
and P 33.3 million for the dry-season crop. The Cagayan systems would
require P 31.2 million, the Ilocos systems P 25.6 million and the Leyte
systems P 23.9 million annually. The existing credit institutions would be
able to handle the credit program. However, there has been a reduction in
the amount of officially sponsored short term credit in the last crop season
because of poor loan repayments in earlier phases of the Masagana program.
Assurance would be obtained that the Government would make available a supply
of short term production credit to meet the requirements of the project.



ANNEX 15
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Present and Projected Cropping Patterns and Production
Present Cropping Pattern and Yields
1.        Some 49,400 ha in the total project area are currently cultivated
to rice in the wet season. Of these, about 26,200 ha are irrigated and
23,200 ha are rainfed. In the irrigated areas, about 14,400 ha, consisting
of 13,100 ha of rice and 1,300 ha of tobacco, are cultivated during the
dry season for a cropping intensity of 155%. However, for the project area
as a whole, the cropping intensity is only 133%. It is 143% in the Ilocos
subproject, 122% in the Cagayan subproject and 136% in the Leyte subproject.
The cropping intensity value for Leyte includes about 2,000 ha of rainfed
corn grown in the dry season in the project areas.
2.        Wet-season irrigated rice is grown between April and December in
Ilocos and Cagayan and between August and March in Leyte. Transplanting is
spread over a 12-week period between June and August in Ilocos and Cagayan
and between October and December in Leyte. Harvesting is spread over a
similar period between October and December in Ilocos and Cagayan and
between January and March in Leyte. The dry-season irrigated rice crop is
grown betwen October and May in Ilocos and Cagayan and between January and
August in Leyte. Transplanting of the dry-season crop covers a 12-week
period beginning in November in Ilocos and Cagayan and in March in Leyte.
Harvesting takes place over a similar period beginning in February in Ilocos
and Cagayan and in June in Leyte. While a majority of the farmers adhere to
the above timetables, there is considerable slippage, which is particularly
noticeable in the irrigated areas. All rice is transplanted from field
nurseries onto previously puddled land.
3.        Almost all the irrigated area in the Ilocos systems is planted with
improved varieties of rice. However, only about 70% of the irrigated area in
the Cagayan subproject and 60% in the Leyte subproject is planted with
improved varieties. Only about 30% of the rainfed area is planted with
improved varieties in Ilocos, 25% in Cagayan and 10% in Leyte. In the
absence of irrigation, farmers in these areas prefer lower yielding but
hardier local varieties. The average paddy yields in the rainfed areas are
about 1.6 ton/ha in Ilocos, 1.5 ton/ha in Cagayan and 1.4 ton/ha in Leyte.
On the irrigated areas, the mean wet-season paddy yields are about 2.5 ton/ha
in Ilocos, 2.0 ton/ha in Cagayan and 1.7 ton/ha in Leyte. Dry-season crop
yields are similar to wet-season yields. The low yields are due to inadequate
water supply, to unsatisfactory water management, and poor farming practices.
The latter are exemplified by uneven transplanting, high weed infestations,



ANNEX 15
Page 2
inadequate use of agro-chemicals and untimeliness of operations. The irriga-
ted tobacco yield in the Ilocos systems is about 0.8 ton/ha and the rainfed
corn yield in the Leyte subproject area is about 0.4 ton/ha. These yields
are low mainly due to poor farming practices.
Future Cropping Pattern
4.        In the absence of the project, the rate of increase in rice yields
in the rainfed areas is estimated at about 1.5% per annum and would probably
be due to a slow increase in the area under high yielding varieties. In the
irrigated areas, the yields in both wet- and dry-season rice are estimated to
increase by some 1.7% per annum as a result of gradual improvement in crop
management. The use of inputs would be expected to increase with the availa-
bility of greater supplies of credit and more extension efforts as part of
the Government's campaign for national self-sufficiency in rice. The average
rice yield in the project area is projected to increase by about 1.6% per
annum from 1975 to 1987. Without the project, the irrigated tobacco yield is
estimated to increase at about 2.2% per annum and rainfed corn yield at about
4.1% per annum. Existing cropping intensities would remain unchanged in the
absence of additional water supplies and improvement of the system.
5.        The expected changes in the cropping pattern and production are
shown in Tables 1 to 4. Some 49,400 ha would be provided with wet-season
irrigation, of which 23,200 ha are currently rainfed. Improved facilities in
the irrigation systems and better water management would allow dry-season
cropping of rice to increase from the current 13,100 ha to 34,650 ha. The
area devoted to dry-season irrigated tobacco in Ilocos, about 1,300 ha
presently, would remain at the same level in the future. Overall cropping
intensity would rise from the present 133% to 173%. The proposed cropping
pattern, based primarily on rice and marginally on tobacco, is consistent
with soils and topography and the customs of the local people.
Future Yields
6.        With good water control, adequate supplies of credit and inputs and
increased extension service support, future paddy yields under irrigation are
expected to be 4.0 ton/ha in the wet season and 4.2 ton/ha in the dry
season in the Ilocos subproject area. However, future paddy yields in the
Cagayan and Leyte subprojects are expected to be lower, about 4.0 ton/ha and
3.5 ton/ha respectively, for both wet- and dry-season crops. A lower yield
is used for Leyte to compensate for the possible presence of residual levels
of schistosomiasis at full development, and in Cagayan to allow for losses
due to the higher incidence of typhoons. The same magnitude of yields is
used in both wet and dry season because there is no appreciable difference
between the two seasons in terms.of sunlight, etc. in Leyte and because of
the typhoon factor in Cagayan. For tobacco in the Ilocos area, the future
yield is expected to be 1.3 ton/ha. These yields would be reached five
years after completion of construction and rehabilitation of the systems.



ANNEX 15
Page 3
7.        The imprnved yields would be obtained from the use of high yielding
varieties throughout the project area, better land preparation through
greater use of machinery, certified seed, row planting, heavier fertilizer
input and greater expenditure on crop protection and weed control. The
schistosomiasis control program in Leyte would free the farmers from the
burden of ill health and allow them to actively follow improved farming
practices. The denser road network envisaged under the project would permit
better access to the farms, thus facilitating the flow of inputs and outflow
of produce.
Development Constraints
8.        The project would bring some changes in the cropping calendars, a
30%  increase in total labor requirement, a greater degree of mechanization of
both land preparation and harvesting, and a demand for additional drying and
storage facilities. The most important issues are examined briefly.
9.        Cropping Calendar.  To ensure efficient utilization of resources
and the avoidance of technical and organizational bottlenecks, cropping
calendars must be prepared as a basis for extension and water management
activites. Chart Nos. 16862, 16863, and 16864 show provisional calendars for
the Ilocos, Cagayan and Leyte subproject areas respectively. The major
difference in the proposed and existing practice is in the Cagayan area where
the wet-season rice crop would be grown later in the year, between August and
February. This has been done to avoid harvesting in the wet months of October
and November and also to minimize the probability of being struck by typhoons.
Similarly, the dry-season rice crop in Cagayan would be grown later, between
January and June. There is little change in the wet- and dry-season calendars
in Ilocos and Leyte, except for some acceleration of operations to take
advantage of peak rainfall and to ensure that harvesting and threshing take
place in the dryest conditions available. The proposed calendars allow for a
30-day period for system maintenance.
10.       Labor Availability.  The labor force and its utilization with and
without the project are examined in detail in Annex 18.
11.       Mechanization.  At present, about 90-95% of the rainfed areas
rely entirely on animal-drawn equipment for land preparation. In irrigated
areas, machinery is used for land preparation on about 15-25% of the area
cultivated in both wet- and dry-season crops. With improved water management,
better access to fields, the need for tighter scheduling of operations to
maximize water use and increased cropping intensities, it is estimated that
the use of machinery would increase to about 60% of land preparation for both
wet and dry seasons in Ilocos, 80% in Cagayan and 75% in Leyte. It is
anticipated that the machinery, mostly four-wheel tractors and rotary tillers,
would be largely owned by farmers and contracted out to their neighbors, as
is currently the practice.



ANNEX 15
Page 4
12.       Harvesting.  The rice is harvested by sickle and the bundles may be
left for a few days in the field to dry, depending on the weather. Threshing
is carried out manually by beating the panicles on a slatted table or by
mechanical threshers. The latter are fairly large machines and need firm
ground conditions. At present, only some 5-10% of both rainfed and irrigated
areas are threshed mechanically. Under project conditions of much better
access to the fields and improved field drainage, it is assumed that mech-
anized threshing would be used on 40% of the area in Ilocos, 60% in Cagayan
and 50% in Leyte. This would not present difficulties as most farmers and
contractors are enterprising and can be expected to meet the requirements.
13.       Drying and Storage.  The bulk of threshed paddy is currently
sun-dried on whatever suitable surfaces are available. Some of the rice
mills have concrete drying floors. Existing arrangements appear adequate
for the present paddy crop of 121,000 tons for the whole project. At full
development, the annual production would total 108,600 tons in Ilocos,
129,800 tons in Cagayan and 86,800 tons in Leyte. This represents a wet-
season crop production increase of 75% in Ilocos, 130% in Cagayan and 135%
in Leyte. Similarly, it represents a dry-season crop production increase of
147% in Ilocos, 555% in Cagayan and 792% in Leyte. Since both wet- and
dry-season crops in Ilocos are harvested in the driest months of the year,
the increase in production should not cause drying problems. However, new
drying facilities and expansion of present drying facilities would be needed
to deal with the considerably increased output of both wet- and dry-season
crops in Cagayan and Leyte, which would be harvested in relatively wet
periods. The project would provide additional solar drying facilities
attached to the Water Management Technician Stations. The DLGCD is cur-
rently engaged in a program to provide every barrio with a paved area to be
used for sport, recreation and crop drying. Millers are also aware of the
need for drying and can be expected to provide whatever additional facilities
are required. Storage capacity within the project areas is enough for
present production, but would need to be expanded to meet the increased
yields. In addition to on-farm storage, there are public and private sector
storage facilities. The NGA plans to build additional storage and the
private sector is expected to follow suit to accommodate rising paddy produc-
tion from the project areas.
14.       Processing.  There are about 816 privately owned rice mills and
hullers in the project area municipalities in Ilocos. Assuming a 200-day
milling season, these mills have an annual capacity of 283,000 tons of paddy
compared to the present Ilocos project area annual production of 55,810 tons.
Similarly, there are 141 privately-owned rice mills in the project area
municipalities in Cagayan with an annual capacity of 102,500 tons compared to
the present project area annual production of 40,900 tons. In the province
of Leyte, there are about 309 rice mills with an annual capacity of 150,000
tons of paddy compared to the present Leyte project area production of 24,070
tons. Since these mills also cater to the needs of farmers outside the
project areas, additional milling capacity would be required at full develop-
ment. No difficulties are expected in providing the required extra milling
capacity as the private sector is enterprising and has access to capital.



ANNEX 15
Page 5
15.       Marketing.  The farmer may sell his surplus paddy to a middleman,
store it in a private or Government-owned warehouse in the hope of obtaining
a better price, have it milled and sell the rice to a trader, or sell the
paddy to the NGA at the Government support price. While the Government is
involved in the marketing sector, there is no authoritity with specific
responsiblity for marketing. The part played by Government agencies and
farmers' marketing cooperatives is remarkably small. With the emphasis
currently being placed on the development of cooperatives as an essential
support to agrarian reform, it is likely that at full project development,
cooperatives would play a larger role in marketing paddy.
16.       The Virginia tobacco grown in Ilocos is sold to traders in the
private sector. Although the Government is not physically involved in
marketing tobacco, minimum prices are set by Presidential Decree (PD 920,
of April 5, 1976) for various grades of Virginia tobacco which are deter-
mined by the Philippine Virginia Tobacco Association (PVTA). Unofficial
information suggests that the minimum price levels are not being maintained
presently and the extent to which these would be maintained in future is
difficult to judge. The PVTA has the sole responsibility for licensing
traders and is making strenuous efforts to inform growers of price levels,
grades, trading outlets and marketing policies.



AITINEX 15
Table 1
PHIILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT:  I
Summary of Cropping Pattern and Production, Ilocos Subproject
Cropped area               Production
Present   Future         Present  Future /a
----- (ha) -----         -- ('000 tons)
Rice
Ilet season
Irrigated rice                        13,500   17,600          33.7       70.4
Rainfed rice                           4,100       -            6.6         -
Subtotal                        17,600   17,600           40.3       70.4
Dry season
Irrigated rice                         6,200    9,100          15.5       38.2
Total (rice)                    23,800   26,700           55.8      108.6
Tobacco
Dry season
Irrigated tobacco                      1,300    1,300           1.0       1.7
Total (rice and tobacco)        25,100   28,000
Cropping intensity                         143%      159%
/a At full developnent 1987.



AMNNEX 15
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
MATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMIS ITIPROVETIENT PROJECT:  I
Summary of Cropping Pattern and Production, Cagayan Subproject
Cropped area               Production
Present   Future         Present  Future /a
---  (ha) -----          -- ('000 tons) ---
Wet season
Irrigated rice                         8,900   18,700          17.8       74.8
Rainfed rice                           9,800       -           14.7         -
Subtotal                        18,700   18,700          32.5       74.8
Dry season
Irrigated rice                         4,200   13,750           8.4       55.0
Total                           22,900   32,450          40.9      129.8
Cropping intensity                         122%      174%
/a At full development 1987.



ANNEX 15
Table 3
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT:  I
Sunnary of Cropping Pattern and Production, Leyte Subproject
Cropped area               Production
Present   Future         Present  Future /a
----- (ha) -----         -- ('000 tons) ---
Rice
Wet season
Irrigated rice                         3,800   13,100           6.5       45.9
Rainfed rice                           9,300       -           13.0         -
Subtotal                        13,100   13,100          19.5       45.9
Dry season
Irrigated rice                         2,700   11,800           4.6       40.9
Total (rice)                    15,800   24,900          24.1       86.8
Corn
Dry season
Rainfed corn                           2,000       -            0.8
Total (rice and corn)           17,800   24,900
Cropping intensity                         136%      189%
/a At full development 1987.



ANNEX 15
Table 4
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Overall Summary of Cropping Patterns and Production
Cropped area               Production
Present   Future         Present  Future /a
----  (ha)               -- ('000 tons) ---
1. Rice
Wet season
Irrigated rice                        26,200   49,400          58.0      191.1
Rainfed rice                          23,200       -           34.3         -
Subtotal                        49,400   49,400           92.3     191.1
Dry season
Irrigated rice                        13,100   34,650          28.5      134.1
Total                           62,500   84,050          120.8     325.2
2. Corn
Dry season
Rainfed corn                           2,000       -            0.8
3. Tobacco
Dry season
Irrigated tobacco                      1,300    1,300           1.0        1.7
Total All Crops                  65,800   85,350
Cropping intensity (%)                      133      173
/a At full development 1987.



ANINEX 16
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Market Prospects and Prices
Market Prospects
1.        Rice.  One of the Philippine Government's main policy goals is
self-sufficiency in basic foods, especially rice and corn. A deficit in
rice, the main staple food crop, has been a persistent problem. Official
figures show that for 1963-1967 the Philippines imported an average of about
300,000 tons of rice annually. Although the Government did not import rice
in 1969 or 1970, stocks declined in those years. Rice imports were again
over 300,000 tons in 1971, 1972 and 1973, reaching 456,000 tons in 1972
because of disastrous floods that year. Good domestic crops allowed smaller
rice imports of 170,000 tons in 1974, and about 150,000 tons in 1975. Due to
an exceptionally good 1975/76 harvest, there have been no imports in 1976.
2.        For the second year running, the Philippines produced a record
rice crop in 1975. For the crop year ending June 30,1975, official paddy
production was 5.7 million tons harvested from 3.5 million ha, yielding some
1.6 ton/ha. This was slightly larger (by 1%) than the record 1973/74 crop.
Despite these good harvests, rice self-sufficiency is not imminent. With a
population of 42 million, converting paddy to milled rice at a 63% recovery
rate, and adding 200,000 tons consumed from imports, per capita consumption
of milled rice in 1974/75 was 90 kg. Based on a population forecast of
55 million in 1985 (Philippines Basic Economic Report, 1975), and the annual
per capita consumption of milled rice remaining at 90 kg, total Philippine
rice demand in 1985 would be some 5.0 million tons. At a 63% recovery rate,
this is equivalent to 7.9 million tons of paddy. To meet this demand, paddy
output would have to increase by 3-4% yearly between 1975 and 1985. This
rough demand computation is in line with the Basic Economic Report, 1975,
which suggests rice production will have to expand by 4.0% per year if domes-
tic demand is to be met and imports eliminated. Comparing the three-year
averages of 1965-67 to 1969-71, paddy production increased at an annual rate
of 5.4 %. However, comparing the three-year averages of 1969-71 to 1973-75,
paddy production grew by only 1.1% annually. The 5.4% growth rate resulted
from the introduction of high yielding varieties to the Philippines in the
late 1960s. Since then, production growth has been small despite the Govern-
ment's Masagana 99 program to increase rice production launched in May 1973.
The project would help increase the current growth rate, and farmers should
have no difficulties in marketing the additional rice from the project area.
The Ilocos area has always been a rice deficit area and has imported rice
from surplus areas such as Cagayan and from overseas. Therefore, the
additional rice production in project areas in Ilocos and Cagayan would
easily be sold for consumption in Ilocos. Leyte is at present close to
self-sufficiency although in some years rice imports are necessary. However,
the nearby island of Samar is a rice deficit area and hence the future



ANNEX 16
Page 2
additional rice grown in Leyte would be either consumed in Leyte or easily
sold in Samar.
3.        Virginia Tobacco.  Virginia tobacco is grown predominantly in the
Ilocos region. Production has fluctuated over recent years between 15,000
and 20,000 /1 tons per annum. The fluctuations have been mainly a result of
changes in area and a small increase in average yield. About half of the
Philippine production of Virginia tobacco is exported, although the value of
exports (about US$10 million in 1975) is low when compared with the export
value of other rural commodities such as coconut oil and sugar. Virginia
tobacco is exported to Western Europe, the US and increasingly to Japan.
Generally, Philippine Virginia tobacco commands a premium in European markets
over Virginia tobacco from India. Market prospects for tobacco exports from
developing countries such as the Philippines appear sound. The current
growth in world per capita consumption of tobacco is expected to continue
in future and Philippine tobacco is becoming increasingly competitive as a
result of increased production costs in the traditional, mainly developed,
exporting countries.
Crop Prices
4.        Rice.  Since 1957 the Government has set an annual farm-gate sup-
port price for paddy to encourage production and allow some purchases of
paddy by Government to build stabilization stocks. Responsibility for
operating the system through purchases in the market rested with an indepen-
dent body, the Rice and Corn Administration, which operated unsatisfactorily.
On September 28, 1972, the responsibility for rice and corn was transferred
to a statutory body, the National Grains Authority (NGA).
5.        During the late 1950s and early 1960s the support price remained
virtually unchanged and was P 9.5 per cavan /2 (P 216/ton) in 1961. There-
after it was gradually increased and by 1971 it reached P 20.0/cavan
P 454/ton). Although no precise figures are available to compare the annual
average market and support prices for paddy before 1965, the Sector Survey /3
/1  These figures are based on data from the Bureau of Agricultural Economics
(B.A.Econ). Data from the Philippine Virginia Tobacco Association show
production figures which are usually some 50-100% higher than B.A.Econ
figures.
/2 Before 1974 a "cavan" or sack of paddy was equivalent to 44 kg. Since
1974 the official weight of a cavan of paddy is set at 50 kg.
/3 IBRD Agricultural Sector Survey, Philippines, May 2, 1973 (Report No.
391-PH). Annex 10, Table 13.



ANNEX 16
Page 3
market price about 10% higher in 1965, and the support price about 10% higher
from 1966 to 1970. Since 1971 the market price has generally exceeded the
support price, except in areas where the NGA has not operated. The NGA only
commenced buying in the project area in crop year 1974/75. Before then,
unofficial figures suggest the market price was considerably below the
support price in the project areas.
6.        The behavior of market prices in relation to the support price is
consistent with the record of domestic paddy output during the past decade.
In the early 1960s, domestic production was unable to meet the growing demand
for rice and this tended to raise market prices above the support price.
After the mid-1960s, increased production as a result of the spread of high-
yielding varieties improved the balance between domestic production and
consumption and tended to depress market prices. During the last three to
four years the trend has reversed and the market and support prices are
practically the same. As a result of continuing inflation and to encourage
farmers to increase paddy production, the Government has continued to raise
the official support price for paddy, which in November 1976 was P 55/cavan
(P 1,100/ton). In the three subproject areas, prices received by farmers
averaged about P 54/cavan at the farm-gate.
7.        Through 1972, the farm-gate support price for paddy and the domestic
consumer price for rice kept pace with changes in the world market price for
rice. Between 1972 and 1975, however, to keep domestic prices down in the
face of record high world market prices for rice, the Government has subsi-
dized consumers by maintaining a low official ceiling price for rice and
a correspondingly low farm-gate price for paddy by sales of imported rice on
the domestic market below cost. This subsidy cost the Government about
US$20 million in 1974. Improved harvests in 1975 and 1976 have avoided the
need to import rice.
8.        The Bank projects the world market price of Thai 25-35% broken rice
to rise (at constant June 1977 prices) from about US$230/ton f.o.b. Bangkok
in 1977 to around US$270/ton in 1985. These projections have been used to
estimate the present and future farm-gate prices of paddy for the economic
analysis and the farm budgets. Because the analysis is concerned with
subprojects in three different regions of the Philippines it was necessary
to derive farm-gate prices appropriate to those regions. The basic procedure
was the same for all regions, however, the basis of the calculations varied
between regions. In the farm budgets, the actual price paid to farmers of
P 1,080/ton (P 54/cavan) was used as the present farm-gate price for paddy in
all the subproject areas. In the future, it was assumed that the paddy
farm-gate price in each area would equal the financial cost to the Government
of importing equivalent amounts of rice. Therefore, using the official
exchange rate (US$1.00 = P 7.50), the financial farm-gate price in 1985 was
calculated to be P 1,380/ton (P 69/cavan) in Ilocos and Leyte, and P 1,340/ton
(P 67/cavan) in Cagayan. For the economic analysis, using a shadow-priced



ANNEX 16
Page 4
exchange rate (US$1.00 = P 8.33), the farm-gate price goes up from P 1,320/ton
(P 66/cavan) in 1977 to P 1,535/ton (P 77/cavan) in Ilocos and Leyte, and
from P 1,275/ton (P 64/cavan) in 1977 to P 1,490/ton (P 75/cavan) in 1985 in
Cagayan. The derivation of these prices is shown in Table 1.
9.        Corn.  The Government operates a floor price system for corn simi-
lar to the one for paddy. The responsibility for implementing the support
price arrangements also rests with the N.G.A. The current support price for
shelled white flint corn is P 0.9/kg (P 900/ton). The market price for corn
in the Philippines is usually lower than the support price, about P 0.88/kg
in Leyte. Leyte is a deficit area for white corn and the Bureau of Plant
Industry estimates that some 60% of corn consumed there is imported from
other areas. /1
10.       The Bank projects world market prices of US No. 2 yellow corn
to rise (in constant June 1977 prices) from about US$120 to about US$125
per ton f.o.b. Gulf ports. There are no projections available for the
world price of white corn and the available data were also inadequate as a
basis for establishing a margin between the price of yellow and white corn.
It is understood that on the international market white corn commands a
premium over yellow corn. However, on the domestic market in the Philippines
where white corn production predominates, there is a premium for yellow
corn. Indeed in 1976, the farm-gate support price was P 0.9/kg for white
corn, but P 1.16/kg for yellow corn. The derivation of corn prices used for
the economic analysis and farm budgets (Table 2) is similar to the derivation
of paddy prices. The actual price of P 880/ton for corn in Leyte was used as
the present farm gate price in the farm budgets. The future farm-gate price
was calculated to be P 1,115/ton in 1985. For the economic analysis, the
farm-gate price for corn increases marginally from P 1,190/ton in 1977 to
P 1,240/ton in 1985.
11.       Virginia Tobacco.  The Bank projects the world market price of
Virginia tobacco to drop (in constant June 1977 prices) marginally from
about US$1,730/ton f.o.b. India in 1977 to about US$1,720/ton in 1985.
Available information indicates, however, that Philippines Virginia tobacco
commands a premium over Indian Virginia tobacco of about 15%. The derivation
of tobacco prices, similar to that for paddy, has taken this margin into
account (Table 3). In the farm budgets, a market price of P 5,000/ton was
/1 Data for 1970-71 in the Agricultural Sector Survey for the Philippines,
May 2, 1973 (Report No. 391-PH) Annex 10, Table 27, suggests a similar
figure.



ANNEX 16
Page 5
used as the present farm-gate price and the 1985 farm-gate price was calcu-
lated to be P 13,110/ ton. For the economic analysis, the farm-gate price
drops slightly from P 15,035/ton in 1977 to P 14,905/ton in 1985.
Fertilizer Prices
12.       Fertilizer prices were calculated separately for the three sub-
project areas because different freight and handling costs are involved.
While some commercial fertilizers are being produced in the Philippines,
it is not expected that the country will be self-sufficient in fertilizers
in the foreseeable future.  Even if it were self-sufficient in some types,
it is likely that the cost to the national economy would approximate the
cost of imported fertilizer. Urea is the predominant source of nitrogen
in the project area, ammonium phosphate the major source of phosphate, and
14-14-14 the major source of potassium. In the farm budgets, the present
farm-gate prices were derived from the market prices of these fertilizers.
However, the future farm-gate prices for the nutrients were derived on the
basis of the use of the cheapest sources of nutrients:- urea, triple super
phosphate (TSP) and potassium chloride. The Bank projects the world market
price for urea to increase from about US$165/ton fob Europe in 1977 to
US$185/ton in 1985. Similarly, the world market price for TSP is projected
to increase from US$132/ton f.o.b. US Gulf in 1977 to US$165/ton in 1985.
The world market price for potassium chloride is projected to marginally
increase from US$66/ton fob Vancouver in 1977 to US$67/ton in 1985. The
farm-gate prices for the fertilizers used in the economic analysis were
derived from these projections.



ANNEX 16
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Rice Price Structure, 1977 and 1985 /a
Ilocos                    Cagayan                    Leyte
p/ton    USS/ton          P/ton    US$/ton          P/ton    US$/ton
1977
Yxport price of Thai 25-35% brokens,
t.o.b. Bangkok                                                1,925       231           1,925       231           1,925       231
Occan freight and insurance to Philippine port /b                 130         16            130         16             160        19
Import price, c.i.f. Philippine port                            2,055       247           2,055       247           2,085        250
Port handling charges                                              55          7             55          7              70         9
Average cost of transport to selling center /c                     45          5             45          5           n.a.      n.a.
Less average cost of transport, mill to selling center            -25        -3            -100       -12             -25         -3
Rize price, ex-mill project area                                2,130       256           2,055        247          2,130        256
Paddy equivalent price (63% recovery)                           1,340        161          1,295        156          1,340        161
Less average cost of transport, farm to mill                      -20        -3             -20        -3             -20         -3
Value of by-products less milling cost /d                           0          0              0          0               0         0
Farm-gate paddy price                                           1,320       158           1,275        153          1,320        158
(Financial farm-gate price) /e                              (1,080)                    (1,080)                   (1,080)
P/cavan                   P/cavan                   P/cavan
Farm-gate paddy price                                                   66                        64                       66
(Ficancial farm-gate price)                                         (54)                      (54)                     (54)
1985
Export price of Thai 25-35% brokens,
f.n.b. Bangkok                                                2,260       271           2,260       271           2,260       271
Ocean freight and insurance to Philippine port /b                 135         16             135        16             165        20
Import price, c.i.f. Philippine port                            2,395       287           2,395       287           2,425        291
Port nandling charges                                              55          7             55          7              70         9
Average cost of transport to selling center /c                     45          5              45         5           n.a.      n.a.
Less average cost of transport, mill to selling center            -25         -3           -100       -12             -25         -3
Rice price, ex-mill project area                                2,470       296           2.395        287          2,470        297
Paddy equivalent price (63% recovery)                           1,555        187          1,510        181          1,555        187
Less average cost of transport, farm to mill                      -20        -3             -20         -3            -20         -3
Value of by-products less milling cost /d                           0          0               0         0               0         0
Farm-gate paddy price                                           1,535       184           1,490       179           1,535        184
(Financial farm-gate price)/f                                (1,380)                   (1,340)                   (1,380)
P/cavan                   P/cavan                   P/cavan
Farm-gate paddy price                                                   77                        75                        77
(Financial farm-gate price)                                         (69)                       (67)                      (69)
/a  P/ton and US$/ton values at constant mid-1977 prices.  Peso shadow priced at exchange rate of US$1.00 = P 8.33.
P/ton figures rounded to nearest 5 pesos.
/b Philippine ports used in this analysis are San Fernando for the Cagayan and Ilocos Regions, and Tacloban for Leyte.
Sc  A selling center represents a town or city where the additional rice production would be sold.  Since Tacloban is
both the port and selling center, this item is not applicable for Leyte. Ilocos and Leyte are both areas of rice
deficits, but Cagayan has a surplus of rice which is sold in Ilocos.
,'d This item is zero since the cost of milling paddy is on the average equal to the value of by-products of milling.
/e 1977 financial price is actual.
/f 1985 financial prices calculated by using the official exchange rate of US$1.00 = P 7.5.



AM;IL- 16
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Corn Price Structure, 1977 and 1985 /a
1977               1985
P/ton  US$/ton    P/ton  US$/ton
Export price, U.S. No. 2 yellow, f.o.b. Gulf /b  1,000          120       1,050      126
Ocean freight, insurance to Tacloban                   225       27         225       27
Import price, c.i.f. Tacloban                        1,225      147       1,275      153
Tacloban handling charges                               70        8          70        8
Less average cost of transport, mill to
Tacloban                                             -25       -3         -25       -3
Corn price, ex-mill project area                     1,270      152       1,320     158
Less average cost of transport farm to mill            -20       -2         -20       -2
Less milling and packaging cost                        -60       -7         -60       -7
Farm-gate corn price                                 1,190      143       1,240      149
(Financial farm-gate price)                         (880) /c          (1,115) /d
/a P/ton or US$/ton at constant June 1977 prices. Peso shadow-priced at an
exchange rate of US$1.00 = P 8.33. Peso figures rounded to nearest 5 pesos.
lb Due to unavailability of price data on white corn, the projection for yellow
corn is used. Since white corn commands a premium over yellow corn, the farm-
gate price derived from these calculations can be regarded as conservative.
/c 1977 financial price is actual.
/d 1985 financial price calculated at the official exchange rate of US$1.00 = P 7.50.



ANNEX 16
Table 3
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMIENT PROJECT: I
Tobacco Price Structure, 1977 and 1985 /a
1977               1985
P/ton  US$/ton    P/ton  US$/ton
Export unit value of flue-cured leaf,                 14,420   1,732    14,320   1,719
f.o.b., India
Ocean freight, insurance to Europe                     1,350      162      1,350      162
Import price, c.i.f., Europe                          15,770   1,894    15,670   1,881
15% markup for higher quality Philippine Leaf          2,380      286      2,350      286
Import price, c.i.f., Europe for
Philippine tobacco                                  18,150   2,180    18,020   2,167
Less ocean freight, insurance Manila to Europe    -2,000    -240    -2,000    -240
Less Manila handling charges                            -400      -48       -400      -48
Less average transport cost to Manila                   -130      -16       -130      -16
Less warehouse and dealer expense                       -565      -68       -565      -68
Less average transport cost, farm to tobacco
collection center                                      -20       -3        -20      -3
Farm-gate tobacco prices                              15,035   1,805    14,905   1,792
(Financial farm-gate price)                           (5,000) /b        (13,110) /c
/a P/ton or US$/ton figures are constant June 1977 prices. Peso shadow-priced
at US$1.00 = P 8.33. Peso figures rounded to nearest 5 pesos.
lb 1977 financial price is actual.
/c 1985 financial price calculated at the official exchange rate of US$1.00 = P 7.50.



ANNEX 16
Table 4
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Urea Price Structure, 1977 and 1985 /a
Ilocos                   Cagayan                    Leyte
P/ton    US$/ton         P/ton    US$/ton          P/ton    US$/ton
1977
Export price, f.o.b. Europe, bagged                            1,375       165           1,375       165           1,375       165
Ocean freight and insurance                                      265        32             260        31             295        35
Import price, c.i.f. Philippine port /b                        1,640       197           1,635       196           1,670       200
Port handling charges                                             40          5             40         5              50         6
Average cost of transport to distribution center /c               45          5            220        26            n.a.      n.a.
Cost of handling at distribution center                           50          6             50         6              50         6
Average cost of transport, distribution center to farm            35          4             20         3              35         4
Urea farm-gate price                                           1,810       217           1,965       236           1,805       216
(Financial farm-gate price) /d                              (1,710)                  (1,800)                   (1,655)
P/kg N                   P/kg N                    P/kg N
Nitrogen farm-gate price                                              4.0                      4.4                      4.0
(Financial farm-gate price)                                       (3.8)                     (4-0)                    (3-7)
1985
Export price, f.o.b. Europe, bagged                            1,540       185           1,540       185          1,540        185
Ocean freight and insurance                                      270        32             265        32             300        36
Import price, c.i.f. Philippine port /b                        1,810       217           1,805       217          1,840        221
Port handling charges                                             40          5             40         5              50         6
Average cost of transport to distribution center /c               45          5            220        26           n.a.       n.a.
Cost of handling at distribution center                           50          6             50         6              50         6
Average cost of transport, distribution center to farm             35         4             20          3             35         4
Urea farm-gate price                                           1,980       237           2,135       257           1,975       237
(Financial farm-gate price) /e                              (1,800)                  (1,955)                   (1,790)
P/kg N                   P/kg N                    P/kg N
Nitrogen farm-gate price                                              4.4                      4.7                      4.4
(Financial farm-gate price)                                       (4.0)                     (4.3)                    (4.0)
/a  P/ton and US$/ton values at constant mid-1977 prices.  Peso shadow priced at exchange rate of US$1.00 = P 8.33.
P/ton figures rounded to nearest 5 pesos.
/b Philippine ports used in this analysis are San Fernando for the Cagayan and Ilocos Regions and Tacloban for Leyte.
/c A distribution center represents a town or village where farmers come to buy their fertilizer needs. This item is
not applicable for Leyte since Tacloban is both the port and the distribution center for the project areas in Leyte.
/d 1977 financial prices are actual.
/e 1985 financial prices calculated by using the official exchange rate of US$1.00 - P 7.5.



ANNEX 16
Table 5
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Triple Super-phosphate (TSP) Price Structure, 1977 and 1985 /a
Ilocos                   Cagayan                     Leyte     -
P/ton    US$/ton          P/ton    US$/ton          P/ton    US$/t0n1
1977
Export price, f.o.b. US Gulf, bulk                              1,100       132           1,100       132           1,100        132
Ocean freight and insurance                                       195        24             190         23            225         27
Import price, c.i.f. Philippine port /b                         1,295       156           1,290       155           1,325       159
Port handling charges                                              60          7             60          7             70          8
Average cost of transport to distribution center /c                45          5            220         26           n.a.      n.a.
Cost of handling at distribution center                            50          6             50          6              50         6
Average cost of transport, distribution center to farm             35          4             20          3              35         4
TSP farm-gate price                                             1,485       178           1,640        197          1,480        177
P/kg P                    P/kg P                    P/kg P
Phosphate farm-gate price                                              3.2                       3.6                      3.2
(Financial farm-gate price) /d                                     (4.2)                     (4.4)                    (4-0)
1985
Export price, f.o.b. US Gulf, bulk                              1,375       165           1,375       165           1,375       165
Ocean freight and insurance                                       200         24            195         24            230         28
Import price, c.i.f. Philippine port /b                         1,575       189           1,570       189           1,605       193
Port handling charges                                              60          7             60          7             70          8
Average cost of transport to distribution center Ic                45          5            220         26           n.a.      n.a.
Cost of handling at distribution center                            50          6             50          6             50          6
Average cost of transport, distribution center to farm             35          4             20          3              35         4
TSP farm-gate price                                             1,765       211           1,920       231           1,760        211
(Financial farm-gate price) /e                              (1,610)                   (1,765)                    (1,600)
P/kg P                    P/kg P                    P/kg P
Phosphate farm-gate price                                              3.8                       4.2                      3.8
(Financial farm-gate price)                                        (3.5)                     (3.8)                    (3.5)
/a  P/ton and US$/ton values at constant mid-1977 prices.  Peso shadow priced at exchange rate of US$1.00 = P 8.33.
P/ton figures rounded to nearest 5 pesos.
/b  Philippine ports used in this analysis are San Fernando for the Cagayan and Ilocos Regions and Tacloban for Leyte.
/c  A distribution center represents a town or village where farmers come to buy their fertilizer needs.  This item is
not applicable for Leyte since Tacloban is both the port and the distribution center for the project areas in Leyte.
/d  1977 financial prices for phosphate calculated from actual price of ammonium phosphate (16-20-0).
/e  1985 financial prices calculated by using the official exchange rate of US$1.00 - P 7.5.



ANNEX 16
Table 6
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Potassium Chloride Price Structure, 1977 and 1985 /a
Ilocos
P/ton    US$/ton
1977
Export price, f.o.b. Vancouver, bulk                             550        66
Ocean freight and insurance                                      175        21
Import price, c.i.f. Philippine port /b                          725        87
Port handling charges                                             60         7
Average cost of transport to distribution center /c               45         5
Cost of handling at distribution center                           50         6
Average cost of transport, distribution center to farm            35         4
Potassium chloride farm-gate price                               915       109
P/kg K
Potassium chloride farm-gate price                                   1.5
(Financial farm-gate price)/d                                     (3.3)
1985
Export price, f.o.b. Vancouver, bulk                             560        67
Ocean freight and insurance                                      175        21
Import price, c.i.f. Philippine port /b                          735        88
Port handling charges                                             60         7
Average cost of transport to distribution center /c               45         5
Cost of handling at distribution center                           50         6
Average cost of transport, distribution center to farm            35         4
Potassium chloride farm-gate price                               925       110
(Financial farm-gate price) /e                                (850)
P/kg K
Potassium faim-gate price                                            1.5
(Financial farm-gate price)                                       (1.4)
/a  P/ton and US$/ton values at constant mid-1977 prices.  Peso shadow
priced at exchange rate of US$1.00 = P 8.33. P/ton figures rounded
to nearest 5 pesos.
/b  Philippine port used in this analysis is San Fernando.
/c  A distribution center represents a town or village where farmers come
to buy fertilizer.
/d  1977 financial price for potassium calculated from actual price of
14-14-14 fertilizer.
/e  1985 financial prices calculated by using the official exchange rate
of US$1.00 = P 7.5.



ANNEX 17
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Crop and Farm Budgets
1.        This Annex gives the basis for the economic and financial calcula-
tion of production costs and examines the impact of the project on individual
farms of various sizes and with different cropping patterns and conditions of
tenure.
2.        Present costs, cultural practices and input usages are based on
surveys conducted in the subproject areas by NIA and on interviews during
appraisal. In the future without the project input levels would change
marginally in rainfed areas, but crop husbandry would improve in the irri-
gated areas. Future input levels for "with project" conditions are based
on consultations with various government agencies and expected increases
in mechanized cultivation and threshing. Present and future with and
without the project production costs, input assumptions and per hectare
labor requirements for rice, tobacco and corn in the three subproject
areas are shown in Tables 1 to 9.
3.        Monthly labor requirements per hectare for the wet and dry seasons,
based on present and proposed cropping calendars for the three main project
crops, in the three subproject areas, are given in Tables 10 to 14. For
rice, labor requirements in the "future with project" case are expected to
decrease in Ilocos and Cagayan as a result of increased mechanization.
However, in the Leyte systems, the decrease in labor caused by mechanization
is expected to be offset by an increase in the time devoted to crop management,
which at present gets little attention due to inadequate drainage conditions
and the poor health of the farmers.
4.        The rate of taxation of land is 1% of the assessed value if this
assessed value is less than P 3,000/ha and 2% otherwise. Present tax pay-
ments per ha in the project areas are calculated on this basis. The present
ratio of land tax/ha to the gross value of production/ha is 1.5% in Ilocos,
0.5% in Cagayan, and 0.3% in Leyte. This reflects the relatively low
valuation of land in Cagayan and Leyte as compared to Ilocos. In the
"future without" condition, land tax payments have been calculated
assuming that this ratio would remain the same in the respective areas.
In the future with project, it is assumed that tax payments in Ilocos would
maintain the same ratio of 1.5%. However, due to larger incremental develop-
ments in Cagayan and Leyte, tax payments are expected to increase to a ratio
of 1.5% as in Ilocos.
5.        For the purpose of assessing the financial impact of the project
on various groups of farmers in the subproject areas, two types of farm are



ANNEX 17
Page 2
examined: the presently rainfed farm which would be irrigated under the
project, and the currently irrigated farm which would be provided with better
irrigation facilities. In the Ilocos subproject area, Type IA is a rainfed
rice farm and Type IB an irrigated farm growing rice in the wet season, and
some rice and tobacco in the dry season. With the project, both types of farm
are expected to become irrigated farms growing rice in the wet season and
rice and tobacco in the dry season. In the Cagayan subproject area, Type CA
is a rainfed rice farm and Type CB is an irrigated rice farm, both becoming
irrigated rice farms in the "future with project" situation. In the Leyte
area, Type LA is a rainfed farm growing rice in the wet season and corn in
the dry season and Type LB is an irrigated rice farm. Both farms would
become irrigated rice farms in the "future with project". Details of the
various farm types examined are given in Table 15.
6.        Crop budgets under present and future conditions "with" and
"without" the project for rice, tobacco and corn in the three subproject
areas, together with typical farm budgets for each area are given in
Tables 15 to 21. Farm budgets are shown for both amortizing owners and
leaseholders on the assumption that the vast majority of farmers will fall
into these two groups as a result of the land reform program. The budgets
are presented in terms of cash flows and therefore include an estimate of
hired labor costs, though not of family labor. Budgets for "with project"
conditions refer to those at full agricultural development. The basis for
each calculation is detailed in the footnotes.
7.        In the Ilocos subproject a farm budget for an 0.8 ha family farm
is shown, as this is the average size of farm in the subproject area and
70%7 of the farms covering 72% of the area are between 0.5 and 1.5 ha.  For
the Cagayan subproject area, farm budgets for 1.0, 2.5 and 6.0 ha family
farms are shown. These farm sizes were chosen to represent the 62% of the
farms (with 32% of the area) of less than 2.0 ha, the average size of farms
in the Cagayan area, and 38% of the farms (with 68% of the area) greater
than 2.0 ha respectively. For the Leyte subproject, farm budgets for 1.0 and
3.0 ha family farms are shown. The two farm sizes were chosen to typify the
82% of the farms (with 52% of the area) of less than 2.0 ha and the remaining
18% of the farms covering 48% of the area respectively.
8.        Table 21 gives a summary of the incomes of families whose farm
budgets are shown earlier. Estimates of "other income", which includes
earnings from working on other farms and off-farm income, are based
primarily on the survey conducted by NIA in the subproject areas. Farmers
with small farms and/or growing rainfed rice have more time available to earn
off-farm income. With the exception of farmers who would increase their
cropping intensity significantly and thus reduce the time available for
off-farm employment in the future, it was assumed that other income would,
in constant 1977 prices, remain at present levels.



ANNEX 17
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Rice Crop Production Costs (excluding labor) /a /b
(Pesos/ha)
Present                                     Future without Project                           Future with Project
Wet Season                Dry Season                 Wet Season                 Dry Season          Wet Season          Dry Season
Rainfed        Irrigated        Irrigated            Rainfed        Irrigated         Irrigated           Irrigated           Irrigated
Culti-ation              160  (160)    180  (180)         180  (180)          195  (195)    210   (210)         210   (210)         240    (240)        245    (245)
Seeds                     80    (75)      80    (75)       80    (75)          80    (75)       80    (75)       80    (75)           85     (80)         85     (80)
Fertilizer               160   (175)    250   (265)       280   (285)         215   (195)    300   (275)        300   (275)         385    (350)        385    (350)
Chemicals                100    (90)    120  (105)         130  (115)          120   (105)    145   (130)        150  (140)          210    (190)        220    (200)
Harvesting                15    (15)      25    (25)        25    (25)          45    (40)      65    (60)       65    (60)          170    (155)        180    (165)
Other costs               20    (20)      35    (35)        35    (35)          30    (30)      45    (45)        45    (45)          60      (60)        65      (65)
Land tax  /c                    (30)            (45)              (45)                (40)            (60)              (60)                 (85)                 (85)
Ilterest /d                     (40)            (35)              (35)                (60)            (55)              (55)                 (65)                (65)
Total             535   (605)    690   (765)        730   (795)         685   (740)    845   (910)        81150 (1,225)    1,180 (1,255)
Cagayan
Cultivation              165  (165)    175  (175)         175  (175)          205   (205)    220  (220)         220   (220)         275    (275)         275    (275)
Seeds                     80    (75)      80    (75)       80    (75)          80    (75)       80    (75)       80    (75)          85      (80)         85     (80)
Fertilizer                95  (100)    115  (120)          95  (100)          135  (125)    185  (170)          185   (170)         365    (335)        365    (335)
Chemicals                 70    (65)      85    (75)       85    (75)         120   (105)    135   (120)        135  (120)          210    (190)         210    (190)
harvesting                10    (10)      10    (10)        10    (10)         55    (50)       75    (65)        75    (65)        250    (225)        250    (225)
Other costs               20    (20)      30    (30)        30    (30)          30    (30)      40    (40)        40    (40)          55     (55)         55      (55)
and taXc                        (10)            (10)              (10)                (10)            (10)              (10)                 (80)                (80)
1ctorest /d                    (15)            (10)              (10)                (55)            (50)              (50)                 (65)                (65)
Total             440  1460)    495   (505)         475   (485)         625   (655)    735   (750)        735   (750)       1,240 (1,305)    1.240  (1,305)
L.yte
Cultivation              115   (115)    130  (130)        130   (130)         125   (125)    140   (140)        140  (140)          245    (245)         245    (245)
Seeds                     80    (75)      80    (75)       80    (75)           80    (75)      80    (75)       80    (75)           85     (80)         85      (80)
Fertilizer                65    (75)      85    (90)       85    (90)         125   (115)    170   (155)        170   (155)         340    (310)         340    (310)
Chemicals                 35    (30)      50    (45)        50    (45)          60    (55)      70    (65)        70    (65)         210    (190)        210    (190)
Harvesting                 5     (5)      10    (10)        10    (10)          50    (45)      65    (60)       65    (60)          185    (165)        185    (165)
Other costs               20    (20)      20    (20)        20    (20)          25    (25)      30    (30)        30    (30)          55     (55)         55      (55)
Land tax /c                      (5)              (5)              (5)                 (5)            (10)              (10)                 (75)                 (75)
Interest /d                     (20)            (15)              (15)                (50)            (45)              (45)                 (65)                (65)
Total             320   (345)    375   (390)        375   (390)         465   (495)    555   (580)        555   (580)       1,120  (1,185)    1.120  (1,185)
Ia   Economic and financial costs are based on rice and fertilizer price calculations  in Annex  16.  Figures in parentheses are financial
costs, which are later used in farm budgets.
'b  Assumptions on physical inputs and unit costs are given in Tables 2, 3 and 4.
/c For farms with assessed value < P 3,000 per hectare, the land tax is 1Z of this assessed value; otherwise it is 2X.
/d   Interest charged at 6Z (IZ per month for 6 months) of average indebtedness, which was obtained from surveys.   In the future  it is
assumed that 80% of the farmers would borrow 901 of their cash needs.



ANNEX 17
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT    I
Rice Crop Production Costs:  Physical Inputs and Unit Prices - Ilocos /a
Physical Inputs
Wet Season            Dry Season               Unit Prices         /b
Unit           Rainfed    Irrigated        Irrigated           Unit           Price
Present
Cultivation - mechanical            (% area)             5          15                 15              P/ha         315   (315)
animal              (% area)           95          85                 85         P/animal-day        13    (13)
Seed - transplanted                 (kg/ha)             60         60                 60               P/kg           1.3   (1-3)
Fertilizer - N                 (nutrient kg/ha)         30          50                60               P/kg           4.0   (3.8)
p               (nutrient kg/ha)         10         10                 10              P/kg            3.2   (4.2)
K               (nutrient kg/ha)          5         10                  5              P/kg            1.5   (3.3)
Threshing - mechanical /c           (% area)            10          10                10                              -
-manual                 (% area)            90          90                90                              -
Future without project
Cultivation - mechanical            (% area)            25          35                35               P/ha         315    (315)
animal              (% area)            75         65                 65          P/animal-day       13     (13)
Seed - transplanted                 (kg/ha)             60         60                 60               P/kg           1.3   (1-3)
Fertilizer - N                 (nutrient kg/ha)         40          60                60               P/kg           4.4   (4.0)
P               (nutrient kg/ha)         10         10                 10              P/kg            3.8   (3.5)
K               (nutrient kg/ha)          0          0                  0              P/kg            1.5   (1.4)
Threshing - mechanical /c           (% area)            20          20                20                -             -      -
-mnual                  (% area)            80          80                80                              -
Future with project
Cultivation - mechanical            (% area)                        60                60               P/ha         315    (315)
animal              (% area)                       40                 40          P/animal-day       13     (13)
Seed - transplanted                 (kg/ha)                         50                50               P/kg           1.7   (1-7)
Fertilizer - N                 (nutrient kg/ha)                     70                70               P/kg           4.4   (4.0)
P               (nutrient kg/ha)                    20                 20              P/kg            3.8   (3-5)
K               (nutrient kg/ha)                     0                  0              P/kg            1.5   (1.4)
Threshing - mechanical /c           (% area)                       40                 40                              -
-manual               (% area)                        60                60
/a Agro-chemical costs have been provided as a lump sum, Table 1.
/b Figures in parentheses are financial unit prices.
/c Cost of mechanical threshing is estimated to be 7% of yield.



ANNEX 17
Table 3
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Rice Crop Production Costs:  Physical Inputs and Unit Prices - Cagayan /a
Physical Inputs
Wet Season            Dry Season             Unit Prices       /b
Unit           Rainfed    Irrigated        Irrigated           Unit          Price
Present
(:ultivation - mechanical           (1 area)            10          25                 25              P/ha         315    (315)
ani.mal             (% area)            90         75                 75          P/animal-day       11     (11)
Seed - transplanted                 (kg/ha)             60          60                60              IQ/kg           1.3   (1.3)
Fertilizer - N                 (nutrient kg/ha)         1 5         20                 15              P/kg           4.4   (4.0)
P               (nutrient kg/ha)          5          5                  5              P/kg            3.6   (4.4)
K               (nutrient kg/ha)          5          5                  5              P/kg            1.8    (3.5)
Threshing - mechanical /c           (% area)             5           5                  5               -
-manual                 (%area)             95          95                95                              -
Future without project
Cultivation - mechanical            (Z area)            35          50                 50              P/ha         315    (315)
animal              (% area)           65          50                 50          P/animal-day       11    (11)
Seed - transplanted                 (kg/ha)             60          60                60               P/kg           1.3   (1.3)
Fertilizer - N                 (nutrient kg/ha)         20          30                 30              P/kg           4.7   (4.3)
P               (nutrient kg/ha)         10         10                 10              I/kg            4.2   (3.8)
K               (nutrient kg/ha)          0          0                  0              P/kg            1.8   (1.7)
Threshing - mechanical /c           (% area)            30          30                 30                             -
- manual                (% area)            70          70                 70                             -
Future with project
Cultivation - mechanical            (5 area)                        80                80               P/ha         315   (315)
animal             (Z area)                        20                 20         P/animal-day        11    (11)
Seed - transplanted                 (kg/ha)                         50                50               P/kg           1.3   (1.3)
Fertilizer - N                 (nutrient kg/ha)                     60                60               P/kg           4.7   (4.3)
P               (nutrient kg/ha)                    20                 20              P/kg            4.2   (3.8)
K               (nutrient kg/ha)                     0                  0              P/kg            1.8   (1.7)
Threshing - mechanical /c           (% area)                        60                 60                             -
manual                (% area)                        40                 40
/a Agro-chemical costs have been provided as a lump sum, Table 1.
/b Figures in parentheses are financial unit prices.
/c Cost of mechanical threshing is estimated to be 7% of yield.



ANNEX 17
Table 4
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Rice Crop Production Costs:  Physical Inputs and Unit Prices - Leyte /a
Physical Inputs
Wet Season            Dry Season            Unit Prices       lb
Unit           Rainfed    Irrigated        Irrigated           Unit          Price
Present
Cultivation - mechanical            (% area)             5          15                 15              P/ha         290    (290)
animal              (% area)           95          85                 85          P/animal-day       11    (11)
Seed - transplanted                 (kg/ha)             60          60                60               P/kg           1.3   (1.3)
Fertilizer - N                  (nutrient kg/ha)        10          15                 15              P/kg           4.0   (3-7)
P               (nutrient kg/ha)          5           5                 5               P/kg           3.2   (4.0)
K               (nutrient kg/ha)          5           5                 5              P/kg            1.5   (3.1)
Threshing - mechanical /c           (% area)             5           5                  5               -             -       -
- manual                (% area)            95          95                 95                             -
Future without project
Cultivation - mechanical            (% area)            10          20                 20              P/ha         290    (290)
animal              (% area)           90          80                 80          P/animal-day       11    (11)
Seed - transplanted                 (kg/ha)             60          60                60               P/kg           1.3   (1.3)
Fertilizer - N                  (nutrient kg/ha)        20          30                 30              P/kg           4.4   (4.0)
P               (nutrient kg/ha)         10         10                 10              P/kg            3.8   (3.5)
K               (nutrient kg/ha)          0           0                 0               P/kg           1.5   (1.4)
Threshing - mechanical |c           (% area)            30          30                 30                             -
-manual                 (% area)            70          70                 70                             -
Future with project
Cultivation - mechanical            (% area)                        75                 75              P/ha         290    (290)
animal              (% area)                       25                 25          P/animal-day       11    (11)
Seed - transplanted                 (kg/ha)                         50                50               P/kg           1.7   (1.7)
Fertilizer - N                  (nutrient kg/ha)                    60                60               P/kg           4.4   (4.0)
P               (nutrient kg/ha)                    20                 20              P/kg            3.8   (3.5)
K               (nutrient kg/ha)                     0                  0              P/kg            1.5   (1.4)
Threshing - mechanical /c           (% area)                        50                 50                             -
- manual                (% area)                        50                 50
/a Agro-chemical costs have been provided as a lump sum, Table 1.
/b Figures in parentheses are financial unit prices.
/c Cost of mechanical threshing is estimated to be 7% of yield.



ANNEX 17
Table 5
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT, I
Rice Crop Labor Requirements /a
(man-days/ha)
Present                            Future without Project                   Future with Project
Wet Season           Dry Season            Wet Season            Dry Season       Wet Season        Dry Season
Rainfed   Irrigated    Irrigated           Rainfed   Irrigated    Irrigated             Irrigated        Irrigated
Ilocos
Land preparation            28           26             27               26          24             25                22               23
Transplanting                32          32             32              32           32             32                32               32
Crop management             20           26             26              21           27             27                30               30
Harvesting                  25           31             30              26           32             31                26               25
Total                105         115            115              105         115            115               110               110
Cagayan
Land preparation            26           24             24              26           24             24                20               20
Transplanting               32           32             32              32           32             32                32               32
Crop management              18          23             23              18           23             23                26               26
Harvesting                  24           26             26              24           26             26               22                22
Total                100         105            105              100         105            105               100               100
Leyte
Land preparation            26           24             24              26           24             24                20      .        20
Transplanting               34           34             34              34           34             34                32               32
Crop management              11          15             15               13          18             18                26               27
Harvesting                  24           27             27              27           29             29                27               27
Total                 95         100             100             100         105            105               105               105
/a  Excludes labor handling farm machinery, the cost of which  is included under cash inputs.



ANNEX 17
Table 6
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Tobacco Production Costs - Ilocos /a /b
Irrigated Tobacco
Present        Future without       Future with
Project           Project
Cash inputs (P/ha)
Cultivation                  290    (290)        290    (290)        290    (290)
Seed                           5       (5)         5       (5)         5       (5)
Fertilizer                   245    (275)        190    (170)        330    (300)
Agro-chemicals               210    (190)        210    (190)        310    (280)
Harvesting and curing   1,100  (1,100)         1,365  (1,365)      1,765  (1,765)
Other                        140    (140)        160    (160)        180    (180)
Land tax /c                           (60)               (195)               (255)
Interest Id                           (30)                (30)                (45)
Total                1,990  (2,090)    2,220  (2,405)    2,880  (3,120)
Labor inputs (man-days/ha) /e
Land preparation              24                  24                  26
Planting                      32                  37                  51
Crop management               37                  42                  50
Harvesting                   122                 137                 188
Total                  215                 240                 315
/a  Economic and financial costs are based on tobacco and fertilizer price
calculations in Annex 16. Figures in parentheses are financial costs,
which are later used in farm budgets.
/b Assumptions on physical inputs and unit costs are given in Table 7.
/c For farms with assessed value < P 3,000 per hectare, the land tax is
1% of this assessed value; otherwise it is 2%.
/d Interest charged at 6% (1% per month for 6 months) of average indebted-
ness, which was obtained from surveys. In the future it is assumed that
80% of the farmers would borrow 90% of their cash needs.
/e Excludes labor handling farm machinery, the cost of which is included
under cash inputs.



ANNEX 17
Table 7
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Tobacco Crop Production Costs: Physical Inputs and Unit Prices /a /b
Physical Inputs                   Unit Prices
Unit                Tobacco        Unit           Price
Present
Cultivation - mechanical              (%)                 85          P/ha       300 (300)
animal                (%)                 15       P/animal-day  12  (12)
Seed         - nursery             (kg/ha)                 0.02       P/kg        40  (40)
Fertilizer  - N                (nutrient, kg/ha)          45          P/kg         4.0 (3.8)
P              (nutrient, kg/ha)          14          P/kg          3.2 (4.2)
K              (nutrient, kg/ha)          14          P/kg          1.5 (3.3)
Future without project
Cultivation - mechanical              (%)                 85          P/ha       300 (300)
animal                (%)                 15       P/animal-day  12  (12)
Seed         - nursery             (kg/ha)                 0.02       P/kg        40  (40)
Fertilizer  - N                (nutrient, kg/ha)          16          P/kg         4.4 (4.0)
P              (nutrient, kg/ha)          20          P/kg          3.8 (3.5)
K              (nutrient, kg/ha)          30          P/kg          1.5 (1.4)
Future with project
Cultivation - mechanical              (%)                 75          P/ha       300 (300)
animal                (%)                 25       P/animal-day  12  (12)
Seed         - nursery             (kg/ha)                 0.02       P/kg        80  (80)
Fertilizer  - N                (nutrient, kg/ha)          20          P/kg         4.4 (4.0)
P              (nutrient, kg/ha)          40          P/kg          3.8 (3.5)
K              (nutrient, kg/ha)          60          P/kg          1.5 (1-4)
/a Figures in parentheses are financial unit prices.
/b Agro-chemical costs have been provided as a lump sum, Table 6.



ANNEX 17
Table 8
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Corn Production Costs - Leyte /a lb
Rainfed Corn
Present       Future without Project
Cash inputs (P/ha)
Land preparation             265    (265)           265    (265)
Seed                          40      (35)           40      (35)
Crop management               60      (60)           60      (60)
Fertilizer                     0       (0)             0      (0)
Agro-chemicals                 5       (5)           30      (30)
Harvesting                    20      (20)           25      (25)
Other                          5       (5)            10     (10)
Land tax /c                            (5)                    (5)
Interest /d                           (10)                   (25)
Total                  395    (405)           430    (455)
Labor inputs (man-days/ha) /e
Land preparation              24                     24
Planting                       8                      8
Crop management                7                     12
Harvesting                    26                     26
Total                   65                      70
/a  Economic and financial costs are based on corn and fertilizer
price calculations in Annex 16. Figures in parentheses are
financial costs, which are later used in farm budgets.
/b  Asssumptions on physical inputs and unit costs are given in
Table 9.
/c  For farms with assessed value < P 3,000 per hectare, the
land tax is 1% of this assessed value; otherwise it is 2%.
/d  Interest charged at 6% (1% per month for 6 months) of average
indebtedness, which was obtained from surveys. In the future
it is assumed that 80% of the farmers would borrow 90% of
their cash needs.
/e Excludes labor handling farm machinery, the cost of which is
included under cash inputs.



ANNEX 17
Table 9
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Corn Production Costs: Physical Inputs and Unit Prices /a /b
Physical Inputs               Unit Prices
Unit             Corn      Unit           Price
Present
Cultivation - mechanical            (%)               0         P/ha      350 (350)
animal              (%)             100    P/animal-day  12  (12)
Seed                             (kg/ha)             15         P/kg         2.5 (2.5)
Fertilizer  - N              (nutrient, kg/ha)        0         P/kg         4.0 (3.7)
P            (nutrient, kg/ha)         0         P/kg        3.2 (4.0)
K            (nutrient, kg/ha)         0         P/kg        1.5 (3.1)
Future without project
Cultivation - mechanical            (%)               0         P/ha      300 (300)
animal              (%)             100    P/animal-day  12  (12)
Seed                             (kg/ha)             15         P/kg        2.5 (2.5)
Fertilizer  - N              (nutrient, kg/ha)        0         P/kg         4.4 (4.0)
P            (nutrient, kg/ha)         0         P/kg        3.8 (3.5)
K            (nutrient, kg/ha)         0         P/kg        1.5 (1.4)
/a  Figures in parentheses are financial unit prices.
/b  Agro-chemical costs have been provided as a lump sum, Table 8.



PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Monthly Labor Requirements for Rice - Ilocos (man days/ha) /a
Jan.   Feb.   Mar.   Apr.   May    June   July   Aug.   Sept.  Oct.   Nov.   Dec.   Total
Crop lb
Wet season
Irrigated - P                                       5       12      23      25      14     13      15        8      115
W                                      4       11      23     25      15      13      16       8      115
W                                      5       12      23     24      15      13      12       6      110
Rainfed   - P                                       4       12      25      18      16      12      12       6      105
W                                      3       12      24     19      16      12      12       7      105
Dry season
Irrigated - P        20      18     16      20      7                                        4      10     20       115
W       21     18      16      20      8                                       4       8      20      115
W       23     20      15      16      6                                       4       8      18      110
/a  Excludes labor handling farm machinery.
/b P = Present
W = Future without project
W = Future with project
(D. t'



PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Monthly Labor Requirements for Rice - Cagayan (man-days/ha) /a
Jan.   Feb.   Mar.   Apr.   May        June   July   Aug.    Sept.  Oct.   Nov.   Dec.   Total
Crop /b
Wet season
Irrigated - P                                 5    10        22      21      16      10      11      10               105
W                                5    10        22      21      16      10      11      10              105
W       12       6                                               6      22      25       7      12      100
Rainfed   - P                                 6    10        23      19      14       9      10       9               100
W                                6    10        23      19      14       9      10       9              100
Dry season
Irrigated - P        16      12      15       6                                              10      24      22       105
W       16      12      15       6                                              10      24      22      105
W        6      17      25      21    12        13       6                                              100
/a  Excludes labor handling farm machinery.
/b P = Present
W = Future without project
W = Future with project                                                                                                            Z
I.tm



PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Monthly Labor Requirements for Rice - Leyte (man-days/ha) /a
Jan.   Feb.   Mar.   Apr.   May        June   July   Aug.    Sept.  Oct.   Nov.    Dec.   Total
Crop /b
Wet season
Irrigated  - P       12      17       6                                              5      20      23      17      100
W       14     17       8                                               5      20      23      18      105
W       16     18       6                                               5      17      25      18      105
Rainfed   - P        11      15       5                                              7      20      22      15       95
W       12     17       6                                               7      20      23      15      100
Dry season
Irrigated - P                 7      17     22    15        12      19       8                                      100
W                7     17      24    16        13      20       8                                      105
W                7     17      24    16        13      20       8                                      105
/a  Excludes labor handling farm machinery.
/b P = Present
W = Future without project
W = Future with project
D L
t-. i



PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECI: I
Monthly Labor Requirements for Virginia Tobacco (man-days/ha) /a /b
Jan.   Feb.   Mar.   Apr.   May    June   July   Aug.   Sept.  Oct.   Nov.   Dec.   Total
Ilocos
Dry season
Irrigated - P       35      43      45     22                                      1      8      31      30      215
W      42      50      50     26                                      1      8      32      31      240
W      50      60      65     56                                             4      35      45      315
/a Excludes labor handling farm machinery.
lb  P = Present
W = Future without project
W = Future with project
v z
X 
I-._,



PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Monthly Labor Requirements for Corn (man-days/ha) /a /b
Jan.   Feb.   Mar.   Apr.   May    June   July   Aug.   Sept.  Oct.   Nov.   Dec.   Total
Leyte
Dry season
Rainfed - P                                        9       13     13       4      13      13                      65
W                                       9       13      14      8      13      13                      70
/a Excludes labor handling farm machinery.
/b P = Present
W = Future without project
P7 z
4-m



PIILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Descriptions of Farm Types Used in Farm Butdets
Present    __                                                       Future with Project
Region and Type              Wet Seasoti                         Dry Season                          Wet Season                           Dry Season
Crops       Cropping               Crops          Cropping              Crops        Croppirng               Crops        Cropping
Pattern (X)                          Pattern (%)                        Pattern (%)                          Pattern (%)
ilocos
Type IA           Rainfed rice         100
|   Irrigated rice       100            Irrigated rice         51.7
Irrigated tobacco       7.4
Type IB           Irrigated rice       100           Irrigated rice         45.9 9
irrigated tobacco      9.6
Type CA           Rainfed rice         100                  _                 _           Irrigated rice       100            Irrigated rice          74
Type CB           Irrigated rice       100            Irrigated rice        47
Leyte
Type LA           Rainfed rice         100           Rainfed corn            22           Irrigated rice       100            Irrigated rice          89              !
Type LB           Irrigated rice       100           Irrigated rice          71



PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Crop Budgets - Ilocos /a
Present                                   Future without Project                          Future with Project
Wet Season               Dry Season                Wet Season               Dry Season            Wet Season          Dry Season
Rainfed  Irrigated      Irrigated  Irrigated    Rainfed  Irrigated         Irrigated  Irrigated       Irrigated      Irrigated  Irrigated
Rice       Rice          Rice      Tobacco         Rice      Rice           Rice      Tobacco          Rice           Rice      Tobacco
Yield (ton/ha)                       1.6        2.5            2.5         0.8          1.9        3.0            3.0         1.0            4.0            4.2         1.3
Farm gate price (P/ton)            1,080      1,080          1,080       5,000        1,380      1,380          1,380      13,110          1,380         1,380       13,110
Gross value of production
(P/ha)                           1,730      2,700         2,700       4,000         2,620      4,140         4,140       13,110         5,520          5,795      17,045
Production costs, excluding
labor (P/ha)                       605        765           795       2,090           740        910           920        2,405          1,225         1,255        3,120
Net value of production without
accounting for labor (P/ha)   1,125         1,935         1,905        1,910        1,880      3,230          3,220      10,705         4,295          4,570       13,925
Labor requirements (man-day/ha)   105           115            115         215           105        115           115          240           110            110         315
/a Financial prices and costs are used.
m >4
0 |J



ANNEX 17
Table 17
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Farm Budg_ets -Ilocos
0.8 ha Farm
Present                  Future
Rainfed   Irrigated          Irrigated
Farm Type:       IA         IB             IA          IB
Arable area of farm (ha)                      0.8        0.8          0.8        0.8
Transplanted rice (ha)                        0.8       1.17         1.21       1.21
Irrigated tobacco (ha)                        0.0       0.08         0.06       0.06
Cropping intensity (%)                        100        156          159        159
Total rice production (tons)                 1.28       2.93         4.92       4.92
Total tobacco production (tons)                 0      0.064        0.078      0.078
Gross value of production (F) /a            1,305      3,485        7,815      7,815
Preduction costs, excluding labor (F)         485      1,075        1,680      1,680
Cost of hired labor /b                          0          0            0          0
Net value of production before water
charges (P)                                 820     2,410         6,135      6,135
Water charges /c                                0        160          335        335
Net value of production (P)                   820      2,250        5,800      5,800
(a)  Ar,ortizing owner
Annual payment for land (P) /d        335        895           335       895
Net crop income (P)                   485      1,355        5,465      4,905
(b) Leaseholder
Annual payment for land (P) /e        285        720        1,630       1,630
Net crop income (P)                   535      1,530        4,170      4,170
/a Based on Table 20.
/b Based on maximum of 40 man-days/month and a total of 480 man-days/year of
family labor; hired labor priced at a wage of P 6.0/man-day at present and
P 7.0/man-day in the future.
,c  Based on present charges of P 110/ha (2 cavans/ha) in the wet season and
P 160/ha (3.0 cavans/ha) in the dry season and on future charges of P 240/ha
(3.5 cavans/ha) in the wet season and P 305/ha (4.4 cavans/ha) in the dry
season.
/d  Based on amortizing owner wi.th annual payments over 15 years at 6% on unpaid
balance; based on price of land of 2.5 ;imes present gross value of
production.
Ie Based on 25% of gross value of production minus seed, harvesting and thresh-
ing costs.



PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Crop Budgets - Cagayan /a
'Present                            Future without Project                    Future with Project
_ Wet Season          Dry Season              Wet Season            Dry Season        Wet Season   Dry Season
Rainfed   Irrigated       Irrigated          Rainfed   Irrigated        Irrigated         Irrigated       Irrigated
Rice         Rice          Rice              Rice         Rice            Rice              Rice           Rice
Yield (ton/ha)                             1.5           2.0            2.0              1.7          2.4             2.4               4.0             4.0
Farm gate price (P/ton)                  1,080         1,080         1,080             1,340        1,340          1,340              1,340           1,340
Gross value of production (P/ha)         1,620         2,160         2,160             2,280        3,215          3,215              5,360           5,360
Production costs, excluding
labor (P/ha)                             460          505            485              655           750            750              1,305           1,305
Net value of production without
accounting for labor (P/ha)            1,160        1,655          1,675            1,625         2,465          2,465              4,055           4,055
Labor requirements (man-day/ha)            100           105            105              100           105            105               100              100
/a Financial prices and costs are used.
a- 2
(DX
0: _



PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJFCT:  I
Farm Budgets - Cagayan
1.0 ha Farm                                     2.5 ha Farm                                    6.0 ha Farm
Present                Future               Present                   Future                 Present                  Future
Rainfed  Irrigated         Irrigated          Rainfed  Irrigated          Irrigated          Rainfed  Irrigated            Irrigated
Farm Type:          CA         CB          CA         CB          CA          CB           CA        CB          CA         CB            CA         CB
Arable area of farm (ha)                        1.0        1.0        1.0       1.0          2.5       2.5           2.5        2.5           6.0       6.0           6.0       6.0
Transplanted rice (ha)                          1.0      1.47         1.74      1.74         2.5      3.68          4.35      4.35            6.0      8.82         10.44     10.44
Cropping intensity (%)                          100       147          174        174        100       147           174        174           100       147           174        174
Total rice production (tons)                    1.5      2.94         6.96      6.96        3.75      7.35          17.4       17.4           9.0     17.64         41.76     41.76
Gross value of production (P) /a              1,620    3,175         9,325     9,325       4,050     7,940        23,315   23,315          9,720    19,050         55,950    55,950
Production costs, excluding labor (P)           460       735        2,270     2,270       1,150     1,840         5,675     5,675         2,760      4,410        13,620    13,620
Cost of hired labor (P) /b                        0          0           0          0        155       240           400        400        1,705      2,690         4,130     4,130
Net value of production before water
charges (P)                                 1,160    2,440        7,055      7,055      2,745      5,860        17,240   17,240          5,255    11,950        38,200   38,200
Water charges /c                                  0       185          455       455           0       465         1,140     1,140              0    1,110          2,730     2,730
Net value of production (P)                   1,160     2,255        6,600     6,600       2,745     5,395        16,100   16,100          5,255    10,840         35,470   35,470
(a)  Amortizing owner
Annual payment for land (P) /d          415       815          415       815       1,040     2,040         1,040     2,040          2,500     4,895         2,500     4,895
Net crop income (P)                     745     1,440        6,185     5,785       1,705     3,355        15,060   14,060           2,755     5,945        32,970   30,575
(b)  Leaseholder
Annual payment for land (P) /e          330       660        1,975     1,975         830     1,645         4,940     4,940          1,995     3,955        11,855    11,855
Net crop income (P)                     830     1,595        4,625     4,625       1,915     3,750        11,160   11,160           3,260     6,885        23,615    23,615
/a  Based on Table 18.
/b  Based on maximum of 40 man-days/month and a total of 480 man-days/year of family labor; hired labor priced at a wage of P 6.0/man-day at present and
P 7.0/man-day in the future.
/c  Based on present charges of P 110/ha (2 cavans/ha) in the wet season and P 160/ha (3 cavans/ha) in the dry season and on future charges of P 235/ha
(3.5 cavans/ha) in the wet season and P 295/ha (4.4 cavans/ha) in the dry season.
/d  Based on amortizing owner with annual payments over 15 years at 6% on unpaid balance; based on price of land of 2.5 times present gross value of
production.
/e  Based on 25% of gross value of production minus seed, harvesting and threshing costs.
0 D
mxs
ID X~



PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Crop Budgets - Leyte /a
Present                                    Future without Project                     Future with Project
Wet Season                Dry Season                Wet Season                Dry Season           Wet Season   Dry Season
Rainfed   Irrigated       Irrigated  Rainfed        Rainfed   Irrigated    Irrigated  Rainfed          Irrigated       Irrigated
Rice         Rice          Rice        Corn         Rice        Rice            Rice        Corn          Rice           Rice
Yield (ton/ha)                             1.4          1.7           1.7        0.4           1.6         2.0            2.0         0.6             3.5           3.5
Farm gate price (P/ton)                 1,080         1,080         1,080        880         1,380       1,380          1,380       1,115           1,380         1,380
Gross value of production (P/ha)         1,510        1,835         1,835        350         2,210       2,760          2,760         670           4,830         4,830
Production costs, excluding
labor (P/ha)                            345           390           390        405           495         580            580         455           1,185        1,185
Net value of production without
accounting for labor (P/ha)           1,165         1,445         1,445        -55         1,715       2,180          2,180         215           3,645         3,645
Labor requirements  (man-day/ha)            95           100          100         65           100          105            105         70             105           105
/a Financial prices and costs are used.
a Z
0 -4



PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Farm Budgets - Leyte
1.0 ha Farm                                          3.0 ha Farm
Present                  Future                    Present                   Future
Rainfed   Irrigated          Irrigated             Rainfed   Irrigated            Irrigated
Farm Type:         LA         LB           LA         LB               LA          LB           LA          LB
Arable area of farm (ha)                        1.0         1.0        1.0         1.0              3.0        3.0         3.0         3.0
Transplanted rice (ha)                          1.0       1.71        1.89       1.89               3.0       5.13        5.67       5.67
Corn (ha)                                      0.22           0          0           0            0.66            0          0           0
Cropping intensity  (%)                         122        171         189        189               122        171         189         189
Total rice production (tons)                    1.4       2.91        6.62       6.62               4.2       8.73       19.86      19.86
Total corn production (tons)                  0.088           0          0           0           0.264            0          0           0
Gross value of production (P) /a              1,590      3,145       9,135      9,135            4,770       9,430     27,405      27,405
Production costs, excluding labor (P)           435        665      2,240       2,240            1,300       2,000      6,720       6,720
Cost of hired labor (P) /b                        0           0          0          0               27 5       520       1,135      1,135
Net value of production before water
charges  (P)                               1,155      2,480       6,895      6,895             3,195      6,910      19,550     19,550
Water charges /c                                  0        225         510        510                 0        670       1,530      1,530
Net value of production (P)                   1,155      2,255      6,385       6,385            3,195       6,240     18,020      18,020
(a) Amortizing owner
Annual payment for land (P) /d          410        810         410        810            1,225       2,425      1,225       2,425
Net crop income (P)                     745      1,445      5,975       5,575            1,970       3,815     16,795      15,595
(b) Leaseholder
Annual payment for land (P) /e          325        650      1,930       1,930              975       1,945      5,795       5,795
Net crop income (P)                     830      1,605      4,455       4,455            2,220       4,295     12,225      12,225
/a  Based on Table 19.
lb  Based on maximum of 40 man-days/month and a total of 480 man-days/year of family labor; hired labor priced at a wage of
P 5.0/man-day at present and P 7.0/man-day in the future.
/c  Based on present charges of P 110/ha (2.0 cavans/ha) in the wet season and P 160/ha (3.0 cavans/ha) in the dry season
and on future charges of P 240/ha (3.5 cavans/ha) in the wet season and P 305/ha (4.4 cavans/ha) in the dry season.
/d  Based on amortizing owner with annual payments over 15 years at 6% on unpaid balance; based on price of land of 2.5 times                           , 
present gross value of production.
/e  Based on 25% of gross value of production minus seed, harvesting and threshing costs.



ANNEX 17
Table 22
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMIS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT:  I
Farm Family Income Estimates /a
Uarm size                        Present                                   Future with Project
anid type Lb /c Farm Income  Other Income  Total Income    Farm Income  Other Income  Total Income
Ilocos
U.S ha
Typ IA
AU            500         1,500           2,000            5,450          1,500          6,950
LH            550         1,500           2,050            4,150          1,500          5,650
lype 1I
AO          1,350         1,500           2,850            4,900          1,500          6,400
LH          1,550         1,500           3,050            4,150          1,500          5,650
CIa avanl
1.U ha
Type CA
AO            750         1,400           2,150            6,200            900           7,100
Li            850         1,400           2,250            4,650            900          5,550
Type CB
AO          1,450         1,000           2,450            5,800            900           6,700
LH          1,600         1,000           2,600            4,650            900          5,550
2.5 ha
Type CA
AO          1,700         1,200           2,900           15,050            600         15,650
Lii         1,900         1,200           3,100           11,150            600         11,750
Type CB
AO          3,350           800           4,150           14,050            600         14,650
LiI         3,750           800          4,550            11,150            600         11,750
6.0 ha
Type CA
AO          2,750           600           3,350           32,950            200         33,150
LIH         3,250           600           3,850           23,600            200         23,800
Type CB
AO          5,950           200           6,150           30,600            200         30,800
LH          6,900           200           7,150           23,600            200         23,800
Ley re
1.0 ha
Type LA
AO            750         1,100           1,850            6,000            900           6,900
LH            850         1,100           1,950            4,450            900           5,350
lype LB
AO          1,450         1,000           2,450            5,600            900           6,500
LIH         1,600         1,000           2,600            4,450            900           5,350
3.0 ha
Type LA
AO          1,950           900           2,850            16,800           500          17,300
LB          2,200           900           3,100            12,250           500          12,750
Type LB
AD          3,800           700           4,500            15,600           500          16,100
LH          4,300           700           5,000           12,250            500          12,750
/a  Tncomes rounded to nearest P 50.
lb  AO = Amortizing Owner
LH = Leaseholder
/c  Farm types described in Table 15.



ANNEX 18
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Farm Labor Analysis
Labor Supply
1.        Data from NIA surveys, the National Census and Statistics Office
and information from various other unpublished sources indicate that the
present population in the subproject areas is as follows:
Item             Ilocos           Cagayan       Leyte           Total
Farming population    135,000            50,000        55,000         240,000
Farm families           21,000             7,500        8,500          37,000
Nonfarm families /a      3,100             1,000        2,000            6,100
Total families          24,100             8,500       10,500          43,100
/a  These are families which are principally or entirely occupied in
agricultural production.
The mean size of family in the subproject areas varies only slightly
around an average of about 5.5 persons from which the equivalent of two full-
time workers are available for farm work. Assuming all families associated
with agriculture supply two workers, the total estimated rural labor force in
all the subproject areas is 86,200. On the basis of 240 days per worker per
year, a monthly average of 20 days, the total annual labor supply is 20.7 mil-
lion man days, or 1.7 million man days per month.
2.        From 1960 to 1970, while the total Philippines population grew at
about 3.0% per year, the annual growith rate was 1.7% in the Ilocos region,
3.4% in the Cagayan region and 1.5% in the Leyte region. Ilocos and Leyte
are areas of emigration, while the less densely populated Cagayan area has
attracted immigrants. Assuming that historical growth rates continue, rural
labor would total some 107,000 at full project development in 1987. This
would give a total annual labor force for all subproject areas of 25.7
million man-days, and a monthly average supply of 2.14 million man-days.
Details of the estimated labor force by subproject area are as follows:



ANNEX 18
Page 2
Item                   Ilocos            Cagayan        Leyte          Total
Total family labor      48,200           17,000        21,000           86,200
Man-days/year 1977
(mill.)                 11.6              4.1           5.0            20.7
Growth rate (%)             1.7              3.4           1.5             2.0
Man-days/year 1987
(mill.)                 13.9              5.9           5.9            25.7
Man-days/month (mill.)    1.15               0.49          0.49            2.14
Labor Requirement
3.        Rice.  Annex 17, Table 2 gives estimates of average monthly and
annual labor requirements per ha for different rice crops for all sub-
project areas. The extent to which mechanization of land preparation and
paddy threshing has spread varies. It is particularly widespread in Cagayan
on land where some irrigation already exists. In future, without the project,
additional mechanization of land preparation and threshing is assumed, thereby
reducing labor requirements per ha. The timing of cropping operations within
the subproject areas and between the subproject areas varies widely. The
diversity within the areas contributes to the difficulties of water management
in present irrigation systems, and makes scheduling of inputs and supporting
services difficult. With the project, strict scheduling of operations would
be essential to permit adequate irrigation in all areas. This in turn would
require further mechanization of land preparation, particularly for the dry-
season crop. At the same time practically all threshing would be done by
hired mechanical threshers. Notwithstanding this additional mechanization,
average labor requirements per ha at full project development are estimated
to be similar to present levels because of higher crop management requirements.
4.        Tobacco.  Annex 17, Table 6 gives estimates of the labor require-
ments for tobacco in the Ilocos subproject. Tobacco growing does not lend
itself to mechanization, particularly in Ilocos where areas planted are
usually less than 0.5 ha. Consequently the future labor requirements are
influenced by changes in crop management and harvesting requirements.
5.        Corn.  Annex 17, Table 8 gives estimates of the labor requirements for
corn in the Leyte subproject at present and in the future without the project.
Corn production is not mechanized, neither is harvesting. Only rarely is
hulling mechanized. It is not anticipated that, in the absence of the project,
this situation will change significantly in the future.
6.        Tables 1, 2 and 3 give estimates of total monthly labor requirements
in the three subproject areas. The present and future labor requirements and
the relationship to the estimated rural labor supply are as follows:



ANNEX 18
Page 3
Item               Ilocos          Cagayan            Leyte           Total
P     W      W    P    w    W    P    w    W          P    W    W
Annual requirement
(mill. man-days)  3.0   3.0   3.4  2.4  2.4  3.2  1.7  1.8  2.6   7.1  7.2  9.2
Labor force
(mill. man-days) 11.6  13.9  13.9  4.1  5.9  5.9  5.0  5.9  5.9  20.7 25.7 25.7
Peak requirement   July  Aug.  Aug. June June  Oct. Nov. Nov. Nov.
month
Peak requirement as
% of supply (%)   0.43  0.36  0.36 1.24 0.86 0.95 0.70 0.61 0.67
At no time would the estimated monthly requirement exceed the average supply.
Economic Cost of Farm Labor
7.         Detailed information on wages actually paid in the project areas
is limited. Most work is done by unpaid family labor and traditional
"exchange" labor. The wage for hired labor in peak agricultural seasons at
present is around P 7.5 per man-day in the Ilocos subproject, and P 7.0 per
man-day in the Cagayan and Leyte subproject. These rates are assumed to
reflect the opportunity cost of labor to the economy of the different regions
at such times. As demand for labor increases the labor cost rises. In
months of high rural unemployment, which characterize most of the year, the
opportunity cost of labor would be much lower. The economic cost of farm
labor in the project area was, therefore, estimated by taking account of the
generally prevailing rural unemployment and extreme seasonal fluctuations in
labor demand.
8.         The economic cost of labor at different times of the year for
the project area was determined by the use of a technique developed in
the Thailand Phitsanulok Irrigation Project (Report No. 2486-TH) and used
recently in the Jalaur Irrigation Project (Report No. 1311-PH). It is
postulated that the marginal opportunity cost of farm labor in the project
area can be approximated by an S-shaped curve. The marginal opportunity
cost is positive at all levels of labor demand and increases as more labor
is employed in farm work. The increase is slow initially, reflecting the
scarcity of alternative productive employment, but becomes more rapid as
the labor supply is more fully used. At full employment in the project area,
the opportunity cost is assumed equal to a market wage of P 7 or P 7.5 per
man-day during periods of heavy labor demand depending on the region. As
labor demand increases beyond this point, the market wage rate continues to
rise until it reaches a maximum wage rate.



ANNEX 18
Page 4
8.        The economic cost of labor at different times of the year for
the project area was determined by the use of a technique developed in
the Thailand Phitsanulok Irrigation Project (Report No. 2486-TH) and used
recently in the Jalaur Irrigation Project (Report No. 1311-PH). It is
postulated that the marginal opportunity cost of farm labor in the project
area can be approximated by an S-shaped curve. The marginal opportunity
cost is positive at all levels of labor demand and increases as more labor
is employed in farm work. The increase is slow initially, reflecting the
scarcity of alternative productive employment, but becomes more rapid as
the labor supply is more fully used. At full employment in the project area,
the opportunity cost is assumed equal to market wage of P 7 or P 7.5 per
man-day during periods of heavy labor demand depending on the region. As
labor demand increases beyond this point, the market wage rate continued to
rise until it reaches a maximum wage rate.
9.       In practice the S-shaped curve is approximated by three straight
line segments. Figure 1 gives that approximation for the three subproject
areas. The three graphs show the estimated relationship between the marginal
opportunity cost of labor and the demand for labor (expressed as a proportion
of supply). The marginal opportunity cost for any labor demand can be read
directly from the curve. The figures used in Tables 4, 5 and 6 to calculate
the total cost of labor are derived from Chart No. 16861 For the project
area as a whole, the future economic cost of farm labor would be P 27 million
with the project at full development and P 20.2 million without the project,
or an incremental cost of P 6.9 million. This would be equivalent to pricing
the incremental employment of 2.1 million man-days per year at a shadow rate
of P 3.3 per man-day.



PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Total Monthly Labor Requirements - Ilocos /a
Area        Jan.    Feb.   Mar.    Apr.   May          June    Jul.    Aug.    Sept.  Oct.    Nov.    Dec.    Total
(ha)       ------------------------------------ ('000 man-days) ------------------------------------
Wet season
Irrigated rice         P      13,500         0       0        0         0      68     162     311      338     189      176     203      108     1,555
W     13,500         0        0       0         0      54     149      311     338     203      176     216      108      1,555
W     17,600         0        0       0         0      88     211      405     422      264     229     211      106      1,936
Rainfed rice            P      4,100         0        0       0         0      16      49      103      74       66      49       49      25        431
W      4,100         0        0       0         0      12      49       99      78       66      49       49      29        431
Dry season
Irrigated rice         P       6,200       124     112       99      124       43       0        0       0        0      25       62     124        713
W      6,200       130     112       99      124       49       0        0       0        0      25       50     124        713
W      9,100       209     182      136      145       55        0       0       0        0      36       73     164      1,000
Irrigated tobacco    P         1,300        46      56       59       29        0       0        0       0        1      10       40      39        280
W      1,300        55      65       65        34       0        0       0       0        1      10       42      40        312
W      1,300        65      78       85        73       0        0       0       0        0       5       46      59        411
Total                     P     25,100       170      168     158       153     127      211     414     412      256     260      354      296     2,979
W     25,100       185     177      164       158     115     198      410     416      270     260      357     301      3,011
W     28,000       274     260      221      218      143     211      405     422      264     270      330     329      3,348
/a  P = Present                                                                                                                                                             Ha
W = Future without project
W = Future with project



PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Total Monthly Labor Requirements - Cagayan /a
Area       Jan.   Feb.   Mar.    Apr.   May    June   Jul.   Aug.   Sept.  Oct.   Nov.   Dec.   Total
(ha)       ------------------------------------ ('000 man-days) ------------------------------------
Wet season
Irrigated rice        P      8,900         0       0       0       45      89    196      187     142      89      98      89        0       935
W     8,900         0       0       0       45      89    196      187     142      89      98      89        0       935
W    18,700       224     112       0        0       0       0       0    112    412       468     318     224      1,870
Rainfed rice          P      9,800         0       0       0       59      98    226    186       137      88      98      88        0       980
W     9,800         0       0       0       59      98    226      186     137      88      98      88        0       980
Dry season
Irrigated rice        P      4,200        67      51      63       25       0       0       0       0       0      42    101       93        442
W     4,200        67      51      63       25       0       0       0       0       0       42    101       93       442
W     13,750       82     234    344       289     165     179      82       0        0       0       0       0     1,375
Total                    p    22,900        67      51      63      129    187    422       373     279      177     238     278      93    2,357
W    22,900        67      51      63      129    187    422       373     279      177    238      278      93     2,357
W    32,450       306     346     344      288     165     179      82     112     412     468      318     224     3,245
/a P = Present
W = Future without project
W = Future with project
>



PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Total Monthly Labor Requirements - Leyte /a
Area        Jan,    Feb.    Mar.       Apr.    May       June    Jul.    Aug       Sept.  Oct.    Nov.    Dec.    Total
(ha)        ------------------------------------- ('000 man-days) ------------------------------------
Wet season
Irrigated rice          P       3,800         46       65       23         0       0        0        0        0      19       76       87       65        381
W      3,800         53       65       30         0       0        0        0        0      19       76       87       68        398
W     13,100        210      236       78         0        0       0        0        0      65      223      328      236      1,376
Rainfed rice             P      9,300        102      140       47         0        0       0        0        0      65      186      205      140        885
W      9,300        112      158       56         0       0        0        0        0      65      186      214      140        931
Dry season
Irrigated rice          P       2,700          0       19      46         59      41       32       51      22         0       0        0        0        270
W      2,700          0       19      46        65       43       35       54       22        0       0        0        0        284
W     11,700          0       82     199       281      187      152     234       94         0       0        0        0      1,229
Rainfed corn             P      2,000          0        0        0         0      18       26       26        8       26      26        0        0        130
W      2,000          0        0        0         0      18       26       28       16      26       26        0        0        140
Total                      P      17,800       148      224      116        59       59       58      77       30      110      288     292      205      1,666
W     17,800        165      242     132         65      61       61       82       38     110      288      301      208      1,753
W     24,800        210      318     277       281      187      152      234       94      65      223      328      236      2,605
/a  P = Present
,! = Future without project
W = Future with project
W = Future with project~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C



PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Economic Cost of Farm Labor - Ilocos /a
Jan.   Feb.   Mar.    Apr.   May    June   Jul.   Aug.   Sept.  Oct.   Nov.   Dec.   Total
Labor requirement                W       0.27   0.26   0.22    0.22   0.14   0.21   0.41   0.42   0.26   0.27   0.33   0.33    3.35
(million man-days) /b          W       0.18   0.17   0.16    0.16   0.12   0.20   0.41   0.42   0.27   0.26   0.36   0.30             3.01
Marginal opportunity cost        W       3.32   3.27   3.16    3.15   2.92   3.13   3.70   3.76   3.29   3.30   3.48   3.48
(P/man-day)                    W       3.05   3.03   2.99    2.97   2.84   3.09   3.72   3.74   3.30   3.27   3.56   3.40
Average economic cost of         W       2.91   2.89   2.83    2.83   2.71   2.81   3.10   3.13   2.89   2.90   2.99   2.99    2.95
farm labor (P/man-day)         W       2.78   2.76   2.74    2.73   2.67   2.79   3.11   3.12   2.90   2.89   3.03   2.95    2.93
Economic cost of farm labor    W         0.80   0.75   0.63    0.62   0.39   0.59   1.26   1.32   0.76   0.78   0.99   0.98    9.87
(P million) /b                 W       0.51   0.49   0.45    0.43   0.31   0.55   1.27   1.30   0.78   0.75   1.08   0.89    8.81
Incremental economic cost of
farm labor (P million)        W-W      0.29   0.26   0.18    0.19   0.08   0.04  -0.01   0.02  -0.02   0.03  -0.09   0.09             1.06
/a W = Future with project
W = Future without project
/b Figures rounded to two decimal places.
a z
r m



PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRlGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT:  I
Economic Cost of Farm Labor - Cagayan /a
Jan.   Feb.   Mar.    Apr.   May    June   Jul.   Aug-   Sept.  Oct.   Nov.   Dec.   Total
Labor requirement                W       0.31   0.35   0.34    0.29   0.16   0.18   0.08   0.11   0.41   0.47   0.32   0.22    3.24
(million man-days) /b          W      0.07   0.05   0.06    0.13   0.19   0.42   0.37   0.28   0.18   0.24   0.28   0.09    2.36
Marginal opportunity cost        W       4.11   4.72   4.68    3.92   3.10   3.19   2.55   2.75   5.75   6.63   4.28   3.50
(P/man-day)                    W      2.45   2.34   2.42    2.86   3.25   5.90   5.15   3.86   3.18   3.59   3.85   2.62
Average economic cost of         W       3.02   3.18   3.17    2.96   2.55   2.59   2.27   2.37   3.51   3.83   3.07   2.73    3.18
farm labor (P/man-day)         W       2.22   2.17   2.21    2.43   2.62   3.56   3.31   2.93   2.59   2.79   2.93   2.31    2.97
Economic cost of farm labor    W         0.93   1.10   1.09    0.85   0.42   0.46   0.19   0.27   1.44   1.79   0.97   0.62   10.13
(P million) /b                 W      0.15   0.11   0.14    0.31   0.49   1.50   1.23   0.82   0.46   0.66   0.81   0.21    6.89
Incremental economic cost of
farm labor (P million)        W-W     0.78   0.99   0.95    0.54  -0.07  -1.04  -1.04  -0.55   0.98   1.13   0.16   0.41    3.24
/a W = Future with project
W = Future without project
/b Figures rounded to two decimal places.
Z 
F) 
co 



PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Economic Cost of Farm Labor - Leyte /a
Jan.   Feb.   Mar.    Apr.   Mfay    June   Jul,   Aug.   Sept.  Oct.   Nov.   Dec.    Total
Labor requirement                W       0.21   0.32   0.28    0.28   0.19   0.15   0.23   0.09   0.07   0.22   0.33   0.24    2.60
(million man-days) /b          W      0.16   0.24   0.13    0.07   0.06   0.06   0.08   0.04   0.11   0.29   0.30   0.21             1.75
Marginal opportunity cost        W       3.23   3.87   3.63    3.65   3.10   2.89   3.38   2.55   2.39   3.31   3.93   3.39
(P/man-day)                    W      2.97   3.42   2.78    2.38   2.36   2.36   2.48   2.22   2.65   3.69   3.77   3.22
Average economic cost of         W       2.62   2.93   2.82    2.83   2.55   2.45   2.69   2.28   2.19   2.66   2.96   2.69    2.72
farm labor (P/man-day)         W       2.48   2.71   2.39    2.19   2.18   2.18   2.24   2.11   2.32   2.85   2.89   2.61    2.59
Economic cost of farm labor    W         0.55   0.93   0.78    0.79   0.48   0.37   0.63   0.21   0.14   0.59   0.97   0.64    7.09
(P million) /b                 W      0.41   0.65   0.32    0.14   0.13   0.13   0.18   0.08   0.26   0.82   0.87   0.54    4.54
Incremental economic cost of
farm labor (P million)        W-W      0.14   0.28   0.46    0.65   0.35   0.24   0.45   0.13  -0.12  -0.23   0.10   0.10    2.55
/a W = Future with project
W = Future without project
/b Figures rounded to two decimal places.
(D X
ofi



PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT:I
ESTIMATED MARGINAL ECONOMIC COST OF LABOR
9                                IN THREE SUB PROJECT AREAS
I                     ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~............................., 
7
6                                       /                        ILOCOS
CAGAYAN
1 _0
9~~~~~~~~~~~
z~~~~~~~~~
0
U)
wU4
3
2
I    I     I     I    I     l     I     I    I     I     I     IIIIi
.2    3                6     7    8     9    1.0   1.1 1.2    1.3   14    1.5   1.6
MILLION MAN-DAYS/MONFH                             '



ANNEX 19
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Cost and Rent Recovery
1.        This Annex examines the implications for public revenues and proj-
ect beneficiary incomes of proposed water charges for the project as well
as for the three subprojects. In determining the extent of cost recovery and
the relation of water charges to benefits, four indices have been used which
are defined as follows for the present project.
(a) Cost Recovery Index: the ratio of revenues from incremental
water charges paid by all project beneficiaries to project con-
struction and incremental operation and maintenance costs.
(b) Total Cost Recovery Index: the ratio of revenue from total water
charges paid by all project beneficiaries to project construction
costs and total operation and maintenance costs.
(c) Project Rent Recovery Index: the ratio of incremental water
charges to "project rent" before paying water charges, where
"project rent" is defined as incremental farm income less the
value of incremental family labor, management costs and allow-
ances for uncertainty.
(d) Farm Rent Recovery Index: the ratio of total water charge to
total "farm rent", where "farm rent" is defined as total farm
income less the value of family labor, management costs and
allowances for uncertainty.
2.        Tables 1, 2, 3 and 4 present the cost and rent recovery indices and
the bases of their calculations. All figures are in terms of June 1977
constant prices and except where otherwise labelled are incremental values
("with" less "without" the project). The rate of discount applied is 10%.
3.        These ratios do not, however, capture the extent to which irrigation
costs may be recovered in indirect ways, for example through various taxes.
They also do not evaluate the extent to which normal variations in farmers'
incomes may affect the magnitude of rent recovery from farmers, nor does the
rent recovery index take into account the benefits of irrigation development
to those in a region who are not directly involved with farming.
Cost Recovery
4.        In the cost recovery analysis, the present value of construction
costs amounts to P 382 million. The present value of the incremental O&M
costs is P 47 million. Water charges would be the equivalent of 3.5 cavans



ANNEX 19
Page 2
of paddy/ha in the wet season and 4.4 cavans in the dry season as in other
Bank-assisted projects in the Philippines. At the forecast future (1985)
price levels, and in terms of 1977 prices, these charges would be equivalent
to P 240/ha and P 305/ha for Ilocos, P 235/ha and P 295/ha for Cagayan, and
P 240/ha and P 305/ha for Leyte. Such rates would be reached gradually over
a period of five years from completion of construction. Without the project,
lands already irrigated are assumed to be charged at the present prevailing
rate of 2.0 cavans in the wet season and 3.0 cavans in the dry season. These
charges would be equivalent to P 140/ha and 1 205/ha for Ilocos, P 135/ha and
P 200/ha for Cagayan and P 140/ha and P 205/ha for Leyte.  The present value
of incremental charges on the entire project area over the 50-year life of
the project would be P 74 million, indicating a cost recovery index of about
17%. For the Ilocos, Cagayan and Leyte subproject areas separately the cost
recovery indexes are 14%, 16% and 22% respectively. As a better measure of
how much beneficiaries would actually be expected to pay, the ratio of total
water charges to total project and total O&M costs (Total Cost Recovery
Index) would be 24%.
5.        While the contribution which farmers are expected to make to
government revenues in the form of land tax have been included in these
calculations, the extent to which farmers pay income taxes to government has
not been taken into account. If the estimates of future income in Cagayan,
for example, are realized then farmers with 6.0 ha of land will probably be
paying taxes equivalent in present (1977) terms to about P 2,000 per annum.
Although it would be inappropriate to credit all of the additional taxation
revenue to the project, an allocation of half of this estimate to the project
would increase the cost recovery index for Cagayan from 16% to 19%. No
"betterment" taxes or other government levies are envisaged for the project
area.
Rent Recovery
6.        Since it was both cumbersome and unnecessary, from an analytical
point of view, to display the details of the rent recovery calculation for
all feasible farm models, it was decided to show this information for three
of the farm models used in Annex 17. These calculations are shown in Table
1, while the results of similar calculations for a larger range of farm sizes
and tenure types are summarized in Tables 2, 3 and 4. The results show rent
recovery indexes which range from 17% to 37%.
7.        While the rent recovery index for the project as a whole is somewhat
low, less than 20% for rehabilitated areas, where cropping intensity remains
unchanged as a result of the project, it is higher at about 35% for the area
with new irrigation facilities. Overall, the project rent recovery index is
estimated to be 24%. The farm rent recovery index (see para. 1(d)), however,
is a better indicator of what the farmer must pay for irrigation. Of the
farm models examined, between 23% and 41% of total annual farm rent would
have to be paid in water charges.



ANINEX 19
Page 3
Water Charge Policy
8.        The Government increased the water charges on all national irriga-
tion systems by five times in July 1975 and has agreed to a further increase
in water charges for all Bank-assisted projects. It has also built in a form
of "indexing" by setting the rates in terms of paddy rather than pesos.
Further increases in water charges are not judged to be warranted in view of
the fact that:
(a) farmers in the project area are paying on average 25% of their
total farm rent in water charges; and
(b) 25% of the project beneficiaries would be below the Critical
Consumption Level at full development and 95% would be at or
below the national per capita income.



PHILIPPINES
NAIIONAl. IRRIGATION SYSTEMS _I1PROVEMENT PROJECT:  I
oft a-nd Ret Reco very /a /b
_ Reot Recoverv                               Cost Recovery                           Total
Ilocos       Cagayan _   _.eyte _           locos            Cagayan           Leyte
Farm IB       Farm CA         Farm LA      ---------                 P million ---------------------
0.8 ha        2.5 ha         1.0 ha
------- (Amortizing owner) --------
Incremental gross value of production                       1,920         17,615         6,780         62.7            109.47            79.95           252.12
Less incremental - production costs
(including hiired labor)                 420         4,255          1,645         12.89           26.11             20.11            59.11
payments to landlord                     -              -              -          10.20            13.19            12.17            35. 56
imputed return on capital /c             425          3,885         1,490          2.55            11.00             5.49            19.04
imputed value for family labor /d    -20              1,070            565         1.90             6.24             6.85            14.99
imputed value for management /e          190          1,760           680          6.27            10.95             8.0             25.22
allowance for risk /f                    290          1,760         1,015          9.41            13.14            10.0             32.55
Equals project rent                                            615         4,885          1,385        18.53  (87)    28.84 (136)        17.33  (82)    64.70 (305)
Incremental water charges                                      130         1,140            510         3.84  (18)       6.41  (30)       5.62  (26)      15.87  (74)
Project rent recovery index (%)                                 21            23             37        21               22               38               24
Net public sector outlays (presenit value)                                                                    (127)            (183)            (119)            (429)
Cost recovery index (%)                                                                                14               16               22               17
Total water charges                                            335         1,140            S10         7.0   (33)       8.45  (40)       6.71  (32)      22.16 (105)
Total farm rent                                              1,460         4,965          1,235        32.28 (161)      32.52 (153)      19.06  (90)    83.86 (404)
Farm rent recovery index (%)                                    23            23             41        22               26               35               25
Gross public sector outlays (present value)                                                                   (133)            (186)            (121)            (440)
Total cost recovery index (%)                                                                          25               22               26               24
Farmer's per capita income at full development /g           1,150          12 250
Estimated critical consumption level /b                                                                                                                     JP 1,240
Estimated per capita personal income, 1985                                                                                                                   P 3,300
Estimated per capita GDP, 1985                                                                                                                               Y 4,400
/a  All peso values are in June 1977 constant pesos; items 1-11 are incremental values for 1985 at full development.
/b  Figures in parentheses are net present values over the life of the project.
/c  Imputed retuirn on land plus 10% on incremental cash investment; incremental cash investment estimated at 28% of cash needs.
/d  Family labor valued at 7 P/man-day in the future.
/e  102 of incremental gross value of production.
If  10% of incremental gross value of production for farms larger than 2 ha; 15% for farms smaller or equal to 2 ha.
IR  Per capita income estimates include other income (rounded to nearest 50 pesos).
/h  The absolute poverty level (about 38% of the national per capita income) is used due to thc absence of an estimate of CCL.
H>
D r:
0- 



ANNEX 19
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Summary of Rent and Cost Recovery Indices - Ilocos /a
Farm Type IA    Farm Type IB        Ilocos
0.8 ha           0.8 ha          Region
AO    LH         AO    LH
Rent Recovery Index (%)                  20    20          21    21           21
Farm Rent Recovery Index (%)             23    23          23    23           22
Farmer's per capita income at
full development (L) /b            1,250 1,050       1,150 1,050
Cost Recovery Index (%)                                                       14
Total Cost Recovery Index (%)                                                 25
/a AO = Amortizing owner
LH = Leaseholder
/b Includes other income (rounded to nearest 50 pesos).



PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Summary of Rent and Cost Recovery Indices - Cagayan /a
Farm Type CA                                     Farm Type CB                         Cagayan
1.0 ha          2.5 ha           6.0 ha           1.0 ha           2.5 ha           6.0 ha          Region
AD    LH        AO    LH         AO    LH         AO    LH         AD    LH         AD    LH
Rent Recovery Index (%)                 28      28       23      23       24      24       20      20       17      17       17      17          22
Farm Rent Recovery Index (x)            31      31       23      23       24      24       31      31       23      23       24      24          26
Farmer's per capita income at
full development (P) /b            1,300  1,000   2,850  2,150   6,050  4,350    1,200  1,000    2,650  2,150   5,600  4,350
Cost Recovery Index (%)                                                                                                                          16
Total Cost Recovery Index (7C)                                                                                                                   22
/a AO = Amortizing owner
LH - Leaseholder
Lb  Includes other income (rounded to nearest 50 pesos).
a, z
-mx
m M4



PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Summary of Rent and Cost Recovery Indices - Leyte /a
Farm Type LA                        Farm Type LB              Leyte
1.0 ha           3.0 ha             1.0 ha           3.0 ha        Region
AO    LH         AO    LH           AO    LH         AD    LH
Rent Recovery Index (%)                37    37         29      29         23    23         25      25       32
Farm Rent Recovery Index (%)           41    41         28      28         41    41         28      28       35
Farmer's per capita income
at full development (P) /b       1,250   950       3,150  2,300      1,200   950       2,950  2,300
Cost Recovery Index (%)                                                                                      22
Total Cost Recovery Index (%)                                                                                26
/a AO = Amortizing owner
LH = Leaseholder
/b Includes other income (rounded to nearest 50 pesos).
r z
I- w.



ANNEX 20
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Economic Analysis
1.        The economic rates of return for the project and for the individual
subprojects were based on the following assumptions.
(a)  Foreign Exchange.  Due to the presence of import taxes and import
quotas, the official exchange rate of US$1.00 = P 7.5 understates
the value of foreign exchange to the country. Therefore, the
foreign exchange component of the project capital cost and O&M cost,
and the foreign exchange saved by reducing rice imports was valued
at the shadow exchange rate of US$1.00 = P 8.33. This shadow
exchange rate was derived by estimating the standard conversion
factor (SCF) /1 for the Philippines which was about 0.9 for the
three years 1972-1974.
(b) Benefits. The economic benefits generated at full development
from each subproject are shown in Tables 1 to 4. The benefits
were derived from farm-gate prices for paddy, tobacco and corn
given in Annex 16, production costs and expected yields in
Annex 17, and economic labor costs in Annex 18.
(c) Investment Costs. The total shadow priced capital cost,
expressed in June 1977 prices, is US$64.17 million, consisting
of US$18.18 million for the Ilocos subproject, US$28.19 million
for the Cagayan subproject and US$17.80 million for the Leyte
subproject. The annual incremental O&M annual costs per hectare
of wet-season irrigated land are US$15.0/ha for the Ilocos and
Leyte systems, and US$14.0/ha for the Cagayan systems. All
capital costs include physical contingencies but exclude costs
due to price increases. The subproject capital costs include the
cost of O&M equipment which will be used for the irrigation sys-
tems in the subprojects, but do not include costs of O&M equipment
which would be financed under the regional strengthening component
(Annex 6) of the project. The Leyte subproject investment costs do
not include the incremental capital costs attributable to the
schistosomiasis control program, such as costs for larger than
normal drains, additional drains outside the project area, buildings
and O&M equipment required to maintain the increased drainage
works, and public health components. The cost of these additional
/1 L. Squire and H. G. van der Tak, Economic Analysis of Projects, Baltimore
and London, The Johns Hopkins University Press, 1975.



ANNEX 20
Page 2
items is US$14.2 million. However, the sensitivity of the rate
of return for the project as a whole and the Leyte subproject to
inclusion of the full cost of schistosomiasis control has been
calculated.
(d) Development Period. According to the project implementation
schedule, all works would be completed by mid-1982 in time for the
1982 wet-season crop. Though some systems, especially the smaller
ones, may be completed in less than five years, for the purpose of
the economic analysis it is conservatively assumed that all systems
are completed at the end of five years. In the sixth year (1982-
1983), farmers would begin to grow their crops under improved con-
ditions and would achieve the projected full development yield
levels over five years in equal installments. The project would
reach full development in 1986-1987.
2.        Using the foregoing assumptions and discounting benefits and costs
over 50 years, the economic rate of return of the project is 20% (Table 5).
Rates of return for the individual subproject areas vary between 18% and 21%
and are given along with the respective cost and benefit streams in Table 6.
3.        Sensitivity Analysis.  Sensitivity of the rate of return was tested
to cost overruns, reduction and delay in benefits, a 25% increase in the
world market rice price and inclusion of the full schistosomiasis control
program cost. The effects of these changes of assumption on the project
rate of return are shown below, the effects on subproject rates of return
are given in Table 7.
Alternative                                              Rate of Return
(a)  Two-year delay in reaching full project benefits.               18
(b)  20% increase in construction costs.                             17
(c) Combination of two-year delay in reaching full project
benefits and 20% increase in construction costs.                16
(d)  20% increase in world market price of rice.                    23
(e)  10% decrease in projected rice yields.                         17
(f)  20% decrease in project benefits.                               17
(g)  Inclusion of schistosomiasis control costs.                     17



ANNEX 20
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Economic Analysis - Net Value of Production - Total Project Area
Net value of production
Area           in project area
(ha)             (P million)
Wet season
Irrigated rice    W /a       26,200                 85.60
W         49,400               231.82
Rainfed rice       W         23,200                 46.37
W
Dry season
Irrigated rice    W          13,100                 42.00
W         34,650                163.02
Irrigated tobacco W           1,300                 16.49
W          1,300                 21.44
Rainfed corn       W          2,000                  0.63
W
Total           W         65,800
W         85,350
W                 w
-- (P million) ------
Total net value of production
(before costing labor)                   191.09            416.29
Less imputed labor cost                     20.24              27.09
Total net value of production              170.85             389.19
Net incremental value of production
at full project development                                218.34
/a W = Future without project.
W = Future with project.



ANNEX 20
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTE1nS IM4PROVEM4ENT PROJECT: I
Economic Analysis - Net Value of Production - Ilocos Subprolect
Net value of
Area /a               Farm gate  Gross value of   Production   Net value of  production in
Yield La   price /b    production            costs /c    production    project area
(ha)    (ton/ha)      (P/ton)   ---------------- (P/ha) -----------------   (P million)
Wet season
Irrigated rice    - W/d  13,500          3.0        1,535           4,605              845           3,760            50.76
W     17,600       4.0        1,535           6,140            1,150          4,990            87.82
Rainfed rice        - W       4,100      1.9        1,535           2,915              685           2,230             9.14
W         - 
Dry season
Irrigated rice    - W         6,200      3.0        1,535           4,605              850           3,755            23.28
W      9,100       4.2        1,535           6,445            1,180          5,265            47.91
irrigated tobacco - W         1,300      1.0       14,905          14,905            2,220          12,685            16.49
W       1,300      1.3       14,905          19,375            2,880         16,495            21.44
Total         - W      25,100
V     28,000
V
-P million ---
Total net value of production (before costing labor)                          99.67       157.17
Less imputed labor cost /e                                                      8.81        9.87
Total net value of production                                                 90.86       147.30
Net incremental value of production at full project development                            56.44
/a  From Annex 15, Table 1.
/b  From Annex 16, Tables 1 and 3.
/c  From Annex 17, Table 1 and 6.
/d  W = Future without project.
W = Future with project.
/e  From Annex 18, Table 4.



ANNEX 20
Table 3
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Economic Analysis - Net Value of Production - CaRayan Subproject
Net value of
Area /a               Farm gate  Gross value of   Production   Net value of  production in
Yield /a   price /b    production           costs /c    production    project area
(ha)   (ton/ha)       (P/ton)   ---------------- (P/ha)--… ---    (P million)
Wet season
Irrigated rice    - W /d   8,900         2.4        1,490           3,575              735          2,840            25.28
W     18,700       4.0        1,490           5,960           1,240           4,720            88.26
Rainfed rice        - W       9,800      1.7        1,490           2,535              625           1,910           18.72
W         -         -           -               -                _               _               _
Dry season
Irrigated rice    - W         4,200      2.4        1,490           3,575              735          2,840            11.93
W     13,750       4.0        1,490          5,960            1,240           4,720            64.90
Total         - W      22,900
W     32,450
w            w
-  P million --
Total net value of production (before costing labor)                          55.93      153.16
Less imputed labor cost /e                                                     6.89       10.13
Total net value of production                                                 49.04      143.03
Net incremental value of production at full project development                           93.99
/a  From Annex 15, Table 2.
lb  From Annex 16, Tables 1.
/c  From Annex 17, Table 1.
/d  W = Future without project.
W = Future with project.
/e  From Annex 18, Table 5.



ANNEX 20
Table 4
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IIIPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Economic Analysis - Net Value of Production - Leyte Subproject
Net value of
Area /a               Farm gate  Gross value of   Production   Net value of  production in
Yield /a   price /b    production           costs /c    production    project area
(ha)   (ton/ha)      (P/ton)   -       ----------- (P/ha) -----------------    (P million)
Wet season
Irrigated rice    - W/d   3,800         2.0        1,535           3,070              555          2,515             9.56
W     13,100      3.5        1,535           5,375            1,120          4,255            55.74
Rainfed rice       - W       9,300      1.6        1,535           2,455              465          1,990            18.51
w        -         -           -               _                _              _
Dry season
Irrigated rice    - W        2,700      2.0        1,535           3,070              555          2,515             6.79
W     11,800      3.5         1,535          5,375            1,120          4,255            50.21
Rainfed corn       - W       2,000      0.6        1,240             745              430            315             0.63
w        -         -           -
Total         - W      17,800
W     24,900
W            W
-  P million --
Total net value of production (before costing labor)                         35.49      105.95
Less imputed labor cost /e                                                    4.54        7.09
Total net value of production                                                30.95       98.86
Net incremental value of production at full project development                          67.91
/a  From Annex 15, Table 3.
lb  From Annex 16, Tables 1 and 2.
/c  From Annex 17, Table I and 8.
Id  W = Future without project.
W = Future with project.
/e  From Annex 18, Table 6.



ANNEX 20
Table 5
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Project Economic Costs and Returns
(US$ million)
Year                 Incremental Costs            Incremental Benefits
Capital      O&M
1                     2.80       0                        0
2                    16.47       0                        0
3                    21.05       0                        0
4                    17.08       0                        0
5                     6.77       0                        0
6                     0           1.0                     5.24
7                     0          1.0                     10.48
8                     0           1.0                    15.72
9                     0           1.0                    20.96
10-50                   0           1.0                    26.20
Economic Rate of Return = 20%



PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Subproject Economic Costs and Returns
(USS million)
Ilocos                                   Cagayan                                      Leyte
Year                  Incremental Costs   Incremental           Incremental Costs   Incremental           Incremental Costs   Incremental
Capital      O&M      Benefits           Capital       O&M      Benefits            Capital      O&M      Benefits
1                      1.09       0            0                 0.9        0                              0.81        0           0
2                      4.83        0           0                 6.72       0                              4.92        0           0
3                      5.68       0            0                 9.22       0                              6.15        0           0
4                      4.59        0           0                 8.04       0                              4.45        0           0
5                       1.99       0           0                 3.31       0                               1.47       0           0
6                      0           0.34        1.35              0           0.37        2.26              0           0.29         1.63
7                      0           0.34        2.70              0          0.37         4.52              0           0.29        3.26
8                      0           0.34        4.05              0           0.37        6.78               0          0.29         4.89
9                      0           0.34        5.40              0           0.37        9.04               0          0.29         6.52
10-50                    0           0.34        6.77              0           0.37       11.28               0          0.29         8.15
Economic Rate of Return               18%                                       20%                                        21%
I- t
C 



ANNEX 20
Table 7
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Sensitivity Analysis of Subprojects
Alternative                                                  Rates of Return (%)
Ilocos   Cagayan   Leyte
(a) Two year delay in reaching full project
benefits                                               17         18        19
(b)  20% increase in construction costs                     16         18        19
(c) Combination of two year delay in reaching
full project benefits and 20% increase in
construction costs                                     15         16        17
(d)  20% increase in world market price of rice             21         23        24
(e)  10% decrease in projected rice yields                  14         17        18
(f)  20% decrease in project benefits                       16         17        18
(g)  Inclusion of Schistosomiasis control costs             -          -         14



ANNEX 21
Table I
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT:  I
Schedule of Early Events
Activity                                       Target Date
Survey & Napping
1. Complete topographic maps 1:4,000 scale
25 cm contour interval for 3 subprojects
(a)  Part I (about 15,000 ha)                             Aug. 1977
(b)  Parts II & III (about 50,000 ha)                     Sept. 1978
2.  Strip maps for schistosomiasis control                        Feb. 1978
Program drainage and Cagayan extension
Design
1. Complete detailed engineering design and
tender documents
(a) For main canals, service roads and
O&M buildings of 3 subprojects                       July-Sept. 1977
(b) Major extension areas of Cagayan and
Leyte subprojects                                    July-Sept. 1978
(c) Drainage for schistosomiasis control
program in Leyte subproject                          Oct. 1978
Contract Administration
1. Equipment procurement
(a)  Contract award                                       Sept. 1977
(b)  Delivery of equipment                                Mar. 1978
2.  Civil Works Contracts; Award and start construction
(a) htain canals, service roads and O&M buildings
in 3 subprojects                                     Oct. 1977-Feb. 1978
(b)  Major extension areas of Cagayan and Leyte
subprojects                                          Nov. 1978-Feb. 1979
(c) Schistosomiasis control drainage works in
Leyte subproject                                     Feb.-Mar. 1979
Force Account Construction
1.  Complete detail engineering design for initial               Sept. 1977
year's construction
2. Start construction of small structures and features
requiring none of the earthmoving equipment                  Nov. 1977-Feb. 1978
3.  Start construction with equipment                            Nov. 1978
Strengthening of Regional Organization
1.  Action plan for strengthening Agricultural Divisions         Jan. 1978
Land Consolidation Pilot Project
1.  Agreement between NIA and DAR                                Dec. 1977
2.  Selection of the area and agreement of farmers               June 1978
On-farm Facilities Study
1.  Selection of the areas                                       Dec. 1977
2.  Complete design and start construction                       Oct. 1978
Schistosomiasis Control Program (Health Component)
1.  Agreement between NIA and DON                                Dec. 1977
2.  Establish two control centers                                Mar. 1978






PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Implementation Schedule - liocos Subproject
1977                          1978                                    1979                                    1901981
WORK  ITEM                                           JASONDJFMAMJJAS0J                                              II       IIII             I     I                                                    J~      I       IIII            
IRRIGATION SYSTEMS - REHABILITATION & EXTENSION/                                     /////    ///                                                                                                                                            7       7
1. Mapping, S-roys, Design & Contract Adiministration/(7 ///7 //7//                                                                                          7                                                                    /     7/        /
Surveys for main canals, laterals & structures------ --------                                                                                   777    7/    //     
Topograhic surveys &  napping for o-furr  works ----------- 7-/    /  / 
Design of .ain canals. laterals & service roads ---------/---/---7-
Design of drainage & flood control morks----------/---------/
Design of on-farm  facilities ------------------                            Z/
Contract administration                                                     /
Main canals, roads & drainage works. etc ------------/
0&Mbuildmngs and other facilities                                                                                                                                                                                       /7--/7/ 
Procurement of equipment  7------/---- ---                                                                                                                                                                                           /7/,
2. Contract Work Construction                                                                                                                                                                                                     /     /     /
Main canals & service roads ----------------                       7                                                                                                  I   I/     /                                           /        /I
Drainage & flood control works --------7-----/7---
O & M buildings                                                    /7----------/--------/----/-
3. Force Ac ..u.f Work                                                                                                                                                                                                            /7        77
Repairs & mnodification of structures -------------
Cleaning of laterals and mninor draingage------7------/-/ -
works                                                                                                                                                                                                                              j      
On-farmn facilities ---------------------------/-/--7/--
LAND CDNSOLIDATION PILOT PROJECT/7                                                                                                                                                                                                             /      /
1.   Data  Collection  &   Studies ------------- - -------
2. Piloit Project                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /  
Topographic & cdastral surcoys. -----------/------
7 7 7 -7 ----------~~~~~~/                                                                                                   7/
Planning   and   design-u-- --- --- ---- ---a ----- --- --- --/
Construction & r-allocation ------------------//'                                                                                                                                                                                     /     
3. Monitoring and ecaluation--------- --------------   -    -----/
ON PARM  FACI LITI ES STUDY                                                   <                                                                          7            
t.Data Collection & Studies ------------------                                                                                                                                                                                     7/     /7
2. Pilot Project                                                                                                             ~7
Survey, planning  and  design   -------- ---- -----                             ---- -
construction           ---- - - - - -- - -                                                  - - - -
3. Monitoring andi Evaluation ----------Z                                           .... -----I/a                                                                                                                                         v/7     I/
/7/77/77/                                                                                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~World Ban k-1 7108
7/7/7/7// Wet Season






PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT:I
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE-CAGAYAN SUBPROJECT
1977              1978                    1979                     1980                    1981
WORK ITEM                          -J A|S|  N|D J FM|AM J J A S|0 N|D J F M|A M J J|A|S||N|C  JI F|M|A M J J A S 0 N D J F M A M J J A S 0 N!C
IRRIGATION SYSTEMS-REHABILITATION & EXTENSION / //                                            ///
1.Mapping,Surveys, Design & Contract Administration           / '           /   / _                   .             j           1/    /v                    /X/V  /
Surveys for main canals, laterals & structures                                                              /fl///'/  X                /   /
Strip surveys for new extension area & main drain               ,       .         / , /                  .; 
Topographic survey & mapping for on-farm worksI
Design of existing main canals, laterals & service roads                            /                       A/A/                   /                        / /  I 
Design of new extension area works                                                  /,/              I i     Q4                 /     V/ I/
r/ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~    /
Design of major main drain d
,tA/Vtr /|   /f tfl/V t01   vtg  gyA  |   i    l 1/t4/ tX .|   i            t 1,,// ,/ /  A' / 
Design of on-farm facilities
Contract administration                                                                                     /
Existing main canals and roads, etc.
New extension area works
O&M buildings and other facilities                                             Y/ $/f                                                    I
Procurement of equipment 
2. Contract Work Construction                                                               { I             '    1/_
Existing main canals & service roads                    yIK                                                                                               ,
New extension area works                               i'A"" 
Pamplona pumping station                                                             Y////
Main drain of Abulog system                                                         //'4y/{i
O&M buildings                                            <'A                                            j~                                                 /   //
3. Force Account Works                                            ~.A,   /I                                                            '     /
Repairs & modification of structures                                                                      /f/       
All works of Banurbur system                                                    /,r/:./
Cleaning of laterals & minor drainage works       ~       "                          '''                                               //
On-farm facilities                                                             I     A/I
X/ I                                                                    II 
Note: Shading indicates wet season months.                                                                                                          World Bank- 1 6865






PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
Implementation Schedule - Leyte Subproject
1977                         1978                                   1979                                   1980                                    1981
WORK ITEM
J A S OND JF  M A M   J AIS 0 NOD J FMIAJM  JIAS 0IND JIFIM|A|M|J J A|S|O|N|D    FA MJ  A S    N D
IRRIGATION SYSTEMS - REHABILITATION & EXTENSION                              /                                                         X                                                                                                     /i;
1. Mapping, Surveys, Design & Contract Administration
Sconeys for main canas, laterals & Str-t-iet ---------------
Topographic sarveys & mapping for an-farm works -------/
Design of eoisting main canals, laterals & service roads /---------                                                                                         / /      /  /A
Design of ectension area works -----------------/-
Design of on-term facilities -------------------   -'i--
Contract administration
Eoxistingmeinca                                                       r               /  / /                 /   /          /  /                /  /    /    /m1 nl a   road- /  / / - -
New eatension area works-- ;;;                               |              - 0-         7 -                       7         7/ -   / 0t/ 7 -                                 / / /|/
0 & M buildings and other facilities- -                        =00             > 10                                                            0|
/ /Dlisern,/,,
S R U rks ~--------- ------------------
Procurement of eqauiment- - _                                                             I
2. Contract Wrk Costraction
Eoisting main canals & s-ic- roads-------------- ---   n'/
New extension area works ------------------ --                                               77
O & M buildings -------------------------------------- ----o--
3. Force Account Works                                                   /7         /           777 7                              7                   /            7     7
Repairs &moclificationtof structures-x---------------7-                                                                                                                                                                              7
All works of Cumonga-an. Do-say & Hindang Systems-------                   /J 777 /                                           7/,7/ 7                                7
Cleaning of laterals & minor draisage works ----------- --  ---
On-farm facilities -----------------------                                     _
SCHISTOSOMIASIS CONTROL PROGRAM
1.Strip Sarneys for Drainage Channels -------------
2. Design of Main & Secondary Drains                                                                                                                   77--------    7-----
3. Contract Work Constrotion
Contract adm/inistration-- -          -      -         -           ------                   --AA---77 7-/    7                                                                                        /                             /
Main &secondaryvdramnswith related sturtucres -A---------    AA.A/ A                              -           /     7 7          7"                        "    7Ez~                              /           4
Pot bridges ont lanteral s, canals & drains       -               ~        7            7~~"-                                                                                                                                             
-2  7-1                       777             /7                              777                                  ///                               77/
& M  bo ildii,gs and other f an dtieS ----------------  -/X
Servion toads along drain- ---------------   - -
4. Forc  Accoant Contracticon 
On-farm drains & minor drainage works ----------                                                             %                                                                          E
S. Health Comrponent
Diagnosis, treatmeen & educatio---------------
Eniciromesta1 sanitationi-.-------------   -----
Snail   conttol-- - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - -  - -  - -  - - -  -
/77/7/7/7                                                                                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~World Bank-17109
7/77/Wet Seaso






PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT:I
NIA ORGANIZATION FOR ENGINEERING & OPERATIONS
NIA BOARD
Xw                                         ADMINISTRATOR
U-
0
<                                      ASSISTANT ADMINISTRATOR
a:                          ~~~~~~~~ENGINEERING & OPERATIONS
-J
4
m~
|    PROJECT  |    |  CONSTRUCTION              EQUIPMENT                OPERATIONS
DEVELOPMENT              MANAGEMENT              MANAGEMENT                DEPARTMENT
DEPARTMENT              DEPARTMENT               DEPARTMENT
REGIONAL OFFICE 1       REGIONAL OFFICE 2        REGIONAL OFFICE 6        REGIONAL OFFICES
(Urdaneta)             (Cauayan)               (Tacloban City)           3-3a-4-5      l
PROVINCIAL              PROVINCIAL               PROVINCIAL
o     _   IRRIGATION               IRRIGATION               IRRIGATION
H           OFFICES                  OFFICES                 OFFICES
0
C
3-j        NATIONAL                 NATIONAL                 NATIONAL
i-        IRRIGATION               IRRIGATION               IRRIGATION
SYSTEMS*                SYSTEMS*                 SYSTEMS*
NATIONAL                NATIONAL                 NATIONAL
IRRIGATION              IRRIGATION               IRRIGATION
PROJECTS**              PROJECTS**               PROJECTS'
NISIP I                 NISIP I                  NiSIP I
*National Irrigation System not included in NISIP 1.
-National System under construction with local funding.
World Bank-i 6866






- PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT:I
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION FOR PROJECT CONSTRUCTION
NIA BOARD
ADMINISTRATOR
ASST ADMINISTRATOR
ENGINEERING-OPERATIONS
CONSTRUCTION             EQUIPMENT              NISIP I
MANAGEMENT             MANAGEMENT             PROJECT                              OPERATiONS
DEPARTMENT             DEPARTMENT            DIRECTOR                             DEPARTMENT
PLANNING            | PLANNING                                   PLANNING           SYSTEMS 
DIVISION                   DIVISiON'                            DIVISION^   |        D|VMNAGEMNT
DESIGN                  REPAIR                              ACCOUNTING           RESEARCH
DIVISION'              DIVISiON'                              DIVISION**           DIVISION
] CONSTRUCTION           UTILZATION                            MONITORING         REHABILITATION|
DIVISION*                I                                   DIVISION**           DIVISION*
PROCUREMENT                                               L  PROCUREMENT
DIVISION'                                                       DIVISION''-
|REGI(3NAL DIRECTOR  ||REGIONAL DIRECrOR  |                REGIONAL DIRECTOR
|  (REGION 1)         L       (REGION 2)                 (FREGION 3) 
DI     DIV     IV  |   DIV.      I                       1  11   I                        1   11   I 
SUB-REGIONAL OFFICE         AMBURAYAN                  MAYORGA          TANAUA             HINDANG
I   LA0AG'^    Z   i FIELD OFFICE               FIELD OFFICE     FIELD OFFICE      FIELD OFFICE
(2 Systems)*             (3 Systems)-      (4 Systems)-      (3 Systems)*
|BLAOAG                           N               LISANTA MARIAET
|FIELD OFFICE    FII   O                      FIELD OFFICE|
(6 Systems)*      (4 Systerns)*                 _
|FIELD OFFICE ||FIELD OFFICE|
(1 System)*     (2 Systems)'
*Existing units to be strengthened under the prolect.
**New units to be established unier the project.
The Tanauan Office would implement the civil works component of the Schistosomiasis control program.
World Bank- 16867






PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECr.I
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION FOR OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
NIA BOARD
ADMINISTRATOR
ASST. ADMINISTRATOR
ENGINEERING-OPERATIONS
REGIONAL DIRECTOR                     REGIONAL DIRECTOR                           REGIONAL DIRECTOR
(REGION 1)                     L     .RE.G DN 2)                                 (REGION 6)
| SUB-REGIONAL O)
|   LOAG           l
LAOAG         SANTA MARIA       AMBURAYAN         BANUR8UR          LIBERTAD         MAYORGA             PALO            HINDANG
DISTRICT         DISTRICT         DISTRICT         DISTRICT          DISTRICT         DISTR CT          DISTRICT         DISTRICT
(7,000 Ha)      (4,850 Ha)        (5,750 Ha)        (900 Ha)        (17800 Ha)        (3,500 Ha)        (8,300 Ha)       (1,300 Ha)
DIVISION**        DIVISION         DIVISION         DIVISION          DIVISION         DIVISION         DIVISION        SUPDIVISION
SUPERVISOR       SUPERVISOR       SUPERVISOR        SUPERVISOR       SUPERVISOR       SUPERVISOR       SUPERVISOR        SUPERVISOR
(3)              (2)              (2)              (1)               (7)              (2)               (3)              (1)
WATER***          WATER            WATER             WATER            WATER            WATER             WATER            WATER
MANAGEMENT       MANAGEMENT    MANAGEMENT           MANAGEMENT    MANAGEMENT    MANAGEMENT              MANAGEMENT       MANAGEMENT
TECHNICIAN       TECHNICIAN       TECHNICIAN       TECHNICIAN        TECHNICIAN       TECHNICIAN       TECHNICIAN        TECHNICIAN
(24)             (16)              (19)             (2)             (35)              (12)             (28)              (4)
D|TCHTENDER      DITCHTENDER      DITCHTENDER       DITCHTENDER      DITCHTENDER      DITCHTENDER       DITCHTENDER  DtTCHENDER
|    (70)  l l   (48)             (57)              (9)             (180)             (35)             (83)              (13)
'At each Distrct Office there would be support Sections for Engineering, Operations, Agricultural Development and Administration.
**One Supervisor tWater Management Technologist) to 2,500 ha.
***One Water Management Technician to 300 ha in Regions 1 and 6 and one to 500 ha in Region 2
****One Ditchtender to 100 ha.
World Bank - 1 6868






PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
PROPOSED CROPPING CALENDAR FOR ILOCOS SUBPROJECT
.1    I      Mi   A      iA      I     'I    A
OyzIrtiii in IO()fS                              I  I (N;iE lll1ll IEIIE,1I
i9biii)                                             I  IN hI0   I*** .
t)~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~Mlilo  lil.5()ll  III  ll T||  |
|ys1e_|i                          H *Wssi mim mmii
Maintenance                          H  m.  mmmi.
Sysltemws In liens                                   |   C  * _            _   s  I
Norte & Atbri                                                N *   _ i m  
1 7650 ha)                                        I                 T *            s
System           M
Maintenance                          H         1    I
Various Systeiris          WAF C                  IC
5015)11    (1,300 ha)                    ;                                                                 T _     '
I- t)s                                                           I  zw--_x-             
Systems in llocos Sut             C               H                                     C       _
& La Union Group                                                                           N
(4,550 ha)                        T                                                               T T
__~~~ _ MI                                                           M_
Dry                                                             H
Season    Systems in llocos             _*m*C                                                          C *-       
Riee      Norte & Abra                a N                                                                N * * *         I
Group                      *_ mm UT                                                                   Tm
(4,550 ha)                 *     mm            *      M
Ul -_  *HF
800
726
700-
NotAtion                    600 -
C  Cultivation                                                             532
N. Nursery               E  500
T  Transplanting         _
M  Management                                                       400
H  Harvest               U  400  -                                                      375
300                                                                                   15
200                                            9                    9                 lon-
121    6                    6            6
-             5 M- A  M  .1    .1 A S O 1  O
100                        3ank-18 56                                                    0
3                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
I         C     A      C      i             A     5      0      N      0
World Bank - 16862






, PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
PROPOSED CROPPING CALENDAR FOR CAGAYAN SUBPROJECT
I  I         M      A      M      .1     I      A      ',                   I 4 1
~ ~~lI   I A            J                   I A
C .
Wet Season
Rote                                                                                    T- 
(18J700 ha)
M                                                       M
_ _H                                o-4-'                               H_
System
Maintenance
Nm i 
Dry Season
Rice                                    Tm so    i
(13,750 ha)
M  _- *              _        -~  
500 _
416
450  -
355
400-
Notation30 -28
3 00                                                          288 8_  5t
C  Cultivat~on            E
N  Nursery                E24
T Transplanting i 250-
M. Management                                                                                                   20C
au)
H  Harvest                                                                                                                 D
200           F                                  1 184         S
166
1 53                                                                                  (
150
1 00          88                   88                                                     15
C5-
50                  43    35      4                                         4I 0
-3     -        --                                 -     2    5
J     F      M       A     M      J      .i     A      S      0      N      D
Werid Bank- 1 6863






PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: I
PROPOSED CROPPING CALENDAR FOR LEYTE SUBPROJECT
.1     I     M      A      M       I     .1     A
%,~~~~~~~~ ~  -,,l                                                           - -- 
N lm
i ust Cfolp 
Rice
/13 1 ()(9) ha)Systern
M                             Maintenance           M
Hm  H
N          mm m
Secoid Crop
Rice                                      Tm          
(111,800 ha)
M  *          mm  _ m     _
HE            U mmm  
Notation
C. Cultivation
N Nursery
T Transplanting
M Management
H Harvest
300-                                                                               27 9
25724
250  -1
200 0
E                1                                                                               -
~  150  12                 2                   153 = L                                  5 
J  F    M      A      M       I     .1     A      SIO N3
WorcIod Ban k  1 68 6 4
1rI00                                                                                      10o
6                                                        U
50                      2
J      F     M      A      C       I      i     A      5             N      ID
Would Bank--i 16864






IBRD 12507
n20~                                                 1240                                              JANUARY 1977
CLASSIFICATION OF PROVINCES                                                                                 PHILIPPINES
iBY GEOGRAPHICAL REGlONS                                              ,National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project I
[LOCOS                   WESTERN  VISAYAS
1 Ho= Norte            37 A 1In
2 AbI                  38 Capiz                                             I            S                      LOCATIONS
3 Rom Sur               39 At1ktue                                                                                                                               200
3        4M OwSil                40 lWo                                           80
CENTRAL VISAYAS
6 A         LEYVa      42   e9o  i                                                                      A      Proevious iRE  project areas
7                                                                                                                               prnojecta
CAGAYAN VALLEY    44 Bohol                                                                        _____Roads
8 4at1nes              45 Siqu6or
90 K        aoa           EANSaTERN V1SAYAS                         _    p P                                    Railways
10  aI~  Aos            46 Nvrthem1 Sane4r
11 asab6I         ~     47 Sa-na                                                                                Rivers
12 1Tugae                48 Eas6tmS ar                                                                                         b     dri   and  n bEr
-13 NvwalVi=o,           49 Leyte                         N£         A      ~                       ---- - --    NIA  regional boundaries and  nurnbers
14 OWM           ~~~50 Sou9loer LOSOOe          L
-CENTRAL LUZON           WESTEvf MINOANAO                                                           Coguoan  NIA regional offices
15   aEdo                51 Zrboanga drt I6orow                          ,
16                       52                                        1 4     T.g.  -4
1Ie                52 ZtSmb5amboan at  , Sur                                                  --- ---Provincial boundaries
7 P5nmpon               544Ii                                                       011 P1OAO
17 Za1oob~~~le0   53 548640
Zaeb         ~        54 Sa0uf                               ) u                 œlPolc
19 5Wa1n5       -        55 Taviw                                       (         sa
20 0a5                     IRTHMER4 MrNWANAO N                                 a n o
SOUTHERN TAGALOG 56 54t5194 del No0na                     F    12&        awn
21 Ouozo0                57 Cir96n5                5a    5 5 5' 6           MAAC T
22 RI2aI                                                                          I PWC
223 rlavti           . 8 - 56    del Nor1,    Fs!LI /f Z UIP$t1
23   .na 58 Asu~oodoi Hoots,'6uJ2                                       \ liPMUaCisPOt                      0           100   150   200   250  3e0
24                       59iiII1n4                                    I
20 54160990    -<60 Miants ooidertq  KILOMETERS                                                                                                                    1
26  Aa0Tnduq0e           61 LadtI Norte                       0                                                       50        100       150       200
27 W lort 0r3r41         62 L4aro dI Sw                                P       911 1   FR( VACT      I          ,              1         1         266
28 MiraT,odoo   deMab    63 &okidnor   '                              Po-PEAfRArno4 :#o010401011P90Jrr                       MILES
29 Rormhton.-            64 Agwaer det S5f                         b r a
11011110000 SYOTEHI$        The booo,doflo Awnoo  -0 Ohlo Mo  do 00t
30  po,5 SiirWs del 5ut  \7(Qr  f  ><;CAto Strf /ff4TiOh SYSrEhtS              frtply eudo,o=t A, 0ept140  by the
3t CanOrrrtrL fibitst          6           i        .      t   f/SOVI`MERN MINQANAO  A                         W-ldBgakooditsaffitfiaft
31 060840166                                                           ' 6Mgu6sso72
32 catr, Sur             67 Nw'th  tab>a                           2 21
33 cata*14doabes         68 Oacao
34 A"oE       .          69 0DavaoO4ie0ma40     .
35 Sorse                 70 Oeoa ue Sur              '16 6 3
36 Mqbarte    .          71 Sutton Ksitar           - 
72 Southcotabato              N     5
S-GU'THf  CH*tIN A                                            ItNO2Ri \ /hiA-lCa<4 
sEA                                                   '4R                                                                                               1°
030 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~3
PA AA
< s g/ tts_s~~~~~                                   6,,- 'A4          63        8    -55/
ii 04 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
y    g                         ~~~~~~~~~P*naytuftEGjS  /K     Wt  .
..,V41   900,' 1                                                                            8  A        72 ISU    SEA     65p 10,
L A/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
so~~~~~~~                                                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _51  -t_ r, 61 )__.Jv)V;  8().
N 2(7ru   1t  0                                9            t            iTS<0   jL               4'1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~69i 
*  I        08CA                                                                                                        7
03200                                                    1240






IBR 12508
120'10'                         :   520.451  j:;: :\; f:   t: :E F:g  ::ii, 5212|'0lil0                       isfv:9;   iRii'                       ZP 30' ;1 .  i2V15'  121'SG  j  (   ::  \:  ):  121 us            JANUARY 107
P;IL[PPINES
4                ~~~~Notional Irrigation Systems Improvement Project T
Qiabuyn                  Channel                                                               REGIONS 1 AN? iRRIGATION SYSTEMS
.7                                                                              a 0 ; ;  X:; ; E  0  :  p X   =:: = ;  f   Q  ::   locoss and Cogoyain Sub-projects
0      9      10    ii      2                             0    Existiing diversion darn
K a : X 1LO 0 ; >  M; i                             .  2 E o ? o ls = 20 2o ffi Prposed diversion daor
_______________:____________: _:5_____ j__ _Is           *    EKisiorg  pumpino stotion
05 P\pPospd pumping station
i          ML Rl}                                                                                                                         Ex>Aisting conattistin s
Proposed canals
dduv                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rivers
-0r.30                [t                    5                 %'               i        ~ '       i                  F mkLosa PJM2>-->                                    5vRoads P                   :                   :
r ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--.1Proelopiel boundaries
*__ ,/  ./                   ;ARubalou   |    f |  |     LuS iNIA suiregioal offlice
-Ra-habuititaio area
iri    N                                             Ii  .L 0  Ca ,a                                                                                                                      CN     R TE
'5             ,         C FMRT                                            K A L IN G A  AP AYAO'
n r~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
:~~~ ~~~                                 11.R ,..9RG ..\- R   ITO -fE  /0~i                                                                                              C A  G  A  Y A  N
-  Pddia                                                                                     7/fr'            ,                                                                              i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J  22-OO'l
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~                                                                                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Amru Ma;p-        4X  
"I 2              I/ ng /r. ,°D                                                                                                                                                     M  S       l UE    u'Lr
,Y I F VI ~ ~     ~       ~                                                                .A~                                                                             oii - COAA
C',                                                     l                                                          Z 9 / A B R A 1 j +-   ;¢J   0\\   9;, b
l _   2   12 0¢30'   '               120'45'                              121-.01'        \                     21115-                               . /12/ i30'                           245 on'            MINDORN,






j ,5500  ;= 0  = 0 =' t 12ffT5'  =      120'30'                IS        v      120-45' 1                                IZI-00'
IRRIGATION SYSTEM
Nahonal0 Irn;otro Systems -                         g:   .-N/  t                     A  B  R  A
Improvement Proiect I
=*    E xfin{ar pump!q AQs Pon                           SANTA MAR A-                   )
=,=RT9 ;  -EExistmgc>E  .   .    jf   <   <           ATION S'STEMIQ
-  -- - - PrDpAaMd C-ouna5R  t - "sA5O
'R; ;h ~ t0-  R'"7eTATS ==  ==   0,AT CN                                                                               /
'7' 0= ==                    I?!<7 r;  2'     - "00>                                                                                                 >w
.   ,  =,   ;            _       , f = f            0 KnUM TANTA LUDIN   -ADS                       \      y-
]755   -.-----Ao ;                                                                                                                   /0  -           70i  5'ILx C S SU   
V' I7RRIG0 =.            oTI  . =C=rIG0  1    ERdnTIC   SYSTEM                                                        /                                 '7-00
|a a 're. 9- .' .TO                             , T 450h<                                     /
AMBURAYAAl.,~PAYA
RILOORLTERS ,EE   -  ,     /      iIRRIGATION  SYSTEM                                                    So/o\ on
3 : 0 @f 3ric j t ~~~~~~(3,850 r  ~/(
- AMRURAYATAIVER   -'                                              "  on des;g      M OUNTAIN
j~~~~~~                       Ec'0eiy0p; |Dlolog  ' -N< b                  I}                       ,             I
I                    1m's-S a I?fl @ x,  , cJ s 1 45''
J-;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iI
= = =-= LA    U NION            /BE N GUET
_ '_ == fi =; .  _tSon Pernondo  X                                   / >~y ._  
Jll       gIN-go,Ion         /           ~             I        P         )<  /             }~ ~ ~           121'00
1ST30'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1-0
14~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~55
8                                                                      LA-  Moe A   -    ON
SALIP ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ AOGE                     OO 
.eJo0,,    =   ,=    t-00= t7"                      (190     .)     )<3 |    :                                              0     '     0 /          :0
i,,,,,, 5:.>Ts1S2/::,, ,, " 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6-15' W
C
T20-15'                                                  120-45'~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~  000        5






Baf,9=4>r?  <   A                     t ,t  W E STERN
_               ~w   tz ,._\ Dagup t¢/ipa /SAMAR
.- ~ ~    ~    , SaeMg_e   -un                         y. 2, ;                                     Sarty .    r .noen do
w . lan  annWJ                                                                                                  ;0;    ig  - 0
' gReV                                                       Rjg0X;, '  . > 
X--2r00a                                                                            <     f; '0~;:7gi =  I\  -  If ' Nti 
~~ESTEM  ~       g. ->Aeo    p-
N1'15'                                                     4ACLOsA~ iT O  R THERNZ1i i                 'A
LEE Y TA GIARN A t14E         R   ,      <          jf)~ooId 0            aioc   irgairi§evs;
]loOol  ~  ~    ~~ ,RVEIRRIGATION   YSE                                  :-jtLEiilpoiien   =o$c    3 ;    5l0
0>\> ~   ~       ~     ~      YSE                                                                 _______________anJoe__REGIN_6___________Ei7;
0 ; ';\>AlbuerEIOOo~  ag,r:,                  d     BG I1- /f. 0               0        E                52* 15sl>dvrso e  
N0  P T H  F R  N                                'J_-onANoI RH Li PI 
Ncitional Irrigation Systems~~~N, 
GUS  =  )s    INAR ONA  RIVER                           ImprovemeneA iR I  LAKE
IPSO'                          IRRI~~~~~2    GATO   RSY5TTNSYTE
(8OOho~~~~~~~~  SaX Josa ~       ~       ~      s'0S'
,=aorIi ar. Existing ijversjoR  da
N                   IRIGAIONSYSTMSTEeM
N j  ' S  ;; 4 0 R :\ TALjRERiV<g H E; R N                                      0PH-PProvinciEl bouridaries             t
10-45'                                                                                            <f :"' 2 x i t . 04 5 \ ,[ auyog; f ; ; m XFNsionnar ea io   ==ste ns
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 'C                                                                       ScNtf i s o- r n  si a ~/-.f fe5hSOOm4X3cted airea   
t;; ; ; - i; ~0                                                                 ii0                 >,aby\.iij0 ILME5  1 0  13  20 j
iG~.mof.ts :ge    ;  ;:Di~   -f                                          '.'                    0:    :--St2 .5            tO$'         1 5 f 
'T  /                       tE5     :=   
;2  ;=-g ;0 ;- --2 _5.2                                                                                                   ta=S =;
0  ;  i  *i;  i;     N \OHINDANG-HILOPli       /     ,      X0\5;(                                        ~' 1iS)   
K -L.                                       SogIG                         IRRIRTT ISN I              e       I
Buruen                                   REGION    6 t rRRIB  \   |   i  }\CAMUNGA iAN  RIVER: .s
IRRIGATION ;f   =  ; t  ,      0;                    P f ;|   ,   IRRIGATION  SYSTEM  M
ow
IRRIGAT!ON5~E0 SYS4



