CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1414 PH
Loan Agreement
(National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 13, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 13, 1977, between the Republic of the
Philippines (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "NIA" means the National Irrigation Administration, an
agency established by the Republic Act No. 3601 of the Borrower,
as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(b) "DOH" means the Borrower's Department of Health;
(c) "SCC" means the Schistosomiasis Control Council of DOH
established by Presidential Decree No. 893;
(d) "DAR" means the Borrower's Department of Agrarian
Ref or, ,
(e) "ha" means hectares of land;


﻿- 3 -
(f) "NIA Region 1" means the provinces of Ilocos Norte,
Abra, Ilocos Sur, Mountain Province, La Union, Benguet and
Pangasinan in Northwestern Luzon.
(g) "NIA Region 2" means the provinces of Kalinga-Apayao,
Cagayan, Isabela, Ifugao, Nueva Viscaya and Quirino in Northern
Luzon.
(h) "NIA Region 6" means the provinces of Samar, Northern
Samar, Eastern Samar, Leyte, Southern Leyte, Bohal and Cebu on the
islands of Samar, Leyte, Bohal and Cebu respectively in the
Eastern Visayas.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
fifty million dollars ($50,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1982
or such later date as the Bank shall otherwise establish. The
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.


﻿- 5 -
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and two-tenths per cent (8.20%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts A, B
(a), (b), (f) and (h), C, D and E of the Project through NIA and
Parts B (c), (d), (e) and (g) of the Project through the SCC of
DOH, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate financial, administrative, engineering and
agricultural practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
(b) Without limitation to its obligations under subparagraph
(a) of this Section, the Borrower shall by December 31, 1977, (i)
cause NIA and DOH, to enter into an agreement acceptable to the
Bank for the carrying out of Part B of the Project; and (ii) cause
NIA and DAR to enter into an agreement acceptable to the Bank,
for the carrying out of Part C of the Project.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall cause NIA to prepare, by
December 31, 1977, a plan of action to strengthen its agricultural
capabilities in NIA Regions 1, 2 and 6 and, after reviewing such
plan of action with the Bank, promptly to proceed with its
implementation.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident


﻿- 7 -
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, all goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause NIA and SCC to
furnish to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, reports, contract documents and work and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall cause NIA and SCC to maintain
records adequate to record the progress of the Project (including
the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the
Bank shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.


﻿- 8 -
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall grant or cause to be
granted all water rights required for existing, expanded or new
irrigation systems to enable NIA to carry out and operate Part A
of the Project and, except as the Bank may otherwise agree, shall
take such action as is required to ensure that no other water
rights except for domestic use are granted which could adversely
affect the water supply required for Part A of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all auch
action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all
such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required for
carrying out Part A of the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause to be prepared,
by June 30, 1979, a study evaluating the effectiveness of the two
dams constructed to deal with the problem of mine tailings in the
valleys upstream of the Amburayan irrigation system in NIA Region
1 and review su,h study with the Bank.


﻿- 9 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the mutual intention of the Borrower
and the Bank that no other external debt shall enjoy any priority
over the Loan by way of a lien on governmental assets.
(b) To that end the Borrower: (i) represents that at the
date of this Agreement no lien exists on any goverrnental assets
as security for any external debt except as otherwise disclosed in
writing by the Borrower to the Bank; and (ii) undertakes that,
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any such lien shall
be created, it will ipso facto equally and ratably, and at no cost
to the Bank, secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan and in the creation of any such
lien express provision will be made to that effect. The Borrower
shall promptly inform the Bank of the creation of any such lien.
(c) The foregoing representation and undertaking shall not
apply to: (i) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase
thereof, solely as security for payment of the purchase price of
such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(d) As used in this Section, the term "governmental assets"
means assets of the Borrower or of any agency of the Borrower


﻿- 10 -
including the Central Bank of the Philippines or any institution
performing the functions of a central bank for the Borrower.
(e) The Borrower further undertakes that, within the limits
of the laws in force in its territories, it will make the foregoing
undertaking effective with respect to liens on the assets of its
political subdivisions and their agencies, and to the extent that
the Borrower is unable within the limits of the laws in force in
its territories to make this undertaking effective, the Borrower
will give to the Bank an equivalent lien satisfactory to the
Bank.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause NIA and SCC to
maintain separate records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices their operations
in respect of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall cause NIA and SCC to: (i) have
such accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements
of income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acc-ptable to the
Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of their financial statements for such year
as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,


﻿- 11 -
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning such accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause the works and
facilities included in Parts A and B of the Project to be operated
and maintained in accordance with sound agricultural, engineering
and financial policies and practices, and shall make available
sufficient funds to NIA for such purposes, including the provision
to NIA of sufficient funds, on an annual basis, to maintain in
good order the anti-schistosomiasis drainage network specified in
Part B of the Project.
(b) Without limitation on its obligations under paragraph
(a) of this Section, the Borrower undertakes to do, or, to the
extent required, to cause NIA to do, the following:
(i) make adequate budgetary provision to operate
and maintain Parts A and B of the Project;
(ii) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, take
all necessary action to ensure that charges
for the use of irrigation water are levied and
collected from the users of the irrigation systems
included in Part A of the Project and that such
charges will provide NIA with revenues sufficient
to cover all operating and maintenance costs of


﻿- 12 -
such irrigation systems, and, in addition, to
provide for the recovery, within a reasonable
period, on reasonable terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, of a portion of the
monies invested in such irrigation systems
without impairing the users' incentives and
capacity to pay. The Borrower shall consult
with the Bank, annually, on the adequacy of
water charges and collection thereof; and
(iii) use its best efforts to ensure that adequate
short-term production credit facilities are made
available to users of the irrigation systems
included in Part A of the Project.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The date August 12, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 14 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary of Finance
Department of Finance
Manila, Philippines
Cable address:                      Telex:
SECFINANCE                           7550 CBP-PH
Manila                               0268 CB-CONF
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       [Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                     248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)]


﻿- 15 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By /s/ Eduardo Z. Romualdez
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By 1sf S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrrwal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works
(a) mobilization            4,000,000          100% of foreign
and construc-                              expenditures
tion equipment
for civil works
contractors
(b) other civil            24,500,000          35%
works
(2) Equipment                   16,000,000
(a) directly                                   100% of foreign
imported                                   expenditures
equipment
(b) locally                                    100% of ex-
manufactured                               factory cost
equipment


﻿- 17 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(c) imported                                    65%
equipment                                 d
procured
locally
(3) Technical                      300,000           100%
assistance
(4) Unallocated                  5,200,000
TOTAL       50,000,000


﻿- 18 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance
with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall be
disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
I above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient


﻿- 19 -
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Irrigation Development in NIA Regions 1, 2 and 6
(a) (i) rehabilitation of 22 existing NIA irrigation systems
serving a total area of about 27,600 ha; (ii) construction of new
irrigation, drainage and road facilities on about 18,300 ha of
currently rainfed land adjoining 18 existing NIA irrigation
systems; and (iii) construction of new irrigation, drainage and
access facilities, including diversion and conveyance works,
for three new national irrigation systems to serve about
3,500 ha of currently rainfed areas; all as set forth in the
annex to this Schedule.
(b) construction of a subregional headquarters building,
two new field offices and extension of office, storage and staff
quarters facilities for eight existing field offices; and
(c) procurement of vehicles and equipment.
Part B:   Schistosomiasis Control Program in NIA Region 6
(a) improvement of existing drains, natural creeks and
new secondary and farm drains covering a total area of about
20,000 ha;
(b) construction of footbridges on irrigation and drainage
channels at intervals of 250 m to 1,500 m;


﻿- 21 -
(c) provision of a health education program based on all
schools and health centers in 21 disease-affected municipalities;
(d) establishment of a diagnostic screening campaign in
all elementary schools to establish levels of incidence and
monitor progress of the control program, and provision of
chemotherapy for treatment of 45,000 cases;
(e) provision of about 20,000 water-seal toilets;
(f) improvement of about 5,000 domestic wells;
(g) provision of molluscicides to assist in snail control;
and
(h) provision of vehicles and equipment.
Part C:   Land Consolidation Pilot Project
Land consolidation on up to about 500 ha in selected areas
of the irrigation systems in NIA Region 1 to determine its
acceptability to farmers and landowners.
Part D:   On-farm Facilities Study
A study to determine the most suitable level of on-farm
facilities in terms of the requirements of farmers and of NIA, in
irrigation areas characterized by holding sizes of less than 2.0
ha and with different cropping intensities.


﻿- 22 -
Part E:   Strengthening of Regional Operation and Maintenance
Capability of NIA
The provision of equipment to NIA to assist it co operate
and maintain the irrigation .,vstems in NIA Regions 1, 2 and 6
which are not included in the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1981.


﻿- 23 -
Annex to Schedule 2
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
IRRIGATION SYSTEMS BY REGION AND PROVINCE
Irrigable Area (ha)
Irrigation      Rehabil- Exten-
Region       Province         System        itation   sion   New    Total
NIA Region 1 Ilocos Norte    Bolo River            400     400    -      800
Pasuquin             600     100    -       700
Laoag-Vintar        2,300    100    -     2,400
Dingras            1,100      -     -     1,100
Cura River           500     300    -       800
Bonga Pump         1,200      -     -     1,200
Abra            Abra Pump            650      -     -       650
Ilocos Sur      Santa Maria-
Burgos              850     100            950
Santa Lucia-
Candon            1,600     200    -     1,800
Tagudin            1,350     100    -     1,450
La Union        Amburayan River    3,050     800    -     3,850
Masalip River       1,300    600    -     1,900
Sub-total       14,900  2,700    -    17,600
NIA Region 2 Kalinga-Apayao)
Cagayan      ) Abulog River       8,000   9,000    -    17,000
Cagayan         Banurbur River       700     200    -       900
Pamplona Pump        200     600    -       800
Sub-total        8,900  9,800    -    18,700
NIA Region 6 Leyte           Binaha-an (Norte)
River             1,000   1,500    -     2,500
Binaha-an (Sur)
River               600   2,400    -     3,000
Guinarona River      450     350    -       800
Tibak River-Soong
Lake                750   1,250    -     2,000
Hindang-Hilongos     600      50    -       650


﻿- 24 -
Irrigable Area (ha)
Irrigation      Rehabil- Exten-
Region       Province          System         itation   sion    New    Total
Balire River (new)     -       -   1,500   1,500
Gibuga River (new)     -       -   1,300   1,300
Ibawon River (new)     -       -     700     700
Southern Leyte  Das-ay River          250      250    -       500
Cumunga-an River      150      -     -       150
Sub-total        3,800   5,800  3,500  13,100
TOTAL       27,600 18,300   3,500  49,400


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
beginning May 1, 1982
through   November 1, 1996                   1,615,000
On May 1, 1997                                    1,550,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,.Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 26 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                               1.25%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                               2.45%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                               4.50%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                         6.55%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen
years before maturity                         7.40%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                               8.20%


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the
Guidelines) on the basis of international competitive bidding as
described in Part A of the Guidelines.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Notwithstanding the provisions set forth or referred to
in Part A.1 of this Schedule:
(a) civil works other than the diversion weir and main canal
of the Abulog right bank extension in NIA Region 2 and the main
drains and operation roads for Part B of the Project in NIA Region
6 may be carried out either (A) by NIA under force account, or (B)
by contracts awarded under the Borrower's normal procedures,
provided that the aggregate cost of civil works carried out by
force account shall not, without the prior consent of the Bank,
exceed 40% of the total cost of all civil works in the Project;
and


﻿- 28 -
(b) any item of equipment, materials, supplies and vehicles
not exceeding the equivalent of $10,000 may be awarded on a
competitive basis consistent with the Borrower's normal procurement
practices without international competitive bidding, provided that
the aggregate expenditure for such items shall not exceed the
equivalent of $300,000.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in the Republic of the Philippines may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the following provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.


﻿- 29 -
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
the Republic of the Philippines if the bidder shall
have established to the satisfaction of the
Borrower and the Bank that the manufacturing
cost of such goods includes a value added in
the Republic of the Philippines equal to at least
20% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in the Republic of the Philippines.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or simt.-r taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from


﻿- 30 -
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is
the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more and all contracts for
equipment and vehicles estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more:
(a) Review of prequalification. If bidders are required to
prequalify, the Borrower shall, before qualification is invited,
inform the Bank in detail of the procedure to be followed, and
shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders,
together with a statement of their qualifications and of the
reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification


﻿- 31 -
shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank for its comments
before the applicants are notified of the Borrower's decision,
and the Borrower shall make such additions to, deletions from, or
modifications in, the said list as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) Review of invitations to bid and of proposed Pwards
and final contracts:
(1) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(2) After bids have been received and eval.iated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines


﻿- 32 -
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(3) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(4) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submission
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of
the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.


