FILE COPY
Report No. 1311a-PH
Philippines
Appraisal of the
Jalaur Irrigation Project
January 5, 1977
East Asia and Pacific
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00            =  Pesos (P) 7.50
P 1.00             =  US$0.133
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES - METRIC SYSTEM
1 hectare (ha)                 3     2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)      2              0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km )             0.3866 square miles
1 meter (m)      2                  39.37 inches
I square meter (I2)            -    10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter (m )                  35.31 cubic feet
1 million cubic meters (Mm )       810.7 acre feet
1 millimeter (mm)                    0.039 inches
1 kilogram (kg)                -     2.2 pounds
1 cavan (paddy)                     50 kg
20 cavans                             1 metric ton
ABBREVIATIONS
ACA      -    Agricultural Credit Admnistration
ADB      -    Asian Development Bank
ADCC     -    Agricultural Development Coordinating Council
AMIADP   -    Angat-Magat Integrated Agricultural Development Project
ARIS     -    Aganan River Irrigation System
BAE      -    Bureau of Agricultural Extension
BPI      -    Bureau of Plant Industry
DAR      -    Department of Agrarian Reform
DLGCD    -    Department of Local Government and Co=uaity Development
ECI      -    Engineering Consultants, Inc.
JRIS     -    Jalaur River Irrigation System
NGA      -    National Grains Authority
NIA      -    National Irrigation Administration
NISIS    -    National Irrigation Systems Improvement Study
RB       -    Rural Banks
SBIS     -    Santa Barbara Irrigation System
SRIS     -    Suague River Irrigation System
UPRP     -    Upper Pampanga River Project
WMT      -    Water Management Technologist



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF THE
JALAUR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION  ..........................................    i                   i
I.   INTRODUCTION  ........         ..................... ..................
II. BACKGROUND
General        ...............................................1
The Agricultural Sector . ......................                           2
The Critical Role of Water Development ............                         2
Project Formulation . .....................                .............    3
III.   THE PROJECT AREA
General .............................................. .............        4
Climate  ...............................................                    5
Topography, Drainage and Soils ....             ...................         5
Land Tenure and Farm Size .....             ................... .           5
Existing Irrigation Facilities ....             ...................         7
Agricultural Production .....             .....................             7
Transportation              ........................................        7
IV.   THE PROJECT
Project Works  .........................................                    8
Water Supply, Demand and Quality  ..................          ....          9
Status of Engineering  ......            ...........................      10
Water Management Training  .....            ........................       11
Cost Estimates ........................................                   11
Financing            .............................................        12
Procurement            ...........................................         12
Disbursements  .......           ..................................        13
Accounts and Audit ......             ..............................       13
Environmental Effects .....             ............................      13
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Management ....................................                    14
Supporting Agricultural Services ......................                   15
Cost and Rent Recovery  ................................                  16
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission
composed of Messrs. K. E. Ireland, A. N. Khan, J. van Holst Pellekaan,
R. S. Baskett and M. Goldman. Mr. E. G. Giglioli also assisted in pre-
paration of the report.
This document hs  restricted distribution and may be ud  by recipients only in the perfomfance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclseed without World Bank authorIution.



-2-
Page No.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES AND FARM INCOMES
Production  ........ ..   .................................  17
Market  Prospects   .....................................  18
Prices         .............................................  18
Farm  Incomes   ........................... * ...... . ......  19
VII.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ............ ............   20
VIII.  AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ..............   21
ANNEXES
1.  Climatological Data
2.  Land Tenure and Reform
3. Project Works
4.  Water Supply, Demand and Quality
5.  Cost Estimates
6.  Equipment List
7.  Estimated Schedule of Expenditures and Disbursements
8.  Organization and Management
9.  Supporting Agricultural Services
10.  Present and Projected Cropping Patterns and Production
11.  Market Prospects and Prices
12.  Crop and Farm Budgets
13.  Farm Labor Analysis
14.  Cost and Rent Recovery
15.  Economic Analysis
16.  Schedule of Early Events
CHARTS
Implementation Schedule No. 16409
NIA Organization for Special Projects No. 9533 (3R)
Proposed Organization for Project Construction No. 16392
Proposed Organization for Operation and Maintenance No. 16391(R)
Proposed Cropping Calendar No. 16408
Marginal Economic Cost of Farm Labor No. 16428
MAP
Jalaur Irrigation Project No. 12414



PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF THE JALAUR IRRIGATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Government of the Philippines has requested Bank assistance
to carry out the Jalaur Irrigation Project located on Panay island in the
Western Visayas. The project consists of the rehabilitation of four
existing irrigation systems now serving a total area of 22,000 ha and
the construction of new facilities on some 2,700 ha. The project also
provides for a training program for water management staff and for technical
assistance.
ii.       Major Government objectives in the agricultural sector are to
achieve self-sufficiency in basic foods and to correct regional economic
and social imbalances. The project would help to meet both objectives by
improving and expanding irrigation facilities for the rice crop in one of
the poorer regions in the nation.
iii.      The deficit in rice, the main staple crop, has been a persistent
problem for the Philippines, and annual rice imports have averaged about
300,000 tons in recent years. With improved water control being a prere-
quisite to obtaining optimum results from the new high-yielding rice varie-
ties, an annual total of about 50,000 ha of rice lands would have to be
rehabilitated or provided with new irrigation facilities for the next decade
to allow the country to achieve rice self-sufficiency. The proposed project
would be the seventh Bank-assisted project aimed at helping the Government to
achieve this goal. The Upper Pampanga (Loan 637-PH), Aurora-Penaranda
(Loan/Credit 984/472-PH) and Tarlac projects are in Central Luzon; the Magat
(Loan 1154-PH) and Chico (Loan 1227-PH) projects are in the Cagayan Valley of
Northern Luzon; and the Rural Development Project (Loan 1102-PH) is on the
island of Mindoro. The proposed project would be the first Bank-assisted
irrigation project in the Visayas.
iv.       Total cost of the project is estimated at P 255.0 million
(US$34.0 million), of which US$15.0 million, or approximately 44%, would
be in foreign exchange. The Bank would finance the foreign exchange
component. Equipment costing about US$4.5 million would be procured
after international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group
Guidelines. Civil works would not be suitable for international competi-
tive bidding because of their nature and would be carried out by locally
advertised contract (US$8.2 million) or by force account (US$5.5 million).
v.        The National Irrigation Administration (NIA) would be the
executing agency for the project. NIA's responsibilities would be
carried out by the Special Projects Organization, which is in charge of
all Bank-assisted irrigation projects. This body is well staffed with
competent personnel and would be able to implement the project successfully.



- ii -
vi.       At full development of the project, nine years after commence-
ment of work, annual paddy production from the project area is expected
to reach 147,000 tons compared with a current level of production of
80,000 tons. The increased production would make a contribution to the
national campaign for self-sufficiency by providing enough rice to feed
nearly 425,000 persons per year.
vii.      Under the Government's program of agrarian reform, share-
cropping has been abolished and title to land in holdings over 7 ha is
now being transferred to the cultivators. When the transfer is completed,
tentatively by the end of 1977, about 54% of the land in the project area
will be farmed by owner operators and the rest by leasehold tenants of
small landlords. Some 12,000 farm families cultivate the project area,
working an average unit of 2.1 ha. The project would increase the annual
per capita income on a 1.5 ha farm from a current range of between US$45
and US$80 to between US$110 and US$220 at full agricultural development
in 1985, depending on cropping intensity. For a 3 ha farm the per capita
income at full development would range between US$200 and US$390. By
comparison about 75% of the project's farm families are presently at or
below the Bank's estimated absolute per capita poverty level of US$155.
These comparisons indicate that the project would narrow the income gap
between the project area and other parts of the country.
viii.     The project would result in about a 19% increase in cropping
intensity, which in turn would create an increase in farm labor employment
opportunities equivalent to about 3,500 full time jobs. The economic
rate of return of the project is expected to be about 20%. The rate of
return is only moderately sensitive to a delay or a reduction in benefits.
However, even under extremely adverse conditions, the rate of return would
not fall below 15%.
ix.       The proposed project is suitable for a Bank Loan of US$15.0 mil-
lion for a period of 20 years, including a 4.5-year grace period. The
borrower would be the Republic of the Philippines.



PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF THE JALAUR IRRIGATION PROJECT
I.   INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Philippines has requested Bank assistance
in financing the Jalaur Irrigation Project in Iloilo province of Panay
island. The project would provide a dependable water supply to irrigate
about 24,700 ha of rice in the wet season and 12,000 ha in the dry season.
1.02      The National Irrigation Administration (NIA) prepared the feasi-
bility report for the project with the assistance of Engineering Consultants,
Inc. of Denver, Colorado (ECI). This report is based on the findings of a
Bank appraisal mission, which visited the Philippines in June-July 1976,
composed of Messrs. K.E. Ireland, A.N. Khan, J. van Holst Pellekaan, R.S.
Baskett and M. Goldman. Mr. E.G. Giglioli also assisted in the preparation
of the report.
II.   BACKGROUND
General
2.01      The Philippines covers some 297,000 km  scattered over more than
7,000 islands between the Pacific Ocean and the China Sea. The 45 largest
islands account for 98% of the area. The population is around 43 million
(1975), growing at a rate of about 2.8% annually. Real GNP, which had a
trend growth rate of 5 to 6% in the 1960s, grew by 10% in 1973 due to high
prices for export commodities, but has grown at only about 6% in 1974-75
as some industries have been adversely affected by the recession in the
economies of the Philippines' trading partners. Inflation related to high
export prices and increased oil and food prices was a major problem in 1974,
but abated markedly in 1975 and 1976. Unequal income distribution and
underemployment remain major economic problems.
2.02      Out of a total land area of some 30 million ha, more than half
is forest and about one-third under cultivation or in plantations. About
2.0 to 2.5 million ha of fairly level land is still available for grow-
ing crops, although some 1.0 million ha of this is cogon grassland which
would be difficult to reclaim. Bringing this additional land under culti-
vation would be insufficient to meet increasing food needs or to improve
rural income significantly. These goals also call for increasing produc-
tion from currently cultivated areas through yield improvements and
increased cropping intensity where water is available.



-2-
The Agricultural Sector
2.03      Agriculture accounts for about one-third of net domestic
product, about 55% of total employment and 70% of export earnings.
During the 1960s the rate of growth of agricultural output accelerated
gradually and averaged 4.7% per year for the 1965-70 period, stimulated
by the spread of improved rice varieties. During the next five years,
the spread of new varieties decreased; typhoons in 1972 and high ferti-
lizer prices in 1974 further affected agricultural output, which grew by
only 3.2% a year on the average from 1970-75. The growth rate of rice
production from 1970 to 1975 was only 1.4% a year. Although the early
typhoon of 1976 had the heaviest rainfall in modern history, it occurred
between rice growing seasons. The resulting damage to total production
was estimated at less than 3%. The failure of food supply to keep pace
with demand has caused the ratio of food prices to prices in general to
increase over the 1970-75 period. This, combined with a short period of
high world prices for sugar and coconut products, led to a substantial
shift in the internal terms of trade in favor of agriculture, which has
prevented a widening of the disparity between rural and urban incomes.
In the face of sluggish growth of manufacturing employment, much of the
growth of the labor force in recent years has therefore taken place in
agriculture. Although value added per worker in agriculture has increased
in current prices, it has declined in real terms, implying growing rural
underemployment.
2.94      In the Philippines the population density is 131 people per
km , compared with the Asian2average of 86.  The density in Iloilo
province is about 250 per km . Migration is heavy from this overcrowded
region (the Visayas) and Central Luzon to the Cagayan Valley in Northern
Luzon and Mindanao in the south.
2.05      Agricultural sector performance will be crucial in determining
whether the drive towards a rapid but more equitable income expansion
succeeds. The major goals for the sector are self-sufficiency in cereals,
particularly rice and corn; development of the livestock and fisheries
sector; expansion of agricultural exports; intensification of agrarian
reform; better conservation of natural resources; and strengthening of
institutional support. Self-sufficiency in cereals is important not only
to strengthen the balance of payments, but also to raise incomes for much
of the rural population.
The Critical Role of Water Development
2.06      After allowance for increases in rainfed rice production, the
Philippines cannot reach self-sufficiency in rice without substantial
investment in irrigation expansion and improvement. Performance of



existing systems falls far short of their potential. The Sector Survey /1
estimates that, out of a total of 960,000 ha which could be served by
existing systems, only 630,000 ha are served in the wet season and
254,000 ha in the dry season. Almost all the irrigated area is devoted
to rice. The NIA's gravity systems are the main component. In addition,
NIA has constructed and rehabilitated a substantial part of the small
privately operated communal systems, averaging 250-300 ha. The Irriga-
tion Services Unit, now under NIA's administrative supervision, is res-
ponsible for pump irrigation schemes. The 104 NIA gravity systems, varying
in size from 130 ha to 83,000 ha, are usually run-of-the-river schemes
with insufficient control structures in the canals, inadequate drainage
and little provision for access. Even when the systems are new, water
distribution is uneven during the wet season and limited during the dry
season. Maintenance has been minimal due to shortages of staff and funds
and the lack of access roads for maintenance machinery. A vicious circle
has developed by which lack of maintenance discourages farmers from pay-
ing operation and maintenance charges, which in turn precludes further
maintenance.
2.07      This unsatisfactory situation began to change in the late
1960s when the NIA was reorganized, more advanced irrigation designs
were introduced and much higher levels of water management became a
goal. Simultaneously, the need for intensified agricultural supporting
services on irrigation projects was accepted. The Bank-assisted Upper
Pampanga River Irrigation Project (UPRP) (Loan 637-PH) and the Asian
Development Bank (ADB)-assisted Angat-Magat Integrated Agricultural
Development Project (AMIADP) typify the new approach. The pattern of
rehabilitation, new construction and operation exemplified by these
projects is essential for large-scale rice production. To meet the
growing domestic rice demand a program of rehabilitation and new con-
struction in rice lands for some 50,000 ha per year will be needed over
the next decade. The proposed project would thus be entirely compatible
with Government objectives for water resources development.
Project Formulation
2.08      Since the late 1960s NIA, with assistance from the Bank and
from the ADB, has been engaged in upgrading and extending large irrigation
systems, mainly in Luzon and to a lesser extent in Mindanao. In addition
to rehabilitation of existing canals and structures, the construction of
new ones, the provision of better drainage and access and the introduction
of water management and rotational irrigation practices, extra water
supplies are being provided in some areas through the construction of
storage or by trans-basin diversion. However, NIA has not neglected the
need for rehabilitation and upgrading of the badly deteriorated, smaller
systems scattered through the Philippines. The National Irrigation Systems
Improvement Study (NISIS) was set up with Bank assistance (Loan 1080-PH)
/1 IBRD Agricultural Sector Survey, Philippines, May 2, 1974 (Report
No. 39a-PH).



to inventory the smaller systems and to select a total of about 150,000
ha with the highest priority for improvement and allowing for a balanced
regional distribution. The feasibility study for the first 50,000 ha of
rehabilitation prepared under NISIS will be completed in late 1976.
2.09      The proposed Jalaur project, consisting of the rehabilitation
and up-rading of 22,000 ha of land in four contiguous irrigation systems
and the construction of irrigation facilities for an additional 2,700 ha
of rainfed land, falls logically in place in terms of size between the
large Luzon projects and the small scattered NISIS projects. The proposed
project is located on Panay island in the Western Visayas and would meet
the NIA objective of more balanced regional distribution of development.
It has fertile soils, is a rice basket for the region and is relatively
free of typhoons.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
General
3.01      The project is located in Iloilo province in the southeastern
section of the island of Panay in the Western Visayas. The region con-
tains about 12% of the area planted to rice annually in the Philippines
and accounts for 12% of total national production. Iloilo province is
responsible for 35% of the region's rice production and the project area
accounts for about 40% of the provincial rice area and 60% of production.
The mean rice yield in Iloilo is about 18% above the national average.
This is due to the existence of irrigation systems, fertile soils well
suited to rice production, good external drainage, rapid adoption of
high yielding varieties and a fairly even rainfall distribution. Panay
is a surplus rice producer and about 65% of Iloilo's production is
exported to the nearby sugar growing island of Negros.
3.02      The project area includes 22,000 ha of rice land in the exist-
ing Jalaur River Irrigation System (JRIS), the Suague River Irrigation
System (SRIS), the Aganan River Irrigation System (ARIS) and the Santa
Barbara Irrigation System (SBIS). In addition, about 2,700 ha of
currently rainfed rice land on the left bank of the Jalaur river would
be irrigated and included in the JRIS (Map No. 12414).
3.03      There are a number of small towns with populations between
5,000 and 10,000 scattered throughout the area. The larger towns, includ-
ing the provincial capital of Iloilo which lies on the southern edge of
the project area, provide banking, storage and processing facilities as
well as supplies of inputs to the surrounding agricultural area. The
project area is connected to the capital city and port of Iloilo by a
national highway and paved provincial roads. Daily air service and
frequent interisland boat services connect Iloilo with Manila.



-5-
Climate
3.04      The climate in the project area is tropical and monsoonal.  Warm
temperatures throughout the year allow a twelve-month growing season with
irrigation. About 85% of the average annual rainfall of 2,150 mm falls in
the seven-month period of May through November with the heaviest rain in
July. The rainfall, together with river flows in the wet season, is
generally adequate for a single rice crop. Dry season cropping, however,
entails a greater risk and irrigation is essential to ensure a crop. Panay
island is hit by an average of one typhoon per year, with the highest fre-
quency in November. The project area is less affected than the northern
part of the island. Further climatic details are presented in Annex 1.
Topography, Drainage and Soils
3.05      The project area is located on the alluvial terrace fans of
the Aganan, Tigum, Suague and Jalaur rivers. The Suague empties into the
Jalaur river about 33 km northeast of Iloilo, while the Tigum and Aganan
join 8 km north of Iloilo emptying into the ocean near the city. The
slope of the land is from northwest to southeast. In the upper part of
the project area, the slope is steeper with paddies sometimes terraced
but it flattens out towards the sea with three-fourths of the area fairly
level. Surface drainage is generally adequate, although there are drainage
problems in a few scattered areas. Some of these are as large as 200 ha
in size, but would be provided with the necessary drainage facilities under
the project. In order to obviate possible drainage difficulties which
could occur as a result of the belt of marine fish ponds lying between the
project area and the ocean, additional drainage outlets would be built
under the project.
3.06      Soils in the project area are predominantly of the Santa Rita
series with Santa Rita clay covering about 65% of the area and Santa Rita
clay loam about 30%. Recent alluvial deposits of fine sandy loam along
the rivers make up the remainder. These soils are slightly acid with
fair cation exchange capacity. Some phosphate is needed particularly if
rice is to be double-cropped for a period of years. The soils of the
project area are well supplied with potash for rice production, but addi-
tional amounts of this element should be added when planting sugarcane.
The Santa Rita soils are fair in organic matter content. They have slow
internal drainage and are well suited for rice, which has been grown in
the project area for many years without difficulty. Sugarcane is planted
on the fine sandy loam soils or the lighter textured portions of the Santa
Rita soils where surface drainage is good and a high water table is not a
problem in the wet season.
Land Tenure and Farm Size
3.07      Since 1972 the Government has pursued a program of agrarian
reform aimed at the transfer of land ownership to tenant farmers on rice
and corn lands. Presidential Decree No. 27 (PD 27), the basic legislation
of the new program, provides for the transfer to the tenant, whether share-
cropper or leaseholder, of the land he tills up to 3 ha in an irrigated
area and 5 ha in a rainfed area. According to PD 27, the landlord may



- 6 -
retain up to 7 ha if he tills the land himself. Since there are some
2 million rice and corn farmers on about 4 million ha, of which less than
I million ha are irrigated, there is little prospect of achieving the 5 ha
rainfed and 3 ha irrigated family farms nationwide. Furthermore, some 85%
of the landlords have holdings of less than 7 ha and there are no plans at
present for transfer of lands in this category. The Department of Agrarian
Reform (DAR) completed the issue of land transfer certificates to tenants
for all land in holdings over 24 ha in 1975. In November 1974 the Govern-
ment decided to proceed with the transfer of land in holdings between 24
and 7 ha.
3.08      DAR surveys show that some 12,000 farm families, averaging
5.8 members for a total of about 70,000 people, live in the project area.
The average farm unit is about 2.1 ha. Average farm holdings are approxi-
mately 1.7 ha on rainfed rice areas, 2.0 ha on irrigated rice areas and
about 13 ha on the 1,000 ha of sugarcane farms within the project area.
The farm size distribution on the 23,700 ha of rice lands is as follows:
Farm Size          No. of Farms        Area of Farms
(ha)             …-- …( )                 …
Less than 1                 13                 3
1-2                38                23
2-3                28                29
3-5                17                30
More than 5                  4                15
Total                100                100
About 66% of the farms, covering 52% of the land, fall between 1 and
3 ha, while 96% of the farms covering 85% of the area are smaller than
5 ha. The figures vary somewhat between subproject areas. Survey and
census data indicate that in addition to farm operating households, there
are approximately 2,000 landless agricultural households.
3.09      According to DAR information the 23,700 ha of rice land in the
project area are owned by some 8,100 people, 88% of whom hold less than
7 ha. This group accounts for 54% of the land. The remaining 12% of
the owners account for 10,900 ha or 46% of the area. The actual number
of farmers cultivating the land is somewhat different with about 9,000
tenants operating 17,600 ha and 3,000 owner operators farming 6,100 ha.
After completion of land transfers under agrarian reform, there will be
7,100 owner operators and 4,900 farmers operating under a written lease
agreement providing for payments of fixed rents cultivating 12,700 ha
and 11,000 ha respectively (Annex 2).



- 7-
Existing Irrigation Facilities
3.10      Approximately 22,000 ha of land in the project area fall within
the existing four systems operated by NIA. The oldest system is the Santa
Barbara, which was completed in 1922 to serve 4,600 ha from the Tigum
river. The Aganan system was completed in 1925 to serve 5,500 ha from the
Aganan river. The largest is the Jalaur system, completed in 1954, to
serve 9,000 ha from the Jalaur river. The Suague river system was completed
in 1958 to serve 2,900 ha. Irrigation in the dry season is limited to some
7,500 ha, partly because of inadequate river flows, but mostly because of
reduced canal capacities due to siltation and a lack of on-farm distribution
facilities. The systems have suffered from insufficient maintenance due to
lack of funds and equipment. They also have poor distribution networks
which make it impossible for the majority of the farmers to get water
at the right time in the right amount. In addition, there is a general
lack of access roads which renders movement of inputs and produce difficult.
There are drainage deficiencies, particularly in portions of the area
nearest the sea, due to insufficient collector drains and inadequate outlet
conditions.
Agricultural Production
3.11      Rice grown by transplanting is by far the most important crop in
the area. In the last two seasons about 12% of the rice area has been sown
directly. Sugarcane is grown on less than 1,000 ha in the project area,
although about 10% of the land area is suitable for the crop. Crops such as
corn, mungbean, cowpea and melons are grown on a small part of the area as
nonirrigated dry season crops for home use or local consumption. The majo-
rity of farmers in the irrigated areas use improved rice varieties, while
in the rainfed areas farmers rely mainly on the lower yielding, but hardier
local varieties. In the irrigated areas the average paddy yield is 2.7 ton/
ha in the wet season and 2.4 ton/ha in the dry season, due to inadequate
water supply and poor distribution facilities. The average yield of rain-
fed paddy is 1.8 ton/ha. Yields in the project area are slightly higher
than in the Bank-assisted Central Luzon projects because of better soils,
greater use of inputs, and more even rainfall distribution in the wet
season.
3.12      In rainfed areas most farmers rely almost entirely on animal
power for land preparation, while in the irrigated areas mechanical land
preparation is practiced on about 45% of the crop area. Mechanical culti-
vation in the rice areas is done with small two-wheel tractors, while four-
wheel tractors are used on sugar farms of 5 ha or more. Threshing of the
rice crop is almost entirely manual, there being only a few small mechanical
threshers in the area.
Transportation
3.13      A national highway connects the towns of Pototan, Barotac
Nuevo and Leganes, within the Jalaur and Santa Barbara systems, with the
port city of Iloilo. Paved provincial roads link the national highway
with the towns of San Miguel, Santa Barbara and Mina, in the Aganan,
Santa Barbara and Suague systems. The Department of Highways has a
ten-year plan to upgrade some of the existing limited network of largely
unpaved provincial and municipal roads serving the area. There is an



- 8 -
irregular railroad service connecting the eastern coastal city of Roxas
'th Tialo. Under the project, farm and O&M roads for the irrigation
facilities would also serve as feeder roads to handle increased production.
IV. THE PROJECT
4.01      The project proposed for Bank financing would upgrade four existing
irrigation systems and extend irrigation service to currently rainfed rice
lands, a total of 24,700 ha, to standards adopted for similar Bank projects
in the Philippines. The project would include:
(a) rehabilitation of four existing NIA irrigation
and drainage systems serving a total area of
about 22,000 ha;
(b) construction of new irrigation and drainage
facilities for about 2,700 ha of rainfed rice;
(c) construction of a project headquarters building
and facilities for O&M; and
(d) procurement of vehicles and equipment.
The project would also provide for a water management training program and
for a small amount of tehnical assistance, if required, for further studies
on expansion of the project. A detailed description of the project works is
given in Annex 3.
Project Works
4.02      NIA systems serving irrigable areas at Jalaur (9,000 ha), Suague
(2,900 ha), Santa Barbara (4,600 ha) and Aganan (5,500 ha) would be rehabi-
litated and upgraded by repairing existing canals and structures as well as
providing additional control structures, drains and turnouts to manage water
deliveries effectively. New irrigation works would be constructed to serve
about 2,700 ha of rainfed lands on the left bank of the Jalaur river. New
outlet works would be constructed on the left abutment of the diversion dam.
4.03      Rice has been grown in the project area for many years and the land
is reasonably level and well laid out with little fragmentation of land hold-
ings. Consequently, no land leveling, boundary realignment, or consolidation
would be required. The main farm ditches, serving units of approximately
50 ha, would have a turnout for each 10 ha block, from which supplementary
farm ditches built as part of the project would provide direct delivery to
about 80% of all the holdings. Each 10 ha block would also be served by a
collector drain, except in steeper areas with slopes in excess of 0.4% where
the farm drainage would be from field to field with a provision of collector
drains for about 50% of the steep area. All canals would be unlined except
in selected short portions, where the soils are erosive. Small buildings
would be provided for Water Management Technologists operating2500 ha of irri-
gated land apiece (para. 5.03) and rice drying floors of 400 m would be



provided near or adjacent to the buildings. About 20 km of new access
roads would be built. Some 400 km of roads for operation and maintenance
would be built along the major canals and laterals, as well as about 170
km of farm roads along some of the major farm ditches.
Water Supply, Demand and Quality
4.04      Each of the four systems gets its water from a separate unreg-
ulated river source, using its own diversion and conveyance facilities.
Stream flow records at or near the points of diversion for each of the
four streams are available for 10 to 20 years but not concurrently and in
some cases the records are fragmentary. By correlation with other
station records, stream flow data were built up at the four diversion
points to cover the years 1949-1971, a period including exceptionally low
dry season flows and considered representative of normal water supply
flow conditions.
4.05      Water requirements for the project were based on two rice
crops per year, except for about 1,000 ha under irrigated sugarcane.
Taking into account the higher farm irrigation efficiencies expected
after project development, anticipated conveyance and operational losses
and effective rainfall, annual diversion requirements are estimated to
total 2.1 m for rice, of which 1.6 m would be required in the dry season,
and 1.2 m for sugarcane. The proposed cropping calendar would maximize
the use of rainfall for both wet and dry season crops without exceeding
local manpower constraints.
4.06      The size of the project area was determined from simulated
operation studies using the 22 year period of synthesized discharge records
at each diversion and the estimated seasonal water requirements for rice.
The irrigable areas selected for the project and the currently irrigated
areas are as follows:
Irrigation System
JRIS    SRIS    ARIS    SBIS    TOTAL
Selected Irrigable Area (ha)                                             /a
Wet season                        11,700   2,900   5,500   4,600   24,700
Dry season                        10,100   1,300      100     500   12,000
Currently Irrigated Area (ha)
Wet season                         9,000   2,900   5,500   4,600   22,000
Dry season                         5,600   1,300      100     500    7,500
/a   Includes year-round irrigation of 1,000 ha of sugarcane.



- 10 -
The principal water rights on the four rivers are already vested in the
four national irrigation systems. Although existing upstream uses of water
are minor, assurances were obtained that the necessary water rights for the
Jalaur extension would be granted to NIA and no other water rights except for
domestic use would be granted which could adversely affect the project water
supply.
4.07      Tests of samples from the Jalaur river show good water quality
with total dissolved solids under 300 ppm. Water samples for the other
three rivers have not been analyzed. However, water diverted from
these rivers has been used to irrigate for more than 20 years without
adverse effects on soils or crops in the project area (Annex 4).
Status of Engineering
4.08      Project planning studies, designs and estimates of the irrigation
and drainage systems with associated works were carried out by NIA. For
rehabilitation of the existing systems, surveys were made of the main
canals, major creeks and drains, and within the sample area for secondary
canals, by taking cross sections at 20 to 50 m intervals to determine
excavation quantities. Rehabilitation costs of the remaining laterals,
drainage and on-farm facilities were based on unit cost estimates obtained
from a sample area for which designs were prepared. Canal structure
requirements in the rehabilitation area were determined in the field by
NIA inspectors and costs were estimated for repairs, replacements or
additions. Operation and maintenance roads were based on canal capacity
and needs within the service area and were checked in the field to ensure
that adequate access to project works would be provided. Access roads
were also provided as a link between service and existing major roads.
Surveys were also made of the main canal in the Jalaur extension area to
determine construction quantities. Existing 1:4,000 scale maps were used
to determine lateral and drain locations, and costs were based on unit
costs for a 1,600 ha sample area. Requirements for structures in the
extension area were determined according to basic irrigation design
practices. Repair work on river diversion structures was determined from
field inspection of each structure. Sufficient investigations have been
made to ensure that suitable materials are available for construction of
canal embankments and maintenance roadways.
4.09      Aerial photographs of the project service area taken in 1966 at a
scale of 1:15,000 were supplied by DAR and were used for preparation of the
1:4,000 scale topographic maps used in the sample area studies. These maps
have been extended to cover the four systems to be rehabilitated, including
the extension area, and would be used for final designs and estimates for
construction. Where required the maps would be supplemented by additional
topographic mapping at 20 to 25 cm contour intervals for on-farm facilities.
The base maps for land classification were prepared by using these photographs
enlarged to a scale of 1:10,000.



- 11 -
4.10      Construction of the irrigation and drainage system would begin
at the end of 1977, with preconstruction activities starting in the early
part of the year (see Chart No. 16409). All project works are expected
to be completed by mid-1981. Water management training for the project
personnel would be completed by 1980, but the training center would
continue operating for other NIA projects within the Visayas region.
Water Management Training
4.11      Irrigation efficiencies on NIA's gravity systems are low due to
lack of terminal facilities, poor maintenance and inadequate staff. NIA
has recognized the need for more and better water management staff and is
putting a Water Management Technologist (WMT) in charge of every 500 ha of
irrigated land. The newly recruited staff is not well versed in water
management, crop production aspects of irrigation or in methods of communi-
cation with farmers. In the Bank-assisted Central Luzon and Cagayan Valley
projects, water management training programs have been established to train
about 450 WMTs under the Tarlac and Magat projects (Loans 1080-PH and
1154-PH). About 50 WMTs and 150 ditch tenders would be required for the
Jalaur project. The training center to be established under the project
would serve the Visayas region covering about 170,000 ha of irrigation and
with an ultimate requirement of about 350 WMTs. The training program would
be based on three pilot water management units of 500 ha. Theoretical
training would be reinforced by putting all trainees through a range of
field situations on the pilot units where they could apply their new
knowledge. NIA personnel with extensive technical knowledge and field
experience would provide the training.
Cost Estimates
4.12      Total project costs are estimated at US$34.0  million, of which
US$15.0 million or 44% is foreign exchange. Project costs are based on
quantity estimates from feasibility designs and unit prices prevailing in
Bank-assisted Luzon projects in mid-1976, adjusted to the conditions on
Panay. Unit prices for equipment, materials and supplies are based on
recent quotations received by NIA. NIA's costs for design and construction
supervision are included under engineering. All costs were indexed to a
common level, January 1977, and this is the base cost level for the
project. A physical contingency factor based on the degree of investi-
gations completed to date was applied. It amounts to 25% for the irri-
gation and drainage system, and 10% for the O&M facilities and the water
management training program. A higher contingency of 25% for irrigation
and drainage systems was used to allow for unforeseen works or repairs
which would become apparent after dewatering the canals. Costs due to
expected price increases over the implementation period amount to about
26% of total project costs, assuming the following annual inflation rates:
Annual Inflation Rate (%)
1977-79     1980-81
Civil works                            12           10
Equipment and services                  8            7



- 12 -
4.13      Details of the project costs are presented in Annex 5 and are
summarized below:
Foreign
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Exchange
---- (Pesos M)…----  ----  (US$ M) -----   (%)
Irrigation systems         85.9   62.5   148.4  11.5    8.3   19.8    42
Water management training  2.4    1.9        4.3   0.3    0.3    0.6    50
O&M equipment                0.2    3.0      3.2    -      0.4    0.4   100
Technical assistance         0.2    0.6      0.8    -      0.1    0.1    80
Base cost estimate          88.7   68.0   156.7  11.8    9.1   20.9    43
Physical contingencies    17.3   15.7    33.0   2.3    2.1    4.4    48
Expected price increases  36.5   28.8    65.3   4.9    3.8    8.7    44
Total project cost        142.5  112.5   255.0  19.0   15.0   34.0    44
Financing
4.14      The proposed Bank loan of US$15.0 million would finance the full
foreign exchange costs of the project. It would cover 44% of total project
costs. The Government would provide the remaining P 142.5 million (US$19.0
million) to NIA from annual budget appropriations. To ensure the continuous
and timely flow of funds, assurances were obtained that the Government would
cause NIA to set up a special account for the project which would be replen-
ished by the Government at monthly intervals to a level equivalent to the
estimated requirements for the next two months.
Procurement
4.15      Equipment and vehicles for force account construction, operation
and maintenance and the water management training program, costing about
US$4.5 million, would be procured after international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. A preference limited to 15% of the
c.i.f. price of imported goods, or the customs duty, whichever is lower, would
be extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. Local procurement
practices are appropriate for off-the-shelf items costing less than US$10,000
each because the advantages of international competitive bidding would be
clearly outweighed by the administrative costs involved. The total cost of
such items would not exceed US$200,000. Bank staff have reviewed the local
procedures and they are acceptable. There is adequate competition and foreign
firms can participate. A detailed list of equipment requirements is given in
Annex 6.
4.16      Works on the project service area (US$13.7 million) would be
scattered over five separate areas and include rehabilitation of four
systems with a total area of 22,000 ha and construction of a new system
for 2,700 ha of rainfed rice lands. These have to be planned and executed
to avoid as far as possible the growing season and bad weather. In the past,



- 13-
NIA has experienced considerable difficulty in attracting bids for such
works. Several steps have been taken on Bank-assisted projects to streng-
then local contractors, including financing of reconditioned equipment and
providing mobilization allowances, as a result of which there has been an
encouraging response on the recent bids. However, it is doubtful that all
civil works could be done by contract and some of them would therefore be
carried out on force account. Nevertheless, in light of NIA's large work
program in the years ahead, it would not be desirable to expand its force
account work too rapidly. An assurance was obtained that NIA would ensure
that the amount of work done by force account would not exceed 40% of the
total cost of the work. Competitive bidding in accordance with local proce-
dures is appropriate for the balance of the work. Bank staff have reviewed
the local procedures and they are acceptable. There is potentially adequate
competition and foreign firms can participate.
Disbursements
4.17      Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% of the foreign
exchange cost of directly imported equipment, 100% of the ex-factory
price of locally manufactured equipment and 65% for imported equipment
procured locally. Disbursements for civil works would be 25% of certified
monthly progress payments or expenditures. For civil works contractors'
mobilization and equipment, disbursements would be at 100% of foreign
exchange cost. Disbursements would be at 100% of total cost for technical
assistance for further studies on expansion of the project.
4.18      Disbursement of the Bank loan would be against import documen-
tation, contracts and certified records of payment or expenditure. It is
expected that disbursements would be completed by June 30, 1982, approxi-
mately one year after the end of construction. Upon completion of the
project any undisbursed Bank funds would be cancelled. An estimated
schedule of expenditures, a semi-annual disbursement schedule and a pro-
posed allocation of loan proceeds are given in Annex 7.
Accounts and Audit
4.19      The NIA is a Government agency and its accounts are audited
annually by the Government's Commission on Audit. Assurances were
obtained that NIA would maintain separate accounts for the project and
that after audit by the Commission on Audit, the project accounts, to-
gether with the auditor's comments, would be sent to the Bank within four
months of the close of each financial year.
Environmental Effects
4.20      Schistosomiasis does not exist in the project area.  Although
a few cases are occasionally reported in the area, malaria is generally
not a problem. Poor drainage in scattered areas would be corrected by the
project. The incidence of the mosquito nuisance caused by poor drainage
in low lying areas behind the belt of coastal fish ponds, would be reduced
by improved project drainage. The principal health problems in the area
are protein deficiences in preschool-age children, enteric diseases and
tuberculosis. The proposed project would have little direct impact on
these.



- 14 -
V. ORGANiIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Management
5.01      NIA was created in 1964 and given responsibility for developing,
operating and maintaining all national irrigation systems in the Philippines.
The Government finances NIA through the sale of bonds or from appropria-
tions. A Board of Directors is responsible for the agency and the
Administrator, who is appointed by the President of the Philippines,
handles management. NIA has recently been reorganized to meet the
requirements of the Government's policy of accelerated irrigation develop-
ment. The integration of the major foreign-assisted projects under a
Special Projects Organization office headed by an Assistant Administrator
is one of the first results of the reorganization. Although this has
been a step in the right direction, the number and complexity of projects
presently under implementation has created certain administrative diffi-
culties which are likely to increase as NIA continues to expand its
activities. There is evidence that the senior management of NIA is
already stretched considerably and has difficulty in maintaining tight
control over the development and implementation of projects. To a large
extent this is due to the heavy administrative burden on management which
diverts scarce technical talent away from important engineering matters.
To ease the situation NIA is proposing to engage two officers with broad
experience in public and/or business administration to work directly
under the Assistant Administrator.
5.02      The Special Projects Organization (Chart No. 9533-3R) would
also be responsible for execution and operation of the Jalaur project.
Day-to-day responsibility for construction would rest with the Assistant
Project Manager stationed near Pavia, the proposed location of project
headquarters. He would report on all matters concerning the project to
the NIA's Regional Engineer stationed in Iloilo, who would be appointed
Project Manager of the Jalaur project. The Project Manager and his
assistant would report to the Assistant Administrator for Special Projects.
NIA would provide all the additional support staff and facilities required
to allow the Project Manager to carry out his responsibilities. There
would be two construction divisions, the first located at Pototan for
the rehabilitation works of the Jalaur and Suague systems and the Jalaur
extension, and the second located at Pavia for the rehabilitation of the
Santa Barbara and Aganan systems (Chart No. 16392). Selection of an Assis-
tant Project Manager and arrangements for his appointment were confirmed at
negotiations.
5.03      For O&M purposes NIA would establish four support divisions
dealing with engineering and operation, administration, agriculture and
equipment (Chart No. 16391R). The project area would be divided into two
irrigation districts based on Pototan and Pavia. The Pototan district
would serve a total area of 14,600 ha covering the existing Jalaur system
and extension area, as well as the Suague system. The Pavia district



- 15 -
would cover the Santa Barbara and Aganan systems serving a total area of
about 10,000 ha. The districts would be divided into 50 ha irrigation units
with a ditch tender handling two such units (100 ha). A Water Management
Technologist (WMT) would control five ditch tenders covering a 500 ha area,
while a supervisor would be responsible for a water management division and
five WMTs (2,500 ha). Details of the organization are given in Annex 8.
5.04     The Director appointed to supervise the Central Luzon and
Magat water management training programs would also be in charge of the
program proposed for the Jalaur project. A field supervisor would be
attached to each of the two irrigation districts to be in day-to-day
charge of the program. Training personnel would be drawn principally
from well qualified and experienced O&M staff and from specialized NIA
units.
Supporting Agricultural Services
5.05      An Agricultural Development Coordinating Council (ADCC) would
be established in the project area to coordinate the work of the various
agencies providing services to the farmers (Annex 9). The arrangement
has been working well in the Central Luzon projects and a similar organiz-
ation has been set up for the Cagayan Valley projects. Assurances were
obtained that an ADCC based on Iloilo province would be established for
the proposed project.
5.06      A total of 95 agricultural graduates from a number of govern-
ment agencies provide extension services to farmers in the municipali-
ties involved in the project area. The Bureau of Agricultural Extension
and the Department of Agrarian Reform supply the majority. The ratio of
extension workers to farmers is about 1:210. Under the project, the
extension coverage would be strengthened by the addition of the water
management staff (para. 5.03) and there would be better coordination
through the ADCC (para. 5.05). At present the area is covered more
intensively than most rice growing areas in the country because of
extensive involvement in the Masagana program.
5.07      Current fertilizer consumption in the project area amounts to
about 5,800 tons per year, with urea as the most frequently used product.
At full development, the project area would require some 9,600 tons of
fertilizer annually on the basis of 80 kg/ha nitrogen and 40 kg/ha
phosphate per season. Existing supply channels would handle the increased
demand without difficulty. The certified rice seed requirement at full
development would total 450 tons per year and no problems are expected
in obtaining the amount.
5.08      The increase in the irrigated area, higher cropping intensity
and better farming practices resulting from the project would require



- 16 -
an increase in production credit. Under the agrarian reform and Masagana
programs the Government has strengthened the credit institutions and
eased credit to small farmers, previously dependent on the landlords and
private lenders for their requirements. A system of "supervised credit"
is used which includes the provision of technical services to the borrower
to ensure that recommended practices, such as variety, fertilizer and
agrochemical inputs, are adopted. Under the system no collateral is
required. During 1974 wet season crop, agricultural loans granted to
farmers in the project area by Rural Banks, the Philippine National Bank
and the Agricultural Credit Administration amounted to P 9.5 million
(US$1.3 million). At full project development, annual production credit
requirements are estimated to be about P 34.2 million (US$4.6 million).
The existing credit institutions are expected to be able to meet the
requirement.
5.09      The Agricultural Department of the Special Projects Organization
would be responsible for monitoring the deployment of extension and
water management personnel, pace of land reform, preparation of farmers
to receive irrigation, cropping patterns, use of inputs and credits,
incidence of pests and diseases, etc. The Department already performs
these functions in the Bank-assisted Luzon projects.
Cost and Rent Recovery
5.10      Republic Act No. 3601 establishing NIA gave it the authority to
collect fees from users of irrigation systems to finance operations and
to reimburse construction costs. Fees on the national irrigation systems
were increased in July 1975, to the equivalent of 2.0 cavans of paddy per
ha in the wet season and 3.0 cavans in the dry season, to be applied
uniformly to all national irrigation systems. As an exception to the
uniform rate policy, the Government has agreed to raise rates on Bank-
assisted projects to the equivalent of 3.5 cavans of paddy/ha in the wet
season and 4.4 cavans in the dry season. These rates would be reached
gradually over a period of five years from completion of construction.
Rates in the UPRP have already been raised to the equivalent of 2.5 and
3.5 cavans of paddy/ha in the wet and dry seasons respectively.
5.11      After a series of discussions with the Bank concerning the
collection of water charges the NIA agreed to review the rate of collec-
tions for the national systems and to identify the factors affecting
collection. The NIA completed a report in June 1976 which showed that
for FY75 the total collection rate was about 59%, a small improvement on
the collection rate in 1974. Preliminary FY76 information indicates that
the national collection rate has fallen to less than 25% since the fourfold
increase in water charges in July 1975. Collection rates in the region
which includes the Jalaur project are amongst the better ones in the Philip-
pines. The study also resulted in some preliminary findings on the factors
affecting collection. NIA is making the necessary arrangements to study the
factors in greater depth. The objective of the investigations will be to
identify administrative and managerial obstacles to improved collection, as
well as to determine the causes of farmers' resistance to payment. Assurances
were obtained that NIA would prepare by October 31, 1978 a plan of action for
improved collection of irrigation fees and after reviewing such plan of action
with the Bank would proceed with its implementation.



- 17 -
5.12      In view of the problems encountered in collecting water fees
and the negative effect on collections of the recent increase in fees,
NIA should give priority to improved collection. Under the provisions of
the Chico project (Loan 1227-PH) the Government has agreed to consult
annually on the adequacy of water charges and the collection thereof. In
the meantime NIA proposes to apply to the Jalaur project the same rates
used on other Bank-assisted projects, i.e. the equivalent of 3.5 cavans
of paddy/ha in the wet season and 4.4 cavans in the dry season.
5.13      Various indices are used to compute the proportion of cost
recovered and the relationship of the proposed water charges to the
ability of the farmers to pay. Definitions of the indices used and
detailed computations are in Annex 14. In brief, the ratio of total
water charges to total public sector outlays (total cost recovery index)
is 35%, while the incremental cost recovery index is 15%. Total water
charges are almost double O&M costs. The ratio of total water charges to
total farm rent (farm rent recovery index) is 33% while the incremental
project rent recovery index is 23%. The farm rent recovery index shows
that one third of the farm's total surplus (after deducting returns for
capital, labor, management and uncertainty) is paid in water charges. In
view of this large contribution in relation to the income levels of project
beneficiaries, the proposed water charges are acceptable.
5.14      To ensure sound operation and maintenance practices and an
equitable contribution by beneficiaries toward recovery of project
capital costs, assurances were obtained that:
(a) the NIA would make annual budgetary provisions to supply
the funds necessary for operation and maintenance of the
project;
(b) irrigation fees would be levied to provide NIA with suffi-
cient funds to maintain and operate the project and to
allow for the recovery of investment cost within a reason-
able period, taking into account farmers' incentives and
capacity to pay. A gradual increase in irrigation fees
over a period of five years from completion of construction
to a level equivalent to about 3.5 cavans of paddy per ha
in the wet season and 4.4 cavans in the dry season would
meet the requirement; and
(c) the NIA would take all necessary actions to ensure full
and prompt collection of the irrigation fees.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES AND FARM INCOMES
Production
6.01      Upon completion of the project the irrigated area would increase
to 24,700 ha, of which at present 22,000 ha are irrigated and 2,700 ha
are rainfed during the wet season. The project would not increase the



- 18 -
dry season water supply, but the greatly improved distribution system and
better water management would allow the present dry season irrigated area
of 7,500 ha to be expanded to 12,000 ha. Annual cropping intensity would
increase from 130% to 149%. Better water control, improved extension
services and expanded credit facilities would encourage increased plantings
of high-yielding rice varieties, heavier fertilizer applications and
greater use of crop protection chemicals. The use of machinery for land
preparation and threshing would increase to meet more exacting crop
calendars. It is expected that at full agricultural development in 1985,
about 50% of the threshing would be mechanical compared to 5% at present
and most farmers would use a combination of machinery and animal-drawn
implements for land preparation.
6.02      At full development, estimated paddy yields for the wet and dry
season crops would average 4.0 ton/ha per crop. Farmers would achieve
these yield levels five years after the introduction of water control. The
expected yields would be about 30% above the estimated "without project"
level. The greatly improved water control and distribution provided by the
project, together with the strengthened water management staff, would allow
farmers to take full advantage of inputs such as improved varieties,
fertilizers, agrochemicals and credit. Total paddy production from the
project area would be about 147,000 tons at full development compared with
80,000 tons at present and an estimated 91,000 tons in the future without
the project (Annex 10).
Market Prospects
6.03      A major Government objective in the agricultural sector is self-
sufficiency in basic foods, especially rice and corn. The deficit in rice,
the main staple food crop, has been a persistent problem for the Philippines,
and in recent years annual rice imports have averaged around 300,000 tons.
The 1975 Basic Economic Report projects the 1985 Philippine demand for
milled rice to be 5.0 million tons, equivalent to 8.5 million tons paddy,
including seed requirements. To meet this demand local production would
have to increase over the next decade by slightly more than 3.5% per year
and the incremental paddy production from the project area would be marketed
without difficulty. Traditionally Iloilo province has produced paddy sur-
plus to its requirements, and has exported the bulk of the surplus to the
neighboring sugar growing island of Negros. A small part of the province's
production goes to the nearby provinces of Antique and Aklan and to Manila.
The pattern would continue with the project.
Prices
6.04      In 1957 the Government introduced an annual farm gate support
price for paddy to encourage production and to allow purchases of paddy by
Government to build stocks. From 1965 to 1970 the support price was about
10% higher than the market price but since 1971 the market price has
generally exceeded the support price. In December, 1975 the official farm
gate support price for paddy was P l,000/ton, which was considerably lower
than the corresponding price of imported rice (P 2,650/ton c.i.f. Philippines),
which would correspond to a farm gate price for paddy of about P 1,500/ton.
The low farm gate price is maintained by Government sales of imported rice
on the domestic market below cost. In 1974 this subsidy cost the Government
about US$20 million. As of mid-1976 the price of imported rice had fallen



- 19 -
and the support price was raised to the point where the prices of domestic
and imported rice were nearly the same. The latest Bank commodity price
forecasts show the world market price in 1985 of Thai 25-35% broken rice
to be about US$280, c.i.f. Philippines (in January 1977 constant dollars).
The corresponding farm gate price (in January 1977 constant dollars)
would be P 1,285 (US$170) per ton (Annex 11). The use of a shadow
exchange rate gives an economic farm gate price of p 1,425 per ton. It
is assumed that the actual farm gate price, on average, would correspond
to the equivalent price for imported rice, namely P 1,285 per ton.
6.05      The Government subsidizes fertilizers used to grow food crops
for domestic consumption. With the recent fall in international prices
for fertilizer, the farm gate fertilizer prices are nearly equivalent to
the "subsidized" fertilizer prices. For sugar, coconut and other cash crop
farmers the Government has maintained fertilizer prices substantially above
international prices. At full development, the financial prices for
nitrogen and phosphate based fertilizers are assumed to correspond to the
Bank's forecasted world market prices for both food and cash crops. On
this basis farm gate prices were estimated to be P 1,905 (US$254) per ton
for urea and P 1,725 (US$230) per ton for triple super-phosphate. The use
of a shadow exchange rate gives economic farm gate prices of about P 2,100
and P 1,900 per ton respectively.
Farm Incomes
6.06      Rice farm models have been prepared for four water supply situa-
tions, two typical farm sizes and two types of tenure. These are presented
in detail in Annex 13.  Estimated and projected incomes are summarized
below for farm sizes of 1.5 and 3.0 ha, which would accotnt for 80% of the
project's area and over 90% of the farmers, for the JRIS and ARIS-SBIS
systems covering 77% of the project area and for amortizing owners who
would constitute 60% of the farmers.
Farm  Irrigation    Cropping  Intensity                 Farm           Income /b
Size    System       Present      Future        Present  Future  Present  Future
(ha)     /a          ------- (%) ----                    (P)        ---- (US$)
1.5   ARIS-SBIS       105         105           2,500    4,900       330     650
JRIS            162         200           3,500    8,150      470   1,090
3.0   ARIS-SBIS       105         105           3,850    8,600       510   1,150
JRIS            162         200           5,550   17,150      740   2,290
/a ARIS-SBIS = 41% of project area; JRIS = 36% of project area.
/b Rounded to nearest P 50 and US$10.



- LO -
6.07      Estimated present total net incomes for 1.5 to 3 ha farms vary
Lbtween US$270 and US$770.  Tenant farm families who do not doublecrop rely
ora employment on other farms and off-farm earnings for most of their
in ome. According to NIA data, other income averages P 1,000 in irrigated
areas ard nearly P 1,200 per annum in the Jalaur rainfed area. Off-farm
earnings estimated at 60% of "other income" rise with farm size, but
constit, e a smaller percentage of total income for larger or doublecropped
farms. It was assumed that, except for farmers who would increase their
cropping intensity and hence decrease significantly the time available for
off-farm employment, "other income" would remain at present levels. At
full development incomes are expected to double for 1.5 ha tenant farmers
on the Aganan/Santa Barbara area, where cropping intensity would remain
unchanged. The increase is likely to be about 300% to 400% for amortizing
owners with land in the existing rainfed area. Farmers in the Jalaur
area, where cropping intensities would rise to 200%, are expected in all
types of tenancy situations to more than double their incomes with the
project.
6.08      Assuming a household of 5.8 members, present per capita incomes
in 1.5 ha farm households vary between US$45 and US$80, while those in 3
ha households range from US$65 to US$135. These figures correspond to
between 12% and 35% of the national GNP per capita. About 75% of the
project's farm families are presently at or below the Bank's estimated
absolute per capita poverty level of US$155 (expressed in 1977 constant
price levels). At full project development in 1985, the projected per
capita incomes would range from US$110 to US$220 for a 1.5 ha farm to
US$200 to US$390 for a 3 ha farm, depending on cropping intensity. Per
capita incomes would be some 20-71% of the 1985 projected per capita GNP of
US$550. These comparisons indicate that the project would help to narrow
the income gap between the project area and other parts of the country.
VII. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
7.01      The proposed project would increase yields on about 24,700 ha
currently dependent on run-of-the-river irrigation and rainfed cultivation
by providing better water control, improved drainage and the necessary
agricultural supporting services. Rice would be the main crop grown in
the area. Approximately 12,000 farm families and 2,000 landless labor
families, for a total of about 80,000 people, would benefit directly from
the increased production and consequent employment. The project would
also create a demand for an additional 840,000 man-days of farm labor
per year, equivalent to some 3,500 full time jobs. It would also provide
farmers with increased access to markets through an improved and denser
network of roads to be constructed along the canals and drainage system.
The project would meet the Government's objectives of increased food
production and more balanced regional distribution of development at a
capital cost of US$2,010 per benefited farm family. This would be at the
low end of the cost range for irrigation projects in the Philippines, due
to the high proportion of rehabilitation compared to new construction.
7.02      Assuming a 50-year project life, a five-year construction period
full agricultural benefits being attained in 1985, farm gate prices for



- 21 -
rice and fertilizer based on the Bank's commodity price forecasts for 1985,
a shadow price for foreign exchange, and a seasonably variable
shadow wage rate for unskilled farm labor, the economic rate of return
of the project would be 20%. Rates of return for rehabilitation of the
individual irrigation systems ranged between 13% for the Santa Barbara
system and 28% for the Jalaur system. The rate of return for the Jalaur
extension was 13% (Annex 15).
7.03      The rate of return showed little sensitivity to the estimates
of project costs. It showed most sensitivity to a reduction in the level
of benefits, as well as to the timing of benefits. In none of the cases
tested, however, did the rate of return fall below 15%. On the other hand,
if the world market price of rice turns out to be 25% higher than forecast,
the rate of return would be 25%.
7.04      At full agricultural development the project would result in rice
imports savings of US$9.9 million per year at the forecast world market
prices. After deducting the incremental cost of imported fertilizer,
chemicals and fuel, the net foreign exchange savings would amount to about
US$8.8 million.
7.05      There are no unusual risks associated with the project.  The
risks normally associated with irrigation projects have been accounted
for in the estimates of yields and in the areas to be irrigated during
the dry season.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations, agreement with the Government was reached
on the following principal points:
(a)  the necessary water rights for the Jalaur extension would
be granted to the NIA and no other water rights which could
adversely affect the project's water supply except for domestic
use would be granted (para. 4.06);
(b)  NIA would establish a special account for the project which would
be replenished at monthly intervals to a level equivalent to the
estimated requirements for the next two months (para. 4.14);
(c)  NIA would ensure that the amount of civil works done by force
account in the project's service area would not exceed 40%
of the total cost of the work (para. 4.16);
(d)  NIA would maintain separate accounts for the project and,
after audit by the Commission on Audit, project accounts
would be submitted to the Bank within four months of the
close of each financial year (para. 4.19);



- 22 -
(e) an Agricultural Development Coordinating Council based on
Iloilo province would be established for the proposed
project (para. 5.05);
(f) NIA would prepare by October 31, 1978 a plan of action for
improved collection of irrigation fees and after reviewing such
plan of action with the Bank would proceed promptly with its
implementation (para. 5.11); and
(g) NIA would make annual budgetary provisions to supply
the funds necessary for operation and maintenance of the
project; would take all necessary action to ensure full
and prompt collection of irrigation fees; and would
gradually increase irrigation fees over a period of
five years from completion of construction to a level
equivalent to about 3.5 cavans of paddy/ha in the wet
season and 4.4 cavans in the dry season (para. 5.14).
8.02      The proposed project would be suitable for a Bank loan of
US$15.0 million, with a 20 year maturity including a grace period of
4.5 years. The borrower would be the Republic of the Philippines.



PHILIPPINES
JALAUR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Climatological Data
Iloilo City                Jan.      Feb.      Mar.      ALL.      May        Jun.      Jul.      Aug.      Sep.      Oct.      Nov.      Dec.      Total
Rainfall /1
Average  (mm)                      57        32        31        43        156      254        383       354       281       250       202       109       2,152
Maximum  (mm)                     198       209       113       298       514       517    1,403         808       616       560       484       528       6,248
Minimum  (mm)                        1         0        0          0         ()       87        57        73        31        32         3         10         294
Number of rainy days /2                8         6         6         5        12        18        19        20        19        17         15        12         157
Relative humidity (%) /3              82       81         77        74        77        82        84        84        84        84         85        85
.4, rature /4
1ban ( 0C)                        25.7      26.0      26.8      28.1      28.6      27.9      27.4      27.2      27.3        27.2    26.9       26.2
MIean Maximuim ( C)               28.5      29.1      30.0      3i.5       32.0      30.9      30.1      29.9      30.9       30.3    29.8        28.9
Me.an Minimum (0C)                22.9      22.9      23.5       24.7      25.1      24.8      24.6      24.5      24.5       24.2    24.0        23.5
Ivaporation (mm) /5                  147       154      207        212       206       166       152       152       141         144      134       139       1,954
Prevailing wind direction /6        NE        NE        NE         NE        NE        SW        SW        SW        SW         NE        NE        NE
t!ind velocity (km/hr) /7            2o.3      19.3      19.6      16.5      11.9      10.6      10.7      13.7      10.4        11.9     15.0      17.8
Ntumber of typhoons /8                 0         1         0         1         0         (         0         0         0           1        3         1           7
(Panay Island, Northern area)
/1  Period of observation  1902-1940, 1947-1973
/2  Period of observation  1950-1970
/3  Period of observation  1949-1975
/4  Period of observation  1949-1973                                                                                                                                   a F
/5  Period of observation  1957-1965 (Pototan, Iloilo)                                                                                                                 X x
/6  Period of observation  1956-1970
/7  Period of observation  1956-1960
/8  Period of observation  1964-1972



ANNEX 2
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
JALAUR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Land Tenure and Reform
Background
1.        Since 1972, the Government has pursued an agrarian reform program
aimed at the transfer of land ownership to tenant farmers on rice and corn
lands. Presidential Decree No. 27 (PD 27), the basic legislation of the
new program, provides for the transfer to the tenant, whether sharecropper
or leaseholder, of the land he tills up to a total of 3 ha in an irrigated
area and 5 ha in a rainfed area. The landlord is allowed to retain up to
7 ha providing he cultivates the land himself. The Decree lays down a system
of valuing the land and provides for the tenant to pay for it in 15 equal
annual installments at an interest rate of 6% per annum.
2.        It is estimated that the total number of rice and corn tenants is
about 1.0 million on some 1.5 million ha owned by about 430,000 landlords.
Some 85% of these landlords have holdings of less than 7 ha. In addition,
the total number of rice and corn farmers probably exceeds 2 million, while
the total area of rice and corn lands is not much more than 4 million ha,
of which less than 1 million ha are irrigated. There is, therefore, little
prospect of achieving the objective of 5 ha rainfed or 3 ha irrigated
family farms nationwide.
3.        A recent survey by the Department of Agrarian Reform (DAR) reports
that 55% of the tenants farming 45% of the tenanted area are under landlords
with holdings smaller than 7 ha. The Government is anxious not to antagonize
the small landowners, and is looking for a solution equitable to both tenants
and landlords. For holdings under 7 ha the Government has announced its
intention to enforce leasehold with security of tenure. To prevent abuses
pending the issue of rules and regulations under the various decrees, the
Government has forbidden evictions, and has declared sharecropping illegal.
DAR is proceeding with the transfer of land in holdings over 24 ha, and by
June 1976, had issued land transfer certificates to 218,000 tenants covering
381,000 ha in 64 provinces but valuation and payment has been slow. DAR
reports that landlords and tenants have submitted to the DAR valuations of
61,000 ha, involving 1,370 landlords and 43,500 tenants in 42 provinces.
The Land Bank has paid compensation to 1,065 landlords for 48,600 ha,
involving 25,500 former tenants.
4.        In November 1974, the Government decided to proceed with the
transfer of land in holdings between 24 and 7 ha.  This work began in
January 1975 and is targeted to be finished by the end of 1977.  To expedite
land transfer and resolve land valuation disputes, barrio (hamlet) land
valuation committees began functioning in April 1975. The committees
consist of the barrio captain, four tenant farmers, two owner cultivators,
two landowners, a representative from the DAR and one from the samahang
nayon (precooperative organization).



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Situation in the Project Area
5.         DAR has identified nearly all of the rice holdings subject to
land reform in the municipalities where the project is located. As of
June 1976, land transfer certificates were issued to some 2,650 tenants
on about 4,200 ha out of a total of about 6,870 tenants on holdings over
7 ha. Only 5,260 tenant farmers on holding below 7 ha have thus far been
identified in the municipalities concerned. For Iloilo province as a whole
as of June 1976, land transfer certificates have been issued to 10,680
tenants on 17,540 ha out of a total of about 17,000 tenants on holdings
over 7 ha. About 21,000 tenants on holdings below 7 ha have been identi-
fied thus far.
6.         According to DAR and NIA data, an estimated 8,075 people own the
23,660 ha of rice land in the project area.  Some 88% of the owners have
properties of less than 7 ha, and account for 54% of the area. The remaining
12% of holdings larger than 7 ha, the existing operational limit for land
transfer, comprise 46% of the area (10,880 ha). The rice land ownership
pattern in the project area by size of holding in January 1975 was as follows:
Size of Holdings /a                Owners              Area Owned /b
(ha)                         %                 ha         %
Less than 7                          88                12,780    54
7 - 12                           6                 2,360    10
12 - 24                           3                 2,130      9
24 - 50                           1                 1,660      7
50 -100                           2                 1,890      8
More than 100                                           2,840    12
Total                            100                23,660   100
/a Refers to owner's holding size, within and outside project area.
/b Refers to area within project area only.
7.        The average rice farm  unit in the project area is 2 ha.  Mlost farms
(96%) are between 1 and 5 ha, and cover 85% of the project area. The rice
farm size distribution is as follows:



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Farm Size                     Farms                     Cultivated Area
(ha)                No.                %             ha              %_
Less than 1            1,540            13                    710      3
1 - 2           4,510             38                5,440       23
2 - 3           3,320             28                6,860       29
3 - 5           2,020             17                 7,100      30
Mlore than 5             470              4                3,550      15
Total              11,860            100                23,660    100
According to the NIA survey the size distribution varies between systems with
the average rice farm in Jalaur somewhat smaller than in Suague and Santa Bar-
bara which in turn are smaller than Aganan.
8.        As of early 1975, the project area tenure situation for rice farms
was as follows:
Tenure                              Farms                         Area
No.         %                -No.         %
Owner operated                     2,965      25                 6,150      26
Leasehold                          6,760      57                14,195      60
Sharecropped                       2,135      18                 3,315      14
11,860    100                23,660    100
The proportion of tenant farmers is 75% for the entire project area. In
Aganan and Santa Barbara, the percentage was higher (78%) while in Jalaur
and Suague, it was 74%. The average owner operator unit was about 2.07 ha
compared to an average tenant unit of 1.97 ha.
9.         The project area also contains about 1,040 ha of sugar farms not
subject to land reform. Each of the areas contains some sugar land, but the
bulk is located in the Jalaur and Suague systems. Jalaur contains 600 ha,
Suague 230 ha, Santa Barbara 130 ha and Aganan 80 ha. While half of the
farms are of 5 ha or less, the average farm size is 13 ha and there are
6 large farms. About 80 farmers cultivate the 1,040 ha. Six of the farms
include 39% of the sugar area, while the 39 farms below 5 ha account for
only 13% of the area. The information available suggests that most of the
farms are owner operated. The largest farm includes a sizeable portion of
land which is rented, while a number of the smallest farms include rented
land.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
10.       The mean farm size of the project area is smaller than in the
Cagayan valley, where the Magat and Chico projects are located, and compar-
able to some of the project areas in Central Luzon where the range is from
1.5 to 2 ha. With a high population density, Iloilo traditionally has
supplied manpower to Negros and Manila. According to NEDA data, the annual
migration rate from Iloilo was nearly 1% of the population until the
1970s. In recent years, the migration rate has slowed and the project is
expected to assist in continuing that trend.
11.       The transfer by DAR of landlord holdings larger than 7 ha would
involve an estimated 6,600 ha and about 4,100 tenants. The transfer would
result in owner operators comprising 60% of the farmers and cultivating some
12,750 ha or 54% of the project area. The 4,900 tenant farmers on holdings
of less than 7 ha would operate under a leasehold contract.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
JALAUR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Project Works
1.        The Jalaur Irrigation Project would provide irrigation service
to 24,700 ha of rice land by improving four existing national systems
with a total irrigable area of 22,000 ha and constructing new irrigation
and drainage facilities in a presently rainfed area of 2,700 ha located
on the left bank of the Jalaur river. The unregulated Jalaur river flow
records of the last 20 years indicate that an additional area of 5,500 ha,
of which 4,700 ha are presently in sugar cane, can be irrigated, so the
intake works and main canal for the new area would be built to provide
for future inclusion of this area. The project works would consist of:
(a) rehabilitation and upgrading of irrigation, drainage and
road facilities on the following existing NIA irrigation
systems:
(i) Jalaur River Irrigation System, 9,000 ha;
(ii) Suague River Irrigation System, 2,900 ha;
(iii) Santa Barbara Irrigation System, 4,600 ha; and
(iv) Aganan River Irrigation System, 5,500 ha.
(b) construction of new irrigation, drainage and access facilities,
including intake works and main canal, on the left bank of the
Jalaur river for 2,700 ha of currently rainfed rice lands.
Rehabilitation of Existing Systems
2.        The layout of the irrigation systems and principal works
are shown pn Map 12414. Table 1 summarizes the main features of the
project; the number of structures which would be modified, repaired
or newly provided under the project are listed in Table 2. Costs per
hectare and the density of on-farm facilities are given in Tables 3 and 4
respectively.
3.        The improvements would include minor repairs to existing
diversion structures and outlet works, the construction and/or enlarge-
ment of canals and drains, repairs and modification of existing and
provision of new water regulating and delivery structures, and the
construction of O&M, access and farm roads. General features of the
improved irrigation systems would include additional canal structures



ANNEX 3
Page 2
such as checks, control structures and turnouts and installation of gates
on existing canal structures to more effectively control water deliveries
and to provide water more efficiently to each field as needed. Constant
head orifice turnouts to sublaterals would be provided for water deliveries
to rotational areas of about 50 ha. Turnouts would be provided for each
10 ha unit from which farm ditches, constructed as part of the project,
would convey water directly to most farms. Farm drains would convey
excess water from each 10 ha unit to the main project outlet drains in
flat areas. For more steeply sloping areas, where the land gradient in
the direction of flow is in excess of 0.4%, the farms would drain from
field to field, and consequently the intensity of farm and collector
secondary drains would be somewhat lower. A few farms would still
receive water through their neighbor's fields. Canals would be unlined
except in selected portions of short length where the soils are erosive.
Working stations for Water Management Technologists (WMT) would be provided
for about each 500 ha of irrigated land. The stations would provide space
for temporary storage and drying of paddy.
4.        Gravel surfaced O&M roads would be construsted on the canal
banks. Canals with a design flow greater than 5.0 m /sec, would be
provided with a roadway 5 m wide on both banks if the service area is
on both sides of the canal and one bank where the canal se ves the area
on one side. Canals with capacities between 2.0 and 5.0 m /sec, would be
provided with a 3.5 m wide road 3on one bank. The roadway along waterways
with capacities less than 2.0 m /sec, and along some of the major farm
ditches would be a nongravel, 2.0 m wide, cycle or cart path. Access
roads 5.0 m wide would also be provided as links between the existing
major roads of the area and the canal O&M roads.    These roads would
also serve as farm-to-market roads. The surfacing of the roads would be
20 cm thick for 5.0 m wide roadways and 15 cm thick for 3.5 m roadways.
To allow continuous passage along the O&M roads, bridges and/or culverts
across the existing drainage waterways would be built. However, on
major streams or rivers, the O&M roads would be connected to existing
bridges by short access roads instead of constructing expensive, multi-
span bridges.
5.        The proposed level of on-farm distribution and drainage is
similar to that being implemented in other Bank-assisted projects, and
would be a substantial improvement on the present, practically non-
existent system. Rice has been grown in the project area for many years
and the land is reasonably level and well laid out with little fragmen-
tation of land holdings. Therefore, no land leveling, boundary realignment
or land consolidation would be required at this stage.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Extension Area
6.        An intake structure for the Jalaur Extension would be built
near the left abutment of the existing Jalaur diversion dam, to serve
a new main canal 24 km long. Hydrological records indicate that the
unregulated river flows would be adequate to serve an area on the left
bank of 8,200 ha in the wet season and 6,800 ha in the dry season
(Annex 4). The potential service area would include 3,500 ha of currently
rainfed rice lands and 4,700 ha presently under medium to large sugar
farms. The proposed main canal would provide irrigation to 2,700 ha of
rice lands divided into four blocks, two of which are about 1,200 ha
each, while the other two total 300 ha between them. The remaining 800
ha of rice land are distant from the canal and scattered among the sugar
holdings which would not be provided with irrigation under the project.
New irrigation, drainage and access facilities would be built on the
four blocks comprising the 2,700 ha extension. The intake works and main
canal would be sized for future inclusion of both the sugar area and the
remaining rice area. This would be done to protect the safety of the
water supply for the 2,700 ha extension from interference by sugar
growers adjoining the canal and to avoid the unnecessary expense of
duplicate facilities should it be decided to provide the sugar area with
water at a future date.



PHILIPPINES
JALAUR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Principal Project Features
Rehabilitation
Santa                      Jalaur
Jalaur       Suague       Barbara       Aganan       Extension        Total
Net irrigable area           (ha)         9,000        2,900         4,600         5,500         2,700        24,700
Main canals                  (km)             25            9             5           12             24            75
Laterals                     (km)            121           39            66           90            34            350
Project drains:              (km)
Rehabilitation                             47            7             13           28             5            100
New construction                           37            18            18           18            29            120
Farm ditches                 (km)           420           140           210          250           130          1,150
Farm drains                  (km)           230            80           120          130            80            640
Service roads:               (km)
O&M roads
- Along main canals (3.5-5 m)              25            9              5           12            24             75
- Along laterals (3.5 m wide)             113           35            60            82            30           320
Access roads      (3.5 m wide)              3            4              3            4             6             20
Farm roads        (2.0 m wide)             50           20             40           40            20            170          



ANNEX 3
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
JALAUR IRRIGATION PROJECT
List of Structures
Rehabilitation
Santa                      Jalaur
Jalaur       Suague       Barbara       Aganan        Extension       Total
Diversion Dams
Replace existing gates           (No.)           2            -             -            -              -             2
Mechanized gates operation    (No.)              8            -             -            -              -             8
New intake structure             (No.)           -            -             -             -             1             1
Main Canals
Modification of existing structures:
Install gates on checks, siphon &
check drops (No.)                          20             5             5           10             -            40
Repair of existing structures (No.)           10            8             4           28              -            50
Extension of existing drainage
structures (m)                             50           20             20           30             -            120
Repairs to flumes  (No.)                       2            -             -            -              -             2
ew additional structures:
Checks or check drops (No.)                    2            -             -            2              6            10
Bridges across canals                          2            1             2            5              5            15
Operation road bridges (No.)                   3            1             2            2              2            10
Culverts or thresher crossings (No.)           5            2             3            8             17            35
Drainage structures (No.)                      4            1             2            2              6            15
Secondary Canals
Modification of existing structures:
Install gates on checks, etc. (No.)          14             5             5            6              -            30
Repair of existing structures (No.)          80            25            35           60              -           200
Extension of existing drainage
structures (m)                             60           20             70           80             -            330
New additional structures:
Parshall flumes (No)                          14            5             3            4              4            30
New small checks without gates (No)           30           10            10           25             15            90
New checks with gates (No)                    10            4             4             6             6            30
C.H.O. turnouts (No)                          22            8            20           30             10            90
Bridges across canals (No)                     9            3             4            4             20            40
Operation road bridges (No)                    4            1             2             4             4            15
Culverts or thresher crossings (No)           30           10            10           10             15            75
Main and Secondary Drains
New structures:
Drops             (No)                     35            20            15           55             15           140
Road crossings   (No)                       15            6            21            8             10            60
Drainage inlets  (No)                      180           50            80          110             50           470



ANNEX 3
Table 3
PHILIPPINES
JALAUR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Irrigation Facilities Cost
Irrigation Systems
Santa
Jalaur       Suague      Barbara      Aganan       Average
…-----------------      (US$/ha)/l---------------------
I.  Rehabilitation Area (ha)            9,000        2,900       4,600         5,500       22,000
(a) Canal system
Diversion dam                    15             2           1            9             9
Main canal                       35           36           35           60           42
Secondary canals                116          116          66            73           95
Subtotal                166          154          102          142           146
(b)  Drainage system                  59            93          70           80            71
(c)  Road system                     184           234         120          144           162
(d)  On-farm distribution /
and drainage                210           221         215          205           211
Subtotal                   619           702         507          571           590
II. Extension Area (ha)                 2,700
(a)  Canal system /3
Intake work 3 -152
tMain canal -                   511
Secondary canals                226
Subtotal                   889
(b)  Drainage system                  63
(c)  Road system                     352
(d)  On-farm distribution /2
and drainage                230
Subtotal                 1,534
TOTAL                                                                           693
/1 Not including contingencies (25%) and engineering, supervision and administration (10%).
/2 Includes Water Management Technologist Stations.
_ iacity for a service area of 8,200 ha.



ANNEX 3
Table 4
PHILIPPINES
JALAUR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Density of Terminal On-Farm Facilities on IBRD Projects
On-Farm Facility
O&M
Project          Irrigation      Drainage            Roads
-------------- (m/ha) ----------------
UPRP                 57              12                13
Tarlac               55             40                 13
Magat                60             40                 15
Chico                59             40                 18
Jalaur               47 /1          24 /2              24 /3
/1  Lower than other projects due to higher density of
secondary laterals.
/2  Lower than other projects due to steep areas in upper
reaches covering about 70% of total area.
/3 Jalaur project includes 7 m/ha of farm roads.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
JALAUR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Water Supply, Demand and Quality
Water Supply
1.        Each of the four systems gets its water supply from a separate
river source using its own diversion and conveyance systems. The project
would not develop new irrigation supplies, but would improve and expand
the area covered by the existing irrigation systems. About 40% of the
project area would be supplied with water during the dry season.
2.        The Jalaur River Irrigation System (JRIS) is served through a
diversion dam on the Jalaur river where the river drains an area of
about 1,065 Km . Reliable discharge records are available for a gauging
station originally located a few hundred meters upstream of the diver-
sion dam from 1948 to 1956. After completion of the dam in 1956, the
station was relocated to a site about 500 mm below the dam. The records
for the period from 1957 to 1971 were adjusted by adding the amount of
diversions for the Jalaur system.
3.        The Suague river, a right bank tributary of the Jalaur, is
the main source of supply for the Suague River Irrigation (SRIS) system.
The catchment area at the diversion site is 181 Km . Reliable stream
flow records for the period from 1949 to 1971 are available for a gauging
station located below the diversion dam. As no diversion records are
available, the stream flow was adjusted for the period after construc-
tion of the diversion dam in 1959 by correlation with nearby stations
on the Ulian and Jalaur rivers for a concurrent period of records.
4.        The Santa Barbara Irrigation System (SBIS) receives its water
supply from the Tigum river through a diversion dam completed in 21923.
At the diversion dam the drainage area of the river is at 193 Km .
Continuous and reliable stream flow records are not available at the
diversion point, so the long term discharge records were synthesized
for the period from 1950 to 1971 by correlating the available record
of the station with concurrent records of the nearby Suague and Ulian
rivers.
5.        The Aganan river, with a drainage area of 104 km2 at the diversion
dam completed in 1925, is the source of supply for the Aganan River Irri-
gation System (ARIS). A stream gauging station established in 1911 was



Ai-s , -
Page 2
operated until 1923 with available records for six years for the period
from 1911 to 1913 and 1919 to 1923. Development of a long-term record
(1950-71) for the station was based on correlation with concurrent
records of the Sibalom river at Leon.
Water Demand
6.        An area of about 1,000 ha is currently under irrigated sugar-
cane cultivation with the remaining 23,700 ha under rice. It was
assumed that transplanted rice using 120-day nonphotosensitive vari-
ties in both the wet and dry season would remain the dominant crop in
the project. Water requirements for rice were based on the following
cropping calendar:
Operation                                     Dates
Wet Season                 Dry Season
Land preparation & nur-
sery                      Early May to mid-Sept.    Mid-Oct. to mid-Feb.
Transplanting                Late June to Late Sept.   Early Dec. to late Feb.
Harvesting                  Late Sept. to late Dec.   Mid-Feb to mid-May.
7.        Land preparation and nursery were estimated to take 30 days
with requirements for saturation, evaporation and percolation of 310 mm
in the wet season and 335 mm in the dry season. Flooding requirements
to provide a minimum depth of water in the field for culitvation in
each season were estimated to be 20 mm immediately after transplanting
followed by an additional 50 mm about two weeks later. Subsequent water
applications to compensate for evapotranspiration and deep percolation
losses were based on a percolation loss of 2.0 mm/day and evapotrans-
piration rates estimated to be equal to the observed open-rim pan evap-
oration at Pototan, Iloilo between 1957 and 1965. The effective rain-
fall was determined from observed daily rainfall records at Pototan,
between 1950 and 1971, allowing water depths to fluctuate with the
growth of the rice plants and limiting depth to 150 mm.
8.        The overall irrigation efficiency was estimated to be 43% in
the wet season and 50% in the dry season at full development, based on
farm irrigation wastes of 40% in the wet season and 30% in the dry
season, system operation losses of 10% and conveyance losses of 20%.
9.        The consumptive use of sugarcane was assumed to be a ratio
of observed monthly evaporation at Pototan. The following crop coeffi-
cients were used to obtain the consumptive use for sugar cane:
State of Growth              Crop Coefficient
Planting - 3 months                    0.50
3-4 months                         0.80
4-7 months                         1.00
7-9 months                         0.75



ANNEX 4
Page 3
10.       The effective rainfall was computed on the basis of daily rainfall
records at Pototan and soil moisture capacity assumed as 30 mm for the first
two months after planting and 50 mm for the remaining period. An overall
irrigation efficiency of 50% was used to derive diversion requirements for
the sugarcane.
11.       Monthly project water requirements for the rice and sugarcane crops
are shown in Table 1 and seasonal and total annual diversion requirements are
developed in Table 2. Monthly project water requirements and average river
flows for each irrigation system are shown in Table 3.
12.       The size of the project area was determined from simulated opera-
tion studies using synthesized discharge records for each of the four systems
for the 22-year period, 1949-1971, and the estimated seasonal water require-
ments for rice. The cropping calendar was chosen to maximize the use of
rainfall without exceeding local manpower constraints. No use of return
flows was assumed. About 1,900 ha can be irrigated during the dry season in the
Suague, Santa Barbara and Aganan systems. During the wet season there would
be some risk of shortage in the month of October in the Aganan system. River
flows in the Jalaur system are sufficient for wet season cropping of 9,000 ha
under the existing system and another 8,200 ha in the extension located on
the left bank of the river. The extension area consists of 4,700 ha under
sugarcane and 3,500 ha under rice. Due to the relatively large size of
holdings under sugarcane, present development in this area would be limited
to about 2,700 ha of rice land located in four blocks, the remaining 800 ha
of rice are scattered amongst the sugar areas. However, the diversion intake
works and main canal of the extension area would be sized to include future
addition of the remaining 5,500 ha (4,700 ha sugarcane and 800 ha rice). Dry
season cropping in the rehabilitated area of Jalaur on the right bank of the
river would be carried out on 9,000 ha for a cropping intensity of 200%, while
on the left bank extension 1,100 ha would be cultivated in the dry season for
a cropping intensity of 141%.
13.       The irrigable areas selected for development under the project
and the currently irrigated areas are as follows:
Irrigation System
JRIS     SRIS    SBIS    ARIS       Total
Selected Irrigable Area (ha)
Wet season                  11,700   2,900   4,600   5,500    24,700
Dry season                  10,100   1,300      500      100    12,000
Currently Irrigated Area (ha)
Wet season                   9,000   2,900   4,600   5,500    22,000
Dry season                   5,600   1,300      500      100      7,500



ANNEX 4
Page 4
Water Quality
14.       Tests of water samples from the Jalaur river indicate good
water quality with total dissolved solids under 300 ppm. The waters are
of low salinity, slightly alkaline (pH 7-9) and are free of toxic elements.
Water samples from the other three rivers have not been taken for analysis.
However, no adverse effects have been noted on the soils or crops irri-
gated with these waters for periods ranging from 20 to 50 years.



ANNEX 4
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
JALAUR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estimated Water Requirements
Jan.  |  Feb.    Mar. |  Apr.    M iay           June      July   I  Aug. I  Sept. I  Oct. |  Nov.    Dec.   Total |
I        I         I         I        I         I         I                                     ._  1 -1     I                   I
I  I  I  I  I  ILP+N         I                             I n
Wer  Season 'addy                  j   j   j           j                                              4          F                    F        i         I         i
1   1--  1   ,-1          I        ~    ~ ~~I  I         I        I          I         I         I                   I
I+  i'L      tl                 I                   I          I                     I        ILP+N              I         I
Prydeasoefaddy                              - ae  Ii                              I         i         i t                             I                                      I
LP = Land preparation, N = Nureery, T = Transplanting, M4             = Management,        0 = Drainage,    = Harvest 
I  |        |        |~ ~          ~ I   ,         ,         ,         ,          ,         I         I         I        I
Paddy Water Requirements (mm)                                  j        j         j           j         j        j          j        j                   I         I    
I        I         I         i        I         i         I         I         I          I                             I      
l,and preparation and nursery            j        I                   I j       I  80    | 140    j   90    i           i          |  100       125   |  110   |    6451|
Flooding for cultivation                 i  20                        I i                I  20    i   30    |   20   |                      I    20        30   i    1401
Evapotranspiration                       j 139    1  139       104    i         i        I         |   76    I  151  I  146             72       16        55   i    898|
Deep percolation                         i60           55       3 30            i             6    j   30          60        58    j   30         15       251        369 |
Field requirement  /                       219    j  194 4     134    j         i  80       166 6      226    j  231   |  204    j  202         1 76   |  220   |  2,U52|
Effective rainfall -                     I  23    j   14        10        -    |  66    j 131    j  181    I  191   j  179    |   72            110        64   j  1,0411
Net farm requirement                     j 196    I  180       124         0    |  14    |  35    |   45    I   40   i   25    j  130             66   |  156   |  1,011|
Overall efficiency                       1  50    i   50        50    j   _    i  43    |  43    |   43    I   43   |   43              49   i   50   |   50   i          i
Diversion requirement                    | 392    |  360   | 248    j   0    |  33    |  79            103    i   91   j   56          265   |  132   |  312   |  2,0711
/2                             I         I         I                             I                    I         I         I        I    
Sugarcane Water Requirements (mm) -1                 j         j         j                  j        I           j                             I j         j                 j
Lvapotranspiration  1                      103    |  108   | 104        106       124    | 133    |  152          1 52      127        122   |  107   |  104   |  1,4421
Effective rainfall -                        25    j   17   |  10    j  13    |  54    |  79    j   90    j  121   |  127               122   |  107 7      77   |    8421
Net farm  requirement                    |  78    |   91   |  94    |  93    |  70    I  54    |   62    j   31   j           - _        - _       - _     27   |    600
Diversion  requirement -                 I 156    1  182     188    | 186    I 140    j 108    j  124    I   62  I    -    I             _   I    _  I    54   |  1,20O|
_                             I        I        ~    ~ ~       ~ ~       ~~       ~ ~~I  I  I  I  I  I  I               I        I         I         I         I
/J   Effective rainfall esceeded in 4 out of 5 years (1949-1971) computed separately for paddy and sugarcane.
/2  March Planting.
/3  Based on 50% overall efficiency.



ANNEX 4
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
JALAUR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Project Water Requirements Summary
Wet Season   Dry Season   Annual
--------------(mm)--------------
Paddy
Land preparation
Saturation                                    75            50
Evaporation                                  175           225
Percolation                                   60            60
Subtotal                                 310           335        645
Flooding for cultivation                         70           70        140
Crop water requirements
Evapotranspiration                           445           453        898
Deep percolation                             184           185        369
Subtotal                                 629           638     1,267
Total field water requirement                1,009         1,043      2,052
Less effective rainfall                         820           221     1,041
Net farm irrigation requirement                 189          822      1,011
Farm irrigation efficiency (%)                   60            70
Farm requirement (turnout)                      315        1,174      1,489
Conveyance efficiency (%)                        80           80
System operation efficiency (%)                  90           90
Diversion requirement (headworks)               432        1,639      2,071
Overall irrigation efficiency                    43            50        49
Sugarcane
Evapotranspiration                                                    1,442
Less effective rainfall                                                 842
Net farm irrigation requirement                                         600
Overall irrigation efficiency (%) 1                                      50
Diversion requirement (headworks)                                     1,200
/1 Estimated efficiencies - farm 70%, conveyance 80% and system operation 90%.



ANNEX 4
Table 3
PHILIPPINES
JALAUR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estimated Water Requirement and Supply
Jan.   Feb.   Mar.   Apr.   May   June   July   Aug.   Sept.   Oct.   Nov.    Dec.
Irrigation Diversion Requirement
Rice:  early planting (mm)                          392    360      248        0     33    79    103        91      56      265    132        312
late planting  (mm)                         454    426      328    298       -       -      -       81      98      291     200      244
Sugarcane                (mm)                       156    182    188    186        140   108    124        62      -        -       -        54
Jalaur          | Cropped area
System          |   Rice:  wet season    (ha)                                                             <10,900                                         >
dry season    (ha)                         <-      9,300 ->                                                              <    9, 300->
|   Sugarcane              (ha)                                                 800-                                                                 >
3
| Diversion requirement (Mm
Rice                                                36.5    33.5   23.1       -      3.6   8.6   11.2    9.9        6.1    28.9   12.3    29.0
|   Sugarcane                                            1.3       1.5     1.5   1.5    1.1   0.9    1.0    0.5           _        -       -       0.4
Total                                            37.8    35.0   24.6   1.5    4.7   9.5   12.2   10.4            6.1    28.9   12.3       29.4
3
| Water supply (Mm)
|   critical year /I                                    53.6    38.3   26.3  14.8   34.3  70.5   97.8   80.3   84.8   141.7   99.8    85.7
Suagloe           Cropped area
Sy'tem -            Rice:  wet season    (ha)                                                            <             2,700                            >
|           dry season    (ha)                           <- 1,100->                                                               <       1,100->
Sugarcane             (ha)
3           <                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~200                                        >
Diversion requirement (Mm                                                              2
I   Rice                                                 4.3      4.0      2.7     -     0.9   2.1      2.8     2.5      1.5      7.2     1.5      3.4
|   Sugarcane                                             0.4      0.4     0.5   0,5      0.2     -       -       _     _        _        0.1      0.2
Total                                             4.7      4.4     3.2   0.5    1.1   2.1        2.8     2.5     1.5      7.2    1.6        3.6
3
I Water supply (Mm .
critical year /1                                     9.1      4.4      3.3   1.9     2.1   6.1   16.2   13.3   14.9    22.5   15.8            10.8
Santa           I Cropped area
barbara             Rice:  wet season    (ha)                                                                      -                ,609 
dry season   (ha)                             <_soe_>                                                                          <
3
Diversion requirement (Mm .
I   Rice                                                 2.3       2.1    1.6   1.5        -     -        -       3.7   4.5      13.4     1.0      1.2
I~~~~~~
i Water supply (Mm )
I   critical year /1                                      5.3      3.1    1.6   1.6    1.8   5.4         8.4      7.3  11.2      15.8   10.8       7.4
Aganan          | Cropped area
System              Rice:  early planting:  wet season (ha)                                                                    3,001                   >
late planting:   wet season (ha)                                                    <                      2,5001.
dry season (ha)                        100 --                                                           <      100->
| Diversion requi recent (M. 3
Rice:  early planting:  wet season                     -        -       -      -      1.0   2.4      3.1      2.7   1.7       2.1 /2
late planting:   wet season                   -         -       -     -       -      -       -        2.0   2.5       7.3
dry season                0.5      0.4     0.3   0.3       -      -       -        -      -        -      0.2       0.3
Total               0.5      0.4     0.3   0.3       1.0   2.4     3.1       4.7   4.2       9.4     0.2      0.3
3
| Water supply (Mm )
I   critical year /1                                      0.6      0.6     0.3   0.4      1.0   3.5    4.3        8.9   7.9       7.6     2.7      2.6
/L Monthly flows with 80% probability of occurrence (four out of five years).
/2 Irrigation diversion requirement for wet season rice (early planting) is 70 mm.



ANNEX 5
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
JALAUR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Cost Estimate
Foreign
Local      Foreign      Total      Local      Foreign      Total   Exchange
------ (Pesos '000) -------        -------(US$ '000) ---------         (%)
1. Irrigation Systems
Diversion dam & intake works              2,320         2,330      4,650        310          310        620       50
Main canal                                6,900        10,270    17,170         920        1,370      2,290       60
Secondary distribution system            10,120        10,050    20,170       1,350        1,340      2,690       50
Main & secondary drainage system          6,530         6,450    12,980         870          860      1,730       50
Service, access & farm roads             16,880       16,870    33,750       2,250         2,250      4,500       50
On-farm ditches & drains                 20,770       13,730    34,500        2,770        1,830      4,600       40
Water management stations                 3,450        1,500      4,950         460          200        660       30
Subtotal                             66,970       61,200   128,170       8,930        8,160    17,090        48
Contingencies 25%                        16,730       15,300    32,030       2,230         2,040      4,270       48
Engineering, supervision
& admin. 10%                           16,050          -       16,050      2,140           -        2,140        -
Subtotal                             99,750       76,500   176,250    13,300         10,200    23,500         43
2. O&M Buildings
Project headquarters                      1,650           750      2,400        220          100        320       30
Field offices                             1,270           530     1.800         170           70        240       30
Subtotal                              2,920        1,280      4,200        390          170         560       30
Contingencies 10%                           300           150        450         40           20         60       -
Subtotal                              3,220        1,430      4,650        430           190        620       30
3. Water Management Training
Project personnel                         1,650           450     2,100         220           60        280       20
Equipment and supplies                       750        1,430     2,180         100          190        290       66
Subtotal                              2,400        1,880      4,280        320           250        570       44
Contingencies 10%                           230           220        450         30           30         60       50
Subtotal                              2,630        2,100      4,730        350           280        630       44
4.  O&M Equipment                                150        3,070      3,220         20          410        430       95
5.  Technical Assistance                         150          600        750         20            80        100      80
Subtotal Project Costs (Items 1-5)   105,900          83,700   189,600    14,120          11,160    25,280        44
Expected Price Increases /1              36,600       28,800    65,400        4,880        3,840      8,720       44
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                     142,500      112,500   255,000    19,000          15,000    34,000        44
/1 Based on Annex 5, Table 7.



PHITIPPINES
JALAUR TRPICATION PROJECT
PROJECT SERVICE AREA
Cost Estimate
Irrigation System
Santa                Jalaur         Total
Jalaur   Suague   Barbara   Aganan   Extension          Cost      Local    Foreign
---------------------------------- (US$ 000) ----------------------------------
1. Irrigation and Drainage Facilities
Diversion dam and intake works                140           10        10        50        410         620         310        310
Main canal                                    320          100       160       330      1,380       2,290         920      1,370
Secondary distribution system               1,040         340        300       400        610       2,690       1,350      1,340
Main and secondary drainage system            530         270        320       440        170       1,730         870        860
Service, access and farm roads              1,530         680        550       790        950       4,500       2,250      2,250
On-farm ditches and drains                  1,650         560        870       980        540       4,600       2,770      1,830
Water management stations                     240           80       120       140         80         660         460        200
Subtotal                              5,450       2,040     2,330    3,130       4,140      17,090       8,930      8,160
Contingencies 25%                     1,360         510        580       780     1,040       4,270        2,230      2,040
Engineering, supervision and
administration 10%                   680         260       290       390        520       2,140       2,140           -
Subtotal                       7,490       2,810      3,200    4,300       5,700      23,500      13,300    10,200
2.  O&M Buildings                                      -           -          -         -          -         560         390        170
Contingencies 10%                         -           -          -         -          -          60          40         20
Subtotal                           -           -          -         -          -         620         430        190
3.  O&M Equipment                                      -           -          -         -          -         430          20        410
TOTAL                          7,490       2,810      3,200    4,300       5,700      24,550      13,750    10,800
(D >1
t,.  m



ANNEX 5
Table 3
PagE I
PHILIPPINES
JALAUR IURRIGATION PROJECT
Quantities and Cost Estimates of Irrigation & DrainaRe Works
Quantity /2                                           Cost (Pesos '0003
Rehabilitation                                            Rehabilitation
Unit                          Santa                Jalaur                                 Santa               Jalaur
Items                       Uoit     price /I  Jalaur   Suague  Barbara   ARanan  Extension  Total  Jalaur  Suague  Barbara  Aganan  Extension  Total
(Pesos)
DIVERSION DAM S INTAKE WORKS
Class A concrote                           03       l.000           40        -         -       300    2,000      2,340        40        -        -    300       2,000      2,340
Grooed riprap                             m3          15C          60        -         -       300       160        520        9        -        -      45         24         78
(ravel filter below riprap                 m            5i          20        -         -       100         60       180        1        -        -       5          3          9
Demol.tion of reinforced ronorete           3
and/or riprap                            m            50          20        _                 240       300       560         1        _        -      12         i5         21
Cates with hoistisg & installattos        ton      30,OOC           25        -         -          -         8        33      750        -        -       -        2411       99D
Motors 6 mechanism for gates              ea5h    15,00C             8        -         -          -         2        10     lZ0         -        -       -         30        150
Excavation and backfill                    03            6.50        -        -         -         -   20,000   20,000          -         -        -       -        130        130
Rock excavation                            m            35           -        -         -         -   40,000   40,000          -         -        -       -        140        140
Coffer dam and/or other diversion
facilities                          lump sum        -                                                                                         -       8        300         398
Foundation treatment                    lump sum        -            -        -         -          -                           -         -        -       -        100        100
Miscellaneous                           lump sum        -            -         -         -         -        -                  3 59     70       80       -         98        287
Subtotal                                                                                                    1,050        70       80    370       3,080      4,650
MAIN CANAL
Right of way                               hi      17,000            7          2          2        2       50        63      119       34       34      34        850      1,071
Ordioar y escariatn                        m3            6.50  10,000    6.000       34,000  38,000 240.000  328,000           65       39      221    247       1,560      2,132
Rock ex-avation                            m            40           -         -           -        -  15,000   15,000          -        -                -        600        60(l
Compacted fill aning excavation         
material                                m             3.50  10,000    4,000    10,000  20,000  22,000   66,000              35       14       35      70         77        231
Compacted till using borrowed material
with 300  m      overhauling             m            15       5,000   10,000       8,000  12,000  90,000  125,000           75      150      120    180       1,350      1,875
Concrete lining i-clodimg trimming
and joints                              m          400        1,500         -       300       600      800    3,200        600        -      120    240         320      1,280
Clams A  concrete                          m3        1,000         600       120       300    1,000   3,200        5,220      600      120      300  1,000       3,200      5,220
Crouted riprap                             m3          130         900       300        400    1,400   3,000       6,000      117       39       52    182         390        780
Sard . zravel bedding below riprap         m            35         400       200       200       400   1,000    2,200          14        7        7      14         35         77
GCtes with hoisting 6 installatiom        tom      30,000             7        10         2        12       15        46      210      300       60    360         450      1,380
Misc,lalneous metalwork                   ton      16,000            2          1         1         2       10        16       32       16       16      32        160         2S6
Rai' iros for bridges and other
.tr-ctures                              m            75         200        80       200       240      400    1,120        15         6       15      18         30         84
Prec-st slbs for bridges                   m           900         450         -        200         -      800    1,450       405        -      180       -        720      1,305
concret, pipe work (36" to 54"
din. pipes)                             m          400         100         50        75        75   1,250    1,550         40       20        30      30        500        620
lliscriianeoos                          lump sum        -           -          -         -         -        -         -        73        5       10      63        108         259
Subtotal                                                                                                     2,400      750   1,200  2,470       10,350    17,170
SECONDARY DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
Right of way                               hi      17,000           10        -           2         2       45        59      110        -       34      34       765       1,003
Ordinary e-a-ation                         m             6.50 220,000    70,000   70.000   90,000  60,000  510.000   1.430             455      455    585        390       3,315
Compacted fill using excavation
material                                m3            3.50  80,000   30,000   10.000   20,000  50,000  190,000             280      105       35      70       175         665
Compacted f ill using borrowod material
with  300  m overhauling                m3           15    120,000   36,000   20,000   16,000  30,000  222,00    1,800            540       300    240        450       3,330
Concrete liming including trimming
and  joints                             m3         400       3,800      1,200     1,100    1,200   1,200    8,500   1.520          480       440    480       480        3,400
Class  A concrete                          m3       1,000        1.100       400       500       800   1,600    4,400   1,100          400      500    800    1,600         4,400
Grouted tiptap                             m3          130         900       400       400    1,600        700    4.000       117       52       52    208         91         520
Sand 8 gravel bedding below riprap         m            35         400       200       200        600      200    1,600        14        7        7      21         7          56
(ate.s with hoisting 6 installation       ton      30,000           32        10          8        11       10        71      960      300      240    330        300       2,130
Mliscellaneous metalwork                  ton      16,000            7          2         1         1        4        15      112       32       16      t6        64         240
:1 Iings for bridges and other
ct-ct-ares                              m           75          800       400       200       200      400    2.000         60      30       15       L5        30         1S0
Pfp-W,rk (18" to 36" dia. pipes)           m3          250         300       200       400        500      700    2,100        75       50      100    125        175         525
( canc rote and/or riprap demolition       n           50         300        100       200       200       -        800       15         5      10      to          -          40
'Iis-Iloane.us                         lump sum                      -                   -         -        -         -       147       94       46      66        43          396
Subtotal                                                                                                     7,800   2,550   2,250  3.000        4,570      20,170
11rN 6 SECONDARY DRAINAGE SYSTEM
Right of way                               hi      17,000           56         27        27        27       17       154      952       459      459    459       289       2,618
irdioary excavation                        m3            5    330,000  160,000  170,000  180,000 100,000  940,000   1,650               800      850    900       500       4,700
Class A concrete                           m3        1,000         900       500        700    1,300       300    3.700       900       500      700  1,300       300       3,700
Mass ron-rete                              m3          600         400       200        300       600      1O0    1,600       240       120      180    360        60          960
Grouted riprap                             m3          130       1,000       600    1,000    1,600         400    4,600       130        78      130    208        52          598
Sand 6 gravel bedding below riprap         m            35         400       200       400        600      200    1,800        14         7        L4     21        7           63
Drainage inlets (complete)                each         340         200         50       100       100       50       500       68        17        34     34       17          170
Mtiscellaneous                          lump sum         -           -         -         -         -        -          -       26         39       33      18       55         171
Subtotal                                                                                                     3,980    2,020   2,400  3,300   1,280           12,980



ANNEX 5
Table 3
Page 2
Quantity /2                                              Cost (Pesas '000)
Rehabilitation                                              Rehabilitation _
Unit                          Santa                  Jalaur                                Santa              Jalaur
Item                        Enit      Price /1  Jalaur   Suagne  Barbara    Aganan  Extension  Total Jalaur  Suagne  Barbara  AMacan  Extension  Total
(Pesos)
SERVICE, ACCESS & FARlf ROADS
Right of way                                hi      17,000           49        21         28        33       27        158    825         355      475    568       452       2,675
Ordinary excavation                         m             6.50  20,000   12,600   20,300   29,400  29,200    111,500           130         82      132    19L       190          725
Compacted fill using borrowed                3
material with 300 n overhauling          m           15    310,000  160,000    70,000  100,000 250,000    890,000  4,650            2,400   1,050  1,500    3,750         13,350
Gravel and/or selected material for          3
surfacing  inclading compaction         m3           25    130,000    60,000   50,000   56,000  85,000    381,000  3,250    1,500    1,250  1,400    2,125                 9,525
Glass A concrete                            03       1.000        1,800       400       400    1,400        300      4,300  1.,800       400       400  1,400       300       4,300
Granted riprap                               3         130          500       200        300    1,200       200      2.400       65        26       39    156        26          312
S0ud and granl bedding below riprap  rm                  35         200       100       100        400      100        900        7         4        4      14        4           33
Precast concrete slabs for bridges          m          900           -         40        230        50       -         320        -        36      207      45        -          288
Pipe railings for bridges .                              75         600       300        600    1,200       200      2,900      45         23       45      90       15          218
Miscellaneous metalwork                    ton      16,000            6          2         3         6        1          18      96        32       48      96       16          288
Farn roads 2.0 n wide, earthwork and
compac-tio                              km       10,000           50        20        40        40        20        170    500        200      400    400        200       1,700
Pipework (18" to 24" dia. pipes)            m          140          800       300        500       500      300      2,400     112         42       70      70       42          336
Subtotal                                                                                                     11,480      5,100   4,120  5,93O    7,120        33,750
ON-FARi DITCHES & DRAINS
Right of way                                ha      17,000          150        50         80        90       50        420  2,550         850   1,360  1,530        850       7,140
Earthwork for maim farm ditch               km      14,000          170        60         90       100       50        470  2,380         840   1,260  1,400        700       6,580
Earthwork for supplementary
field ditch                             km       11,000          250        80       130       150        80        690  2,750        880   1,430  1,650         880       7,590
Earthwork for farm drain                    km       8,000          230        80        120       130       80         640  1,840        640      960  1,040       640       5,124
Compacted fill in c-ncrete lining
parts of ditch                           k3      10,000            6         2         3          4        2         17      60        20        30      4O       20         170
Concrete lining                             m3         400          500       180        250       300      180      1,410     200         72      100    120        72          564
Class A concrete                            m3       1,000          700       250        350       420      250      1,970      700       250      350    420       250       1,970
MiscelLaneous metalwork                    run      16,000             2         1         1         2         1          7      32        16       16      32        16         112
Gates with installation                    ton      30,000           14          5         6         7         5         37    420        150      180    210       150        1,110
Pip, work (18" to 24" din. pipes)           m           140       2,000       700    1,000       1,200      700      5,600     280         98      140    168        98          784
'ar- turnouts with stop-plank grooves each             180        3,500     1,200     1,900      2,200    1,100      9,900     630        216      342    396       198       1,782
1'. ast check structures for main
:1rm ditch                             each         200          500       180       270       300       150      1,400     100        36        54     61        30         280
:-want check stractares for
upplenentary field ditch and
ud structures                         each         190       1,000        320       520       600      320       2,760     190        61       99    114        61          525
lsell .aneous                           lump sum        -            -         -         -          -        -          -      248         71     199    170         85         773
Subttral                                                                                                     12,380    4,200    6,520  7,350   4,050          34,500
WATIER IIANAGEMENT STATIONS
Right of way                                h2      17,000           15          5         7         9        5          41    255         85      119    153        85          697
Water master working station                m9          350         720       240        360       440      240      2,000      252        84      126    154        84          700
Storage area                                m          200          450       150        230       280      150      1,260       90        30       46      56       30          252
Covered drying floor (nipa & bamboo
roofing)                                m2          100       5,550      1,800     2,850     3,050    1,800    15,050       555       180      285    305        l80       1,505
Open drying floor                           m            6o      10,800    3,600      5,400      6,370   3,600      29,770      648       221      324    382       221       1,796
Subtotal                                                                                                      1,800        600      900  1,050       600       4,950
TOTAL COST                                                                                               40,890    15,290  17,470 23,470  31,050    128,170
/0 Unit cost indexed to January 1977 levels.
/2 Quantities revised from feasibility estimates by 5 to 151 during mission review.



ANNEX 5
Table 4
PHILIPPINES
JALAUR IRRIGATION PROJECT
O&M BUILDINGS
Quantities and Cost Estimates
Unit
Item                            Unit    Quantity    Price        Amount
(Y)     (P '000)
1. Project Headquarters
Land with landscaping & fencing, etc.           Ha           3     60,000         180
Roads, sewage & water supply, etc.             LS            -           -        300
Buildings:                                       2
Offices, infirmary & staff quarters          m2       1,450          800      1,160
Laboratory facilities                        m2           80         750         60
Warehouse, workshop & powerhouse, etc.    m2            850          600       510
Car garage                                   m           150        400         60
Sport courts, etc.                             LS            -           -        130
Subtotal                                                       2,400
2. Field Offices
Land with landscaping & fencing, etc.           Ha           2     60,000         120
Roads, sewage & water supply, etc.             LS            -           -        200
Buildings:                                       2
Offices & staff quarters                     m        1,000          800       800
Warehouse, workshop & security force           2
barracks, etc.                            m2         850         600        510
Car garage                                   m           100        400         40
Sport courts, etc.                             LS           -            -        130
Subtotal                                                       1,800



ANNEX 5
Table 5
PHILIPPINES
JALAUR IRRIGATION PROJECT
O&M BUILDINGS
Cost Estimate
Local    Foreign      Total
-(US$ 000) …
1.   Project headquarters                          220        100         320
2.   Field offices                                 170         70         240
Subtotal                                   390        170        560
Contingencies (10%)                         40         20         60
TOTAL                                         430        190         620



ANNEX 5
Table 6
PHILIPPINES
JALAUR IRRIGATION PROJECT
WATER MANAGEMENT TRAINING
Cost Estimate
Local    Foreign      Total
…___--…(US$000)       …
1.   Project personnel                              220         60         280
2.   Equipment, supplies and materials
(a) Office supplies, materials
and furniture                           15         15          30
(b)  Farm equipment                             8         16          24
(c)  Vehicles                                   -         70          70
(d)  Hydromet. equipment                        -         10          10
(e)  Fuel, oil, spares                          -         30          30
(f)  Field supplies and materials               -         40          40
(g)  Sundries                                  77          9          86
Subtotal                                 100        190         290
Subtotal Items 1 & 2                     320        250         570
Contingencies (10%)                       30         30          60
TOTAL                                350        280        630



ANNEX 5
Table 7
PHILIPPINES
JALAUR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Expected Price Increases
Calendar Year
1977     1978    1979       1980      1981      Total
…-            --       (US$ '000)…
1. Civil Works
Irrigation and drainage facilities   2,200   6,700    7,000    4,800    2,800   23,500
O&M buildings                             120      300       200         -         -      620
Subtotal                            2,320   7,000    7,200    4,800    2,800   24,120
Annual inflation rate (%)  /1              12       12        12        10        10         -
Expected price increases                  160   1,500    2,600    2,440    1,820    8,520
2. Equipment and Services
Technical assistance                      100        -         -         -         -       100
O&M equipment                               -      300       130         -         -      430
Water management training                  60      200       150       150        70       630
Subtotal                              160      500      280       150        70    1,160
Annual inflation rate (%) /1                 8       8         8         7         7         -
Expected price increases                   10       60        60        40        30      200
Total without price increases             2,480   7,550    7,480    4,900    2,870   25,280
Expected price increases                     170   1,560    2,660    2,480    1,850    8,720
Total with price increases                2,650   9,110   10,140    7,380    4,720   34,000
/1 Calculated by compounding the estimated rate of price increases in prior year and one-
half the rate of increase in the year concerned.



ANNEX 6
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
JALAUR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Equipment for Force Account Work
Unit         Total
Item                       Quantity          Cost          Cost
Tc--,(US$ c l 1)---7
Tractor, crawler 140 hp                           3             70            210
Tractor, crawler 90 hp                            5             48            240
Crane, crawler, dragline 3/4 cu. yd.              4             85            340
Hydraulic backhoe, crawler 0.4 cu. yd.            7             35            245
Tractor, industrial w/backhoe loader             15             30            450
Front end loader, wheeled 1.5 cu. yd.             5             34            510
Farm tractor with blade                           5             15             75
attachment 75 hp
Truck, tractor w/25 ton trailer                   1             50             50
Motor grader, 125 hp                              3             50            150
Roller, 3-wheel steel 12 ton                      1             30             30
Roller 5 ton                                      3             15             45
Roller 1.0 m wide                                 6             10             60
Mixer, concrete 1/2 cu. yd.                      13             12            156
Compactor 19 x 24 in. plate w/generator          13              6             78
Water pumps 2 to 6 in. size                      16              1             16
Truck, dump 6-8 cu. yd.                          13             25            325
Truck, flatbed 6 ton                              7             20            140
Truck, water                                      1             20             20
Truck, forklift                                   1             20             20
Truck, fuel and lubrication service               1             40             40
Truck, pickup 3/4 ton 4 x 4                       8             10             80
Mobile repair shop, truck mtd.                    1             70             70
Station wagons 4 x 4                              6             10             60
Jeep, utility vehicle 4 x 4                      10              9             90
Miscellaneous tools & equipment                                                40
Subtotal                                                             3,540
Spare parts 10%                                                               360
TOTAL                                                                3,900



ANNEX 6
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
JALAUR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Equipment for Operation and Maintenance
Unit         Total
Item                           Quantity          Cost         Cost
---- (US$ 000)----
Water pumps 2 to 4 in. size                      8              1             8
Station wagon 4 x 4                              4             10            40
Jeep, utility vehicle 4 x 4                      8              9            72
Truck, pickup 3/4 ton 4 x 4                      6             10            60
Motor bike 100 cc                               70              1            70
Weed cutter                                   250               0.3          75
Radio transceiver (single Sb)                    6              4            24
Miscellaneous tools & equipment (lump sum)                                   41
Subtotal                                                             390
Spare parts (10%)                                                            40
TOTAL                                                                430



ANNEX 6
Table 3
PHILIPPINES
JALAUR IRRIGATION PROJECT
WATER MANAGEMENT TRAINING
List of Equipment and Vehicles
Unit        Total
Item                                    Quantity      Cost        Cost
(US $)     …
1.  Office and Training Equipment
Typewriters                                        4         500         2,000
Mimeo machines                                     4       1,000         4,000
Desk calculators                                   8         100           800
Slide projectors w/screens                         4         250         1,000
Cameras                                            3         300           900
Movie projector                                    1       2,400         2,400
Public address systems                             5       1,600         8,000
Tape recorders w/cassettes                         4         200           800
Moisture meters                                    3         500         1,500
Miscellaneous office furniture                     -           -         8,600
Subtotal                                                           30,000
2.  Farm Equipment
Row seeders                                        3         300           900
Transplanters                                      3         300           900
Rotary weeders                                    30          50         1,500
Power tillers w/attachments                        3       1,200         3,600
Boom sprayers                                      3         400         1,200
Threshers                                          3       2,500         7,500
Farm tractor w/attachments 45 hp                   1       8,400         8,400
Subtotal                                                            24,000
3. Vehicles
Bicycles.                                         12         100         1,200
Motorcycles 100 cc                                 6       1,000         6,000
Truck, pickup 1/2 ton                              3       8,000        24,000
Jeep, wagon 4 x 4                                  2       9,000        18,000
Bus, 40 seat                                       1      20,800        20,800
Subtotal                                                            70,000
4. Hydromet Equipment
Portable Parshall flumes                           3         600         1,800
Water level recorders                              3         500         1,500
Raingauges                                         3         200           600
Evaporation pans                                   3         300           900
Miscellaneous                                                            5,200
Subtotal                                                            10,000
5.  Miscellaneous Equipment
Provision for unlisted items of equipment,
apparatus and instruments.                                           16,000
TOTAL                                                               150,000



ANNEX 7
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
JALAUR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Expenditures
Total
Item                      Cost     FY78 /1   FY79      FY80     FY81     FY82
…-------------------- (US$ o000)  -    …---------------
Project service area     24,120    5,820    7,100    6,000    3,800    1,400
O&M equipment               430       150      210       70      -        -
Water management
training                  630      160      180       150      110       30
Subtotal           25,180    6,130    7,490    6,220    3,910    1,430
Expected price
increases               8,820      960    2,130    2,600    2,190       940
Total Project Cost   34,000    7,090    9,620    8,820    6,100    2,370
/l IBRD Fiscal years.



ANNEX 7
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
JALAUR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                     Accumulated Disbursements
and Semester                           US$'ooo Equivalent
Fiscal Year 1978
1st                                        1,300
2nd                                        3,100
Fiscal Year 1979
1st                                        5,100
2nd                                        7,600
Fiscal Year 1980
1st                                        9,800
2nd                                       11,500
Fiscal Year 1981
1st                                       12,600
2nd                                       13,500
Fiscal Year 1982
1st                                       14,200
2nd                                       14,700
Fiscal Year 1983
1st                                       15,000



ANNEX 7
Table 3
PHILIPPINES
JALAUR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of Proceeds of Loan
Costs
Proposed
Category                               Total           Forei_n            Loan
------------(US$ million)-------------
I. Civil Works:
Project service area /1          13.80           4.43                6.8*
Water management training /2    0.40             0.10
Expected price increases          6.80           2.12
Subtotal                    21.00           6.65
* Of which (a) US$2.0 million for mobilization and contractors' equipment
and (b) US$4.8 million for other civil works. Disbursement for (a) will
be 100% of foreign expenditure up to 20% of the value of each contract and
for (b) 25% of total expenditure.
II.  Equipment: /3                     4.50            4.30               6.4
Expected price increases          1.90           1.87
Subtotal                     6.40           6.17
Disbursement will be 100% of foreign expenditure for directly imported
equipment, 100% of expenditure (ex-factory) for locally manufactured
equipment and 65% of total expenditure for imported equipment procured
locally.
III.  Technical Assistance              0.10            0.08               0.1
Disbursement will be 100% of total expenditure.
IV.   Unallocated: /4
Physical contingencies            4.40           2.10                1.7
(Administrative & engineering) (2.10)             -
Total                       34.00          15.00              15.0
/1  Force account equipment (US$3.9 million) excluded and transferred to
Category II; Annex 6, Table 1.
/2  Excludes cost of equipment (US$150,000); Annex 6, Table 3.
/3  Includes equipment for force account (US$3.9 million), O&M (US$430,000),
and water management training (US$150,000).
/4  See Annex 5, Table 1.



ANNEX 8
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
JALAUR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Organization & Management
1.        Since 1964 overall responsibility for the national irrigation
systems in the Philippines has been vested in the National Irrigation
Administration (NIA). The NIA was set up under Republic Act No. 3601 to
investigate, study, improve, construct and administer all national
irrigation systems. It was given the power to investigate all available
water resources in the country in order to utilize them for irrigation
and to collect water rates from the beneficiaries of the national irriga-
tion systems. Presidential Decree No. 552 of September 11, 1974 has
further widened NIA's scope by giving it ".... broader powers and authority
to undertake concomitant projects such as flood control, drainage, land
reclamation, hydraulic power development, domestic water supply, road or
highway construction, reforestation and projects to maintain ecological
balance, in coordination with the agencies concerned." The NIA is financed
by the Government through the sale of bonds or from appropriations.
2.        The governing body of the NIA is the Board of Directors,
composed of a Chairman and five members, who are all ex-officio except
for one member appointed by the President of the Philippines on the
recommendation of rice and corn growers. Management of the NIA is the
responsibility of an Administrator appointed by the President. The
Administrator is also Vice-Chairman of the Board. Directly below the
Administrator there are three Assistant Administrators, respectively
responsible for Special Projects, Engineering and Operation, and Finance
and Administration. Field services are managed by eight regional and two
subregional offices, together with a number of special project offices.
3.        The NIA has recently been reorganized and expanded to meet the
wider responsibilities imposed on it by Presidential Decree No. 552 and
by the Government's policy of accelerating irrigation development. As a
result of this reorganization all of the major foreign-assisted projects
have been integrated under the Special Projects Organization office, thus
avoiding duplication and increasing transfer of experience between
projects. The Special Projects Organization would also be responsible
for executing and operating the Jalaur project.
4.        NIA would appoint the Regional Engineer (Region V) stationed in
Iloilo as Jalaur Project Manager; he would be responsible to the Assistant
Administrator for Special Projects. Day-to-day responsibility for construc-
tion would rest with an Assistant Project Manager to be stationed near
Pavia, the proposed location of project headquarters. NIA expects to meet
the staff requirements by transfer from the Angat-Magat Integrated Agricul-
tural Development Project, which is nearing completion. The Special Projects
Engineering Department would design plans and prepare estimates for the
Project works, except for on-farm facilities (para. 5), and would also
undertake contract administration work.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
5.        The proposed organization for construction is shown in Chart
No. 16392. The Project Engineering Division would be responsible for the
preparation of plans, programs, design and estimates of on-farm facilities
as well as revisions dictated by field conditions of those works designed in
the central office. The Administrative Division would be responsible for
personnel and records management, accounting, property, procurement and
other services. The agricultural phase of the project would be handled
by the Agricultural Division and the Equipment Division would provide main-
tenance and services for construction equipment and vehicles to be used on
force account construction. There would be two construction divisions: the
first, located at Pototan would be responsible for the rehabilitation of the
Suague system and the rehabilitation and extension of the Jalaur system; the
second, located at Pavia, would be responsible for work on the Santa Barbara
and Aganan systems.
6.        The proposed organization for operation and maintenance is shown in
Chart No. 16391(R). The headquarters staff under the project Manager would
consist of four support divisions: an Engineering and Operation Division,
an Agriculture Division, an Equipment Division and an Administrative Division.
The Equipment Division would handle the equipment of the project, and the
Agriculture Division would be responsible for the water management training
center, introducing new water management techniques and farming methods as
well as ensuring that necessary agricultural support services are established
in the area. The Engineering and Operation Division would be responsible for
day-to-day maintenance activities and operation of the system including water
scheduling, while the Administrative Division would handle personnel and
records management, accounting and other services. For operation and main-
tenance purposes, the project area would be divided into two irrigation
districts based in Pototan and Pavia. The Pototan district would serve a
total area of 14,600 ha covering the Jalaur and Suague systems. The Pavia
district would cover the Santa Barbara and Aganan systems serving a total area
of about 10,000 ha. Each district would be further subdivided into divisions
of about 2,500 ha each controlled by a supervisor and would be subdivided into
500 ha units, each under a Water Management Technologist (WMT). A ditch
tender would be employed for every 100 ha, two of the basic 50 ha units. Each
WMT therefore would be responsible for about five ditch tenders. The estimated
annual cost of operation and maintenance is P 180 (US$24) per ha as shown below:



ANNEX 8
Page 3
Cost of Irrigation Operation and Maintenance /1
Annual Cost
(P/ha)        (US$/ha)
Salaries and wages                              110           14.60
Equipment operation                              35            4.10
Materials and supplies                            5            0.70
Administrative & general expenses                30            4.00
Total                                      180           24.00
/1 From detailed NIA estimates of personnel and equipment
requirements, based on experience in UPRP.



ANNEX 9
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
JALAUR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Supporting Agricultural Services
1.        Many Government organizations currently have dealings with the
farmers, the principal agencies are:
(a) Bureau of Agricultural Extension (BAE);
(b)  Bureau of Plant Industry (BPI);
(c)  Department of Agrarian Reform (DAR);
(d)  Agricultural Credit Administration (ACA);
(e)  Department of Local Government and Community Development
(DLGCD);
(f)  National Grains Authority (NGA); and
(g)  National Irrigation Administration (NIA).
In addition, there are the non-Government Rural Banks (RB).
2.        In the Upper Pampanga River Project (UPRP) the need for coordi-
nating the various agencies providing services to the farmers was clearly
felt. An Agricultural Development Coordinating Council (ADCC) was estab-
lished for the project to provide day-to-day control and coordination of
the activities of the various agencies within the project area. The ADDC
consisted of the Provincial Heads of all the participating agencies. The
arrangement is working well in UPRP and similar organizations are being set
up for the Tarlac Irrigation Systems Improvement Project, the Rural Develop-
ment Project on Mindoro and the Magat project.   An ADCC based on Iloilo
Province would be established for the proposed project.
3.        The BAE is mainly responsible for agricultural extension, with
technical back-up provided by the BPI. Under the Masagana 99 program aimed
at increasing rice production, a total of 95 agricultural technicians was
used in the project area. The technicians, all graduates, came mainly from
BAE and DAR. This worked out to a ratio of one extension worker to about
210 farmers.
4.        The project would be organized on the basis of irrigation units
of 50 ha in the same manner as the Pampanga, Tarlac, Magat and Chico projects.
The 20 to 25 farmers in such a unit would be given every incentive to work
together as a group. The NIA would schedule irrigation on a rotational



ANNEX 9
Page 2
basis thus promoting a uniformity of operations within each unit at any
given time. The rotational area would also be the basic unit for the
provision of credit and the building block for the eventual organization of
irrigation associations and cooperatives. In the Bank-assisted irrigation
project,, the NIA is assigning a Water Management Technologist to every ten
units. The same staffing pattern would be applied to the Jalaur project
(see Annex 8). The water management staff would supplement the existing
extension personnel provided by the various Government agencies and would
help to increase extension coverage in the project area.
5.        New extension work items to be emphasized would include improved
irrigation and drainage practices, the importance of scheduling operations,
the use of good quality seed and even planting, proper fertilizer application,
weed and pest control, and the use of tillage and threshing machinery.
Research
6.        The Visayas Rice Experiment Station at Leganes in the project area
is operated by the BPI. Research work includes varietal screening, fertilizer
rates, direct seeding methods with the attendant weed, insect and rodent con-
trol, and multiple cropping plus some minor projects. Some 42 ha of the
station are used to produce foundation seed for the certified seed program
of the province. A water management pilot project was set up at Potatan in
1974 by the NIA in cooperation with the Philippine Council for Agricultural
Research (PCAR). The research undertaken at this station includes water
use studies of rice and the use of effective rainfall as a guide for timing
of irrigation in relation to HYV and different fertilizer rates. The work
would be valuable to the project in developing information for making maximum
use of limited water supplies. The BAE conducts trials and demonstrations in
cooperation with the Agricultural College of the University of the Philippines
and the International Rice Research Institute. The Bureau of soils has a
unit in the province.   NIA has good working relations with these agencies
and the project would be able to draw on research back-up from all these
sources.
Fertilizer
7.        Annual consumption of fertilizer in the project area currently
amounts to 5,800 tons, of which about 30% is in the form of urea and
armnonium sulphate and the balance is evenly divided between amnonium
phosphate and compound formulations like 15-15-15. Application rates
run at fairly high levels, the average being 55, 17 and 6 kg/ha for
nitrogen, phosphate and potash respectively. At full development the
project would require some 9,600 tons of fertilizer annually of which
68% would be urea and the balance triple super-phosphate. In terms of
nutrients the average rate of application per crop season would be
80 kg/ha nitrogen and 40 kg/ha phosphoric acid. There are four dealers
and 28 subdealers of fertilizer and agro-chemicals in the project area
who would handle the increased demand without difficulty.



ANNEX 9
Page 3
Seed
8.        About 2,000 tons of rice seed per annum are presently used
in the project area. The requirement that Masagana program farmers use
certified seed has promoted the development of a large seed growing
capability. There are currently about 100 registered growers of certi-
fied seed on just under 2,500 ha under BPI supervision. Production from
this area already exceeds local demand. At full development the annual
seed requirement for the project area would total about 1,840 tons, of
which not more than about 450 tons would be certified. There would be
no difficulty in obtaining this amount.
Farmers' Organizations
9.        As part of the Agrarian Reform program, the Government, through
the DLGCD, is promoting the formation of precooperative farmers' organiza-
tions., based on the barrio or hamlet. The organizations would serve
as channels for the inflow of technical services, credit and inputs and as
assembly points for produce intended for market. There are 255 pre-
cooperatives with 10,000 members in the project area, with 34 assigned
field workers and 216 volunteer barrio workers. It is hoped that
these organizations will grow into fully-fledged, formally constituted
cooperatives. This approach to cooperative organization fits in well with
the 50 ha irrigation unit approach by NIA on Bank-assisted irrigation
projects.
10.       The NIA is committed to the creation of irrigation associations
among the farmers which would eventually assume a large part of the responsi-
bility for the operation and maintenance of the national irrigation systems.
Without losing sight of the ultimate objective, the main thrust of NIA's
efforts in the Bank-assisted projects has been to organize the farmers
within the 50-ha units, primarily for production and water management. The
immediate aim is to demonstrate to the farmers that working together and
using water efficiently is possible and profitable. Once this has been
established, a realistic framework for setting up irrigation associations
would exist. The project area would be expected to follow the pattern and
gain from the experience of the earlier Luzon projects.
Credit
11.       Some 40% of the farmers in the project area finance their
requirements of farm inputs and hired labor from their own resources. The
remainder use some form of credit. The principal sources are:
(a) banks, notably the Rural Banks (RB), the Philippine
National Bank (PNB), the Development Bank of the
Philippines (DBP) and private banks;
(b) the Agricultural Credit Administration (ACA);



ANNEX 9
Page 4
(c) input dealers, marketing organizations and millers; and
(d) money lenders.
Fifteen of the 26 RBs in Iloilo province are within reach of the project
area farmers.
12.       To ensure the success of the Agrarian Reform program, the Govern-
ment has proceeded to strengthen the credit institutions and to facilitate
the granting of production credit to small farmers who previously depended
on the landlord and private money lenders for their requirements. RBs have
been authorized rediscounting privileges of 100%, Government guarantees of
up to 85% of the loans made and low-cost money is available from the Central
Bank. The easier credit thus made available is employed under a system of
"supervised credit", which includes the provision of technical services to
the borrower to ensure that recommended practices, including variety,
fertilizer and agro-chemical inputs, are adopted. Loans granted under
supervised credit are not secured by collateral, but are covered by a
Government guarantee; the interest is at 12% per annum and the loan is for a
period of six months. During the 1974 wet season crop, a total of about
P 40.7 million (US$5.4 million) was issued as production credit to rice
farmers in the Masagana program in Iloilo province. The PNB accounted for
about 48% of the total, the RBs for 47% and the ACA for the balance. The
area covered by the credit amounted to 53,000 ha. It is estimated that
about 11,000 ha in the project area, or 45% of the total, received P 9.5
million (US$1.3 million) under the program.
13.       Under the Masagana program, production credit was given up to
P 800/ha, consisting of P 430 for inputs and P 370 for labor and subsis-
tence. The Government has since raised the rate to P 1,200/ha, made up
of P 680 for the inputs and P 520 for labor and subsistence. The increased
rate is a little below the production costs estimated at full development.
Assuming that at full project development about 20% of the farmers in the
project area would find their requirements of inputs and hired labor from
their own resources, some 9,600 farmers would need credit from institutional
sources. At a loan level of P 1,200/ha the total annual credit requirement
at full development would amount to P 34.2 million (US$4.6 million). The
existing credit institutions would be able to meet the requirement.



ANNEX 10
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
JALAUR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Present and Projected Cropping Patterns and Production
Present Cropping Pattern
1.        All but a small portion /1 of the 24,700 ha in the project
are cultivated to rice in the wet season. Of these about 22,000 ha are
irrigated and the remaining 2,700 are rainfed. The irrigated land is
located in four gravity systems operated by NIA. In the irrigated area
approximately 7,500 ha are cultivated during the dry season for a cropping
intensity of 134%. However, for the project area as a whole the present
cropping intensity is 130%. Rice is by far the most important crop in the
area. Small areas of corn, mung beans, cowpea, melons and vegetables are
grown without irrigation in the dry season. Annual paddy production is
estimated at about 80,000 tons.
2.        Wet season irrigated rice is grown between June and December.
Transplanting time in this area is about eight weeks, which is shorter
than other areas in the Philippines; any use of direct seeding would
reduce it further. About 10% of the farmers own small tractors and about
half of the farmers utilize these tractors for land preparation in combin-
ation with animal power. There is an ample supply of agricultural labor in
the area and much of the field work is still done manually. On about 85% of
the area rice is transplanted from field nurseries onto previously puddled
land, while on the balance of the land it is direct seeded with soaked seed
and broadcast into fully drained puddled fields. The dry season crop is
planted in January and February and harvested by traditional, manual
methods between mid-April and mid-May. Only a few mechanical threshers are
in use in the area.
3.        On the presently irrigated land 85% of the area is planted to
improved varieties. The average paddy yield in the rainfed areas is about
1.8 ton/ha, on the irrigated areas the yield in the wet season is about
2.7 ton/ha and 2.4 ton/ha in the dry season./2 Higher yields are expected
in the dry season due to better growing conditions, but water supply and
distribution are unsatisfactory in the project area in the dry season.
The rice yields in Iloilo are better than in Central Luzon.
/1 Less than 1,000 ha of sugarcane are scattered in patches along the
rivers.
/2 Yields in the Aganan system are about 20% lower because of higher
risks of water shortage.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
Future Cropping Pattern
4.        In the absence of the project the rate of increase in yield
in the rainfed area is estimated at about 1.4% per annum and would probably
be due to a slow increase in the area under high yielding varieties. In
the irrigated areas the yields in both wet and dry season crops are esti-
mated to increase about 1.5% per annum as a result of gradual improvement
of crop management. The use of inputs would be expected to increase with
the availability of greater supplies of credit and further extension
efforts as part of the Government's campaign for national rice self-
sufficiency. Existing cropping intensities would remain unchanged in the
absence of additional water supplies and improvement of the systems.
5.        The expected changes in the cropping pattern and production
under the project are shown in Table 1. Some 24,700 ha would be provided
with wet season irrigation, of which 2,700 ha are currently rainfed.
Improved facilities in the four irrigation systems and better water manage-
ment would allow dry season cropping to increase from the current 7,500 ha
to 12,000 ha. Overall cropping intensity in the project area would rise
from the present 130% to 149%. The proposed cropping pattern based solely
on rice is consistent with soils and topography and the customs of the local
people.
Future Yields
6.        With good water control, adequate supplies of credit and inputs
and increased extension service support, future paddy yields under irriga-
tion are expected to be 4.0 ton/ha in both the wet and dry seasons. The
projected yields would be reached five years after the rehabilitation of
the present facilities and the completion of the Jalaur extension. The
improved yields would be obtained from the use of high yielding varieties
throughout the project area, better land preparation through greater use of
machinery, certified seed, heavier fertilizer inputs and greater expendi-
tures on crop protection and weed control. The improved road network
envisaged under the project would improve access to the farms, thus facili-
tating the inflow of inputs and outflow of produce.
Development Constraints
7.        The project would add 4,500 ha of dry season cropping resulting
in an 28% increase in labor requirement, a greater degree of mechanization
of both land preparation and harvesting, and a demand for additional drying
and storage facilities. The most important issues are examined briefly.
8.        Cropping Calendar.  Chart No. 16408 shows the existing cropping
calendar which would remain unchanged under the project. The cropping
calendar minimizes weather hazards by harvesting in November and December



ANNEX 10
Page 3
for the wet season crop and in April and May for the dry season crop.
Typhoons are infrequent, particularly in the wet season harvest period.
The calendar allows for a 30-day closure period for system maintenance in
April for the Jalaur-Suage river systems and in May for the Santa Barbara-
Aganan systems.
9.        Labor Availability.  The supply of and demand for labor with and
without the project are examined in detail in Annex 13.
10.       Mechanization.  Mechanization has not progressed in the project
area to the same degree that it has in Central Luzon. At present, 10% of
the farmers own small tractors which are used on about half of the project
area for the basic cultivation, with animal-drawn equipment doing the sub-
sequent harrowing and smoothing operations. On the remainder of the land
all operations are done with animal-drawn implements. With improved water
management, better access to fields, tighter operating schedules to maxi-
mize water use, increased cropping intensities, and use of earlier maturing
varieties, it is estimated that about 70% of land preparation would be
mechanical. It is anticipated that the machinery, mostly two-wheel tractors
and rotary tillers, would be owned by farmers and contracted out to their
neighbors, as is currently the practice.
11.       Harvesting.  A sickle is used for harvesting and threshing is
done manually. There are no large threshers in the project area. Under
project conditions of better access to the fields, it is assumed that some
50% of the cropped area would be threshed mechanically. The small drum-loop
type thresher is manufactured in Iloilo and the area could easily be
supplied with the machines.
12.       Drying and Storage.  Threshed paddy is currently sun-dried or
air-dried on whatever suitable surfaces are available. Some of the rice
mills and farmers' cooperatives have concrete drying floors. In addition,
the NGA operates three grain driers in the area with a capacity of 15 tons
per 8-hour day. Existing arrangements appear to be adequate for the
present paddy crop of 80,000 tons. At full development the annual produc-
tion from the project would total 147,000 tons. Production from the wet
season crop would increase by 60%. Production from the dry season crop
harvest should not present problems as it would take place mainly between
February and April, at the driest time of the year. Some expansion in
drying facilities, both solar and mechanical, would be needed to deal with
the increased output of the wet season crop harvested in the relatively
wetter October-November period. The DLGCD is currently engaged in a
program to provide every barrio with a paved area to be used for recreation
and crop drying. The project would provide additional solar drying facil-
ities attached to the WMT stations. Millers and farmers' cooperatives are
aware of the need for drying and can be expected to provide whatever
additional facilities are required. Storage capacity in the project area
and at the nearby port of Iloilo is ample for existing requirements, but
would need some expansion to meet increased yields. The NGA plans to
build additional storage and the private sector is expected to follow suit
to accommodate rising paddy production from the project area.



ANNEX 10
Page 4
12.       Processing.  There are 400 privately owned rice mills and hullers
in the project area, many of the hullers are portable and move along the
main roads to barrios and municipalities. Assuming a 12 hour working day
and a 200-day milling season, the mills have a capacity of 135,000 tons of
paddy per year. In addition, the NGA owns a mill with a capacity of 5 tons
of paddy per 12-hours operation or 1,000 tons per year. The existing
annual capacity of 136,000 tons is greatly in excess of present needs but
some expansion would be required to handle production from the project at
full development. No difficulties are anticipated in providing the required
extra milling capacity as the private sector is enterprising and has access
to capital.
Marketing
13.       The farmer may sell his surplus paddy to a middleman, store
it in a private or Government-owned warehouse in the hope of obtaining a
better price, have it milled and sell the rice to a trader, or sell the
paddy to the NGA at the Government support price. While the Government is
involved in the marketing sector, there is no authority with specific
responsibility for marketing. The part played by Government agencies and
farmers' marketing cooperatives is remarkably small. With the emphasis
currently being placed on the development of cooperatives as an essential
support to agrarian reform, it is likely that at full project development,
cooperatives would play a larger role in marketing paddy.
Table 1
Summary of Rice Cropping Pattern and Production
Cropped Area          Paddy Production
Present   Future        Present   Future /1
(ha) ------            --('000 tons)---
Wet Season
Irrigated rice             22,000   24,700           55.6       98.8
Rainfed rice                 2,700      -             4.9        -
Subtotal              24,700   24,700           61.5       98.8
Dry Season
Irrigated rice               7,500   12,000          18.0       48.8
Total                 32,200   36,700           79.5      146.8
Cropping Intensity             130%      149%
/1 At full development 1985.



ANNEX 11
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
JALAUR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Market Prospects and Prices
Market Prospects
1.          One of the Philippines Government's main policy goals is self-
sufficiency in basic foods, especially rice and corn. A deficit in rice,
the main staple food crop, has been a persistent problem. Official figures
show that for 1963-1967 the Philippines imported an average of about 300,000
tons of rice annually. Although the Government did not import rice in 1969
or 1970, stocks declined in those years. Rice imports were again over
300,000 tons in 1971, 1972 and 1973, reaching 456,000 tons in 1972 because
of disastrous floods that year. Good domestic crops allowed smaller rice
imports of 170,000 tons in 1974, and about 150,000 tons in 1975. Due to an
exceptionally good 1975/76 harvest, there have been no imports thus far in
1976.
2.          For the second year running, the Philippines produced a record
rice crop in 1975. For the crop year ending June 30, 1975, paddy production
officially was 5.7 million tons harvested from 3.5 million ha, yielding some
1.6 ton/ha. This was slightly larger (by 1%) than the record 1973/74 crop.
Despite good harvests the last two years, rice self-sufficiency is not immi-
nent. With a population of 42 million, converting paddy to milled rice at a
63% recovery rate, and adding 200,000 tons consumed from imports, per capita
consumption of milled rice in 1974/75 was 90 kg. Based on a population fore-
cast of 55 million in 1985 (Philippines Basic Economic Report, 1975), and
assuming that the annual per capita consumption of milled rice remains at
90 kg, total Philippine rice demand in 1985 would be some 5.0 million tons.
At a 63% recovery rate, this is equivalent to 7.9 million tons of paddy.
To meet this demand, paddy output would have to increase by 4% yearly between
1975 and 1985. This rough demand computation is in line with the Basic
Economic Report, 1975, which suggests rice production will have to expand by
4% per year if domestic demand is to be met and imports eliminated. Compar-
ing the 3 year averages of 1965 to 1967 and 1973 to 1975, paddy production
increased by an average of 3.4% per annum. This increase was due in large
part to the spread of high yielding varieties (HYVs), especially in irri-
gated areas. With the use of HYVs fairly widespread where applicable,
other sources of growth will have to be sought to maintain the previous
decade's 3.4% growth rate let alone increase that rate to 4%. The project
would help maintain the country's growth rate in rice production, and
farmers should have no difficulties in marketing the additional rice from
the project area. The project area has traditionally supplied rice for
consumption in Iloilo, Negros Occidental, and Aklan and Antique provinces
on Panay island. With the project, this pattern would mainly continue,
with buyers from Negros purchasing most of the additional rice.



ANNEX 11
Page 2
Prices
3.          Since 1957 the Government has set an annual farm gate support
price for paddy to encourage production and allow some purchases of paddy
by Government to build stabilization stocks. Responsibility for operating
the system rested with an independent body, the Rice and Corn Administra-
tion, which operated unsatisfactorily. On September 28, 1972, the responsi-
bility for rice and corn was transferred to a statutory body, the National
Grains Authority (NGA).
4.         During the late 1950s and early 1960s the support price remained
virtually unchanged and was P 9.5 per cavan /1 (P 216/ton) in 1961. There-
after, it was gradually increased and by 1971 it reached P 20.0 per cavan
(P 454/ton). Although no precise figures are available to compare the annual
average market and support prices for paddy before 1965, the Sector Survey /2
shows the market price about 10% higher in 1965, and the support price
about 10% higher from 1966 to 1970. Since 1971 the market price has gener-
ally exceeded the support price, except in areas where the NGA has not
operated. The NGA only commenced buying in the project area in crop year
1974/75. Before then, unofficial figures suggest the market price was con-
siderably below the support price in the project area.
5.          The behavior of market prices in relation to the support price
is consistent with the record of domestic paddy output during the past
decade. In the early 1960s, domestic production was unable to meet the
growing demand for rice and this tended to raise market prices above the
support price. After the mid-1960s, increased production as a result of
the spread of high yielding varieties improved the balance between domestic
production and consumption and tended to depress market prices. During the
last three to four years the trend has reversed and the market and support
prices are practically the same. As a result of continuing inflation and to
encourage farmers to increase paddy production, the Government has continued
to raise the official support price for paddy, which in June 1976 was Y 55
per cavan (P 1,100/ton). In the project area, the market farm gate price
was P 52 per cavan (1 1050/ton).
6.        Through 1972, the farm gate support price for paddy and the domes-
tic consumer price for rice kept pace with changes in the world market price
for rice. Between 1972 and 1975, however, to keep domestic prices down in
the face of record high world market prices for rice, the Government has
subsidized consumers by maintaining a low official ceiling price for rice
and a correspondingly low farm gate price for paddy by sales of imported
rice on the domestic market below cost. This subsidy cost the Government
about US$20 million in 1974.
/1 Before 1974 a "cavan" or sack of paddy was equivalent to 44 kg. Since
1974 the official weight of a cavan of paddy is set at 50 kg.
/2 IBRD Agricultural Sector Survey, Philippines, May 2, 1973 (Report
No. 391-PH). Annex 10, Table 13.



ANNEX 11
Page 3
7.        The Bank projects the world market price of Thai 25%-35% broken
rice to rise (at constant January 1977 prices) from US$220 per ton f.o.b.
Bangkok in 1976 to around US$260 per ton in 1985. These projections have
been used to estimate the present and future farm gate prices of paddy for
the farm budgets and the economic analysis. In the farm budgets, using the
official exchange rate (US$1.00 = P 7.50), the corresponding farm gate
prices rise from B 1,050 per ton (P 52 per cavan) in 1976 to P 1,285 per
ton (P 65 per cavan) in 1985. For the economic analysis, using a shadow
priced foreign exchange rate (US$1.00 = I 8.33), farm gate paddy prices
rise from P 1,225 per ton (P 61 per cavan) to P 1,425 per ton (P 71 per
cavan). Over the same period the current paddy support price of P 55 per
cavan is assumed to rise to P 65 per cavan at constant January 1977 prices.
This implies that by 1985 the subsidy to consumers would fall to zero, and
the market farm gate price and the support price for paddy on average would
be equal.
8.        Table 1 shows the present and projected price structure for
rice as used in the economic analysis. In the project area, rice ex-mill
has been valued at the c.i.f. price Bacolod, Negros of imported rice.
Based on unofficial data from the project area, the value of by-products
was found to be equal to the costs of milling plus transport from farm to
mill.
9.        Table 2 shows the price of fertilizer, based on the most econo-
mic sources of nitrogen and phosphate. Since the Philippines is not
expected to be self-sufficient in fertilizer in the foreseeable future,
the cost of imported fertilizer was used for the analysis. Urea is the
predominant source of nitrogen in the project area, while ammonium phos-
phate is the major source of phosphate. The future price is based on the
cheapest source of phosphoric acid, triple-super-phosphate.



ANNEX 11
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
JALAUR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Rice Price Structure, 1977 and 1985 /1
1977                 1985
P/ton  US$/ton       P/ton  US$/ton
Export price of Thai 25-35% brokens,
f.o.b. Bangkok                              1,850       222       2,165       260
Ocean freight and insurance                       190        23         190        23
Import price, c.i.f. Bacolod, Negros           2,040       245       2,355       283
Less freight and insurance, Iloilo to
Negros                                          25         3         25         3
Less transport mill to Iloilo port                 75         9          75         9
Rice price, ex-mill project area                1,940       233      2,255       271
Paddy equivalent price (63% recovery)           1,225       147      1,425        171
Value of by-products less milling cost
less transport and handling farm to
mill                                             -         -           -        -
Farm gate paddy price                           1,225       147      1,425       171
(Financial farm gate price) /2             (1,050)               (1,285)
P/cavan              P/cavan
Economic                                           61                    71
(Financial) /2                                (52)                  (65)
/1   P or US$/ton at constant January 1977 prices.  P at shadow-priced
exchange rate of US$1.00 = P 8.33. P figures per ton rounded to nearest
5 pesos.
/2   At official exchange rate of US$1.00 = P 7.50.



ANNEX 11
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
JALAUR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Fertilizer Price Structure /1
1977                 1985
P/ton  US$/ton       F/ton  US$/ton
Urea
Export price, f.o.b. Europe, bagged             1,315       158      1,480        178
Ocean freight and insurance                       335        40         335        40
Handling and distribution                         250        30         250        30
Retail price project area                       1,900       228       2,065       248
Transport to farm gate                             50         6          50         6
Urea farm gate price                            1,950       234       2,115       254
(Financial farm gate price) /2                                    (1,905)
P/kg N               P/kg N
Nitrogen, farm gate price                        4.2                    4.6
(Financial) /2                               (4.0)                  (4.1)
Triple Super-phosphate
Export price, f.o.b. US, bagged                 1,060       127      1,325        159
Ocean freight and insurance                       290        35         290        35
Handling and distribution                         250        30         250        30
Retail price, project area                      1,600       192       1,865       224
Transport to farm gate                             50         6          50         6
TSP, farm gate price                            1,650       198       1,915       230
(Financial) /2, /3                                                (1,725)
P/kg P               P/kg P
Phosphate, farm gate price                       3.7                   4.3
(Financial) /2                              (3.8)                 (3.75)
/1  P or US$/ton at constant January 1977 prices.  P at shadow-priced exchange
rate of US$1.00   P 8.33.  P figures per ton rounded to nearest 5 pesos.
/2  At official exchange rate of US$1.00 = P 7.50.
/3  The present financial price for phosphate is based on the phosphate
fertilizer which is currently available to farmers, namely Ammonium
phosphate (16-20-0).



ANNEX 12
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
JALAUR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Crop and Farm Budgets
1.        Present and proposed cropping patterns and agricultural prac-
tices are given in Annex 10. This Annex gives the basis for the economic
and financial calculation of production costs and examines the impact of
the project on individual farms.
2.        Per hectare production costs and labor requirements for irri-
gated and rainfed rice at present and in future with and without the
project are presented in Table 1. Present costs are based on the results
of a survey conducted in the project area by NIA and of interviews in the
area during appraisal. In the future without the project, input levels
would change marginally in rainfed areas, but crop husbandry would improve
in the irrigated areas. Future input levels for "with project" conditions
are based on consultations with various Government agencies and expected
increases in mechanized cultivation and threshing. Physical input assump-
tions and unit prices are presented in Table 2.
3.        Monthly labor requirements for the wet and dry season crops per
hectare, based on present and proposed cropping calendars are presented
in Table 3. Under project conditions, the labor requirements for land
preparation and threshing would be reduced by the use of machinery, while
the labor requirements would increase for crop management including such
activities as weeding, fertilizer and pesticide application and irrigation,
and for harvesting and hauling.
4.        Table 3 presents a per hectare budget for rice farms.  This
table uses present and projected market prices and is the basis for the
farm budget included in Table 4.
5.        Farm budgets for 1.5 and 3 ha (the average farm size for the
project area is 2 ha) family farms are presented in Table 5. The sizes
were chosen to represent the 50% of the farms (25% of the area) of less
than 2 ha and the 45% of the farms (60% of the area) of between 2 and
5 ha. For each farm size, budgets are included for four different areas
with different present and future cropping intensities. For each area,
budgets are presented for a tenant farm and an amortizing owner operated
farm, which are estimated to comprise 40% and 35% of the farms, respectively,
in the future. The budgets are presented in terms of cash flows and there-
fore include an estimate of hired labor costs, though not of family labor.
Budgets for conditions with the project refer to those at full agricultural
development. The basis for each calculation is detailed in the footnotes.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
6.        Table 6 presents an income summary for the families whose farm
budgets are given in Table 5. Other income, including income earned from
earnings on other farms and off-farm income, is based primarily on the
survey conducted by NIA in the project area. According to the survey,
other income averages P 1,000 per annum in irrigated areas and P 1,200
per annum in rainfed areas. With the exception of farmers who would
increase their cropping intensity significantly and therefore reduce the
time available for off-farm employment in the future, it was assumed that
other income would, in constant 1977 prices, remain at present levels.



PHII.PPINES
JALAUKR TRRIGATION PROJECT
Rice Crop P'roduction Costs /1
Present                                 Future Without Project                        Future With Project
Wet Season             Dry Season              Wet Season                Dry Season        Wet Season         Dry Season
Rainfed      Irrigated       Irrigated          Rainfed       Irrigated       Irrigated          Irrigated         Irrigated
Cash Input (P/ha) /2
Cultivation                     150           195            195                200           210               210               240              240
Seeds                          130 (110)      135 (115)      130 (110)          120 (110)     135   (120)       130   (115)       135   (120)      135   (120)
Fertilizers                     230 (215)     315 (295)      300 (280)          300 (270)     445    (400)      415   (375)       540    (480)     540   (480)
Chemicals                       160 (145)      165 (150)     160 (145)          180 (160)     285    (260)      190   (175)       285   (260)       285   (260)
Harvesting                        5 (  5)       10 ( 10)      10 ( 10)           20 ( 20)      155   (140)      140   (125)       200   (180)       200   (180)
Other /3                         20             35            30                 30             45               40                55                55
Interest /4                         ( 65)          ( 50)          ( 50)             ( 30)            ( 50)             ( 45)             ( 60)            ( 60)
Total cash inputs           695 (710)      855 (850)      825 (820)         850 (820)   1,275 (1,225)   1,125 (1,085)    1,455 (1,395)   1,455 (1,395)
Labor Inputs (man-days/ha) /5
Land preparation                   20             19             16                17             19               15                  21                19
Planting                           27             26             27                27             24               26                  23                23
Crop management                    17             21             20                19             22               22                  28                30
Harvesting                         26             29             27                27             30               27                  33                33
Total labor inputs              90            95             90                 90             95               90                 105               105
/1  Prices based on world market rice and fertilizer prices (see Annex 12), are used in the economic analysis.   Figures in parentheses
indicate financial costs only when they differ from economic costs.  Financial costs are used in the farm budgets, Table 4.
/2  Physical inputs and unit cost assumptions are given in Table 2.
/3  1% of gross value of production.
/4  Present is based on combination of institutional and noninstitutional borrowing derived from survey data; future is based on 80i of farmers
borrowing 90X of cash inputs for 6 months @ 12Z/year.
/5  Excludes labor handling farm machinery, the cost of whichi Is included under cash inputs.
(DX
_ z
mx



PHILIPPINES
JALAUR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Crop Production Costs: Physical Inputs and Unit Prices
Wet Season            Dry Season
Inputs                                            Units         Rainfed    Irrigated          Irrigated           Units        Unit Price/Input /1
Present
Cultivation - Mechanical                                 (%)               25           45             45                 P/ha              320
- Animal                                     (%)              75           55             55                 P/ha               95
Seed        - Transplanted                               (%)               90           85             90                 kg/ha /2           60
Fertilizer  - N                                      (nutrient kg)         40           55             52                 P/kg                4.2 (4.0)
- P                                     (nutrient kg)         13           18              17                P/kg                3.7 (3.8)
- K                                     (nutrient kg)          6            9               8                P/kg                1.8 (0.9)
Threshing   - Mechanical /3                               (%)               2            5              5
- Manual                                     (%)              98           95             95
Future Without Project
Cultivation - Mechanical                                  (%)              50           55             55                 P/ha              300
- Animal                                     (%)              50           45              45                P/ha /2            95
Seed        - Transplanted                                (%)              90           80              85                kg/ha              50
Fertilizer  - N                                      (nutrient kg)         47           70              65                P/kg                4.6 (4.1)
- P                                     (nutrient kg)         20           30              30                P/kg                4.2 (3.8)
- K                                     (nutrient kg)          -            -               -
Threshing   - Mechanical /3                               (%)              10           50              50
- Manual                                     (%)              90           50              50
Future with Project
Cultivation - Mechanical                                 (M)                            70              70                P/ha              300
- Animal                                     (%)                           30              30                P/ha /2            95
Seed        - Transplanted                                (7                            80              80                kg/ha              50
Irertilizer  - N                                     (nutrient kg)                      80              80                P/kg                4.6 (4.1)
- P                                     (nutrient kg)                      40              40                P/kg                4.2 (3.8)
- K                                     (nutrient kg)                       -               -
Ihreshing   - Mechanical /3                               (%)                           50              50
- Manual                                     (%)                           50              50
/1   Figures in parenthesis are financial unit prices where they differ from economic unit prices.
az
/2   Figures given are for transplanted seed.  Direct seeded rice is estimated to require 100 kg.                                                           x
/3   Unit cost for mechanical threshing is calculated at 7% of yield.                                                                                     r



PHILIPPINES
JALAUR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Monthly Labor Requirements for Rice Crop /1
(man-days/ha)
Crop /2          Jan. Feb. March  April  May  June  July  Aug.  Sept.  Oct.  Nov.  Dec.  Total
Wet Season
Irrigated
P                              3    14    22   19        5      10   14        8       95
W                              3    14    22   17        6      10   15        8       95
w                              4    15    22   18       10      11   16        9      105
Rainfed
P                                   18    25   15        7      14   11                90
W                                   15    25   15        8      15   12                90
Dry Season
Irrigated
P   21    8      14    11                                        2    9       25       90
W   22    9      14    11                                        2    8       24       90
W   25   13      15    15                                        3   10       24      105
/1 Excludes labor handling farm machinery.
/2 P = present.
W = future without project.
W = future with project.                                                                                        ^ 
D'x



PHILIPPINES
JALAUR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Rice Crop Budgets /1
Present                      Future Without Project                Future With Project
Wet Season        Dry Season         Wet Season          Dry Season   Wet Season           Dry Season
Rainfed  Irrigated   Irrigated    Rainfed  Irrigated /2 Irrigated    Irrigated /2              Irrigated
Yield (ton/ha)                           1.8      2.7            2.4         2.1         3.1            2.8            4.0               4.0
Farm gate price (P/ton)               1,050    1,050           1,050       1,285       1,285         1,285           1,285             1,285
Gross value of production (P/ton)  1,890    2,835              2,520       2,700       3,980         3,600           5,140             5,140
Production costs, excluding
labor (P/ha)                         710       850           820          820       1,225         1,085           1,395             1,395
Net value of production without
accounting for labor (P/ha)        1,180    1,985          1,700       1,880        2,755         2,515           3,745             3,745
Labor requirement
(man-days/ha)                         90        95            90          90           95            90             105               105
/1 Financial costs and prices are used, based on Table 1.
/2 Wet season yields in the Aganan system area are estimated to be 20% less at present and in the future without the project.
Total labor requirements and production costs are assumed to be the same as in other systems.
1m
tD X
v .



PIIILIPPINES
JALAUR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Budgets
A. 1.5 ha Farm
Jalaur Extension        Aganan-Santa Barbara              Jalaur                        Suague
Present  Future w/Proj.  Present  Future w/Proj.  Present  Future w/Proj.   Present  Future w/Proj.
Total paddy cropped area (ha)             1.5           1.5         1.5           1.5          1.5           1.5             1.5          1.5
Cropping intensity (%)                    100           141          105          105          162           200             145          145
Total paddy production (ton)              2.7           8.4          3.8          6.3          6.3         12.0              5.7          8.7
Gross value of production (P) /L    2,835            10,800       3,990         8,095        6,615       15,420            5,985      11,180
Production costs
(excluding labor) (P)               1,065          2,930       1,335        2,195        2,040         4,185            1,830       3,035
Cost of hired farm labor (P) /2             -             -            -            -            -             -                -
Net value of production
(before water charges) (P)          1,770          7,870       2,655        5,900        4,575        11,235            4,155       8,145
Water charges /3                            -           510          170          365          300           765              260         530
Net crop income                         1,770         7,360       2,485         5,535        4,275       10,470            3,895        7,615
(a) Annual payment for land /4            730           730       1,010        1,010         1,620        1,620            1,465       1,465
Net crop income (owner-operator
who received a land transfer)   1,040             6,630       1,475        4,525         2,655        8,850            2,430       6,150
(b) Annual payment to landlord /5         670         2,060         895         1,550        1,480        2,940            1,345       2,160
Net crop income (tenant farmer) 1,100             5,300       1,590        3,985         2,795        7,530            2,550       5,455
/1   Based on Tables 1 and 4.
/2   Based on maximum of 40 man-days/month and a total of 480 man-days/year of family
labor; hired labor priced at wage of P 7/man-day.
/3   Based on present charges of approximately P 104/ha in the wet season and P 156/ha                                                                   X
in the dry season and on future charges of P 225/ha in the wet season and P 285/ha                                                                  a
in the dry season.                                                                                                                                  e
/4   Based on amortizing owner with annual payments over 15 years at 6% in the unpaid
balance; based on price of land of 2.5 times present gross value of production.
/5   Based on 30% for present and 25% for future of gross value of production minus
seed, harvesting, and water costs.



PHILIPPINES
JALAUR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Budgets
B.  3.0 ha Farm  /1
Jalaur Extension               Aganan - Santa Barbara                  Jalaur                       Suague
Present      Future w/Proj.   Present         Future w/Proj.    Present          Future w/Proj_.  Present  Future w/Proj.
Total paddy cropped area (ha)              3.0             3.0             3.0              3.0               3.0               3.0             3.0          3.0
Cropping intensity  (%)                    100             141             105              105               162               200             145          145
Total production    (tons)                 5.4            16.9             7.6             12.6              12.6              24.0            11.4         17.4
Gross value of production (P)            5,670         21,715            7,950           16,190            13,230            30,840         11,970        22,360
Production costs,
excluding labor (P)                  2,135           5,860            2,670           4,395             4,080             8,370           3,660         6,070
Cost of hired farm labor (P)               390            575              335              385               665             1,325             540          600
Net value of production                  3,145         15,280            4,945           11,410             8,485            21,145           7,770       15,690
Water charges                              -            1,025              340              725               600             1,530             520        1,060
Net crop income                          3,145         14,255            4,605           10,685             7,885            19,615           7,250       14,630
(a)  Annual payment for land             1,460          1,460            2,015            2,015             3,245             3,245          2,935         2,935
Net crop income (for owner-
operator who received land
transfer certificate)              1,685          12,795           2,590            8,670             4,640            16,370           4,315        11,695
(b)  Annual payment to landlord          1,345          4,120            1,780            3,095             2,960             5,880           2,690        4,320
Net crop income (for tenant
farmer)                            1,800          10,020            2,825           7,590             4,925            13,735           4,560        10,310
/I  See footnotes on page 1.                                                                                                                                     m a,
MN



ANNhX 12
Table 6
PHILIPPINES
JALAUR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estimated Farm Family Income in Project Area /1
Farm Size and           Cropping Intensity   Status of    On Farm Income /3  Other Income /4  Total Income
Location                Present   Future       Tenure /2    Present  Future   Present  Future  Present  Future
______(%)_    _                       _____   p    -----  -----   p    -----  ------   p …----
1.5 ha
Jalaur Extension          100       141           T           1,100    5,300    1,000       700   2,100    6,ooo
O/A          1,050    6,650    1,000       700   2,050    7,350
Aganan/Santa Barbara       105      105           T           1,600    4,000        900     900   2,500    4,900
0/A          1,450    4,500       900      900   2,350    5,400
Jalaur                     162      200           T           2,800    7,550        700     600   3,500    8,150
O/A         2,650    8,850        700      600   3,350    9,450
Suague                     145      145           T           2,550    5,450        700     700   3,250    6,150
0/A         2,450    6,150        700      700   3,150    6,850
3.(1 ha
Jalaur Extension          100       1h1           T           1,800   10,000    1,100       900   2,900   10,900
0/A          1,700   12,800    1,100       900   2,800   13,700
Aganan/Santa Barbara      105       105           T           2,850    7,600    1,000   1,000   3,850    8,600
0/A         2,600    8,650    1,000   1,000   3,600    9,650
Jalaur                     162      200           T           4,900   13,750        900     800   5,800   14,550
O/A         4,650   16,350        900      800   5,550   17,150
Suague                    145       145           T           4,550   10,300        900     900   5,450   11,200
0/A         4,300   11,700        900      900   5,200   12,600
/1 Figures are rounded to the nearest P 50.
/2 T - tenant farmer; 0/A - owner paying amortization for land transfer payments.
/3 From Annex 12, Table 4.
/4 Based largely on NIA survey.



ANNEX 13
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
JALAUR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Labor Analysis
Labor Supply
1.        According to an NIA survey, data from the 1970 Census of Popula-
tion and Housing, the 1971 Agricultural Census and the National Economic
Development Authority, the 1976 rural population of the project area is
about 80,000. This consists of about 12,000 farm families, and some
1,950 landless families occupied principally or entirely in agricultural
production. The average farm family is 5.8 persons, of which two full-
time.workers are available for farm work, giving a total family labor
supply of about 24,000 workers. Assuming each of the other 1,950 families
also supply two workers, the total estimated rural labor force in the
project area is 27,900. On the basis of 240 days per worker per year, a
monthly average of 20 days, the total annual labor supply is 6.7 million
man-days, or 0.56 million man-days per month.
2.        From 1960 to 1970, while the total Philippine population grew
3.0% per year, the population in the project area municipalities grew
at 1.6% per annum due to migration to Manila and elsewhere in the Philippines.
Since 1970, however, migration has slowed and the population has grown at
more than 2.5% per annum. Assuming that some migration continues in the
future, and the rural work force in the project area gIrows at 2.5% per year
(versus the 1975 Basic Economic Report's average 3.0% growth projection for
the Philippine work force over the same period), rural labor would total
some 34,000 at full project development in 1985. This would give a total
annual labor supply of 8.16 million man-days, and a monthly average supply
of 0.68 million man-days.
Labor Demand
3.        Annex 12, Table 3 gives estimates of average monthly and annual
labor requirements per ha for different rice crops. Mechanization of
land preparation is already widespread, particularly on land with some
existing irrigation. In future without the project, some additional
mechanization of land preparation and threshing is assumed, thereby slightly
reducing labor requirements per ha. The timing of cropping operations
throughout the project area varies widely. This diversity contributes to
the difficulties of water management in present irrigated areas, and of
scheduling inputs and support services. With the project, strict scheduling
of operations would be essential to permit adequate irrigation of the whole
area. This in turn would require further mechanization of land preparation,
particularly for the dry season crop. At the same time it is expected
that the high cost of manual threshing will result in substantial increases
in the hiring of mechanical threshers. Notwithstanding this additional



ANNEX 13
Page 2
mechanization, average labor requirements per ha at full project develop-
ment are estimated to be slightly higher than present levels because of
higher crop management and harvesting and hauling requirements.
4.        Table 2 gives estimates of total monthly labor requirements in
the project area. The present annual requirement is some 3.0 million man-
days, or 45% of the estimated rural labor supply. Yearly labor demand has
a pronounced seasonal pattern. Peak monthly demand occurs in July and
nearly half of total yearly labor is needed during the three-month period,
June through August. Present dry season labor demand is much less than
that of the wet season, requiring only 23% of total yearly labor demand.
In future without the project, it is estimated that increased mechaniza-
tion would be balanced by increased labor for crop management and harvest-
ing and annual labor requirements would remain at present levels. Except
for small monthly variations, the seasonal employment pattern would remain
as now. At full development with the project, annual labor requirements
would be 3.9 million man-days, 0.8 million man-days (28%) greater than
without the project. Most of the additional labor requirements would be
for the dry season crop and hence would increase demand in periods of low
labor requirements. NIA would maintain the system during the dry condi-
tions of April and May and farmers would grow their dry season crop from
November through April. At 1.3 million man-days, total dry season labor
demand would be 49% of the total wet season labor demand of 2.6 million
man-days.
Economic Cost of Farm Labor
5.        Detailed information on wages actually paid in the project
area is limited. Most work is done by unpaid family labor and tradi-
tional "exchange" labor. Information on off-farm employment is even less
reliable. The wage for hired labor in peak agricultural seasons is around
P 7 per man-day, which is assumed to reflect the opportunity cost of labor
to the economy at such times. In months of high rural unemployment, which
characterize most of the year, the opportunity cost of labor would be much
lower. The economic cost of farm labor in the project area was, therefore,
estimated by taking account of the generally prevailing rural unemployment
and extreme seasonal fluctuations in labor demand.
6.        The economic cost of labor at different times of the year for
the project area was determined by the use of a technique developed in
the Thailand Phitsanulok Irrigation Project (Report No. 2486-TH) and used
recently in the Philipppines Chico River Irrigation Project (Report No.
1009a-TH). It is postulated that the marginal opportunity cost of farm
labor in the project area can be approximated by an S-shaped curve. The
marginal opportunity cost is positive at all levels of labor demand and
increases as more labor is employed in farm work. The increase is slow
initially, reflecting the scarcity of alternative productive employment,
but becomes more rapid as the labor supply is more fully used. At full
employment in the project area, the opportunity cost is assumed equal to
market wage of P 7 per man-day during periods of heavy labor demand.



ANNEX 13
Page 3
As labor demand increases beyond this point, the market wage rate conti-
nues to rise until it reaches the observed maximum of P 8.5 per man-day,
at which level it remains constant for subsequent demand increases. With
the mobility of the Philippines rural labor force, large numbers of laborers
would be attracted to the project area from surrounding areas at a wage of
P 8.5 which is in fact the prevailing contract wage rate for migrant sugar-
cane labor from the neighboring provinces of Antique and Aklan.
7.        In practice, the S-shaped curve can be approximated by three
straight line segments. Figure 1 gives the curve of approximate shadow wage
rates used in the analysis. The curve shows the estimated marginal oppor-
tunity cost of labor as a function of demand (expressed as a proportion of
supply). The shape of the curve is determined by points A, B, C and D.
Point A represents the minimum opportunity cost of farm labor which is esti-
mated to be P 2 per man-day, equal to P 1.5 as the economic value of alter-
native employment (casual nonfarm labor, fishing, house repairs, etc.) plus
P 0.5 to supply the additional food requirements of more strenuous farm
work with the project. Point B represents the opportunity cost of farm
labor when the demand for labor begins to exceed the supply of family labor
and the hiring of landless and very small farmers is required. The oppor-
tunity cost at B is approximated by the minimum market rate of P 4. Point C
indicates that at full employment of rural labor the opportunity cost would
equal the market wage of P 7 per man-day. The horizontal segment to the
right of Point D indicates that at P 8.5 per man-day as many laborers as
needed would be available for farm work in the project area.
8.        The monthly marginal opportunity cost may be read directly from
the curve at the corresponding level of labor demand. With the project,
it varies from P 2.8 per man-day in months of high unemployment to P 5.0 per
man-day in the month of July. The total economic cost of farm labor is then
the area under the curve up to the level of employment. Computed this way,
the future economic cost of farm labor would be P 11.1 million with the
project at full development and P 8.4 million without the project, or an
incremental cost of P 2.7 million. This would be equivalent to pricing the
incremental employment of 0.8 million man-days per year at a shadow wage
rate of P 3.2 per man-day. The corresponding shadow wage rate for the total
labor demand of 3.9 million man-days at full development would be P 2.9 per
man-day.



PHILIPPINES
JALAUR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Total Monthly Labor Requirements /1
('000 man-days)
Area       Jan.  Feb.  March  April  May  June  July  Aug.  §Spt.  Oct.  Nov.  Dec.  Total
(ha)
Wet Season
Irrigated rice
P   22,000                                   66    308   484  418   110    220   308   176   2,090
W   22,000                                   66    308   484  374   132    220   330   176   2,090
W   24,700                                   99    371   543  445   247    272   395   222   2,594
Rainfed rice
P    2,700                                           49    68   41    19        38    30              245
W    2,700                                           41    68   41    22        41    32              245
Dry Season
Irrigated rice
P    7,500      158    60   105        83                                       15    68   188        677
W    7,500      165    68   105        83                                       15    60   180        677
W   12,000      300   156   180    180                                          36   120   288   1,260
Total
P   32,200      158    60   105        83    66    357   552  459   129    273   406   364   3,012
W   32,200      165    68   105        83    66    349   552  415   154    276   422   356   3,012
W   36,700      300   156   180    180    99    371   543  445   247    308   515   510   3,854
/1 P = Present.
W = Future without project.
W = Future with project.



PHLiLlPPINES
JALAUR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Economic Cost of Farm Labor in 1985 /1
Jan.  Feb.  March  April  May  June  July  Aug.  Sept.  Oct.  Nov.  Dec.  Total
Labor requirement            W      .30   .16      .18    .18  .10   .37   .54   .45   .25    .31   .52   .51   3.86
(million man-days)       W      .17   .07       .11    .08  .07   .35   .55   .42   .15    .28   .42   .36   3.03
Marginal opportunity         W    3.3   2.8       2.8    2.8  2.5   3.6   5.0   3.9   3.1    3.3   5.0   5.0
cost (P/man-day)          W    2.8   2.3      2.5    2.4  2.3   3.5   5.1   3.8   2.7    3.2   3.8   3.6
Average economic             W    2.7   2.4       2.4    2.4  2.3   2.8   3.2   3.0   2.6    2.7   3.1   3.1    2.9
cost of farm labor
(P/man-day)              W    2.4   2.2       2.3    2.2  2.2   2.8   3.2   2.9   2.4    2.6   2.9   2.8    2.8
Economic cost of             W      .81   .38      .43    .43  .23  1.04  1.73  1.35   .65    .84  1.61  1.58  11.08
farm labor (P million)  W       .41   .15       .25    .18  .15   .98  1.76  1.22   .36    .73  1.22  1.01   8.42
Incremental economic
cost of farm labor  W - W       .40   .23       .18    .25  .08   .06  -.03   .13   .29    .11   .39   .57   2.66
(P million)
/1 W = Future with project.
W = Future without project.






PHILIPPINES
JALAUR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Marginal Economic Cost of Farm Labor
D
8 
7
0    A
ui    4
3
2A
o        l                                                    I      ,         
0      1 0    20      30     40      50      60     70      80      90     100    110    1 20
LABOR DEMAND AS % OF SUPPLY
.1         .2                    .4                             .68
MILLIONS OF MAN/DAYS
World Bank-16428






ANNEX 14
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
JALAUR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Cost and Rent Recovery
1.        This Annex examines the implications for public revenues and
project beneficiary incomes of proposed water charges for the project. In
determining the extent of cost recovery and the relation of water charges
to benefits, four indices have been used which are defined as follows for
the present project:
(a) Cost Recovery Index: the ratio of revenues from incre-
mental water charges paid by all project beneficiaries
to project construction and incremental operation and
maintenance costs.
(b) Total Cost Recovery Index: the ratio of revenue from
total water charges paid by all project beneficiaries to
project construction costs and total operation and main-
tenance costs.
(c) Project Rent Recovery Index: the ratio of incremental
water charges to "project rent" before paying water
charges, where "project rent" is defined as incremental
farm income less the value of incremental family labor,
management costs and allowances for uncertainty.
(d) Farm Rent Recovery Index: the ratio of total water
charges to total "farm rent", where "farm rent" is
defined as total farm income less the value of family
labor, management costs and allowances for uncertainty.
2.        Table 1 presents the cost and rent recovery indices and the bases
of their calculations. All figures are in terms of January 1977 constant
prices and except where otherwise labelled are incremental values ("with" less
"'without" the project). The rate of discount applied is 10%. It is assumed
that there would be no incremental payments of general taxes due to the
project.
Cost Recovery
3.         In the cost recovery analysis, the present value of construction
costs amounts to P 158 million. The present value of the incremental O&M
costs is P 22 million. Water charges would be the equivalent of 3.5 cavans
of paddy/ha in the wet season and 4.4 cavans in the dry season as in other
Bank-assisted projects in the Philippines. This would be equivalent in 1985
to P 225 and P 285/ha (in January 1977 constant prices) in the wet and dry



ANNEX 14
Page 2
seasons, respectively, at the forecast farm gate price for paddy (Annex 11).
Such rates would be reached gradually over a period of five years from comple-
tion of construction. Without the project, lands already irrigated are
assumed to be charged at the present prevailing rate of 2.0 cavans (P 130) in
the wet season and 3.0 cavans (P 195) in the dry season. The present value
of incremental charges on the entire project area over the 50-year life of
the project would be P 27 million, indicating a cost recovery index of about
15%. The low cost recovery rate reflects the fact that this project is a
rehabilitation project, with water charges which are already high compared
to other countries in the Region, and incremental charges which are conse-
quently small relative to total water charges. As a better measure of how
much beneficiaries would actually be expected to pay, the ratio of total
water charges to total public sector outlays (Total Cost Recovery Index)
would be 35%.
Rent Recovery
4.        Of the farms examined in the farm budgets (Annex 12), four were
selected for analysis of rent recovery (see Table 1). Farm A, a 1.5 ha
farm in the Aganan-Santa Barbara systems would have a per capita income of
P 950 at full project development. This income is below the estimated cut-off
level where a peso of private consumption would have the same social value as
a peso of public saving (Critical Consumption Level or CCL).   Farm B, a 1.5 ha
farm in the extension area, would benefit the most from the project and would
have an income significantly above the CCL. A 3.0 ha Farm C in the Aganan-Santa
Barbara systems would have a per capita income at full project development
slightly above the CCL. A relatively well-off owner-operated farm D, of 3 ha
in the Jalaur area, currently however has a per capita income only slightly
above the CCL and would have an income of more than triple the CCL at full
production.
5.        While the project rent recovery index is somewhat low, less than 20%
for rehabilitated areas, where cropping intensity remains unchanged as a result
of the project, it is higher at 35% for the area with new irrigation facilities.
Overall, the project rent recovery index is estimated to be 23%. The farm rent
recovery index (see para. Id), however, is a better indicator of what the farmer
must pay for irrigation. Of the farms examined, between 29% and 44% of total
farm rent would have to be paid in water charges.  Since water charges are
fixed in terms of paddy, the rate of inflation would not affect the cost and
rent recovery calculations.
Water Charge Policy
6.        The Government increased the water charges on all national irriga-
tion systems by five times in July 1975 and has agreed to a further increase
in water charges for all Bank-assisted projects. It has also built in a
form of "indexing" by setting the rates in terms of paddy rather than pesos.
Considering that:
(a) farmers in the project area are paying on average 33% of
their total farm rent in water charges; and



ANNEX 14
Page 3
(b) 15% of the project beneficiaries would be below the
CCL at full development and 85% would be at or below
the national average per capita personal income;
further increases in water charges are judged to be unwarranted.
Collections
7.        The Government is also faced with the important issue of
collecting water charges. Between the late 1960s until 1975, NIA efforts
resulted in noticeable improvement with total collections (current plus
back collections) averaging about 50% to over 60% of current charges.
During the past year, however, with the five-fold increase in water rates,
collections dropped precipitously to below 25% (based on preliminary
information). Any additional increases in water charges before NIA learns
more about farmers' willingness to pay would therefore likely be counter-
productive.
8.        At the suggestion of the Bank, NIA is conducting a study to
identify the factors affecting payment and collection of water charges,
with an aim to devise policies and actions to deal with collections.  The
Bank would continue to consult with NIA on this study and on formulating
actions to improve water charge collections. Once the combination of
factors affecting collections are clearly delineated by the study and
further experience is gathered with the new levels of water charges,
appropriate actions to improve collections would be taken.



ANNEtX 14
Table I
PHILIPPINES
JALAUR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Rent and Cost Recovery /1
A /2       B /2      C /2       D /2           Total Project
MiLlion        Indices
---------- (P) ---             … -         of P
1. Incremental gross value of production            2,455      6,750      4,915    12,200        7o.9
2. Less incremental - production costs
(including hired labor)                     275      1,700        605     3,330       13.9
3.      payments to landlord                             -          -        950          -
4.      imputed return on capital /3                   490      1,350         20      2,420    ) 13.9
5.      imputed value for family labor /4               65        520         45        510        5.2
6.      imputed value for management /5                245        675        735     1,830         8.5
7.      allowance for risk /6                          370      1,015        735     1,220         4.2
8. Equals project rent                               1,010      1,490     1,825      2,890       20.2(119) /7
9. Incremental water charges /8                        155        510        310        790        4.7(27)
10. Project rent recovery index (%) /9                   15         34         17         27                       23
11. Net public sector outlays (net present value)                                                 181
12. Cost recovery index (%) /11                                                                                    15
13. Total water charges                                 365        510        725      1,540        9.1(61)
14. Total farm rent                                   1,260      1,695      1,665     4,640       29  (184)
15. Farm renc recovery index (M) /10                     29         30         44         33                       33
16. Gross public sector outlays                                                                  i93
17. Total cost recovery index (%) /12                                                                              35
18. Farmer's income per capita at full
development /13                                  950      1,250      1,500      3,500
19. Estimated critical consumption level                                                                           P1,160
20. Estimated per capita personal income, 1985                                                                     P3,300
21. Estimated per capita GDP, 1985                                                                                 P4,400
/   All peso values are in January, 1977 constant pesos; items 1 through 12 are incremental values for 1985 at full
produiction.
/2 Farm A is a 1.5 ha owner operated farm with amortization payments for land transfer in the Aganan-Santa Barbara
systems, with a cropping intensity of 105%.
B is a 1.5 ha owner operated farm with amortization payments for land transfer in the Jalaur extension with a
cropping intensity with the project of 141%.
C is a 3.0 ha tenant farm in the Aganan-Santa Barbara systems with a cropping intensity of 105%.
D is a 3.0 ha owner operated farm in the Jalaur system with a cropping intensity of 200%.
/3 Imputed return on land and 10% on incremental cash investment; incremental cash investment estimated at 28% of
production costs.
/4  Incremental labor requirements less incremental hired labor valued at average market wage of P 6.00/man-day
/5 10% of incremental gross value of production for 1.5 ha farms, 15% for 3.0 ha farms.
/6 15% of incremental gross value of production for tenant farms and for 1.5 ha owner-operated farms and 10%
for 3 ha owner-operated farms.
/7 Figure in parenthesis is the net present value of project rent over the life of the project.
/8 Figure in parenthesis is the net present value of total project incremental water charges for the life of the project.
/9 Incremental water charges as a percent of project rent, each discounted over the life of the project.
/10 Gross water charges as a percent of project rent, each discounted over the life of the project.
/11 Incremental water charges as a percent of capital and 0&M costs, each discounted over the life of the project.
/12 Gross water charges as a percent of capital and 0OM costs, each discounted over the life of the project.
/13 Income per capita figures include off farm income (rounded to nearest F50).



ANNEX 15
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
JALAUR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1.        The following assumptions were made in evaluating the economic
rate of return:
(a) Benefits - The expected paddy yields, prices, gross returns,
production costs, net returns (without accounting for labor
costs) and labor requirements per ha are given in Annex 12.
Chart 16408(R) shows the proposed cropping calendar. Annex 11
gives the calculations for the farm gate prices of paddy,
which are based on the Bank's world market price projections
for milled rice. Table 1 gives the expected project benefits
at full agricultural development for the entire project area.
(b) Foreign Exchange - Because of import taxes and quantitative
restrictions, the official exchange rate understates the value
to the economy of foreign exchange used in carrying out the
project and saved by reducing rice imports. In the absence
of detailed information needed to compute specific conver-
sion factors and using the Squire-van der Tak approach /1, the
estimated standard conversion factor (SCF) for the Philippines
was about 0.9 for the three years 1972-74. This ratio implies
a shadow exchange rate of US$1.00 = E 8.33, which was used in
the economic analysis.
(c) Investment Costs - The total investment cost, expressed in
January 1977 prices, is US$23.7 million, and includes the
cost of training Water Management Technologists. Annual incre-
mental 0&M costs of US$22 per ha on the newly irrigated area
and US$13 per ha on the rehabilitated area include the incre-
mental cost of the Water Management Technologists. All costs
include physical contingencies but exclude costs due to price
increases.
(d) Development Period - According to the project implementation
schedule, all works would be completed by mid-1981 in time
for the 1981 wet season crop. Main and secondary canals
/1 L. Squire and H. G. van der Tak; Economic Analysis of Projects;
Baltimore and London, The Johns Hopkins University Press, 1975.



ANNEX 15
Page 2
and on-farm facilities would be completed for approximately
two thirds of the project area in time for the 1980 wet season
crop. In each sub-area sufficient land would be irrigable
under improved conditions for the full 1981 dry season crop.
Beginning with the first crop grown under upgraded conditions,
farmers would achieve the projected yield levels over five
years in equal installments. The project would reach full
development in 1985.
(e) Labor Pricing - Farm labor was evaluated at a shadow wage rate,
which varies seasonally and averages P 2.9 per man-day over
the year "with" project conditions at full development, com-
pared to a full employment market wage of P 7.0 per man-day.
Annex 13 presents a detailed analysis. The use of unskilled
labor in construction and development works is limited and
all labor employed in such works is valued at the market
wage rate.
2.        Using the foregoing assumptions and discounting benefits and
costs over 50 years, the economic rate of return is 20% (Table 2). Rates
of return for the individual sub-project areas vary between 13% and 28%
and are given along with the respective cost and benefit streams in Table 2.
Sensitivity Analysis
3.        Sensitivity of the rate of return was tested to cost overruns,
reduction and delays in benefits, and a 25% increase in the world market
rice price. The effects of these changes in assumptions were as follows:
Alternative                     Rate of Return
(a) A two-year delay in reaching full
project benefits                             17
(b)  A 20% increase in construction costs          17
(c)  A combination of a two-year delay in          15
reaching full project benefits and a
20% cost overrun
(d)  A 25% decrease in project benefits            16
because farmers failed to attain pro-
jected yields and/or cropping intensity
(e)  A 25% increase in the world market            25
price of rice.



PHILIPPINES
JALAUR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis - Net Value of Production - Total Project Area
Paddy      Farm Gate    Gross Value of         Production      Net Value of        Net Value of Production
Area /1  Yield /i    Price  /2    Production                Costs   /3   Production              in Project Area
(ha)    (ton/ha)      (P/ton)      -----------------(P/ha)-----------------------                  (P million)
Wet Season
Irrigated Rice  W /4   16,500          3.1        1,425             4,420              1,275             3,145                      51.8
W       5,500        2.5        1,425             3,565              1,275             2,290                      12.6
W      24,700        4.0        1,425             5,700              1,455             4,245                     104.8
Rainfed Rice    W         2,700        2.1        1,425             2,995                850             2,145                       5.8
W_
Dry Season
Irrigated Rice  W         7,500        2.8        1,425             3,990              1,125             2,865                      21.5
W      12,000        4.0        1,425             5,700              1,455             4,245                      50.9
Total         W       32,200
W      36,700
/1  From Annex 10, Table 1.
/2  From Annex 11, Table 1.                                                                                            W                    W
/3  From Annex 12, Table 1.
/4  W4 = Future without project.                                                                                    -------(P million)------
W = Future with project.                                            Total net value of production
/5  From Annex 13, Table 2.                                                (before costing labor)                    91.7                 155.7
Less imputed labor cost /5                   8.4                  11.1
Total net value of production               83.3                 144.6
Net incremental value of
production at full project
development                                                     61.3
mZ 
5 x



ANLA 15
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
JALAUR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Economic Costs and Returns
(US$ million)
Year    Project Costs   Incremental                          Project Costs   Incremental
Capital   O&M   Project Benefits                    Capital   0&M   Project Benefits
Total Project                               Suague System Rehabilitation
1          2.3       0             0                             .3       0            0
2          7.1       0             0                             .9      0             0
3          7.0       0             0                             .9       0            0
4          4.6       .24          1.2                            .5       .03           .1
5          2.7       .35          3.0                            .3       .04           .2
6           0        .35          4.4                           0         .04           .4
7           0        .35          6.1                           0         .04           .4
8           0        .35          6.9                           0         .04           .5
9 to 50    0         .35          7.4                           0         .04           .6
Economic Rate of Return             20%                                                 14%
Aganan System Rehabilitation                     Santa Barbara System Rehabilitation
1           .4       0             0                             .3       0            0
2          1.3       0             0                           1.0        0            0
3          1.3       0             0                           1.0        0            0
4           .8       .04           .17                           .7       .04           .1
5           .5       .07           .36                           .4       .06           .3
6           0        .07           .72                          0         .06           .4
7           0        .07           .90                          0         .06           .5
8           0        .07          1.08                           0        .06           .6
9 to 50    0         .07          1.26                          0         .06           .7
Economic Rate of Return          18%                                                    13%
Jalaur Extension                             Jalaur System Rehabilitation
1           .5      0             0                              .8      0            0
2          1.7      0             0                             2.3      0            0
3          1.7      0             0                             2.2      0            0
4          1.1       .04           .08                          1.5       .08           .67
5           .6       .06           .23                           .8       .12          1.52
6           0         .06          .46                          0         .12          2.40
7           0        .06           .77                          0         .12          3.00
8           0         .06         1.00                          0         .12          3.51
9 to 50    0          .06         1.15                          0         .12          3.70
Economic Rate of Return           13%                                                  28%



ANNEX 16
Table I
PHILIPPINES
JALAUR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Schedule of Early Events
Activitv                                             Target Date
1. First Civil Works Contract
(a)   Complete detailed engineering design
tender documents and advertise                     June 1977
(b)   Preparation and submission of bids                   July-August 1977
(c)   Evaluate bids and award contract                     October 1977
(d)   Start construction                                   December 1977
2. Procurement of Force Account Construction Equipment
(a)   Complete tender documents for force account
equipment and advertise (ICB)                      June 1977
(b)   Evaluate bids and award contracts                    August 1977
(c)   Receive construction equipment                       March 1978
3.  First Force Account Construction
(a)   Complete detailed engineering design for
initial vear's construction                        October 1977
(b)   Start construction of small structures and
features requiring none of the earthmoving
equipment                                          December 1977
(c)   Start construction with equipment                    December 1978






PHI LIPPINES
JALAUR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1977                         1978                          1979                         1980                          1981
WORK ITEM                        J]|MjA|j3,J|J |A|S|O|NO  J | F|M AIM   | i Li              J |MA J J iIFAIiI1I- O4s       J F|M|A|M|J| J IA|S|1tN    J|F|M|A|M|JJ t|S|O|Nj
N\\>»'' N\N\\\\ 'N.'. x\N\ N\\\\  \\
I  Rehatul(iatlon of Existing Systems                     'N>> . N NNN                   N
(a) Jalaur- Suagun Systems (111,900 hal f\\\\ .>\\                                    N                                                                                      -
Contract Work                                   >>\ >NN>N\\                  NN                                                                                        \N\ N\\  -\ '\ N'i\\ \\\<\\
Diversion Dam & Main C,axls                  \\    '\\N    .>
Se,con,dary Canals                                                                                                                             . ' N  N N    'N       . .
O&M & Access Roads                                                        N          . N  N'                     \
Force Account Work                                                               N' NNN
Small Strucltures                                                             N>NNNNN                             NN\N
Maln & Seon-dary Dra.-is                     N\N\NN\                        N.                       .
On farm Ditches, Dra,ns & Roads
(b) Santa Barbara - Aganan Systems                     NN       \                   \'. N                             . .>
110,100 h.a)                                             N\                              .NN\                  N       N    N                              N                'N
Contract Work                                                                                              N - N>  '    N'                                             -       i.
Drorsion Dam & Main Canals                          .                                                    N      N                     ' N            N
Secondary Canals                                             N            '  N \NN\NN                                                 NN   N NN N .'  -
O&M & Access Roads
ForceAccountW Work                                     N  NN'i                    \NNN\\\                   \                                                          -  -
Small Structures                             NN-NN-   .>,.
Main & Secondary Drams> \»NN»                                             N N> NN>> NN                    N   >         N
OD  farm Ditches. Drains & Roads             NNN   >\NN> .           ii                                             NN N
(c) O&M Baidinqs (Contract)              .            ,..  ...
2. Extension ot JalaurSystem                              'NN»N>NNN>                   'N>>  NN>   N                 NNN iij         N              - N
(a) Jalbur Left Bankf2,700 ha)                          N>»»>'NN>                   NNN N'.> NN>N                 N N N N> ,N N N              N          ' . 
Contract Work                                      \                                   >                    NN\ii i>   '                    *   >      .''
Intnek Works & Main Canat                     NN>NNN, N                             N                     N                           N     N>    N
Secondary Canats
O&M & Access Roads                            NNNN>NNNNN                      \>N    \                       >        ''                      N.
Force Account Work                               N           . '                 \»\N»N                    >      N                                                        - - \
Main & Secondary Drains                        N N        .                                             »N N> N N                       .>>
On-farm Ditches, Drains & Roads                                               NN   N>»                    N> -N \
3  Procurement of Equipment                                   N                                  >                   N>   -' - \>                                                         .
Force Accoant Work                              NN                               N> N>                     N - - \  \.                                 .
Contract Administration -N>»                                                                             N              N
Award & Dehicery                             *                                N                          N   N         .
O&M Equipment                    .                                                 >N      N               >iiNj>' .                                                   N  N
Contract Admrnrstratixn                                                       N>NNN                     N>NN                                                             NN\  NN N
Award & Delivery                              .NN>N   NN                                                NN\N  N                                                          N NN'.
4. Water Management Training                              NNN                             >N»>NN                    N>NNN                           N   N»NN.
Equipment & Supplies                 i,,.  N>N                                  N N NNNNNN                   ' '
Contract Administration                          »>\N>   N                  »\  N NN>NN                   . \ .>.'NNN
Award & Deiivery                                  i                         »NNNi >i>\                    N>> .NN
NOTE: Shading indicates wot season m-nths                                                                                                                                     World Bank  16409






PHILIPPINES
JALAUR IRRIGATION PROJECT
NIA Organization for Special Projects
NIA BOARD
[     ADMINISTRATOR
ASSISTANT ADMINISTRATOR
SPECIAL PROJECTS
ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT                                          AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT
P   PLANNING AND DESIGN DIVISION |                          ( WATER MGT. AND LAND USE DIV.
lFARMERS ASSISTANCE
-   CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT DIV. J                                1       AND TRAIN. DIV
U-
I-
U-
Q           OPERATION AND MAINT. DIVISION                                    EVALUATION AND STATISTICS DIV.
0
I       BUSINESS MANAGEMENT
u -               EQUIPMENT DIVISION      llOFC
2                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OFFICE
l (t)            l                           l        ~~~~~~~~~~~~GROUNDWATER PUMP
CENTRAL LUZON PROJECTS                                   I         GROUNDWATE PUMP
I                           I         IRRIGATION PROJECT
_           ANGAT-MAGAT INTEGRATED
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT LMGTMLIUPS
z                   (AMIADP)                                                         PROJCTI
-J
DAVAO DEL NORTE
INTEGRATED IRRIGATION PROJECT                                              E _
(DNIIP)                                                          STAGEI
JALAUR IRRIGATION PROJECT     |                                       AGUSAN DEL SUR
IRRIGATION PROJECT
Includes Upper Pampanga, Aurora-Penaranda & Tarlac Projects
World Bank-9533(3R)






PHILIPPINES
JALAUR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Proposed Organization for Project Construction
NIA BOARD
I
NIA
ADMINISTRATOR
ASST. ADMINISTRATOR
SPECIAL PROJECTS
PROJECT MANAGER
ENGINEERING                   EQUIPMENT
AGRICULTURE                 ADMINISTRATIVE
ASST. PROJECT MANAGER
DIVISION I            DIVISION II
JALAUR-SUAGUE         SANTA BARBARA-
SYSTEMS               AGANAN SYSTEMS
World Bank-16392






PHILIPPINES
JALAUR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Proposed Organization for Operation and Maintenance
NIA
ADMINISTRATOR
ASSISTANT
ADMINISTRATOR
FOR SPECIAL PROJECTS
I
PROJECT MANAGER
(JALAUR)
ENGINEERAIONG |                  AGRICULTURE  ||EQUIPMENT   ||ADMiNISTRATIVE 
& OPERAION     ||   DIVISION                   || DIVISION    ||                                   DIVISION     |
| DISTRICT -   |                                                                                DISTRICT - II 
(PAVIA)                                                                                       ( POTATAN) I
| DIVISION    hI                                                                                  DIVISION    h
SUPERVISOR       _SUPERVISOR 
(,14) SWMT                                                                                       ) S [WMT
VV M T     __W M T                                                                                         r
(20)         _(29)                                                                                           _
DITCHTENDER                                                                                    DITCHTENDER
NOTE:
ONE SUPERVISING WATER MANAGEMENT TECHNOLOGIST (SWMT) - 2,500 HAS.
ONE WATER MANAGEMENT TECHNOLOGIST (WMT)               - 500 HAS.                                World Bank-16391 (R)
ONE DITCHTENDER                                       - 100 HAS.
DISTRICT I -STA. BARBARA - AGANAN IRRIG. SYSTEMS
DISTRICT II -JALAUR - SUAGUE IRRIG. SYSTEMS






PHI LIPPINES
JALAUR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Proposed Cropping Calendar
J      F      M       A      M       J      J       A      S       0      N       D
Jalaur-Suague &CP  _ I   _ in c                                        _       a
Jalaur Extension                                        N ,  N _     _   _
(14,600 ha)                                  . e                TM   N _       
'Maintenance          mm       m                  _  _ 
Wet                                                                                                 HMM           N
Season
Rice         Santa Barbara-
Aganan                                                          N
(10,100 ha)                                                                       NONE
:System:
:Maintenance                            H_     _
Jalaur-Suague &        NEC                                                                  cm      M *  *
Jalaur Extension                                                                               N *          - N *
(9,100 ha)                    .T I                                                                    T
-l *_-  M                                                                          MI
Dry                                            El  0 M   NO
Season
Rice         Santa Barbara-            _m_C                                                                      C
Aganan                         N                                                                       N   _
(600 ha)                      EM_   T
383
354
Rainfall mm.
281
Notation:                                                            254                           250
C:   Cultivation
N:   Nursery                                                                                              202
T:   Transplanting
M:   Management                                               156
H:   Harvest
1og
57
43-
32     31 
X~~~~~~~~E X M              ....                     
J      F       Ml     A      M       J      J       A       S      0      N       D
World Bank-16408






IBRD 12414
OCTOBER 1976
PHILIPPINES
JALAUR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Proposed:
seem Main conal
Lateral canals
-; .. Jal-ur river left banx e,ten-n,
(2730ha)          a
E.,sting
Main conals
Lateral canals
Irrigation areas
Rivers
Diversion dan,s                                                                 DIngle
____Roads.\                                                                     n3      e    <
Railways
Potentmiol
Potential extension of
irrigation areas
onto~_ 
rbr                                                                                                      .        PROJT   AR 
0,      t        3   3      4      'i 6 f 8..                                                                                                                                   MN A A
2-1,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
KIIOMETERS  .'                                                                                              .,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ABAE
MILES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AA 120',



