Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24167
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-41040)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF DEM 150.9 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC' OF
CROATIA
FOR A
EMERGENCY TRANSPORT
AND
MINE CLEARING
PROJECT
June 21, 2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
[Dfficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 22, 2002)
Currency Unit = HRK
1HRK     =  US$ 0.119
US$ 1 = HRK 8.423
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -    December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BiH                                                   -  Bosnia Herzegovina
CAS                                                   -  Country Assistance Strategy
CROMAC                                               -   Croatian Mine Action Center
CSER                                                 -   Croatian Social and Economic recovery Project
ERR                                                  -   Economic Rate of Retum
E.U.                                                 -   European Union
FMS                                                      Financial Management Specialist
HC                                                   -   Croatian Road Administration
HZ                                                   -   Croatian Railways Company
IBRD                                                     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB                                                  -   International Competitive Bidding
ICR                                                      Implementation Completion Report
MMATC                                                -   Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and
Communication
MoF                                                      Ministry of Finance
Mol                                                  -   Ministry of Interior
MRD                                                  -   Ministry of Reconstruction and Development
MTR                                                  -   Mid Term Review
NCB                                                      National Competitive Bidding
NGO                                                  -   Non Governmental Organization
OP/BP                                                -   Operating Procedure / Bank Procedure
PCD                                                  -   Project Concept Document
PIU                                                  -   Project Implementation Unit
QAG                                                  -   Quality Assurance Group
TA                                                   -   Technical Assistance
TIRS                                                     Transport Infrastructure Regional Study
U.N.                                                 -   United Nations
UNPA                                                 -   United Nations Protection Areas
UXO                                                  -   Unexploded Ordinance
WEUDAM                                               -   West European Union Demining Assistance Mission
Vice President:     Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Country Director:     Andrew N. Vorkink, ECCO5
Country Manager:       Indira Konjhodzic, ECCHR
Sector Director:     Hossein Razavi, ECSIE
Sector Manager:      Eva Molnar, ECSIE
Task Team Leader:       Peter Parker, ECSIE



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
CROATIA
EMERGENCY TRANSPORT
AND
MINE CLEARING
PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       l
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  8
6. Sustainability                                                                     10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      11
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    13
9. Partner Comments                                                                   14
10. Additional Information                                                           14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  16
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  18
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  19
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  20
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     21
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 22
Map No. IBRD 28285R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.



Project ID: P044457                                      Project Name: EMG TRANS/MINE CLR
Team Leader: Peter P. Parker                            ! TL Unit: ECSIE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: June 21, 2002
1i. Project Data
Name: EMG TRANS/MINE CLR                            L/CITF Number: SCL-41040
Country/Department: CROATIA                                            Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: MY - Non-Sector Specific; TY - Other
Transportation
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   01/18/1996                            Effective: 03/04/1997         03/04/1997
Appraisal:  02/01/1996                               MTR: 02/28/1998
Approval:  11/21/1996                             Closing: 06/30/2000          12/31/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency:  Republic of Croatia/Croatia Railways Company; Republic of Croatia/Croatia
Roads Administration; Republic of Croatia/Ploce Port Authority; Republic of
Croatia/Croatian Ministry of Maritime Affairs; Republic of Croatia/Croatia
Ministry of Interior
Other Partners:  Croatian Mine Action Center, Ministry of Finance.
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:     Johannes F. Linn                          Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager:    Indira Konjhodzic                         Jean-Michel Severino (Director)
''ector Manager:     Eva Molnar                               Hans Apitz (Division Chief)
T'eam Leader at ICR:  Peter P. Parker                         Sue Rutledge
1 CR Primary Author:  Enn P. Vasur; Jacques Bure
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(iS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Lnlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=-High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: H
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:



The primary objectives of the project were to: (1) repair and reconstruct the surface transport networks
within Croatia and between Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH); and (2) clear landmines in areas of
high economic priority for reconstruction (about 35% of the affected areas hampered economic activity,
and some 1500 military and civilian persons were victims of landmines during the conflict). Indirect
objectives mentioned were the reestablishment of the traditional regional trade patterns, improved delivery
of construction materials to BiH, provision of some critical elements needed for the return of refugees and
displaced persons. The clearing of landmines was seen as an essential first step in the repair and
reconstruction of infrastructure networks.
The Project was intended to cover a first phase of a larger reconstruction program following the war with
former Yugoslavia. Other projects foreseen would cover the rebuilding of regional (Croatia/BiH) water
supply and sewerage networks, and reconstruction of major infrastructure in Eastern Slavonia
(Reconstruction Project for Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem still under implementation).
The destruction and damage to the transport infrastructure and the consequent reconstruction priorities had
been comprehensively documented by various commissions and agencies, reviewed by the Bank and found
to be convincing and acceptable. The transport part of the project was a clear and straightforward
emergency operation with established agencies to administer the implementation. The landmine clearing
component - the largest demining program ever financed by the Bank- was of a somewhat different
character. Although a serious and acute problem (at the end of 1995 there were an estimated three million
landmines dispersed primarily along the more than 800 km of lines of confrontation) and hence the removal
of the landmines was extremely important, there was no established organization to handle this in a civilian
reconstruction context. Therefore the demining component included a significant institution building.
The project objectives were clear and appropriate. The territorial problems had been or were being
resolved (in Eastern Slavonia and in the other former United Nations Protection Areas -UNPA), the
damages were well documented and the reconstruction priorities agreed. The Bank's intervention was thus
timely and important. One matter which was underestimated was the lingering difficulties and unresolved
questions between Croatia and BiH regarding Herzegovina. The regional water and sewerage project never
got off the ground and although the necessary agreements for the Ploce port reconstruction were signed
before effectiveness, various interests were such that the development of traffic proved to be very slow.
However, for other components where such underlying difference were not present, regional cooperation
was excellent (Zupanja-Orasje bridge).
The project fully supported the objectives of the April 1995 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) as well as
the May 11, 1999 version.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not revised.
3.3 Orginal Components:
Transport Component
Roads and Bridges: Repair and reconstruction of the Zupanja-Orasje bridge (the parts of the bridge located
in the territory of Croatia; the parts located on the BiH side were executed simultaneously with financing
through the BiH Emergency Transport Reconstruction Project) which crosses the Sava River into BiH from
eastern Croatia, 130 km of roads and about 30 road bridges primarily through Lika and Cordun in the
former UNPA's, and upgraded road access to Ploce Port. Estimated cost US$ 39.0 million.
- 2 -



Railways: Reconstruction of the Lika line (Ostarije-Knin-Split/Zadar) comprising the Debeljak tunnel at
Skabmje near Zadar, safety equipment at the Skabrnje station, 9 automated barriers at road crossings along
the line, renewal of 45 km of track and spare parts for 15 locomotives, reconstruction of the Novska-Sisak
line comprising the rebuilding of two rail bridges (over the Strug and Sava rivers). Estimated cost USS
27.8 million.
Ploce Port: Repair and reconstruction of Piers 5 and 3, pier ladder and fender system, repair of the
roll-on-roll-off terminal, container handling equipment and repair of war damage to equipment, piers and
buildings. Estimated cost US$ 21.5 million.
Landmine Clearing Component
The project was to finance US$19.9 million for landmine clearing, US$13.4 million for goods to equip
demining firms and US$0.7 million for technical assistance. Landmine clearing was a prerequisite to
carrying out some of the works under the transport component. There was no list of sites to be cleared at
appraisal, as there was not enough information available regarding suspected minefields at that time. The
landmine clearing component was also designed to support clearance of other high priority areas needed for
economic reconstruction - mainly roads, railways and canals.
3.4 Revised Components:
Transport Component
This component remained fundamentally unchanged. There were minor changes in the lists of roads,
bridges and equipment discussed during appraisal. These modifications occurred mainly because of the
critical situation of the installations, which led to Government making funds available on an extraordinary
basis. The Ploce Port access road was deleted because of planning/political difficulties. None of these
changes required approval by the executive directors.
Landmine Clearing Component
The original design included a large portion of equipment to be purchased -mainly to equip the former
State-owned demining firm Mungos so that more works could be carried out. However, the capacity of the
contracting industry grew rapidly during the first year of implementation and more firms were equipped
and able to compete for work. Therefore, the Government decided to cancel the purchase of equipment and
funds were reallocated to finance additional works (US$10 million were transferred from the goods
category to the works category in 1998). This transferred the full responsibility of demining works to the
contractors who cleared more land. The remaining US$3.4 million under the goods category were
earmarked to strengthen planning and monitoring capacity of the Croatian Mine Action Center
(CROMAC), which made it possible to reduce the size of the suspected minefields from 6,000 km2 in 1997
to 1,700 km2 in 2001.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project's quality at entry was not assessed by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG). The importance
and appropriateness of the project and its components was agreed by all parties concerned and was
consistent with the larger view of reconstruction needed in the region. The quality of preparation for the
transport component was very good based on comprehensive reports describing damages and priorities.
The lingering political problems between Croatia and BiH had only a limited effect on the project. The
- 3 -



project indicators only referred to the speed of project implementation. They did not allow for measuring
socio-economic impacts. In hindsight, surveys could have been carried out to measure how the project
contributed to the return of refugees and to the reestablishment of the traditional trade pattems in the
region. The Bank supervision missions were able to issue only general statements on this matter.
Special attention was paid to the landmine clearing component as the Bank had limited experience in this
field. The project team presupposed that id would be possible to carry out demining ahead of the
reconstruction operations. However, this proved too optimistic as there was no general survey, and no list
of priorities available at appraisal. In the early stage of implementation, the Borrower had difficulties
gathering information about minefields and drfting the list of priorities for demining works.
The Project Implementation Plan specified the Ministry of Interior (MoI) as the civilian mine action
authority. Its responsibility was to ensure that the activities were carried out in accordance with
international standards. Monitoring was based on measurement of input indicators (e.g., flow of funds,
timely delivery of equipment), progress indicators (e.g., plans and schedules followed) and output
indicators (e.g., size of area certified free of explosives, number of landmines cleared and disposed). The
project was carried out under emergency procedures, in line with OP/BP 8.50. There was no calculation of
the rate of return of demining activities.
Overall for the project, quality at entry is considered to be satisfactory.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall outcome of the project is considered to be satisfactory
Transport component
The outcome of this component was satisfactory. The project met its objective to repair and reconstruct
parts of the surface transport networks within Croatia and between Croatia and BiH. The reconstruction
included the project covered only part of the total reconstruction needs so therefore it is unreasonable to
give any measure of how much the project contributed to more general objectives of facilitating the
resumption of regional trade patterns, the return of refugees, etc. It is clear however that the reconstruction
which took place contributed to increased mobility by opening up connections which had been closed
and/or shortening travel distances by eliminating long and costly detours. For one of the components, the
Zupanja - Orasje bridge connecting Croatia and BiH across the Sava river, the effect was very obvious.
All ten bridges connecting Croatia and BiH across the Sava and Una rivers were impassable after the
hostilities. A big part of the surface traffic facilities between Croatia and BiH was completely cut There
were two ferries across the river at Zupanja. The opening of this bridge, in late 1999, provided the first
road bridge connection and as such had a vital importance for trade and general contacts.
Landmine Clearing Component
The outcome of this component was highly satisfactory. Productivity objectives were met. Barriers to
demining contractors were eliminated and prices dropped from 18 HRK per square meter at the beginning
of the project to 11 HRK including insurance costs in 2001, in large measure due to the commercial
approach promoted by the project that attracted both local and international contractors. About 23 local
demining firms are now operating on a fully commercial basis. Ten of these firms have signed contracts
-4-



above US$0.5 million. This core group represents the demining capacity for the country i.e., about 420
dleminers and 16 demining machines. Deminers are now organized through one union and they lobby for
more financing, timely payments, safety and regulation of bonuses and retirement plans.
The timely completion of the works was the only challenge that was not met fully. Expectations during the
preparation of the project were too high (para. 3.5). The lack of existing capacity at the beginning of the
project, together with the lack of information on minefields and elaborate procurement arrangements made
it difficult to perform demnining tasks ahead of the reconstruction operations. Fortunately, the transport
component was not delayed, as many of the sites were not mined, and the others -part of a high priority
emergency list- were demined on time through other arrangements than the demining component of the
project.
The Parliament approved a National Mine Action Plan in October 2000, paving the way for the 800km
confrontation line to be fully demined by 2010. Croatia agreed to destroy all stockpiles by 2004 and clear
all minefields by 2010. The Bank financed about 25% of demining activities during 1997-2001.
In spite of delays in implementing the demining component, its outcome is considered to be highly
satisfactory due to the sharp reduction in demining costs, the development of a demining contracting
industry, the subsequent adoption worldwide of Bank bidding documents and institution building
improvements made under the project described below.
4.2 Outputs by components:
]3ecause of the emergency nature of the project no key performance ratings were drawn.
'rransport component
iRoads and Bridges: All road sections, except the Ploce Port access road, have been completed. About
180 km of the main road network were rehabilitated compared to 130 km envisaged at project appraisal. A
lotal of 32 bridges were reconstructed/rehabilitated. Actual average cost for road rehabilitation was
IJS$85,000 per km, in line with the cost for similar road rehabilitation in the Balkan region.
Railways: All of the planned goods and equipment were delivered. This includes locomotive spare parts,
irack renewal and safety equipment. All the civil works, Skabmje station, Debeljak tunnel and bridge
rehabilitation, were carried out.
Ploce Port: All the investments foreseen were completed. This includes the rehabilitation of piers 3 and 5,
works on the ro-ro terminal, the delivery of handling equipment, and the pier ladder and fendering systems.
The repair of miscellaneous war damage was carried out with the Port's own funds
The achievement of this component is satisfactory.
Landmine Clearing Component
Clearing of landmines in areas of high priority for economic reconstruction: The project financed mine
clearing for 26 bridges, 150 km of railway tracks, 5 railway stations, and about 270 km of roads (totaling
about 13 km2). An additional 5 km2 were retumed for safe use following CROMAC's technical survey.
About 1500 landmines and 3200 UXOs (unexploded ordinance) were removed. Some 19 contracts with 9
(different contractors were completed. The actual average cost for landmine clearing was US$1.50 per
- 5-



square meter in 2001 against US$2.40 at the beginning of the project in 1996. Bank demining bidding
documents drafted under the project are now used world-wide. Concerns remained regarding safety of the
deminers (four deminers have been killed since 1996 in Croatia). The project participated in the National
Mine Action Plan that the Government developed in 2000, which included steps to address safety issues.
The Government together with the Bank anticipated the problem of scarcity of funds and high cost of the
works by focussing on prioritization and risk reduction. The Council of Minister approves annual list of
priorities and the CROMAC survey capacity plus demining conducted by commercial firms allow the
return of about 40 km2 of productive land to the communities each year. To date only 1,700 km2 are
suspected to be mined in Croatia.
Screening and surveys: CROMAC -a 100% Croatian institution- took over the United Nation Mine
Action Center responsibilities one year after the project started, making the Government fully responsible
for landmine clearing. The Project helped strengthen CROMAC by supplying equipment for planning,
survey and monitoring activities (e.g., two remote controlled mini-flails were acquired in 2000-2001).
Survey capacity in particular increased dramatically during implementation. A trained and equipped
survey team is now operational at CROMAC. Survey allow reducing the scope of demining works very.
significantly. The cost of survey is estimated to be one tenth of traditional demining activities. Survey
capacity was also financed by the UN, West European Union Demining Assistance Mission (WEUDAM),
donors countries (e.g., Austria, Canada, Japan, Norway, Slovakia) and the United Nations Voluntary Trust
Fund. Aerial photographic mapping financed in 2001 increased survey capacity of CROMAC one step
further.
Conducting quality assurance test in the areas cleared from landmines: The Croatian law on demining
requires that a percentage of the areas that have been demined are checked to ensure that the international
humanitarian demining standards are met. The CROMAC Quality Assurance checked areas that are
cleared by commercial firms under the project. Special Police also provided Quality Assurance staff when
warranted. No payments were made to the contractors unless the Quality Assurance Unit certified that the
sites had been cleared.
Provision of TA to CROMAC and other agencies: This objective was met thanks to the provision of
Technical Assistance by the United Nations and by donors. The Bank helped with the support of an
Implementation Advisor for the Project, assisting the PIU part-time during the first half of 1998. The
advisor helped with the procurement of demining works, services and goods in conformity with the Bank's
procurement guidelines.
The achievement of this component is highly satisfactory.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Transport component
As this was an emergency operation, no economic rate of return was calculated for the project at appraisal.
However, for two of the components, road rehabilitation and the Lika rail line rehabilitation, the ERRs
were estimated to be 14-49% and 12% respectively. The ERRs for 14 road sections, considered to be
representative of the project were for purposes of this report reestimated to be 20-91% (weighted average
43%, Annex 3). This was higher than estimated at appraisal primarily due to lower construction costs. The
ERR for the railway component was not reestimated, but as the construction cost for the Lika line was 15%
lower than estimated at appraisal, it is reasonable to conclude that it would be higher than the appraisal
estimate.
-6-



Landmine Clearing Component
No economic rate of return was estimated for demining. Monitoring was limited to basic outputs e.g.,
number of landmines and surface areas cleared. The humanitarian and economic benefits of demining are
considered to be both substantial and self-evident.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Transport Component
As an emergency operation, the project's transport part had no objectives pertaining to institutional
development. The planning and implementation did, however, contribute to better routines and a higher
level of confidence with Bank procurement procedures in all the three implementing agencies. This is
attested to be a basically problem free contract administration and implementation, including some quite
complicated instances like the Zupanja-Orasje bridge and the Pier 5 in Ploce Port. Also the reporting on
project progress, from the implementing agencies, as well as comprehensive reports from the Ministry of
Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications (MMATC), developed into regular and useful tools for
project monitoring. The MMATC-Bank dialogue during preparation and implementation of the project
contributed to further institutional development through Bank's assistance in the three transport sub-sectors
(Railway Modernization and Restructuring Project, under implementation; and proposed Rijeka Gateway
Project, including both port and highway components). In addition, the project implementing agencies are
now better prepared for the evaluation and implementation of the future infrastructure projects. This can be
seen as sixteen projects-were foreseen under the Transport Infrastructure Regional Study in the Balkans
(TIRS).
One important aspect of institutional development where the project had a direct impact was in developing
the cooperation between the Croatian and BiH authorities in infrastructure reconstruction definition and
development Following the break-up of Yugoslavia there had been no regular civilian cooperation in this
area. The contacts established and the routines agreed upon under the project for the Zupanja-Orasje
bridge provided the framework for such future projects. This framework was established and operated on
all necessary levels, from the highest political to day-to-day project implementation.
Landmine Clearing Component
Although not anticipated at appraisal, institution building tumed to be a major benefit of the demining
component of the project The main achievements are summarized below:
CROMAC is now the national body in charge of the implementation of demining policy: The
three pillars of the deminining policy are: (i) the demining Law (1996, revised 1998) (ii) the
ratification of the Ottawa treaty (1998) and (iii) the National Mine Action Plan (2000). A
CROMAC Council is responsible at the Govemment level for setting the policy. and the priorities.
All involved ministries are represented on the Council.
Commercial firms perform demining works: Bidding documents based on the World Bank Civil
Works Standard Bidding Documents, were modified to take into account of the specific nature of
- 7 -



landmine clearing. Foreign demining contractors now work in Croatia. In 1996 a law on demining
set the basis for commercial activities and the relations between the Government and the landmine
clearing firns.
Supervision is of high quality: Supervision complies with international mine action standards
based on civil works supervision practices promoted by the Bank. Supervision reduced the cost of
landrnine clearing and increased safety.
5. Major Factors Affecting lmplementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Transport component
There were no factors outside Government control that affected project implementation. It may be argued
that there were problems, not fully under the control of the Croatian government, in the relations between
Croatia and BiH, which adversely affected the development of traffic in the rehabilitated Ploce Port.
Present traffic of the port, although showing some 30% increase over the past five years, still does not
amount to more than about 20% of the level of the pre-war years. This is due to structural changes in the
economy which is common to all countries in centml and eastern Europe following the collapse of
communism.
Landmine Clearing Component
No external factors affected the implementation of the demining component
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Transport component
Budgetary allocations for road/bridge rehabilitation were severely curtailed in 1998 which resulted in a
temporary delay of the works. This was overcome in 1999 and thereafter.
Landmine Clearing Component
Ministry of Interior was solely responsible for this project component during the first year of
implementation, but once CROMAC became operational in 1998, implementation responsibility was
passed to them as they were designated as the focal point for all landmine clearing in Croatia. The Bank
concurred with this change. Because the Government considered landmine clearing of special importance
for safety, MoI remained in charge of the inspection and administrative supervision of CROMAC. This
arrangement worked very well and CROMAC soon managed the project to the satisfaction of both the
Government and the Bank.
Croatia ratified the Ottawa Treaty in 1999, committing itself to eradicate landmines within a ten year
period i.e., by 2010. Croatia is deploying significant financing each year to reach this objective. High
speed demining techniques would help of course, but to date, no such technique is reliable enough to be
used on a large scale. The project helped to speed up demining through the financing of CROMAC survey
activities to reduce the size of the areas required to be demined.
In kind technical assistance was provided by the U.N., the E.U. and bilateral donors (Japan, France). As a
-8-



result, there was no need to use the US$0.7 million under the Technical Assistance category of the Loan,
and these funds were reallocated.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Transport component
All the implementing agencies, Croatian Roads Administration (HC), Croatian Railways Company (HZ)
and the Ploce Port, performed very well throughout the project, and this has been a main contributing
factor to its implementation.
Landmine Clearing Component
The pace of implementation of the works was slower than expected at appraisal. First, the institutional
setup hampered procurement because there was not enough capacity to prepare the bidding documents with
description of the sites to be demined during the first year of implementation. Second, the beneficiaries
were not able to determine their priorities and thus only four contracts were signed and one contract
completed through 1998. The situation improved in 1999, with the new mandate of CROMAC to conduct
landmine-related activities. All areas that were on the critical path for reconstruction were cleared as a
result. CROMAC then concentrated on clearance of other sites - mainly roads. However, the lengthy
procurement process, number of complaints from unsuccessful bidders and, above all, difficulties in
approving lists of priorities, resulted in a significant slow down of disbursements in 2000 and 2001. The
closing date was extended twice as a result, first from June 2000 to June 2001 and a second time to
December 2001. Also, US$1.7 million were cancelled by the closing date as some of the works were not
procured.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Transport component
The final estimated costs for the transport component were about 7% lower than what was foreseen at
appraisal. This is due to the lower than expected costs for the roads/bridges component. This has been
observed elsewhere in the region and seems to have two main explanations. One is that after the period
with little civilian admninistered works, the estimates tended to be on the high side in the absence of recent
experience. The other reason, tied to the first one, is that once the market for civilian admninistered
contracts developed and the conditions normalized, competition started to work and prices carne down. The
same pattern was also observed in BiH projects.
The Bank financed 80% of the cost of works and 100% of the cost of goods. The balance came from the
Govermment budget. Except for the situation in 1998 with insufficient road sector budgets there were no
problems with counterpart funds and financing (see paa. 5.2 above) .
.Landmine Clearing Component
The original project design foresaw capital investment to equip the nascent demining industry. Thanks to
competition established among foreign contractors during the first year of implementation and to the high
productivity of demining works, the Government decided to transfer more responsibility to the contractors.
The supply of equipment was then passed to the private sector through the procurement of more demining
works. The proceeds of the Loan were reallocated as a result. This reallocation was seen as a very
-9-



positive step both by the Government and by the Bank.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Transport
As an emergency operation, the project focussed on the short-term physical reconstruction of the surface
transport network. There was no consideration of sustainability beyond completion of the works.
Institutional aspects were intended to be handled by other projects, which were under initial stages of
preparation.
Roads and bridges rehabilitated under the project are likely to be maintained. The road maintenance budget
has increased in stages from $29.6 million in 1995 to $140 million in 2001. The financial condition and
organizational structure of Croatian Railways is being improved under the ongoing Railway Modernization
and Restructuring Project. The transport component of the project is, therefore, considered to be
sustainable.
Landmine Clearing
Sustainability of demining activities is very likely:
The Government is committed to eradicate all landmines in Croatia by 2010. The National Mine Action
Plan released in 2000 is sound, and the implementation agency -CROMAC- is fully operational. The
main productivity objectives for the first year of the plan (2001) were met i.e., clearance of 35 km2, survey
of 15 km2, marking a perimeter of 400 km and implementation of Quality assurance in line with
international demining standards.
Croatia devotes significant funds to landmine clearing. The basis for the commercial activities and the
relations between the Government and the commercial firms are set by the law on demining. CROMAC
co-ordinates the actions of the various international organizations on the ground, and assures quality. The
volume of landmine clearing steadily increased from 15 km2 in 1998 to 23 km2 in 1999, 35 km2 in 2000
and 42 km2 in 2001. CROMAC operating costs are 100 percent covered by the Government budget.
The Bank and CROMAC co-organized a demining conference in September 2001 to support the National
Mine Action Plan. Donors pledged about US$9 million for CY 2002-2003. The Bank will continue
supporting the Plan through the preparation of the proposed Croatian Social and Economic Recovery
Project that is being identified. The Development Bank of the Council of Europe is also interested in this
project and finance of landmine clearing.
Project
Based on the above assessments, the sustainability of the project is judged to be likely.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Transport
As the institutions responsible for the different transport components already existed and were intended to
continue to exist, there were no transition arrangements foreseen to be included in the project.
-10-



Landmine Clearing
CROMAC is responsible for establishing and managing the national landmines database, the compliance
with humanitarian demining standards, safety standards and guidelines. CROMAC demonstrated its ability
tD provide assistance to others. For example it helps Hrvatske Vode in the implementation of the
Reconstruction Project for Eastem Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem (Bank financed). Hrvatske Vode
and CROMAC worked together to assess the priorities and the technical requirements and CROMAC is
assisting with the supervision of the works.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
tank
i. I Lending:
Once the go-ahead was given, the Bank's handling of the project was fast and efficient. Thanks to
eadequate staffing and to a large variety of skills that was put together at preparation, quality remained very
good despite the high speed at which the project was prepared. There was one identification mission in
N4ovember 1995. The appraisal mission, comprising two staff and one consultant, took place in February
1996, and negotiations followed in September, 1996. The project was presented to the Board in November
1.996, and became effective in March, 1997. Considering that the conditions were still in flux during the
immediate aftermath of the war, and especially the need to have the interational agreements between
Croatia and BiH (Reconstruction of transport links, The Orasje-Zupanja agreement, The Ploce agreement,
The Neum agreement) signed as a condition of negotiations, the Bank handled project preparation in a
satisfactory manner.
:.2 Supervision:
]3ank supervision performance is rated as satisfactory. There were normally two supervision missions per
year. The skill-mix and continuity of the supervision teams were good, comprising generally an economist,
a highway engineer, a landmine clearing expert and other experts as needed. Continuity was maintained
throughout the project with few staff changes of which the most significant ones were the changes in Team
leader in 1997 and 1999. That the staff responsible for the transport part of the project was stationed in
Sarajevo from mid 1996 to late 1997 allowed for close contacts with the Borrower. This was especially
important for the intemational components which required a disproportionate amount of time from Bank
staff in the earlier phases of the project. Also the fact that procurement assistance was provided from the
Sarajevo office from the beginming of the project till October 1998 contributed significantly to the speedy
resolution of procurement-related matters.
'The supervision of demining activities benelited from a close cooperation between Mol/CROMAC and the
'Bank landmine clearing expert. This cooperation allowed to overcome the difficulties encountered during
procurement. The review of the first two bidding for demining works was slow because this was one of the
first attempts to combine demining works and Bank procedures. MoI expressed concems about the Banlc
evaluation methodology during the first year of implementation of the demining component. Complaints
from unsuccessful bidders also slowed the review process of the two first contracts. These difficulties
disappeared at later stages of the implementation, and seventeen other contracts for works were processed
much more easily. The Bank team also passed to CROMAC experience gained during the implementation
of other Bank supported demining projects in Bosnia, Cambodia and Ethiopia.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:



Considering the above, Bank performance is rated as satisfactory. The Bank demonstrated that it can
provide quick, high quality assistance to clients in emergency operations.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower preparation effort is rated as satisfactory. The preparatory work from the Borrower's side was
thorough and comprehensive.  Damage assessments, priority rankings and preparation of project
components were prompt and of good quality -apart from the demining component, as described below.
The negotiations and signing of the intemational agreements which were a prerequisite for further project
processing by the Bank (see para. 7.1 above) were handled in a timely and satisfactory way.
MoI was not able to provide a detailed procurement plan for the demining part of the project during
appraisal, due to the lack of an approved list of priorities for 1998-1999. The Ministry of Reconstruction
and Development (MRD) and the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communication
(MMATC), finally approved the draft list of priorities on December 1997. The procurement plan was
completed in February 1998. The Bank noticed significant progress in the maintenance of the list of
priorities thereafter.
7.5 Governmentimplementationperformance:
Borrower implementation performance is rated as satisfactory. During implementation, the Government's
participation occurred on two levels. A high level official, a deputy minister, in the Ministry of Finance
assumed the position of Project Coordinator with responsibility for monitoring project activities and to
provide a focal point for the project within the Government Each of the ministries under which the
activities were carried out created a Project Unit, mainly to monitor and report on project progress. The
hierachical implementation arrangements on the Government side described above, proved to be
appropriate for the project, allowing the different beneficiaries and the PIm's to interact, both between
themselves as well as with the Project Coordinator, to the degree needed. The reports from the
implementing units were consolidated and were submitted to the Project Coordinator and to the Bank.
Apart from the 1998 shortfall of counterpart funds for road/bridges, the Government's commitment to
provide the required funds was fully honored. The contribution even increased by 52.8% for the transport
component and by 7.5% for the landmine clearing component to cover for additional works during the
implementation of the project (as works were financed 80% from the Loan, the government had to cover the
remaining 20% for the additional works).
The Government was fully committed to lead the process of landmine eradication, a problem seen as a
major threat to the citizens and the economy. Ownership of the landmine clearing program was an essential
factor for the successful and efficient implementation of the project.
7.6 Inmplementing Agency:
The four implementing agencies, i.e. Croatian Roads Administration, Croatian Railways Company, the
Ploce Port Authority and the Ministry of Interior project Unit/CROMAC all performed in a highly
satisfactory manner. A total of about 135 contracts were implemented, some of them of a technically
complex nature. A special mention needs to be made for the handling of the Orasje-Zupanja bridge. This
was a major undertaking financed in equal parts from the project and the Bank's Emergency Transport
Reconstruction Project for BiH. Reconstruction of three spans across the Sava river totalling 340 m were
- 12 -



to be carried out in cooperation with BiH. However, such cooperation was not available in the aftermath of
the hostilities and had to be developed under the project. For this purpose, an intemational body for the
restoration of destroyed transport links between the two countries was formed, in which the Croatian Roads
Administration played a leading role. The same arrangement has since then been used by both countries to
discuss issues related to the reconstruction of other links of common interest The development and
application of these bilateral agreements required a substantial amount of time and effort from all parties
involved. The Croatian Roads Administration handled the implementation of this both technically and
politically complex project in a most efficient way, knowing how to foster consensus without compromising
the project's quality or completion deadline. By the time the bridge was completed and inaugurated, in
December 1999, on schedule and with the budget, none of the other Sava river road bridges for which
preparations had started at the same time as for Orasje-Zupanja bridge, were yet under construction.
7.7 Overall Borrowerperformiance:
Taking into account the various aspects related above, the overall Borrower performance is rated as
satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
1. For an emergency operation where speed of implementation is important, the project design should be
kept simple and concentrate on physical reconstruction. Therefore, longer-term issues dealing with
institutional development, policy formulation need to be dealt with in a different setting. This was taken
into account in the present project, where the basic policy issues of the transport sector were dealt with in
other projects.
2. Projects involving more than one borrower/Govermment, or more than one Bank loan as was the case for
the Sava river bridge, are time consuming. Having more counterparts should be taken into account during
the project planning process. Although hard to estimate, it is not unreasonable to think that somewhere
around 100% in additional resources and time is required, and these additional costs need to be taken into
account.
3. Discrete, though related, components result in different implementation speeds, and this needs to be
coordinated both at the design stage and during implementation. The two project components, i.e.,
transport and landmine clearing, were quite different in nature. Whereas transport dealt with established
institutions landmine clearing was new territory. Institutions had to be developed, priorities defined and
procedures established. This naturally led to quite different implementation speeds. The intention of the
project was to clear mines prior to undertakling transport works, but this did not happen. In the event the
transport works were not delayed since landmine clearing was carried out anyway through various other
arrangements such as with local administrations, the police and the army.
4. Although not intended as an institution building project, the landmine clearing component had
substantial institutional, economic and humanitarian benefits. Demining costs dropped from 18 HRK to 11
HRK per square meter due to competitive contracting procedures introduced under the project. The bidding
documents that were developed during the implementation of the project, based on Bank standard
documentation, are now used worldwide. The demining agency CROMAC was established, the National
Mine Action Plan passed and the Ottowa Treaty ratified during the project period. The Bank has now
developed an expertise in this topic and further demining projects are warranted. The Bank also works as a
partner with U.N. agencies, and NGOs for demining operations, and follow up/new operations are planned
in Croatia, BiH, Ethiopia and Senegal.
- 13 -



5. Demining by contract is efficient provided that contractors can access (i) the market, (ii) a line of credit
for financing equipment and initial expenditures, and (iii) technical knowledge.
6. Landmine cleaning is not a matter of quantity. The problem is not the number of landmines in a given
area, but rather the threat that the land is not mine-free that blocks the resumption of social and economic
activities. Therefore, in many ways, landmine management is as much about information as it is about
removal. In the early stage of a program, the struggle is to acquire a comprehensive base of information so
that priorities can be discussed among the various actors.
7. Demining actions are easier to implemnent once a Government has ratified the Ottawa Treaty, as this,
commits the authorities to eradicate landmines within a ten year period.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower (Ministry of Finance, MoF) and the four implementing agencies (Croatian Roads,
Croatian Railways, Ploce Port Authority, and Croatian Mine Action Center) reviewed a draft of the
ICR, provided contributions which were incorporated, and sent comments which are retained in the
project file. Their joint opinion about the project is summarized in the cover letter sent by MoF:
"Following successful implementation and after the completion of the Emergency Transport and Mine
Clearing Project, the Borrower conducted a survey among implementing agencies of the Loan funds
(Croatian Roads, Croatian Railways, Ploce Port Authority and Croatian Mine Action Center). The
survey showed positive and visible results and confirmed usefulness of the Loan investments. It was
concluded that the primary objectives of the Project, meaning reconstruction of the war-damaged
surface transport networks within Croatia and between Bosnia and Herzegovina and demining activities
in areas of high economic priority, was fulfilled in a best manner.
Cooperation of the Borrower with the IBRD task managers was very satisfactory, and in the course of
this cooperation a lot of good experience and knowledge was acquired and example practice obtained
by implementing agencies and Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The Borrower
agrees with the final evaluation and comments as prepared by the IBRD."
(b) Cofinanciers:
n/a
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
n/a
10. Additional Information
- 14 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Repair and reconstructon of surface                                       Notet Sinoe his is an emergency operaton,
transportation routes in Croatia and between                              no performance indicators were agreed, other
Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina.                                       than completion of the works.
Clear landmines in the areas of high                                      Landmine clearance impact
economic priority.                                                        Surface:
* 12.5 km2 deared
Contracts:
* 19 contracts signed with 9 dfferent firms
Items:
26 bridges cleared
270 km of roads deared
150 km of railway tracks cleared
182 markers on the Sava and Drava rivers
ceared
Destruction:
871 anti personnel landmines
673 anti tank mines
3,170 UXOs
70 kg of TNT
Output Indicators:
Road oomponent: (i) reconstructon of the                                  (i) Orasje bridge reconstructed; (ii)
Orasje bridge; (ii) emergency rehabilitation of                           rehabilitatbon of about 173 km of main roads,
first priority roads and bridges; and (iii)                               and 25 bridges completed; and (iii) all
prvision of road maintenance equipment                                    contracts for delivery of maintenance
equipment completed.
Railway component (i) rehabilitation of 45 km                             () 45 km of track, Including 1 tunnel and 2
of track, including one tunnel and two                                    bridges completed; and (ii) all spare parts,
bridges; and (ii) purchase of spare parts,                                equipment, and level crossings delivered as
level crossings and station equipment                                     foreseen.
Port of Ploce component: (i) rehabilitation of                            (i) the two piers (No. 3 and 5) and the ro-ro
two piers, one ro-ro terminal; and (ii)                                   terminal are rehabilitated; and (ii) handling
purchase of handling equipment                                            equipment delivered
Landmine clearing oomponent O) survey and 19 contracts (about 15 km2) for survey and  The 19 contracts for survey and clearing are
leafing In areas of high priority needed for  mine cdearing completed     procured out of which 90% will be completed
economic development                                                      by the completion date. About 15 km2 were
cleared by the dosing date. See above table
for other physical indicators
End of project
- 15 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Proect Cost by Com onent (in US$ million e uivalent)
j||l'd i.fi.SiLoM~~p                    i aE  A             Pece    gi
Transport                                        76.00          98.20           129
Mine Clearance                                   27.20          33.00           121
Total Baseline Cost                              103.20        131.20
Physical Contingencies                           19.10          0.00
Price Contingencies                              0.00           0.00
Total Project Costs          122.30         131.20
Total Financing Required          122.30         131.20
Proect Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                   63.20        35.00         1.60        0.00        99.80
(50.40)      (27.90)      (1.20)      (0.00)      (79.50)
2. Goods                    6.50         7.00         8.30        0.00        21.80
(6.50)       (7.00)      (8.30)       (0.00)      (21.80)
3. Services                 0.00         0.00        0.70         0.00        0.70
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.70)       (0.00)      (0.70)
4. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                    69.70        42.00        10.60        0.00       122.30
(56.90)      (34.90)     (10.20)       (0.00)     (102.00)
Project Costs b Procurement Arrangements (ActualLatest Estimate US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                   60.40        39.30        0.00         8.80       108.50
(48.20)      (31.10)      (0.00)      (0.00)     (79.30)
2. Goods                    17.00        4.70        0.60         0.00       22.30
(17.00)      (4.70)      (0.60)       (0.00)     (22.30)
3. Services                 0.40         0.00        0.00         0.00       0.40
(0.40)       (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.40)
4. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
- 16 -



5. Miscellaneous                0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.0()
S. Miscellaneous                0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                        77.80         44.00          0.60          8.80         131.20
(65.60)        (35.80)       (0.60)        (0.00)       (102.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
vIncludes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Pro ect Financing by Com onent (in US$ million e uivalent)
Transport                72.00     16.30     0.00     72.00     24.90     0.00     100.0  152.8  0.0
Mine clearance           30.00     4.00      0.00     30.00      4.30     0.00     100.0  107.5  0.0
The contribution of the borrower was 52.8% higher for the transport component and 7.5% for the
landmine clearance component as the volume of works increased during the implementation of the project
(against procurement of goods). As works were financed 80% from the Loan, the borrower had to cover
for the remaining 20% for the additional works.
- 17 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
See paragraph 4.3.
The Croatian Roads recalculated the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for the rehabilitation of 14 sections
of roads, which can be considered to be representative of the project. The results are provided bellow:
Item      Road        Length     Actual cost     ERR
number      (}an)      (US$)           (average)
1         D4          3.5        210,000         62
2         D37         5.5         530,000        43
3         D224        7.0        725,000         20
4         D8          4.0         555,000        18
5         DI          2.9         310,000        44
6         Dl          6.5         338,000        91
7         D27         9.0         703,000        46
8         D8          8.0         692,000        33
9         D55         2.8         252,000        38
10        D30         7.5        294,000         70
11        D50         4.1        341,000         22
12        D33         6.1        354,000         43
13        D7          5.8        589,000         42
14        D7          2.4        241,000         34
Weighted average ERR: 43%
- 18 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage.of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)   implementation Development
Month/Year    Count          Specialty                     Progress     Objective
Identiflcation/Preparation
01/1996                     1   Economist
1 Transport specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
01/1996/                    1   Economist
09/1996                     1   FMS
1   Transport Specialist
Supervision
03/1997                     1   Economist                         S             S
12/2001                     2   Transport Specialists (one for the  S           S
transport component and one for
the landmine clearance
component).
I   Procurement specialist            S             S
I   Financial Analyst                 S             S
ICR
02/2002                     1    Economist                        S             S
06/2002                     1    Transport specialist             S             S    -
(b) Staff.
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staffweeks              us$(000)
Identification/Preparation              26.8                       85.8
Appraisal/Negotiation                   67.6                      203.0
Supervision                            140.0                      434.1
ICR                                      6.1                       20.0
Total                                  240.5                      742.9
Note: Staff weeks are not available in SAP. Project cycle is broken down LEN and SPN/ICR
These estimates range from 1998 to 2002.
-19-



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                             O H   OSUOM       O N   * NA
FSector Policies                            OH    *SUOM       ON    O NA
Z Physical                                  O H *SUOM O N O NA
N Financial                                 O H   OSUOM       O N   * NA
X Institutional Development                 * H   O SU O M    0 N   0 NA
fEnvironmental                              * H   OSUOM       O N   O NA
Social
0 Poverty Reduction                  O H   OSUOM       O N   * NA
3 Gender                             O H OSUOM O N * NA
ER Other (Please specify)            O H   *SUOM       O N   O NA
Inter-regional cooperation between BiH
and Croatia
? Private sector development                0 H   * SU O M    0 N   0 NA
X Public sector management                  0 H   O SU O M    0 N   0 NA
MOther (Please specify)                     O H   * SU O M    O N   O NA
International recognition of Croatia regarding the
position of the Government vis a vis the ban on use
and stockpiling of landmines (Ottawa Treaty)
Note: The environmental rating refers to the success of the landmine clearing component.
- 20 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
 Lending                                           OHS*S OLU OHU
 Supervision                                       OHS OS       OU     O HU
0 Overall                                           OHS OS OU O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
? Preparation                                       OHS OS       OU U     OHU
J Government implementation performance             O HS *OS     0 U   0 HU
[? Implementation agencyperformance                 O HS O S     O U    0 HU
0 Overall                                           OHS OS       OU     0 HU
- 21 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Supervision reports
2. Various implementation reports
3. Ploce port traffic statistics
4. Croatia National Mine Action Plan
5. Road ERRs
6. Borrower's contribution to the ICR
- 22 -



IBRD 28285R
-~~     EMERGENCY TRANSPORT AND
HUNGARY              iMINE CLEARING PROJECT
TRANSPORT COMPONENTS UNDER PROJECT:
K nica ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.RAD SECTIONS
UUBUANA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. J
ROAD BRIDGES
S LO0V EN I A                                                FEDR. REP. OBRFGE
I.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ALA RDE
PLOCE PORT
RAILWAY TUNNEL
o                                                   ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A RAILWAY STATION
r           ~~~~~~~MINE CLEARING COMPONENT UNDER PROJECT:
T         b E      UDEMINING ZONES
owvs- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-OTHER ROADS
7 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~14--OTHER RAILWAYS
0 MAJOR TOWNS
NATIONAE CAPITALS
RIVERS
--- INTERNARIONAL BOUNDARIES
AVA  RUSSIAN
FED.
BOSNIA AND
-  R~~~~~~~ ~~~ ~SARAJEVO                                        RERU
Pi'l  ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~   ~   .,      'C'ZC               KAN
JWEZ            UNAY /\.MOLDOVA
'AUSTENIA!            \ ROMN
,Z..                                                                      SLOV-XNIA.t.,  J  ROMANIA  IL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~YGOSAVA  OSIAAN
o  TZZZZITO~T1N~.                 P   TALY kFEDREP.ETIOF
'-A       (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)  U~YG SAVA BJLGARIA






IMAGING
Report No.:        24167
Type:     ICR



