                                      Documentof
                                   The WorldBank




                                                      ReportNo.: 28381




                 PROJECT PERFORMANCEASSESSMENT REPORT

                                      CROATIA

                             HIGHWAY SECTORPROJECT
                                    (LOAN 3869-CR)

            EMERGENCY TRANSPORTAND MINECLEARING PROJECT
                                    (LOAN 4104-CR)




                                    March30,2004




Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department

Currency Equivalents(end-of-period)

Currency Unit =Kuna (HX)
1994                      US$1.oo
                          US$l.oo              HRK
1995                                           5.32 HRK
1996                      US$l.oo
                          US$l-00              5.54 HRK
1997                                           6.30 HRK
1998                                           6.25 HRK

                          US$l.oo
                          U S $ l.oo
                          us$l.OO
1999                                           7.65 HRK
2000                                           8.16 -IRK
2001                      US$l.OO              8.36 HRK
2002                      US$l.OO              7.18 HRK

Abbreviations and Acronyms

BiH               Bosnia andHerzegovina
BMS               Bridge Management System
CR                Croatian Roads
CAE               Country Assistance Evaluation
ERL               EmergencyRecovery Loan
ERR               Economic Rate o fRetum
FSRY              Former Socialist Republic o fYugoslavia
HAC               Croatian Highway Agency
HC                Croatian Roads Authority
HZ                Croatian Railways
ICB               International Competitive Bidding
ICR               Implementation Completion Report
MOP               Memorandum o fthe President (to the World Bank Executive Directors)
MPW               MinistryofPublic Works
MUNGOS            National Landmine Clearing Company
PMS               PavementManagement System
PSR               Project Status Report
QAG               Quality Assurance Group
S A R             StaffAppraisal Report
TA                Technical Assistance
UNPA              UnitedNations Protected Areas
VPd               Vehicles per Day



FiscalYear

Government:               January 1-December 31



Director-General, Operations Evaluation              : Mr,Gregory K.Ingram
Director, Operations Evaluation Department           : Mr.Ajay Chhibber
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation              : Mr.Alain Barbu

                                                            1



       OED Mission: Enhancingdevelopmenteffectivenessthrough excellenceand independenceinevaluation.


About this Report
     The Operations EvaluationDepartmentassessesthe programsand activitiesof the World Bankfor two purposes: first, to
ensure the integrityof the Bank's self-evaluationprocess and to verifythat the Bank'swork is producingthe expected results,
and second,to help develop improveddirections,policies,and proceduresthrough the disseminationof lessonsdrawnfrom
experience.As part of this work, OED annuallyassessesabout 25 percent of the Bank's lendingoperations. Inselecting
operationsfor assessment, preferenceis given to those that are innovative,large,or complex;those that are relevantto
upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which ExecutiveDirectorsor Bank management have requested
assessments;and those that are likelyto generate important lessons.The projects,topics, and analyticalapproachesselected
for assessmentsupport larger evaluationstudies.
     A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR)is based on a review of the ImplementationCompletionReport (a
self-evaluationby the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare PPARs, OED staff
examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit the borrowingcountryfor
onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries. The PPARthereby seeks to validate and augment the information
provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interestto broader OED studies.
     Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared internally,the PPAR is
reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amendedas necessary.The completed PPAR is then sent to the
borrowerfor review; the borrowers' comments are attachedto the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of Executive
Directors.After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.

About the OED Rating System
     The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work. The
methodsoffer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibilityto adapt to lending instrument, project design, or sectoral
approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic methodto arrive at their project ratings. Following is the definition and
ratingscale used for each evaluation criterion (more informationis available on the OED website:
http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
      Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's current
development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressedin
Poverty ReductionStrategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies,Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies).Possible
ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficacy:The extent to which the project's objectiveswere achieved,or expected to be achieved, taking into account
their relative importance.Possible ratings: High, Substantial,Modest, Negligible.
      Efficiency:The extent to which the project achieved, or is expectedto achieve, a return higher than the opportunity
cost of capitaland benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
      Sustainabilify:The resilience to risk of net benefitsflows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely, Unlikely,
Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
morelnstitutionalDevelopmentImpact:use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a) betterdefinition,
                                            The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or regionto make
      efficient, equitable and sustainable
stability,transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutionalarrangements andlor (b) better alignment of the
mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate,which derives from these institutional arrangements. Institutional
Development Impactincludes both intended and unintendedeffects of a project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,Modest,
Negligible.
      Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevantobjectives were achieved, or are expected to be achieved,
efficiently.Possibleratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, ModeratelySatisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Bank Performance: The extent to which services providedby the Bank ensured quality at entry and supported
implementationthrough appropriate supervision (includingensuring adequate transition arrangements for regularoperation
of the project).Possibleratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     BorrowerPerformance: The extent to which the borrowerassumed ownership and responsibility to ensure quality of
preparationand implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the achievement of development
objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.


                                                                       ...
                                                                      111



Contents

PrincipalRatings           ................................................................................................................     v

Key StaffResponsible               ........................................................................................................     v

Preface   ..............................................................................................................................         ..
                                                                                                                                               v11

Summary      ...........................................................................................................................        ix

1 Background
 .                       ..................................................................................................................      1

ObjectivesBox 1 ProjectObjectivesand Components
                         .                                                                    .................................................  2

2.  RelevanceandDesign                    ..................................................................................................     3

        Highway Sector........................................................................................................ 3
        Emergency Transport..............................................................................................                       -4
3 Implementation
 .                             ............................................................................................................      5

4.  Outcome       ........................................................................................................................       6

        Highway Sector........................................................................................................                   6
        Emergency Transport and Mine Clearing..............................................................                                     -9
5 Ratings
 .              ........................................................................................................................        11

        Outcome................................................................................................................. 11
        Institutional Development......................................................................................                         12
        Sustainability..........................................................................................................                13
        Borrower Performance ..........................................................................................                         14
6 Lessons
 .              ........................................................................................................................        15

Annex A BasicData Sheets
           .                                  ............................................................................................      18

Map..   .................................................................................................                                       21




Ths report was prepared byHernan Levy (Consultant) who assessedthe projects inMay 2003.The report was
edited by William Hurlbut. and Romayne Pereira provided administrative support                                   .


                                                   V



PrincipalRatings

Highway Sector Project (Loan 3869-CR )

                                       ICR*                     ICR Review*                      PPAR      -
Outcome                             Satisfactory          Moderately Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
Sustainability                         Likely                       Likely                       Likely
Institutional Development             Modest                       Modest                       Modest
Bank Performance                Highly Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                Satisfactory               Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory


Emergency Transport and Mine Clearing Project (Loan 4104-CR)

                                       ICR*                     ICR Review*                      PPAR
Outcome                             Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
Sustainability                         Likely                    Highly likely                   Likely
Institutional Development               High                         High                      Substantial
Bank Performance                    Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
* The ImplementationCompletion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsibleoperational divisionof the
                                                                                      ~~      ~




Bank. The ICR Review is an intermediate OED productthat seeks to independentlyverify the findings of the ICR


Key StaffResponsible

Highway Sector Project (Loan 3869-CR)

Project                       Task Manager/               Division Chief/           Country Director
                                  Leader                 Sector Director
Appraisal                        Enn Vasur                  HansApitz                     Kemal Dervis
Completion                      PeterParker                 Eva Molnar                   Andrew Vorkink



Emergency Transport and Mine Clearing Project (Loan 4104-CR)

Project                       Task Managed               Division Chief/            Country Director
                                 Leader                  Sector Director
Appraisal                       Sue Rutledge                Hans Apitz             Jean MichelSeverino
Completion                      Peter Parker                Eva Molnar                  lndira Konjhodzic


                                                vii


Preface

       This is a Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) for two projects inCroatia. The
Highway Sector Project (Loan 3869-CR) was approved for a loanofUS$80 million equivalent
on April 20, 1995, and closed on June 30,2001, six months behindschedule. An undisbursed
amount of US$O.1millionwas cancelled. The Emergency Transport and MineClearing Project
(Loan 4104-CR) was approved for a loanofUS$102 million equivalent on November 21,1996,
andclosed on December 31,2001,18months behindschedule. The loanwas filly disbursed.

       This report is basedon reviewsofthe Implementation Completion Report (ICR), the
StaffAppraisal Report (SAR), loan documents, project files, transcripts o fBoardproceedings,
andother Bankdocuments, and on discussions withBankstaff. An OEDmissionvisitedCroatia
inMay2003 andreviewed theprojects with officials responsible for thetransport sector andfor
clearing of landmines.Their kindassistanceis gratefilly acknowledged.

       The PPARwas undertakeninsupport of an OED Country Assistance Evaluationfor
Croatia. The PPAR gives special attention to the allocation ofresources and funding for
maintenance inthe highway sector project and to the impact, both domestically and
intemationally, of reestablishing physical links through the emergencytransport andmine
clearing project.

       Following standardprocedures, copies of the PPARwas sent to the Croatian authorities
for comments but none were received.


                                                  i x


Summary
         The Highway Sector Project, approvedin1995, aimedto support andspeedupthe
modemizationandtransformation o fthe highway systeminCroatia with special emphasis on the
main roadnetwork and Croatian RoadAuthority (HC). The project's main component financed
three years o f the HC's investmentprogram. The project also involvedroad safety, vehicle
emissions, and technical assistance to prepare the restructuring of Croatian Railways anda
Master Plan for Rijeka, Croatia's main seaport. A key aspect o fthe project was its sectoral
approach to Croatia's road system.

         The Emergency Transport and Mine Clearing Project, approved in1996, coveredthe
first phase o f a largerreconstruction programfollowing the breakup o fthe former Yugoslavia,
ensuing hostilities, andthe subsequentDaytonpeace agreement (signed inDecember 1995). The
project objectives were to (i) repair andreconstruct the surface transport networks within
Croatia, especially those leading to BosniaandHerzegovina (BiH), and (ii) landmines
                                                                                clear
specifically inareas of higheconomic priority for reconstruction, startingwith the transport
networks. While the transport component was straightforward with established agencies, mine
clearing was complex becauseno established organization existed to handle the work ina
civilian reconstruction context.

         IntheHighwayproject, physicalimplementationoftheroadworkswasconductedlargelyas
expected-some 1,600 kilometers ofroads, two-thirds ofthe original target, were rehabilitated and
45 kilometers ofhunk andprimaryroadswere built, meetingtargets. The other activities, technical
assistances, studies andtraining, were also carriedout as intended.Despite this, the project's outcome
i s ratedunsatisfactoryfor two reasons. First, becausethe government launched an additional, large
motorwayprogramin1998.Theprogram largely consistedo funeconomic investmentswithlow
economic retums. Second, becausethe overall conditiono fCroatia's roadnetwork improved only
marginallyorwasworse attheendoftheproject thanatthebeginning,mainlybecauseofinadequate
fundingfor roadmaintenance.Sustainability isratedlikelybecausethe government in2001 created
separate agencies for managingthe existingroadnetwork (Croatian Roads, CR) andfor developing
andmanagingmotorways (Croatian Motorways), eachwith dedicated, off-budget fundingfrom a
surchargeongasolinetax, which appearsto be adequate for the maintenanceo feachofthe two
systems, Furthermore, the motorwayconstruction programhasbeenscaleddown considerably.
Institutional developmentis ratedmodest, since the roadpavementmanagementsystem, the
project's maininstitutional component, was stillnot hllyoperational byproject completion. Bank
peformance is ratedsatisfactory, sincethe project was well preparedandsupervision was effective,
andthe Bankdidits utmostto promote economic efficiency inthe roadsector, includingpreparation
of ahigh-qualitysector paper that analyzedthe economic andfinancial issues posedbythe motorway
program.Borrowerpeformance is rated unsatisfactorydue to the double misallocationo f
resources: the large amount o ffinds for the motorwayprogram andinsufficient finding o froad
maintenance. Onthe other hand, implementation performance bythe roadagencywas generally very
good.

                                                  X



        Inthe Emergency Transport andMineClearingproject, about 13 squarekilometers were
cleared, and about 1,500 landmines and 3,200 pieces ofunexploded ordinance were removed to
enable infrastructurework to go ahead. Repair or reconstruction of transport infrastructure, made
possible by this, either met or exceededtargets and included 180kilometers of roads, 32 bridges,
reconstruction of two railway lines (Lika andNovska-Sisak), andpiers, terminals, and equipment
inthePort o fPloce. Outcome is ratedsatisfactory. The project was instrumental in
reestablishing physical links between Croatia and Bosnia andHerzegovina. Making operational
the 10bridges connecting the two countries across the Sava andthe Uma rivers dramatically
improved the prospects for trade and movement ofpersonsbetweenthe two countries. The
reconstruction and improvement of Ploce port, BiH's mainmaritimeoutlet, also i s a major
contributor to improvingBiHlogisticalconditions, although port activity has not yet reachedthe
expected levels mainly due to the slow recovery o fBiH's economy. Theproject also improved
important sections of Croatia's domestic landtransport system. Sustainability i s rated likely:
clearance o fmineshas permanently freed key areas for reconstruction, funding for road
maintenance i s likely to be adequate, and structural reforms o fthe railway sector are proceeding
faster than expected. The weak point i s the Port of Ploce, where traffic i s only gradually picking
up. Institutional development is rated substantial, eventhough itwas not aprimaryfocus ofthis
emergency operation, on account of (i) extension o f competitive biddingintroduced under the
                                        the
project for deminingto all mineclearing operations anddevelopment o f a local demining
industry, and (ii) creation of CROMAC, the effective national agency incharge o fmine
                  the
clearing. Bank and borrower performance are rated satisfactory.

        The following lessons emerge from these projects:

    9 Highway `sector' projectsneedto take acomprehensive view ofthe sector, andinclude
        appropriate sector-wide performance indicators. The overall conditiono f the road
        network i s one such key indicator, since it i s useful to judge the level o fresources
        allocated for maintenance of the network andthe efficiency o froadmaintenance planning
        andoperations. Highway agencies shouldhave inplace areliablesystemto monitor road
        network condition.

    9 Separationof agenciesandfundingsources for themaintenanceandimprovement ofthe
        national roadnetwork and for the construction o f modernmotorways, as Croatia did in
        2001, can be an effective way to ensure a stable level o f hdingfor roadmaintenance.
        But stringent operating rules are necessaryto ensurethat resources are usedefficiently,
        especially as regards motonvays.

    9 Bank-financedprojects, byrequiringcompetitiveprocurement andexemplifyingits
        advantages, can lead to the establishment o fcompetitive procurement throughout a whole
        industry andto the development o fqualified domestic contractors

    9 Theneedto improvetransparency ofitspublicprocurementprocess isanimportantissue
        inCroatia's public policy.


                                                             Gregory K.Ingram
                                                               Director-General
                                                            Operations Evaluation

                                                   1

1.      Background

1.1     This PPARreviews two transport projects that were first Bank operations for Croatia in
the sector. Eachproject covered various modes within the transport sector. TheHighway Sector
Project (hereafter the "highway" project), was approved before the DaytonPeace agreements for
BosniaHerzegovina (signed on December 14, 1995). It focused on the highway systeminthe
territory that was under government control at the time (about two-thirds, the remainingthird
beingProtected Areas underthe controlofthe UnitedNations). Theproject also supported
studies relatedto preparing reforms and investments for Croatia's railway and for the port o f
Rijeka, Croatia's mainport.

1.2     The Emergency Transport and Mine ClearingProject (hereafter the "emergency
transport" project), approved after the Dayton agreements, complementedthe highway project in
two ways: First, it supported improvements o fthe roadnetwork, focusing on road sectionsthat,
before the peace agreements, were locatedinconflict areas and therefore not possible to repair.
Second, it financed repair of keyrail lines and reconstruction ofthe infrastructure inthe Port o f
Ploce, Croatia's second-busiestport, servingespecially BiH's foreign trade. Clearingof
landmines, covered byproject, was designed to permitrepair and operation o f transport routes.
The project followed the Emergency Reconstructionproject (Loan 3760, for $128 million,
approved inJune 1994 and closed inDecember 1999). This earlier project also financed some
transport investments, especially equipment and vehicles for roads andrailways, but it focused
mainly onpower, community reconstruction, andwater supply.

1.3     The war following the breakupof Yugoslavia andthe establishment o fthe Republic o f
Croatia cost thousand of lives and caused considerable damage to physical infrastructure,
schools, hospitals, commercial andpublic buildings, andhousing. Transport infrastructure,
because o f its logistical function duringthe war, was also hardhit.Practically all bridges along
the Savariver separating Croatia from BosniaHerzegovina were destroyed, as were railway lines
andport facilities sewingbothcountries.

1.4     Duringthe periodsince approval of the highwayproject, andespecially after the Dayton
agreement, Croatia's economy has made an erratic andrather modest recovery, with average
annual GDP growth over five percent in 1996-97 and2002, andbelow three percent (including
one negative year) during 1998-2000. GDP per capita PPPwas about $8,000 in2002. The
restructuring ofthe economy has reduced the movement o fheavy goods and favors road
transport, and international trade is increasingly oriented toward Western Europe.

1.5     The Bank's involvement inCroatia's transport sector continues at presentwith two
projects, both ofwhich hadpreparation assistedby the projects under review inthis PPAR: the
Railway Modernizationand Restructuring project (Loan 4433 for $101million, approved in
January 1999 and expected to close inJune 2004) andthe Rijeka Gateway Project (Loans
47140/47150/47160/P3910, for $156.5 million, approved inJuly 2003 and expected to close in
September2009).

                                                            2


OBJECTIVESBox1. PROJECTOBJECTIVES COMPONENTS            AND

HighwaySector Project

Objectives
9 Support andspeed upthe modernization of the transport sector, especiallythe main road
     network and HC,with the following specific objectives:
          Support government road investment program,address road maintenance and construction of a
          few, well-justified road sections
           Develop modern managementtools
           Improve roadsafety
           Decrease road vehicle emissions
          Maintainor increase road user charges
          Support restructuring of railway company and reducesubsidies
          Contribute to preparationof master investmentplanfor Rijeka port

Components
     Three-year slice (1995-97)of road expenditureprogram (repairwar-damaged roads, road maintenance,
     and completion of selected sections) and provisionof maintenance equipment
     Technical assistance and studies (rail restructuring,traffic safety, pavement management, Rijeka port
     P W
     Training of highway agency staff


EmergencyTransport and Mine Clearing Project

Objectives
     Repair and reconstruct surface transport networkswithin Croatia,especially those leading to BiH'
     Clear landminesin areas of high economic priorityfor reconstruction

Components
     Roads and bridges
     9 Zupanja-Orasjebridge
     9 130kilometersof roads
     9 About 30 bridges
     9 Upgradedaccessto Ploceport
0    Railways
     9 Reconstructionof Lika line (45 kilometersof track and relatedequipment)
     9 Reconstructionof two bridgeson Novska-Sisakline
     PlocePort
     9 Reconstructionof two piers
     9 Repairof other infrastructureand equipment,and provisionof container handling equipment
     Mine clearing,with first priority to project areas




1. The S A R formulation says
                            ..."withinCroatia and between Croatia and BiH', which is less clear.

                                                     3

2.      Relevance and Design

Highway Sector

2.1      Theproject's maingoal, to support modernization andtransformation ofCroatia's
transport system, with special emphasis onthe roadnetwork, supported the objectives of the
1995 Country Assistance Strategy, especially relatedto improving efficiency o fthe public sector.
Duringthe war, road andother infrastructure hadbeenseriously damagedandmaintenance
neglected, and the transition economy was boundto place increasing reliance on the road as the
predominant transport mode.

2.2     With its main focus on supporting the 1995-97 roadexpenditure program, the project
was rightly designedas a sector operation, with components and levels o f expenditures
considered as tentative and subject to review annually with the Bank. The design decision was
basedon the importance of supporting the government's roadprogram, Croatia's long
experience with Bank highway projects as part o fthe former Yugoslav Republic,' andthe strong
technical capabilities of Croatia's highway management andtechnical staff.

2.3      The project emphasized the maintenance ofexistingassets, giventhe adequatelengthof
the country's roadnetwork, but its poor and deteriorating condition. The appraisal documents
notedthat underthe 1995-97 program, road maintenance expenditures were expectedto increase
by some 90 percent per year ofthe program relativeto the previous four years. As a sectoral
project, concemed with the whole roadnetwork rather thanindividualroad investments,the
project was right intaking a comprehensive view o froadsystem expenditures. At the same time,
inview oftheproject's emphasisonmaintenance, itwouldhavebeenusefulto include inthe
appraisal report aperformance indicator describing the condition ofthe overall roadnetwork and
targets for improvement that the intendedmodernization o fthe roadnetwork would bring about.
Such indicator would also have servedto assess the adequacy o froadmaintenance funding.

2.4     Legal agreements under the project aimed to ensure that investments duringthe period
would reflect the maintenance focus of the 1995-97 program, andto prevent uneconomic
investments. New road construction was expected to be limitedto the completion o fworks
underway.

2.5     Inhindsight,the government, inits 1995-97 roadplan, andthe project, inconsequence,
could have recognizedthe foreseeable changes intransport demandpattems, for trade and
tourism, away from Belgrade-centric flows o fFSRY, a greater role for roadtransport, and
changes inthe relative importance o f various routes and itineraries. A question thenwould have
beenhow to attend to the new demand pattems, inaway consistent with available resourcesand
economic efficiency.

2.6     The project objective to ensure that the level o f roaduser charges would bemaintained or
increased(andthe associated conditionality regarding the level o fthe roadvehicle fuel tax) had
no value from either an economic or a financial standpoint, andtherefore was unnecessary-it
only servedto clutter the already long list o f objectives. Onthe economic side, revenues from
roadusers stemming from the fuel tax were double what was needed for the road sector, andthus
couldbe considered to cover the economic cost o f road use. Appraisal documentation provided

2. HC hadbeenthe implementingagency in 12Bankhighwayprojectsfor the SocialistRepublic of Yugoslavia.

                                                             4

no suggestion that the government might have intendedto decrease the level o f user charges. On
the financial side, fuel tax revenues were collected by the central government but were not
dedicated for road maintenance; therefore maintaining the level o f user charges provided no
comfort that adequate funding for road maintenance would be provided.

Emergency Transport

2.7       Rebuilding Croatia's economic infrastructure, some o fwhich was inoperativebecause it
hadbeen damaged duringthe war, or because it was unsafe due to landmines or unexploded
ordnance, or both, was clearly a priority. For infrastructure that was mined, clearing the mines
was an obvious first step inreconstruction. At the same time, givingpriority to repairing links
within Croatia that connected with BiHroutes were o fimportance to BiHand supportedthe
Daytonpeace agreements. The transport sector was an obvious candidate for the Bankbecause
key, but not all, necessary agreements between Croatia and BiHhadbeen signed, ajoint
implementation committee had been established, and implementation work hadbegun.3

2.8      The preparation of the mine clearing component was expected to benefit from the
experience with the processing a few months earlier o f a landmine clearingproject inBiH
(approved inJuly 1996, or four months before the Emergency Transport project) especially
through Bank procurement guidelines developed for the project. The Croatia project provided a
stronger requirement for competition inprocurement, since it required use o f intemational
competitive biddingfor all works and goods contracts over $2 million, rather than $5 million, as
inthe Bosnian~rogramYet, as notedinaparallelPPARofthe BiHproject, preparationofthe
                                   . ~
BiHproject left muchto bedesired, and serious problems o fmisprocurement arose duringits
implementation. Overall, the BiHdemining project failed to achieve its objectives, that were
much broader than those for the Croatia operation.

2.9      The PPAR for the Emergency Reconstructionproject raised doubts about the designation
of "emergency" given that project, considering that it became effective inAugust 1994,more
thantwo andhalf years after the ending ofthe 1991-92 hostilities. While the Emergency
Transport project was approved more than two years later than the Emergency Reconstruction
project, the fact that it focused on the reconstruction o f infrastructure inareas that were not in
full government control prior to the signingo fthe Daytonagreement makes it a legitimate
emergency project under Bank guidelines for Emergency Recovery Projects (OP8.50), which
specifically include reconstruction following war. As noted inthe MOP for the Emergency
Transport project, the Government's control over all the areas within internationally recognized
borders was implemented over several phases. It was only inM a y and August 1995 that the
Government regainedcontrol o f three out o f four areas that had so far been inthe UnitedNations
ProtectedAreas (UNPA); the fourth area inNovember 1995 was placed under a UnitedNations
transitional administration. The four areas amounted to about one-third o f the country. Prior to
1995,reconstruction of infrastructure hadbeen limited to areas directly under Government
control or inlocations sufficiently distant from front lines to justify investments.




3. The DaytonAgreements, in Annex 9, establishBosnia andHerzegovinaTransportationCorporationto "organize and operate
transportationfacilities,such as roads, railways and ports."
4. According to ETMC project appraisal documentation.

                                                                5

2.10      The project was processed as an emergency operation (for example, with a Memorandum
of the President insteadof a full StaffAppraisal Report)'. However, total processingtime of 15
months from initial identification (November 1995) to project effectiveness (March 1997) was
overly long, thus negatingthe benefits o f speedier processing allowedby emergency operations.
Confusion about the project designation as anERL arosebecausethe project i s wrongly
classified inthe Bank's Legal database as a Specific InvestmentLoan (SIL).

2.11 Processedas an emergency operation, no economic analysis o fthe project-financed
investments was carried out. This approach i s allowedunder BP8.50 when essential data cannot
beobtainedwithin a reasonable period. This PPARfinds that an effort shouldhavebeenmade,
even with sketchy data, to cany out economic analysis, at least for the transport investments,
which accounted for 72 percent of totalproject costs. Such investments, consisting mainly o f
spot or short section repairs allowing larger components ofthe transport network to operate
correctly, would normally yield higheconomic returns.

3.        Implementation

3.1       Readiness. The highway projectwas ready for implementationandprocurement started
on schedule. However, a reviewbythe PPAR ofthe list o f contracts for roadworks found some
significant variance between base contract andinvoicedvalues (several subprojects endedup
costing 50percent and up to 100percent more thanthe initial contract), suggesting that
significant changes inscope took place inthose subprojects, probablybecause o f inadequate
engineeringat the outset or due to upgradingdesign standards after the contracts hadbeen
signed.

3.2       Implementation of the emergency transport project was substantially slower than
expected. Delays at the start o fthe project inprogrammingthe clearingo f landmineswere
substantial, mainly as a result o fweak coordination and lax identificationo fpriorities on the
transport side. At the same time, there was little institutional capacity to prepare bid documents
(including description o f the sites to bedemined) since mine clearinginCroatiatraditionally had
beendonebythe army. A few monthsbefore project approval the government created a state
mineclearing company (MUNGOS) to take over this responsibility. Therefore, there was no
experienceinCroatia with mine clearing by civilian contractors, the same constraint identifiedin
BiHbyOED's parallelPPARof the EmergencyLandmines Clearance Project(Credit 2905)
there. This i s arecurrent issue inemergency projects, where the need to make repairs urgently
conflicts with inadequate data andweak institutional capacities.

3.3       Costs. Inthe highway project, which had a sector-wide approach, actual cost of the
overall road program, due to new road construction, especially the inclusion o f a new motonvay
programnot originally foreseen, was US$1.6 billion, almost three times the SAR estimate. Inthe
emergencytransport project, actual project cost was $131.2 million, 7 percent higher than
expected, mainly becausesome 40 percent more kilometers o f roads were rehabilitated than
originally estimated. Actual costs were divided75 percent for transport and 25 percent for
demining,inlinewith SAR estimates. Inthe highway sector project, contract prices were, on
average, 15 percent lower than appraisal estimates. However, as noted above, final prices turned

5. Duringearlypreparation,the project initially intendedto cover restorationo f public services in severalsectors, and was not
originally conceived as an ERL. However, internal Bank discussionduring preparationsuggestedthat it shouldbe amuchmore
focused operation, and for the sake of speedthat the project shouldbeprocessed as an ERL.As requiredby OP8.50, anAd Hoc
Advisory Committeewas establishedearly on.

                                                                 6

out to be substantially higher. In the transport project, the cost o f demining dropped from 18
HRK(US$2.92) persquaremeteratthe start oftheprojectto 11HRK(US$1.32) (including
insurance) in2001.6 Increased competition and lower unit costs also were aided by the returnto
civilian rule, and the more stable conditions obtained after the signing o f the peace agreements.

3.4        Institutional changes during implementation. The highway sector project was affectedby
erratic provision of funding for maintenance and by reforms to the highway agency. The reform
was positive for the management o fthe road sector, especially as it reclassified and decentralized
the road network. When the project was practically completed, another reform created a new
highway agency with autonomous financing based on dedicated user charges. However,
uncertainties duringpreparation o f the reform and adapting to the new structure affectedproject
implementation, especially the design and implementation o f the pavement management system.

3.5        The emergency transport project was similarly affected. First was the transfer o f
demining responsibility from the army to the newly created MUNGOS, under the Ministry o f
Interior (MI),which happenedjust before the start o fthe project. PPAR discussions inthe field
found that MUNGOS officials initiallybelieved that Bank funding would directly support
MUNGOS demining activities. Second, a year into implementation, the MItransferred this
responsibility to the newly created Croatian Mine Action Center (CROMAC), a government
agency set up to manage the deminingprocess through contracts awarded after competitive
bidding. This required (i) duringimplementation, clarifying with MUNGOS and other
                                      early
government officials the project's procurement rules and (b) a number o f time-consuming
legislative changes to eliminate restrictions to international competitive bidding.

3.6        Implementationo f the emergency transport project was, as noted inthe implementation
completion report, also delayedbecause o f complaints byunsuccessful bidders for landmine
clearing contracts. This same issue was noted inthe emergency reconstructionproject.' This
suggests that transparency needs to be improved inthe procurement process.

4.         Outcome

Highway Sector

output

4.1        Road investments.The project financed maintenance, strengthening, andrehabilitation of
some 1,600 kilometers, or about 20 percent of the mainroad network. This represents about 67
percent o f the total output (2,387 kilometers) expected at appraisal.* The project also financed
construction o f about 28 kilometers o f trunk roads and about 17 kilometers o fprimaryroads,
meeting appraisal targets. Inaddition, dangerous road sections were eliminated.


6. The reduction was much more and final unit costs were significantly lower than inthe neighboringBiH, where they fell from
US$3.00 to US$l.70 per square meter after the project there, even though BiH's labor costs are half Croatia's. There i s no valid
data to make intemational cost comparisons based on area cleared, which is the relevant measure o f demining costs. However, it
is apparent that the starting prices both in BiH and Croatia, which were similar, were high because competition was inpractice
restricted to domestic companies. This changed inboth countries over the course ofproject implementation.
7. The PPAR (para. 3.5) for this project noted that the Bank paid careful attention to complaints, and concluded that they
reflected" fractious competition among suppliers rather than corrupt practices."
8. ICR for works done and SAR for targets.

                                                               7

4.2      Technical assistance.All three studies:restructuring o fCroatianrailways, Master Plan
for RijekaPort, androad safety were successfully completed. Training was carried out for the
pavement andbridgemanagement systems.


Results

4.3      Road Condition. This is akey indicator ofproject outcome. At appraisal, itwas
estimated, based on avisual survey o fthe major andregional roads, that 34 percent o fthe roads
surveyedwere ingood condition, 39 percent infair condition, and27 percent inpoor c~ndition.~
No recent surveys are strictly comparable. The ICRreports that at project completion in2001, of
the 6,800 kilometers under HC's responsibility, 45 percent were ingood condition, 39 percent in
fair condition, and about 16percent inbad condition. Ifthe pre- andpost-project estimateswere
made on the same basis, this would meana fairly significant improvement. However, the ICR
assessment i s limitedto the country's mainroads, which normally are kept inbetter condition.
More significantly, data obtained bythe PPARmissionduringdiscussions inZagreb, indicate a
cloudier and more negative picture: the percentageofroads ingood conditionwould range
between 18 and 30 percent, depending on the measurementcriteria (Table 1).Either of these
numberswould indicate deterioration rather thanimprovement inroadcondition. These numbers
also are supported by a Bank report on Croatia's transport sector.*'

4.4      It couldbe arguedthat, insome cases, just preventingfurther deterioration o fthe road
network would be a satisfactory result. However, this reasoning does not apply to Croatia. The
country had (i)    the necessaryfinancial resources, haditwishedto allocate them, to properly
maintain and significantly improve the network's condition and (ii)                     highly qualified
professionals who could plan and carry out the maintenance works as required.

Table 1. RoadCondition,2002-03, Accordingto DifferentAssessmentCriteria

                                                                  Good Fair Bad
Basedon measuresof pavement roughness, rut, distress               18      36     46
Basedon pavement roughness and traffic levels                      30      46     24
Source: PPAR discussionswith CR during field visit.

4.5      Maintenance Funding. Provision o f finds was erratic during the period, but overall it was
substantially below $170 millionper year, the level recommended at appraisal as necessaryto
catchup with the maintenance backlog. Inadequate funding i s the mainreason behindthe
unsatisfactory condition o fthe road network.

4.6      Total expenditures inmaintenance and highwayreconstructionandrehabilitation (HRR)
during 1995-97, the originalplanperiod supported by the project, attained $278 million($93
millionper year, on average). This was close to the appraisal figure, $293 million, considered the
veryminimummaintenance funding requiredduringthe period. However, expenditures fell
again insubsequentyears to an annual average of $78 million during 1998-2001. The figures for


9. Appraisalreport.
10. The Bank's paper "Croatia: Policy Directions for Transport," issuedin June 1999,noted, "it i s generally agreedthat the main
roadnetworkis presently inworse condition than it was at the beginningof the nineties." Since funding for maintenanceplus
HRRdidnot improveafterward(see table inthis chapter) there is noreasonto believethat roadconditionswould haveimproved
since 1999.

                                                        8

2002 and 2003 are substantially higher, but the 2002 figure has not beenvalidated, andthe figure
2003 i s a budget estimate. Inthe past, budget estimates have beennotoriously unreliable, For
exa-mple,an approved budget for maintenanceplus HRRof $220 million in2001l1turned out to
beonly $67 million inreality. Dedicated fimding o froadexpenditures basedon gasoline tax
surcharge started inmid-2001. This i s likely to improve the resources available for road
maintenance. A separate agency, Croatian Motorways (CM), with own funding also basedon
gasoline tax surcharge, i s responsible for carrying out maintenance o f the existingmotorways
and for future motorway development.

Table 2. Road Expenditures,1995-2003 (US$ million)

                                      1995 1996 1997 1998 I999            2000 2001 2002 2003
                                                                                         budget

Maintenance                           30      59      75     80    57      39   66  127b  158
Reconstruction, rehabilitation (HRR)   17     59      38     1     50      19    1   47   62
TOTAL maintenance and                 47      118    113     81    107     58   67   171  220
rehabilitation
New constructiona                     82      148    133    306    157    192   224 674   789
TOTAL                                 129    266     246    387    264    250   291  848  1008
Source: Appraisal documentation, Rijeka GatewayProject, May 9, 2003.
a/ Includes motorway construction and upgradingof expressways to motorway standard.
bnhe PPAR mission was unable to verify this figure

4.7      Allocation of Resources. Designedas a sector project, rather than a specific investment
operation, the project sought government assurances that resources available for the road sector
would be allocated on the basis o f economic efficiency. Priority would be givento preserving
existing road assets (which yield the highest economic returns) with some essentialroad
constructionmainly to complete missinglinks. However, the intended priority was not realized
at any point duringproject implementation, with the more severe violations occurringinthe later
years o fthe project. During 1995-97, new constructionattained $363 million, while maintenance
plusHRRattained $272million, or 75 percent of the construction amount. Incontrast, the
appraisal had estimated that resources for maintenance plus HRRwould be almost double the
amount devoted to construction.

4.8      The launching of a massivemotorwayconstructionprogramin1998 further tilted the
allocation ofroad fundingtoward construction. During1998-2002, construction amounted to
$1.55 billion, more than three times the amount allocated for maintenance andHRR($0.48
billion).

4.9      The diversion ofresources away from maintenance and toward constructionhadtwo
negative consequences.First, resources allocated to maintenance were insufficient. Second, the
construction programwas essentially for new motorways, which, maybe with the exception o f
short sections inthe outskirts of the larger cities, didnot have enough traffic (at least 15,000
vehicles per day) tojustify their highcost. The motorwayprogram, when launched, was
especially inefficient because some ofthe new investments were arranged indirect negotiations
with a contractor, rather thanthrough competitive bidding, leadingto very highunit costs.


11. Reportedinthe ImplementationCompletionReportfor the HighwaySectorProject.

                                                              9

4.10      DuringPPAR discussions inZagreb, senior government officials defendedthe motonvay
program as essential for Croatia to catch up with Western Europe, and to provide expeditious
access to ports and tourist areas. As noted earlier, significant changes intransport demand
patterns could have been expected given the prospects for restructuring and reorientationof the
economy following independence. It was clear that the country neededto put inplace a highway
improvement and modemization program to meet the new demands. However, the PPAR finds
that most o fthe motonvay investments currently do not have an economic justification, and that
the magnitude o f the program i s just too big for the country's resources.l2A more cost-effective
program could have been adopted limitingmotorway construction to just those sections with
hightraffic, making more use o f semi-motorways (2-lane, access-controlled roads) and
expanding the capacity of other roads bymore focused improvements. The semi-motonvay
Jankomir-Zapresic, visited by the PPAR mission, which carries over 10,000 vehicles per day,
supports the validity o f this concept.

4.11 Pavement/Bridge Management System. The appraisal expectation that the PMSBMS
would be fully operational by 1997 was not met. As o fmid-2003, according to PPAR
discussions with H C officials, software has beeninstalled, initial surveys have been carried out,
and the system is being used ina limitedway only, mainly to test strategic, maintenance options
for some o f the main                      The expectations were not met inpart because o f
implementation delays, and inpart because the system, andthe allocation o f maintenance
resources it should produce, have not been endorsed at highgovernment levels.

4.12      Rail, port, and road safety studies. These studies were useful. The railway study's
recommendations for restructuring are being implemented and expected to continue under the
ongoing Railway Modernization and Restructuring Project. Similarly, the Master Plan for Rijeka
port providedpractical recommendations, and served as a basis for the preparation o fthe
ongoing Rijeka Gateway project. The safety study produced recommendations that helped reduce
traffic fatalities.

Emergency Transport and Mine Clearing

Output

4.13      Clearing of Landmines. About 13 square kilometers were cleared, and about 1,500
landmines and 3,200 pieces o f unexploded ordinance were removed. Project-financed demining
cleared 26 bridges (21 road and 5 railway), some 280 kilometers o f state, county, and localroads
and rights o f way, and 150kilometers o f railway lines. Documentationreviewedby the PPAR
mission, as well as discussions inthe field, suggest that most o f the mine clearing took place in
or around transport infrastructure, and that the demining locations were identified from among
affected infrastructure by officials from the transport andpublic works agencies.



12. TheAide-Memoire of the February-Marchsupervisionmission identifiedsome road constructionthat appearedto behighly
uneconomic: the SvetiRok tunnel, the motorwayfrom Varazin to the Hungarianborder, Breganza-Sisak Road, Zagreb-Gorican
motonvay(with traffic estimated to be 1,500-6,250 vehicles per day).
13. The Aide-Memoire for the supervisionmission in October 1999 was very clear regardingwhat should beexpected fromthe
PMSBMS: Inessence, it notedthat the PMS shouldbe consideredimplementedwhen routinelyusedinselectingroads and
bridges for repair, allocate funds among competitive requirements,determineoverall networkneeds, andjustifying needsto
government authorities and the public.

                                                                  10

4.14      Transport. The mine clearing operations allowedthe repair andreconstruction (R&R) of
transport infrastructure to proceed. Insome cases, the R&Rwork took place where infrastructure
hadbeen damaged by militaryaction, although the area itselfmay not have beenmined. Inother
cases, transport infrastructure may not have beendamaged, and little or no reconstruction work
was required, butmineshadto be clearedto allow safe use of the infrastructure. Transport
infrastructure repair or reconstruction work consistedof: (i)                   180kilometers o f roads (130
kilometers at appraisal) and 32 bridges (30 at appraisal); (ii)                 reconstruction of Lika andNovska-
 Sisak railway lines, including 45 kilometers o ftrack renewal and spare parts for locomotives. All
the works and equipment foreseen at appraisal were carried out; and, (iii) the ports,               in
rehabilitationo fpiers, improvement o fthe roll-odroll-off terminal, anddelivery o fhandling
equipment for PlocePort was carried out as expected. The only itemnot carriedout was the
upgrading o fthe road access to Ploce port.

Results

4.15     The project was instrumental inreestablishingtransport routes between Croatia and BiH.
The fact that all 10bridgesconnecting the two countries across the Sava andthe Umarivers are
now operational has dramatically enhancedthe possibilities for trade and movement of persons
between the two countries. The reconstruction of the demolished bridgebetween Zupanja in
Croatia and Orasje inBiH, onthe Europeanroute M18is especially important. Reestablishment
of the cross-border linkages is o fhighbenefit to BiH,becauseo f its landlocked~ondition,'~                               and
becausetransport overlandthrough Croatia i s practicallythe only way to connect BiHwith
Westem and Central Europe. The reconstruction and improvement o fPloce port, BiH's main
maritimeoutlet, also is amajor contributor to improvingBiHlogistical conditions (see Map)

4.16      The project also improvedimportant sectionso f Croatia's domestic landtransport
system. Probably the more significant is the mine clearing andreconstructiono f the Zagreb-Split
(Westem) rail line that goes solely through Croatia's territory. While this line is longer thanthe
parallel(Eastern) line runningpartiallythroughBiH(the preferredline duringthe Yugoslav
Republic), it i s the only practical option for Croatia, while allowing it to fully control operations
andavoidtime-consuming border crossings.

4.17     Theproject failed to improveroad access to Ploceport. This investment, estimated at $1
million at appraisal, was not a major component o fthe project, androad access is not a critical
issue since Ploce traffic i s still substantially below expectations due to the slow recovery o f
BiH's economy andforeigntrade. However, this roadis indicativeofthe problems facing
Croatia and BiHregardinginvestments where the main, or a major, beneficiary is BiH.A Ploce
Agreement between Croatia andBiH'' stated, "the Republic o f Croatia is requiredto maintain
landtransit routes (roads andrail) from the Port ofPloceto the point where it enters Federation
territory." Croatia, therefore, was not obligated to go beyondmaintainingthe existing landtransit
route. Revisedengineering duringproject implementationraised the cost o fthe proposed
improvement to about $15 million. While this better, but expensive, road improvement would
have beenmore effective inreducing traffic congestion inthe port area, the mainbeneficiaries
would have beentruckers carrying cargo to or from BiH. The issue o f who bears the cost
(normally the transit country) andwho the benefits (normally the landlocked country) o f

14. While BiHhas a small coastal section on the Adriatic at Neum, it has no port there, since it is near Ploce, which hasbetter
conditions for a port and had traditionally been the port serving Bosniaunder the FSRY.
15. DatedMay 11, 1966.

                                                                11

investments to facilitate transit traffic i s a recurrent issue incountries involvedintransit
arrangements.

4.18      Unlikethe earlier operation inBiH,this project didnot intendto increase the level of
awareness o f the dangersofmines, probably becausethat activity was supported by other
agencies.I6The focus of that activity i s mainly urbanareas with highpopulationdensity, and
villages, rather thantransport routes or the areas around them. The PPAR missionvisited some
roads that had been improvedunder the highwayproject, where no mines were plantedon the
roadway itself. Yet, a CR staffmember advised the evaluator not to walk inthe hilly areas
immediately outside the direct right-of-way, as they potentially couldbemined areas. However,
there were no signs warning of the potential danger, pointingto the needfor CROMAC and/or
the transport authorities to ensure that non-urban transport facilities areproperlymarkedwith
clear warning signs when risks o fmines are present.

5.        Ratings

Outcome

Highway Sector

5.1       Outcome i s rated unsatisfactory, mainlybecauseproject objectives lost much o f their
original relevance, which was to focus onrehabilitationandmaintenance o f the roadnetwork.
Major deviations inresource allocationfor the sector over the course o fthe project with respect
to the intendedfocus results ina mixedassessmento fthe relevance ofthe sector program. The
deviations were causedby the government launchof a large programo fmotorway construction
without economic justification, insome cases with procurement methods that increased costs and
 further negatedthejustification of the investments. Regardingefficacy, physicaloutputs required
to meet objectives were close to appraisal targets and all three studies were satisfactorily
completed. The project hadno targets regardingthe conditiono fthe roadnetwork. Yet, this
 should be an essential indicator, particularly in highway sector projects. However, the main
objective o fthe project was `modernization o fthe transport network, especially the main road
network', and an obvious implicit goal i s the improvement o f the whole roadnetwork. As noted
 earlier, despite investments under the roadsector program, the most reliablemeasures suggest
that overall roadnetwork conditionwas worse at the end o fthe project than at the start. This
indicates a low level o f efficacy. Assessment of efficiency faces similar problems. The ICR
 estimates a return for the whole project to be about 45 percent, higher than the 40 percent
estimated at appraisal. The highretumi s mainly due to the highyield o froadmaintenance and
 improvement^.'^ However, the ICR estimate is limited to Bank-financedinvestments (and a road
co-financedby EBRD) and omits referencesto the large motorway investments carried out by
the government inthe last years o fthe project. While such investments were not part o fthe
 1995-97 roadprogram supportedby the project, they are an integralpart o fthe road sector
investments duringthe project period. As noted earlier, such investments were massive and, in



 16. Mainly the UNICEFand the Intemationaland the Croatian RedCross.
17. The ICR recalculatedthe ERRfor a sample of 14betterment contracts andfound the ERRto range between 34 percent and
98 percent. These estimates are credible, and result from higher traffic levels and lower unit costs than estimated at appraisal. The
ICRalso notes that the EBRD-financed Ostravnica-Delniceroad hadan ERRo f about 20 percent.

                                                                12

 fact, dwarfedthe resourcesallocated to maintenance, andhadlow returns. Therefore, considering
 the sector as a whole, efficiencywas low.

Emergency Transport

 5.2       Outcome i s rated satisfactoryas the objective to repair andreconstruct surface transport
 andclear landmines was achieved.Relevance ofdeminingaffectedinfrastructure andimproving
 keytransport routes is highbecausethese activities were essentialfor thephysical andeconomic
reconstruction o f Croatia. Efficacy, to the extent of available targets, was highon the physical
 side, but activity at the port and the connecting railwayhasnot yet reached the expected levels.
Efficiency canbe assessedbyconsidering boththe transport andthe landmine clearing. Onthe
 former, while the project didnot include economic analysis o f the investments, the type o f works
carried out, spot repairs and reconstruction o f infrastructure, normally have highreturns. This is
confirmed by apartial economic analysis provided inthe ICR, which showed a weighted average
ERRof 43 percent for 14roadrehabilitationsub-projects. Onthe latter, the decreaseinthe unit
costs of deminingi s an indicator o f improved efficiency.

InstitutionalDevelopment

Highway Sector

5.3        Institutionaldevelopment i s rated modest.ThePMSBMS system, the project's most
important institutionalcomponent, was not hlly operational in 1997 as the SAR expected, nor
was it fully operational byproject completion. Onthepositive side, the government carried out a
reform ofthe road sector organization andmanagement, that includeddecentralization, and
division o fthe roadmaintenance units into separatecommercial companies, withjoint ownershp
bythe highway agency andthe counties. This is a step inthe right direction, but still leavesthe
governments (central and local) as owners o f the maintenance companies.

Emergency Transport

5.4        Institutionaldevelopment i s rated substantial.As an emergency operation institutional
development was not envisaged. Yet, introduction o f competitive biddingrequired under the
project for mine clearing activities (and later extended beyondthe Bankproject to all demining
activities) and development o f a local demining industryis a major achievement, and ledto a
substantial drop inthe cost o fmine clearing. While the Bankproject financed only some 13.1
square kilometers o f demining(under 19 contracts with 10 companies orjoint-ventures) the
adoption of competitive biddingfor all deminingmeant that while in 1998 there were 4
companies registeredinCroatia with 250 deminers, by2001 there were 23 companies employing
450 deminers.Bank staff duringproject supervision also helped set up CROMAC, the national
agency incharge o f implementingdeminingpolicy.''

5.5       The transport side o fthe projecthelped develop cooperationbetweenCroatia andBiHin
infrastructurereconstruction, a cooperation that hadnot existed since the breakup o fYugoslavia.



18. The supervision Aide-Memoire of January 15, 1997,asked for the establishment of an agency authorizedto keep the central
database, to prepare mine clearance maps, and to issue the quality control certificates for areas that hadbeen cleared o fmines.

                                                  13


Sustainability

Highway Sector

5.6     Sustainabilityi s rated likely. The technical and economic sustainability o fthe road
maintenance and improvement program i s not indoubt. While maintenance finance hasbeen
erratic and generally insufficient inthe past, the establishment in2001 of dedicated fhding,
based on user charges, for the road systemexclusive o fthe motorways, and the creation of an
autonomous highway agency (CR) with assuredfinding, should make it possible to provide at
least the minimum level requiredto preventfurther deterioration. The motorwayprogram has
beenreduced and, while the uneconomic investmentsalready made cannot bereversed, the
dedicated funding for the motorway system (also establishedin2001 and equally basedonuser
charges) should provide enough revenues to attend to maintenance requirements.


Emergency Transport

5.7     Sustainability i s rated likely. Clearanceofmines has permanentlyfreed key infrastructure
for reconstruction and re-use. Maintenance o fthe roads improvedunder the project i s likelyto be
conducted properly, basedon the improvements inthe funding for roadmaintenance discussed in
the previous paragraph. Onthe railway side, most indicators ofoperational andfinancial
performance under the ongoingrailwayproject have beenmet, and structural reforms have
proceeded at a faster change thanoriginally anticipated." The railway appearswell prepared to
adjust to the changes intransport demandthat have favored roadtraffic. The Zagreb-Split line,
the repair o fwhich was supported under theproject, should remainanimportant part of Croatian
Railways. The port of Ploce i s the weak point interm of sustainability, since it still has
substantially less traffic thanhadbeenhoped, andrequires continuous subsidiesfor operations.
Ploce beingBiH's maritime outlet, its traffic andfinancial situation should gradually improve as
BiH's economy picks up.

Bank Performance

5.8     Bankperformance is satisfactory inbothprojects, as explained below.Yet, inboth
projects there were major delays betweenproject appraisal and effectiveness. Fewresources
were allocatedto supervision (slightlymore thanone missionper year), that severely limited
provisiono f expertise on technical issues. Onthe other hand, strategic and economic supervision
was strong, notably inthe highway sector project, as discussed below.

Highway Sector

5.9     Bankperformance is rated satisfactory. The supervision reports were clear about the
issue of resource allocation and the inefficient diversion o f funding toward motorway
construction. On occasion, supervision ratings appearedto betoo generous. For example, the
supervision report o fDecember 1997 rated Development Objectives as highlysatisfactory while
notingproblems with implementationof the PMS/BMS andnoting the probability that the
maintenancebacklogwould increase even further. Also, despite the resource allocationissue and


19.PSRdated October 8,2003.

                                                             14

 slow progress with the PMSBMS, project development objectives andimplementation progress
 were rated unsatisfactory inonly one supervision report (April 1999).

 5.10      The borrower's motonvay program violated a financial covenant requiringinvestments
 over $5 millionto show a rate of return over 12percent (Section 4.04 o f LoanAgreement).
 Rather than suspending the loan, Bank management decided to continue its implementation, but
 to press the case for economic efficiency. Inaddition to strong calls o f attention on the issue by
 the supervision missions, the Bank prepared a sector paper that provided detailed analytical
 assessment and practical recommendations on the issue. The Bank also funded an advisor to help
prepare the 2001-04 roadprogram. Keeping the dialogue open, both through the project andthe
 sector paper, may be credited with beingan important factor inthe government's decision to
 downsize the motonvay program to a more reasonable scale (although still containing
uneconomic investments). The PPAR finds                  that the benefits to Croatia's economy o f this
outcome justify the decision by Bank management not to suspend the loan.


Emergency Transport

 5.11 Bankperformance i s rated satisfactory. The project was prepared at highspeed and still
achieved satisfactory quality. While it took a long time (nine months) for an emergency project
from appraisal to loan approval, this was mainly due to a series o f international agreements
between Croatia and BiHthat needed to be completed as condition o f negotiations. Supervision
missions, although relatively few for a project that faced significant institutional and
implementation challenges inthe mine clearing component especially, were good. The Bank was
effective ininsisting on the application o f competitive biddingandinpersuading authorities to
make the necessary legislative changes, and inpromoting the creation o f CROMAC. Onthe
negative side: (i)     CROMAC report submitted to the PPARmission notes problems at the start o f
project implementation due to ``frequent replacement o f World Bank personnel responsible for
the project.", and (ii)     the Bank could have learned from the early implementation experience in
BiHwhich showedlittle competitionandhighprices, to take a firmer stand inthe Croatiaproject
to ensure a competitive market there.

Borrower Performance

Highway Sector

5.12      Borrower performance i s rated unsatisfactory. The main factor inthis ratingis the
misallocation o f resources inthe road sector, that is, the motorway program andthe inadequate
funding o fmaintenance. The motonvay program appears to havebeenpromotedbythe Ministry
o f Reconstruction. As noted above, this program was inconflict with the Bank loan's financial
covenants. Inadequate funding for maintenance was a direct consequence o f the increased
funding for the motonvay program. The Ministry o fFinance andrelated central economic
agencies could have exerted their leverage for more fiscally responsible investments, since,
largely because o f the motorway program, the government would be spending 5 percent o f GDP
(substantially more than most countries) intransport development.*' The highway agency, first



20. As notedinthe Bankpaper "Policy Directions," the govemmentwould be spendingclose to 5 percent o f GDP intransport
development, while a morefocused and efficientprogramwould only reachabout 3 percentof GDP. This bigprogramsuggests
that the "development" side of the govemment is prevailingover fiscally responsiblepoliciesthat should concernthe Ministry of

                                                           15

H C and then CRYperformed well, sometimes excellently, inthe physical implementation o fthe
road maintenance and improvement investments. Technical quality o f the works was good, as
confirmed by field visits carried out bythe PPAR mission. The decentralization o fthe road
system and the move towards commercializing roadmaintenance were clearly good policies, as
were the creation in2001 o f separate agencies for the main road network and for motorways,
independently managed and funded. Onthe other hand, the H C andthe C R didnot appear
interestedin, or lacked the discipline for, establishing road condition measurements necessary to
assess the condition o f the network on a consistent basis over time.

Emergency Transport

5.13      Borrower performance i s satisfactory. All agencies on the transport side and the mine
clearing side o f the project performed well. Implementation o f the mine clearing posedthe most
potential problems. There were significant legal and administrative difficulties inherent with
adopting competitive procurement for mine clearing, compounded by initial misunderstandingas
to how procurement would be done. Yet, the borrower was able to take the necessary actions to
reduce delays andto pass remedial legislation twice (1998 and 2000) to move away from
restrictive procurement and contracting conditions. CROMAC,although a newly created agency,
was rigorous inmonitoringprocurement, as evidenced by a detailed table o f demining contracts
provided to the PPARmission.2'Initialcoordination delays between transport and mine clearing,
and low identification of transport infrastructure priorities for demining prevent givingthe
borrower the highest rating.

6.        Lessons

6.1       The following lessons emerge from the two projects:

     P Highway `sector' projects needto take a comprehensiveview o fthe sector, andinclude
          appropriate, sector-wide performance indicators. One key indicator i s the overall
          condition o f the roadnetwork, since it is useful tojudge the level ofresoiirces allocated
          for highway maintenance, the efficiency o f roadmaintenance planning and operations,
          and the impact o f road sector expenditures on the operating costs o f road vehicles.
          Barring exceptional circumstances, overall roadnetwork condition should be expected to
          improve duringproject implementation. Such sector projects should take the necessary
          actions to ensure that the responsiblehighway agency has inplace an adequate system to
          monitor road network condition.
     >    Separation o f agencies and funding sources for the maintenance and improvement o fthe
          national road network and for the construction o fmodem motorways, as Croatia didin
         2001,can be an effective way to ensure a stable level o f funding for roadmaintenance.
          To ensure that resources are well utilized, especially for the modernization o f the road
          system, there should be stringent rules for the allocation o f the funds, including conduct
         of outsourced feasibility studies and transparent competitive procurement.


Finance.Foreigninvestorsare likely to be moreconcemedbythe fiscal policiesrather than by a fast-developingtransport
system.
21. The Status of Projectstable, dividedintogoods andworks sub-tables,providedfor each contractfinanced underthe project,
contract number, description, methodof procurement, signingdate, quantity (in square meters), contract value (inDEM),
disbursedfromWorldBank, from government funds, undisbursedbalance, and area actuallycleared.

                                                           16
       >  Bank-financed projects byrequiringcompetitive procurement andexemplifying its
          advantages can leadto the establishment o f competitive procurement throughout a whole
          industry andto the development of qualified domestic contractors, as it happened with
          the demining industry inCroatia.
      >   The need to improve transparency of its public procurement process is an important issue
          inCroatia's publicpolicy, inview ofcasesof non-competitiveprocurementinthe
          motonvay program and ofcomplaints byunsuccessful bidders for demining contracts,
          both inthe emergency transport project under review and the earlier Emergency
          Reconstruction project.22




22. The PPAR of the Emergency Reconstructionproject noted that complaints had been duly investigated and that they reflected
"fractious competition rather than corrupt practices."

17

                                                                          18

Annex A. Basic Data Sheets

Highway Sector Project (Loan 3869-CR)

Key Project Data (amounts in US$million)

                                                                    Appraisal             Actual or         Actual as % of
                                                                     estimate          currentestimate         appraisal
                                                                                                                estimate
Total projectcosts a/                                                 567.8                1598.5
Loanamount                                                              80.0                80.0
Cofinancing                                                             47.5                40.9

a/ While the project originally intended to finance a slice of the 1995-1997road investmentprogram,
it financed this and subsequent road programs until project closinginJune 2001.


Project Dates
                                                                      Original                           Actual
Initiatingmemorandum                                                                                  July 7, 1992
Appraisal                                                                                            July 12, 1994
Board approval                                                                                       April 20, 1995
Effectiveness                                                      April 27,1995                     July 26, 1995
Closingdate                                                      December 31,2000                    June 30,2001


Staff Inputs(US ! thousand)
                                                                                              Total
IdentificationlPreparation                                                                    128.9
AppraisaVNegotiations                                                                         124.5
Supervision                                                                                   344.6
Completion                                                                                    20.0
Total                                                                                         618.0


Mission Data d
                                           Date           No. of      Staff   Specializations    Performance Performance
                                      (monthlyear) persons days in              represented         rating        Rating
                                                                      field                          DO             IP
Identification1PreDaration                 4/94                                      Ec
AppraisallNegotiations                    10194             41                 Ec, Eg, Fa, Es
Supervision                            7195-6101
                                          11/95                                                      HS             HS
                                           7/96                                                       S             S
                                           6/97                                                      HS             S
                                          12/97                                                       S             S
                                           7/98                                                       S             S
                                           3/99                                                       U             U
                                          10/99                                                       S             S
                                           3/00                                                       S             S
                                          11/00                                                       S             S
Completion                                7101                                                        S             S

Staff skills. Ec=economist, Eg=engineer, Fa=financial analyst, Ev=environmental specialist ,Pyxocurement
Specialist, T~transportspecialist
Performanceratings: DO=development objectives, IP=implementation progress
al ICRdataon staffing, number of missions and ratings is substantiallyincomplete and incorrect.
Datashown here hasbeentaken directly from PSRs.

                                                              19

Other Project Data
BorrowedExecutingAgency:
FOLLOW-ONOPERATIONS
Operation                                             Creditno.             Amount              Board date
                                                                          (US$ million)
                                                     47140/50/60/            156.5              July 8, 2003
Rijeka Gateway Project                                  P3910




Transport Emergency and Mine Clearing Project (Loan 4104-CR)

Key Project Data (amounts in US$million)

                                   Appraisal                     Actual or                 Actual as % of
                                    estimate                 current estimate            appraisal estimate
Total project costs                  122.3                        131.2
Loan amount                          72.0                          72.0
Cofinancing                             0                           0
Cancellation                            0                           0




Project Dates
                                                     Original                              Actual
Initiatingmemorandum                                                                  January 18,1996
Appraisal                                                                              February 1, 1996
Board approval                                                                       November21, 1996
Effectiveness                                      March 4, 1997                        March4, 1997
Closing date                                       June 30,2000                      December 31,2001


Staff Inputs(staff weeks)
                                                                                    Total
ldentificationlPreparation                                                          85.8
AppraisaVNegotiations                                                              203.0
Supervision                                                                        434.1
ICR                                                                                 20.0


Mission Data
                                  Date         No. of     *Specializations    Performance        Performance
                              (month/year)   persons        represented          rating             Rating
                                                                                    DO                 IP
Identification/Preparation        1196            2            Ec,Tr
AppraisallNegotiations            9/96            3           Ec,Fa,Tr
Supervision                       7/97                                              S                   S
                                  5/98                                              S                   S
                                  4/99                                              S                   S
                                  11/99                                             S                   S
                                  5/00                                              S                   S
                                 11/00                                              S                   S
                                  6101                                              S                   S
                                 10/01                                              S                   S
Completion                        2/02            1              Ec
                                  6/02            1              Tr
*Staff skills: Ec=econornkt, T~transportspecialist, Fa=financial analyst


MAP SECTION


