Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4104 HR
Loan Agreement
(Emergency Transport and Mine Clearing Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 4, 1996
LOAN NUMBER 4104 HR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 4, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF CROATIA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the 
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the 
Project;
(B)
the Borrower, Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federation of 
Bosnia and Herzegovina have signed an Agreement dated May 11, 1996 (the 
“Ploe Agreement”) regarding the implementation of the Agreement Providing 
the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (the “Federation”) with Access 
to the Adriatic Coast Through the Territory of the Borrower and Providing 
the Borrower with Access Through the Territory of the Federation;
(C)
the Borrower, Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federation of 
Bosnia and Herzegovina have signed an Agreement dated May 11, 1996 (the 
“Neum Agreement”) securing the Borrower’s passage through the territory 
of the Federation; 
(D)
the Borrower and the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina have 
signed a Memorandum of Understanding dated March 14, 1996 for Mutual 
Reconstruction of Transport Connections (the “Zupanja-Orasje Bridge 
Page  2
Agreement”); and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 
30, 1995 (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Deutsche Mark” and “DEM” mean the lawful currency of the 
Federal Republic of Germany, but if such currency shall be replaced with 
the “Euro” then “Deutsche Mark” and “DEM” shall be replaced by “Euro” for 
the purposes of the Loan, at the ratio in effect as of the date of such 
replacement;
(b)
“Mines” means landmines and includes explosive items such as 
bombs, booby traps, munitions and exploded ordnance of any kind;
(c)
“MOI” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Interior;
(d)
“MOI Project Unit” means the unit referred to in paragraph 3 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(e)
“MMTC” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Maritime Affairs, 
Transport and Communications;
(f)
“MMTC Project Unit” means the unit referred to in paragraph 
1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement which has been established within MMTC;
(g)
“Quality Assurance Unit” means the unit referred to in 
paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement which has been established 
within MOI; and
(h)
“Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount 
equal to one hundred fifty million nine hundred thousand Deutsche Marks 
(DEM150,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the 
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services 
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in Deutsche Marks separate special deposit accounts in a bank or 
Page  3
banks on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits 
into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or such later 
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate 
for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total 
Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and 
including the date of this 
Agreement to, but 
excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including 
an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the next 
following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in 
Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, 
the London interbank 
offered rate for six-month 
deposits in Deutsche Marks for value the first day 
of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, for 
value the Interest Payment Date occurring on or next 
preceding the first day 
of such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed 
as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: 
(A) one half of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) 
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other 
reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect 
of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof 
allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans or 
portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per 
annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and 
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the 
determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting 
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, 
the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a 
whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section, the Bank 
may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the 
Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new 
basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its 
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the 
Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable July 15 
Page  4
and January 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the 
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.  (a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and, to this end, shall carry out Part A of the Project through MMTC and 
Part B of the Project through MOI with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate financial, engineering, safety, 
administrative and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly 
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by 
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project; 
and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be 
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with 
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in 
respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section 
including those for 
the Special Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six 
(6) months after the end of each 
such year, the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
Page  5
said records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as 
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has 
received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the 
last withdrawal from the Loan Account or 
payment 
out of the Special Accounts was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements 
of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures 
and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified: 
(a)
The development activity for which the land or facilities 
has or have been cleared of Mines under the Project is, in the sole 
opinion of the Bank, jeopardized by laying down new Mines anywhere in the 
territory of the Borrower.
(b)
The Ploe Agreement, the Zupanja-Orasje Bridge Agreement or 
the Neum Agreement shall have been amended, canceled, abrogated, 
terminated, assigned, waived or modified so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations 
under this Loan Agreement.
(c)
Any party to the Ploe Agreement, the Zupanja-Orasje Bridge 
Agreement or the Neum Agreement fails to comply with the terms of the 
Ploe Agreement, the Zupanja-Orasje Bridge Agreement or the Neum 
Agreement, respectively, so as to materially and adversely affect the 
ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this Loan 
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Page  6
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Katanieva 5
41000 Zagreb
Croatia
Telex:
862-21215
862-21833
For the Bank:
International Bank for
 Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
By /s/ Miomir Zuzul
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Jean-Michel Severino
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia 
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to 
be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
   % of
Page  7
Loan Allocated
Expenditures
(Expressed in
   to be
Category
    DEMs)
Financed
(1)
Works
(a) for Part A of 
   79,000,000
80%
the Project
(b) for Part B of
   19,100,000
the Project
(2)
Goods   
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures, 
 (a) for Part A of
    10,500,000 
100% of local 
 the Project
expenditures 
(ex-factory 
 (b) for Part B of
    15,000,000 
cost) and 85% 
 the Project
of local 
expenditures for 
other items 
procured locally 
(3)
Consultants’ 900,000
100%
Services and Training
under Part B of the Project
(4)
Unallocated
    26,400,000
    __________
TOTAL
   150,900,000
   ===========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the 
date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount 
not to exceed DEM 25,900,000 may be made on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after August 1, 1996.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods 
and works under contracts costing less than $1,000,000 equivalent; (ii) 
services provided by consulting firms under contracts costing less than 
$200,000 equivalent; (iii) services provided by individual consultants 
under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent; and (iv) training 
expenditures, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) repair and reconstruct 
the surface transport networks; and (ii) clear Mines in areas of high 
priority for economic reconstruction.
Page  8
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from 
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Transport Infrastructure
1.
Repair and reconstruction of: parts of the Zupanja-Orasje bridge 
located in the territory of the Borrower, roads and road bridges agreed 
with the Bank, and upgraded road access to Ploe Port.
2.
Reconstruction of railways on the Lika line 
(Ostarije-Knin-Split/Zadar) and the Novska-Sisak line.
3.
Rehabilitation of Ploe Port, including repairs and reconstruction 
of Piers 5 and 3, the pier ladder and fendering system, the 
roll-on-roll-off terminal, container handling equipment and repair to 
other damaged equipment, piers and buildings.
Part B:
Mine Clearing
1.
Clearance of Mines in areas of high priority for economic 
reconstruction.
2.
Carrying out of screening and surveys to estimate the probability 
of areas being contaminated by Mines.
3.
Conducting of quality assurance tests in the areas cleared from 
mines.
4.
Provision of technical assistance and training to the MOI staff, 
the Borrower’s mine-clearing agency and other entities engaged in 
mine-clearing activities.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due 
(expressed in DEMs)*
On each January 15 
 and July 15
beginning July 15, 2002
through July 15, 2011
7,545,000
On January 15, 2012
7,545,000
Page  9
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent DEM equivalents determined as 
of the respective dates 
of withdrawal.  See General Conditions, 
Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this 
Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and 
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 
thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to 
cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be  advertised in accordance 
with the procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of 
the Guidelines.
(b)
Prequalification
Bidders for goods and works shall be prequalified in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 2.09 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(c)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be 
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $2,000,000 
or more each.
(d)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of 
the Borrower.
3.
Contracts for works which include individual road sections under 
Part A of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or 
more per contract shall be awarded under procedures set forth in this 
Part B.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
Page  10
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part B.3 of this Schedule, works estimated to 
cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $42,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 
3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
Limited International Bidding
Goods, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $6,000,000 
equivalent, which the Bank agrees can only be purchased from a limited 
number of suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
3.2 of the Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
Works for the repair of existing structures which should be 
procured, using proprietary technology and equipment; and goods which:  
(i) must be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with 
existing equipment; and (ii) are of a proprietary nature and costing 
$3,900,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Bank's 
prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding 
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods and services awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of Parts B and C.2 of this Section; and 
(ii) the first two contracts for works awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Part C.1 of this Section, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing 
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the 
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, 
with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank.  Where no 
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other 
standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the 
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or 
Page  11
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of 
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply 
to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to 
cost less than $200,000  equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each.  However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: 
(a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source 
selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as 
reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the 
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $200,000 
equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent 
or above.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.
No later than January 1, 1997, the Borrower shall establish and 
thereafter maintain, with adequate staff and resources, a project unit 
within MMTC (MMTC Project Unit) for the purposes of monitoring the 
implementation of Part A of the Project.
2.
The Borrower shall ensure that Croatian Roads Administration, 
Croatian Railway Company and the Port of Ploe Authority shall carry out 
procurement of goods and works under Parts A (1), A (2) and A (3) of the 
Project, respectively, and shall submit to the Bank, through the MMTC 
Project Unit, on a quarterly basis, progress reports on their respective 
parts of the Project.
3.
The Borrower shall maintain the project unit established within MOI 
(MOI Project Unit) for the purpose of carrying out Part B of the Project 
which shall be staffed and shall operate in a manner satisfactory to the 
Bank.
4.
The Borrower shall maintain, with adequate staff and resources, the 
Quality Assurance Unit within MOI which shall be responsible for:
(i)
setting the standards for Mine-clearing works;
(ii)
reviewing the standard operating procedures and 
safety regulations of  Mine 
clearing agencies; and
(iii)
conducting quality assurance tests to ensure 
compliance of Mine clearing 
agencies with 
accepted international standards for humanitarian mine 
clearance.
5.
The Borrower shall ensure that all Mine clearance activities are 
carried out and   all Mines cleared under the Project are promptly 
destroyed in accordance with appropriate safety standards and guidelines.
6.
The Borrower shall maintain a Project Unit within the Ministry of 
Finance to conduct overall supervision of the Project implementation.
7.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank, on or about January 31, 1998, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding 
Page  12
the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by February 28, 1998, or such later 
date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) 
of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure 
the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the 
said report and the Bank's views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means: (i) Categories (1) 
(b), (2) (b) and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement in respect of Part B of the Project; and (ii) 
Categories (1) (a) and (2) (a) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect to Part A of the Project;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from 
time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent 
to DEM 19,300,000 in respect of the Special Account for Part A of the 
Project (Special Account A) and an amount equivalent to DEM 10,400,000 in 
respect of the Special Account for Part B of the Project (Special Account 
B), to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the respective 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions 
of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
respective Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the 
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
respective Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits 
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the respective 
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, 
the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for 
deposits into the respective Special Account 
at such 
intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule 
for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of 
the Borrower,  withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the respective 
Special Account such amount 
as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall 
have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
Page  13
the respective Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and 
other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special 
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing 
that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the respective 
Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all 
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the respective Special Account; or
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower 
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower 
to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to 
the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special 
commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the respective Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 
payment out of the respective Special Account: (i) was made for an 
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this 
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide 
such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the 
respective Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to 
the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the respective Special Account 
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 
amount outstanding in the respective Special Account will not be required 
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding 
amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the 
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the respective Special 
Page  14
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) 
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
