RESTR I CTED
FILE      CO~PY                      Report No. P-75
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR THE
NILE DELTA DRAINAGE PROJECT
November 5, 1969



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR THE NILE DELTA DRAINAGE PROJECT
1.   I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed credit
in an amount in various currencies equivalent to U.S. $26 million to the
United Arab Republic.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.   The United Arab Republic has been a member of the Bank, IFC and IDA
since the beginning years of each institution. The Bank Group has so far
had only one operation in the UAR, a loan of U.S. $56.6 million equivalent
(243 UAR) in 1959 to the Suez Canal Authority for canal improvement. On
September 30, 1969, U.S. $27.5 million remained outstanding.
3.   Relations between the U.A.R. and the Bank Group have been more active
over the years than the volume of lending would indicate. The Bank assisted
the United Nations in supervising the clearing of the Suez Canal after the
1956/57 interruption, and Mr. Black, Mr. Woods and Sir William Iliff were
instrumental in bringing about in 1958 an agreement on the compensation to
be paid by the U.A.R. as a consequence of the Suez Canal nationalization.
Economic reports were prepared and distributed to the Executive Directors
in 1962 and again in 1966.
4.   The nationalization in the early 1960ts of almost all industrial,
commercial and financial enterprises in the country, both Egyptian and
foreign, and the protracted negotiations concerning the payment of com-
pensation for these properties have been a serious obstacle to Bank Group
lending. In addition, the U.A.R. began in 1965/66 to fall into arrears in
debt payments,mostly for suppliers' credits. By early 1967, however, progress
was being made in the rescheduling of some debts, in agreeing on compensa-
tion for nationalized properties and in making arrangements for the payment
of arrears to the International Monetary Fund. The June war temporarily
interrupted these developments. Negotiations with the Fund resumed and led
to the repayment of outstanding arrears in March 1968, followed by drawings
on the Fund. A Bank economic mission visited the UAR in March 1968. I
myself made a visit in July 1968, and this was followed by further visits
of officers and staff of the Bank Group. In discussing possible fields
for Bank Group assistance, priority was given by the Government to the
Nile Delta Drainage Project because of its high benefits.



- 2 -
5~. The arrears on external debt repayments have now been rescheduled
through agreements with all of the countries concerned, with the excep-
tion of the United States, and repayaents have been proceeding in accord-
ance with the new schedules.  In the case of the United States, discus-
sions between representatives of the two governments have been underway
during the past months. Both sides have made considerable efforts towards
reaching agreement, and the discussions are now at a stage where the
positions of both sides are very close, so that final agreement shoui-d scson
be achieved. In all of the rescheduling arrangements the U.A.R. has
tr_ed to avoid or minimize a net capital outflow by seeking new credit
facilities from its creditors at the same time. However, since the new
credit facilities are mostly on suppliers' credits terms, they have not
provided significant relief from the rather heavy debt service burden
which is discussed in Part V of this report.
6.   Most of the claims against the U.A.R. which arose out of the nation-
alization of foreign properties in the early 1960's have been settled.
Discussions have been taking place between the governments concerned in
the few outstanding cases, which involve complicated questions of asset
valuation, and progress has been made recently. The representatives of
the U.A.R. Government have stated their willingness and intention to finC
a solution in these cases. Representatives of countries whose citizens
have been affected have confirmed that active negotiations are in process
in this respect.
7.   The appraisal of the Nile Delta Drainage Project was carried out
in the field in December 1968. Negotiations for the proposed credit were
held in Washington in September 1969. The head of the U.A.R. delegation
was Mr. Hamed El Sayeh, Undersecretary of State for the Ministry of
Economy and Foreign Trade; other members included Mr. Fouad El Kholy,
Undersecretary of State for the Ministry of Irrigation, Mr. Gad Labib
Gad, Deputy (Legal) Counsellor in the Council of State and other repre-
sentatives from the two principal Ministries involved.
8.   With regard to further operations, a railway improvement project
has been appraised by the Association and is expected to be ready
for presentation to the Executive Directors later in this fiscal year.
Other possible projects under preparation in the UAR include the expan-
sion and improvement of inland waterways. The Bank has also offered
assistance to the Government in the formulation and carrying out of a
study of the economic utilization of Nile waters presently available to
the U.A.R.



PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
9.   BOROWER:                      United Arab Republic
PURPOSE:                      To finance the foreign exchange cost
of providing tile drainage for about
950,000 feddans (986,000 acres) of
irrigated lands in the delta of the
Nile River.
AMOUNT:                       U.S. $26 million equivalent in
various currencies.
AMORTIZATION:                 In fifty years, including a ten year
period of grace, through semi-annual
installments of one half of one per-
cent from November 1, 1979 to May 1,
1989 and of one and half percent from
November 1, 1989 through May 1, 2019.
SERVICE CHARGE:               Three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount
of the Credit withdrawn and outstand-
ing from time to time.
ESTIMATED ECONOMIC            18 percent.
RATE OF RETURN:
PART III - THE PROJECT
10.   A report entitled "United Arab Republic - Nile Delta Drainage Pro-
ject"' (PA-12a) is attached.
11.   Two recent economic missions to the U.A.R., in March 1968 and
January 1969, have given special attention to the agricultural sector
and have confirmed the very high priority accorded to the drainage pro-
gram by the Government. The ,.ntroduction of modern drainage is particu-
larly necessary in the Nile Delta where rising water tables and increasing
salinity have been affecting crop production adversely for some time.
Better drainage has become especially important with the completion of the
Aswan High Dam, which is making an increase in perennial irrigation possi-
ble throughout the Nile Valley in the U.A.R.
12.   The project proposed for financing by the Association would be the
first phase of a multi-stage program to provide improved drainage through-
out four million feddans in the Nile Delta and eventually throughout the
entire Nile Valley in Egypt. The project would provide tile drainage for
about 950,000 feddans over 6-1/2 years at a total cost of approximately
U.S. $147 million equivalent. The proposed credit would cover the total



fozeign exchange costs of U.S. $26 million.  The principal elements of
the project would be: the installation of tile drains by mechanized
meatas; the remodeling of open drains and structures to discharge the
greater drainage flows; the construction of eleven pump stations; the
construction of workshops and procurement of transport for supporting
services; and the employment of consultants to advise and assist the
project authority.
13.   About 360,000 feddans have already been tile drained by hand in
the Nile Delta. Very substantial increases in yields for the principal
crops, rice, cotton, wheat and maize, have been observed throughout the
newly drained areas. The rate of implementation has been fairly slow,
however, considering the threat of declining productivity of the un-
drained soils in the Delta, and the presently proposed project would
accelerate implementation by using mechanized tile-laying methods. The
methods to be used in the project were proven in a UNDP pilot project.
14.   The priority of the project is only partially reflected in the
quantifiable economic return of 18%, which is in itself very high for
agricultural improvement projects. Additional indirect benefits would
include not only the prevention of further deterioration of the fertile
soils of the lower Nile Delta, but also increased re-use of drainage
waters for irrigation purposes and increased modernization of agricultural
methods which would be induced by the prospects of higher and more predict-
able yields.  Improved drainage appears to be the most efficient way of
!;eeping agricultural production ahead of population growth in the medium
term.
15.   The project would be carried out by the Nile Delta Authority for
Tile Drainage Projects, which was established by Presidential Decree in
September 1969. The Authority is an independent governmental agency under
the supervision of the Ministry of Irrigation and will be responsible for
the construction and initial maintenance of all tile drainage projects in
the Nile Delta. The managerial and technical staff would be transferred
to the Authority primarily from the Ministry of Irrigation but also from
other ministries and agencies of government, and would have considerable
experience in tnost of the worik to be carried out under the project.
Provision would be made in the IDA credit for financing overseas train-
ing of selected staff of the Authority in recently developed management
techniques. A firm of consultants would be employed to assist the Chair-
man of the Authority in the overall planning and programming of project
implementation, the organization and establishment of a training program
and several other important aspects of project implementation. In addi-
tion an accounting firm would be employed to assist in establishing
effective project cost accounting and budgeting methods in the Authority.
ITntil the project is completed, the Authority will not undertake other
work than that included in the project, unless the Borrower shall have
first satisfied the Association that the execution of such other work
would not adversely affect the prompt and efficient completion of tile
project.



M .   All contracts to be financed by the Association would be awarded
after international competitive bidding, except for a few small items
whese aggregate value will not exceed U.S. $100,000. The contracts would
be primarily for importation and installation of pumping machinery and
for tile-laying machinery and other equipment and spares. Egyptian
manufacturers of trucks, tractors and motorcycles would participate in
the bidding for these items with a margin of preference in bid compari-
sons of 15% or the actual rate of customs duties, whichever is lower.
For such locally produced items, disbursements under the credit would
cover the estimated foreign exchange component (65% of the ex-factoiy
price). All civil construction, apart from the pumping stations, would
be awarded on the basis of local bidding. Egyptian contractors have
shown themselves to be efficient both domestically and in intas.national
competition. Two of these firms have been engaged in projects financed
by the Bank GroV,E.
17.   Part of the costs of the project would be recovered through a
special drainage charge which is designed to cover the maintenance costs
of the field tile drainage and, over a period of twenty years without
interest, the capital invested in field tile drainage in the area of the
project. In addition, the land tax in the UAR, which is based on agri-
cultural productivity, is reassessed shortly after the completion of
public works which affect the productivity of thle land.  This is expected
to have the effect of covering the balance of operational and maintenance
costs and the provision of necessary agricultural extension services, as
well as recovering the remining capital costs over the life of the
project.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
18.   The draft Development Credit Agreement between the United Arab
Republic and the Association, the Recommendation provided for in Article
V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association and
the text of a Resolution approving the proposed Development Credit are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
19. The provisions of the Development Credit Agreerment conform general-
ly to the pattern of Association credit agreements for irrigation and
drainage projects.
PART V - ECONOMIC SITUATION
20. An economic report entitled "Current Economic Position and Pros-
pects of the United Arab Republic" (No. EMA lCa dated August 18, 1969,
was distributed to the Executive Directors on August 27, 1969.



21.   The U.A.R. economy has been undergoing a series of structural
changes since the revolution in 1952. After expanding at about 6.5
percent per annum during the first five-year plan period (1961/65),
the growth rate declined. An overall slowdown started in 1965/66 when
an unfavorable harvest aggravated an already difficult exterral payments
situation. This, in turn, had the effect of curtailing industrial prc-
duction by limiting the availability of imports. External debt payments
began to fall in arrears. Starting in 1966 the Government made efforts
to reschedule the accumulating arrears. In 1966/67 it introduced fiscal
and monetary restrictions in addition to efforts to improve the balance
of payments position by reorganizing institutional arrangements for
foreign trade, especially to promote exports. After having reached a peak
in 1965/66, the overall budget deficit, as well as the current budget
deficit, were reduced in 1966/67 and have been maintained at roughly the
same levels in the following years despite the June 1967 war. The
balance of payments situation improved in 1966/67 but again deteriorated
in 1967/68 because of the consequences of the war. Canal earnings were
lost, tourist receipts declined and, as a result of the loss of the
Sinai oilfields, oil exports dropped while imports of petroleum products
increased. Most of these losses were compensated, however, by the
grants-in-aid coming from Iuwait, Libya and Saudi Arabia, and the balance
of payments situation has recently improved as a result of rapidly in-
creasing output of oil in the Western Desert and elsewhere and increases
in exports and further declines in imports due to import controls.
22.   The U.A.R. is a country with a high level of defense expenditures.
Despite a high ratio of tax revenues to GDP, total public savings have
been low. This situation has arisen partly from the high rate of in-
crease of defense expenditures, which are now around 10 percent of GDP.
However, other current expenditures, especially for education and health,
have also been rising more rapidly than government revenues and GDP.
Consequently, public investment expenditures fell continuously between
1964 and 1968.
23.   In 1969 steps were taken to reactivate the economy.  One of the
main measures in this direction was an increase in the investment budget
which had been reduced in the previous years. These policies were
supported by favorable developments affecting the balance of payments,
such as increases in oil production, continued expansion of exports of
non-traditional items and signs of revival of tourist earnings. Of long-
term significance could be the policy discussions about the reorganiza-
tion of economic administration, particularly of state economic enter-
prises, which were initiated in late 1968 and are still underway.
24.   In considering the future prospects for the U.A.R. economy, some
favorable factors should be mentioned. One of them is the prospect for
increasing exportation from a growing agricultural output. Between 1960
and 1965 the value of agricultural production is estimated to have in-
creased between 3 and 3.5 percent per annum. In the near future the
investments in the High Dam and associated land development, including



d-ainage, should lead to larger increases.  Prospects for oil production
appear to be very favorable. Political conditions permitting, tourist
earnings could increase considerably. If all these opportunities are
taken to good advantage, and assuming continuation of the grants-in-aid
from other Arab countries as long as there are no earnings from the Suez
Canal, GDP could expand during the next five years as rapidly as during
the first half of the 1960's.
25.   The service ratio on already existing debt is projected to decline
from around 25% in 1970 to about 10% in 1975, but the newf borrowings
necessary to sustain a satisfactory level of economic growtlh would impose
very substantial additional burdens if they were incurred on conventional
terms. At this juncture I consider that any assistance to the UAR from
the Bank Group should talce the form of IDA credits.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH THE ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
26.   I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VII - RECOMM11ENDATION
27.   I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
Washington, D. C.
November 5, 1969



