Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3993
PRtOJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT: NILE DELTA DRAINAGE PROJECT I
(CREDIT 181-UAR)
June 21, 1982
Operations Evaluation Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
At time of appraisal
LE 1.00 = US$2.30
US$1.00 = LE 0.43
At time of completion
LE 1.00 = US$1.43
US$1.00 = LE 0.70
1 Feddan = 1.04 acres/0.42 hectares
ABBREVIATIONS
DCA         =      Development Credit Agreement
DRI         =      Drainage Research Institute
EGAD        =      Egyptian General Authority for
Drainage Project
EPADP       =      Egyptian Public Authority for
Drainage Projects
FAO         =      Food and Agriculture Organization
of the United Nations
GOE         =      Government of Egypt
GRI         =      Groundwater Research Institute
HAD         =      High Aswan Dam
KfW         =      Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau -
the West German foreign aid
agency
MOA         =      Ministry of Agriculture
MOI         =      Ministry of Irrigation
NDDA        =      Nile Delta Authority for Drainage
Projects
OED         =      Operations Evaluation Department
PCR         =      Project Completion Report
PPAR        =      Project Performance Audit Report
SAR         =      Staff Appraisal Report (also the
pre-1978 grey cover reports)
UNDP        =      United Nations Development Programme
USAID       =      United States Agency for Inter-
national Development
BORROWER'S FISCAL YEAR
Up to June 1972 and since July 1979      July-June
From July 1972 to June 1979              Calendar Year



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PRCOJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT: NILE DELTA DRAINAGE PROJECT I
(CREDIT 181-UAR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface   ......*.....   ......   ..................*a*a.. ......              i
Basic Data Sheet ............................... . ..........                 ii
Highlights .........         ...................................             iii
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDET MEMORANDUM .............................
I.   SUMMARY.. .     *..*.** * -- ..............................
II.   MAIN    ISSUES  ............... .... o.......o..............         3
A.  The Use of Consultants ...... ...... .  .  ......               3
B.  Project Financing and Utilization of IDA Funds .....            5
C.  Determining Project Benefits .......................            6
D.  Design and Construction ..9.........* ...... **...a             9
E.  Operation and Maintenance ..........................           11
Annex 1:   Comments by the Ministry of Irrigation .................           13
Annex 2: Comments by Chairman, Egyptian Public Authority
for Drainage Projects        .   ........  ..............       19
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT ........................................
I.   Introduction .........     .........         .....*. ..*.          21
II.   Background .......... 0...............   *O...............................  23
III.   Project Formuilation ..........  ............ ................      25
IV.   Implementaticon  o.*.....................................           28
V.   Operating Performance ..     .......... *......    ........         34
VI.    Institutiona]. Performance ..............................          38
VII.   Benefits and Economic Evaluation      .......................       40
VIII.   Bank Performaince ......... .. . . . .. . . . .  .............  ...... .......  44
IX.   Conclusions ......................................... .......... 0.....  45
Annexes    l - 13 ................................... * ......... .......a........  48
Map
This docurnent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






- i -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT: NILE DELTA DRAINAGE PROJECT I
(CREDIT 181-UAR)
PREFACE
This is a performance audit of the Nile Delta Drainage I Project in
the Arab Republic of Egypt for which Credit 181-UAR was approved on March 24,
1970 in the sum of US$26 million equivalent. The final disbursement in
respect of this credit was made on April 3, 1981 and US$2 million were can-
celled on the same day.
The audit report consists of an audit memorandum prepared by the
Operations Evaluation Department and a Project Completion Report (PCR), dated
July 16, 1981, prepared by the Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional
Office.   The audit memnorandum is based on a review of the Appraisal Report
(No. PA-12a) dated October 14, 1969, the President's Report (No. P753) of
November 5, 1969, the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) dated April 17, 1970
and the PCR. Appraisal Reports of the follow-on project (Nile Delta Drainage
II of July 1977) as well as two similar projects in Upper Egypt (Upper Egypt
Drainage I of August 1973 and Upper Egypt Drainage II of June 1976) were also
perused.   Internal Bank memoranda on project issues as contained in relevant
Bank files have been consulted and Bank staff associated with the project
interviewed.
An OED Miss-ion visited Egypt in December 1981.      The mission held
discussions with staff of the project executing agency, the Egyptian Public
Authority for Drainage Projects (EPADP), the Drainage Research Institute
(DRI), the Groundwater Research Institute, officials of the Ministry of
Agriculture, and the Soil and Water Research Institute.        Field trips were
organized during which the mission interviewed benefiting farmers, noted
data collection activities in the field and observed ongoing construction work
under the follow-on project. The information obtained during the mission was
used to test the validity of the conclusions of the PCR.
A copy of the draft report was sent to the Borrower on March 17,
1982. The comments received from the Ministry of Irrigation and the Chairman
of EPADP (see Annexes 1 and 2 of the PPAM) have been taken into account or
appropriately footnoted.
The audit finds that the PCR covers adequately the salient features
of the project and the PPAM generally agrees with its conclusions.      In addi-
tion to summarizing the objectives and results of the project, the PPAM
examines the derivation of project benefits to agricultural production, the
issue of consultants and technical assistance, and design and construction
criteria.
The valuable assistance provided by the EPADP and the Ministry of
Agriculture in the preparation of this report is gratefully acknowledged.






- ii -
PROJECT PEBORKANCR AUDIT RPOkRT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT N1LE DELTA DRAIRAC PROJECT I
(CREDIT 181-UAR)
BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal               Actual or                Actual as 2 of
Estimate            Estimated Actual           Apprait'l Estimate
Project Costs (US$ million)                                147                   198.9                        135
Credit Amount (US$ million)                                 26                    26                          100
Date Board Approval                                      03/24/70               03/24/70
Date Effectiveness                                       07/14/70               12/22/70                       44
Date Physical Components Completed                         12/75                  12/80                       200
Proportion then completed (X)                             -                     100                          65
Closing Date                                             12/31/76               12/31/80                      150
Economic Rate of Return (S)                                 18                    25                          139
Financial Rate of Return (E)                                NA                     NA                          NA
Institutional Performance                                         Fair
Agronomic Performance                                             Good
Number of Direct Beneficiaries (year 15)                 250-270,000 farm families
CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
FY71   FY72    FY73   FY74   PY75   FY76   FY77    FY78   FY79   FY80   FY81
Appraisal estimate (US$ million)                    6.4   15.9   23.3   25.0    26.0
Actual (US$ million)                                 -     0.3    3.8    8.3    14.0   15.9   18.0   21.1   23.9    24.0   24.0
Actual as 2 of estimate                              NA    2     16     33      54     61     69     81     92      92     92
Date of final disbursement                          April 13, 1981
Principal repaid to (mo./day/yr.) (US$ million)     --------------                  0.6-…
MISSION DATA
Date        No. of      Mandays     Specializations     Performance              Types of
Mission                (mo./Yr.)     Persons     in Field    Represented/l         RatinRS     TrendL3    Proble..&d4
Identification              02-03/68        n.a.
Preparation                   09/68          4           25
Appraisal                     12/68           5          23
Supervision 1               04-05/70         2           13          c, d                 2            -           M, F
Supervision 2                 07/70          2            5          c, b                 2            2
Supervision 3               10-11/70         2           23          c, f                 -            -
Supervision 4                 12/70          1           12          d                    2            3          M
Supervision 5                 04/71          2           12          d, e                 3            3          M
Supervision 6                 10/71          1           14          d                    3            3          M, F
Supervision 7                 02/72          2           17          a, c                 3            3          M, F
Supervision 8               08-09/72         4           24          a, b, c              3            2          M, T, F
Supervision 9                 07/73          2           16          a, c                 2            1          M
Supervision 10                04/74          3           10          a, c                 2            1          M, P
Supervision 11                10/74          3            8          a, c, b              3            2          M, T
Supervision 12              03-04/75         3           10          b, c, e              2            1          M, F
Supervision 13                12/75          2           12          c, b                 2            2          M
Supervision 14                04/76          3            7          b, c                 2            1          H
Supervision 15                11/76          3            7          a, b, c              2            l           M, F
Supervision 16              03-04/77         1            7          b                    2            1           M, F
Supervision 17                11/77          1            8          b                    2            3          M
Supervision 18                03/78          1            8          a                    2            1           T
Supervision 19                10/78          2            8          a, b, c              2            1           T
Supervision 20              02-03/79         3            5          a, c                 2            2          M, 0
Supervision 21                09/80           3           4          a, b, c              2            2          n, T
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrower:                                 Arab Republic of Egypt
Executing Agency:                         Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage Projects
Fiscal Year:                              July-June (since July 1979)
Name of Currency (abbreviation)           LE (Egyptian pound)
Currency Exchange Rate:
Appraisal Year Average                 US$ 1.00  - LE 0.43
Intervening Years Average              US$ 1.00  - LE 0.60
Completion Year Average                US$ 1.00  - LE 0.70
Follow-on Project:
Name:                                  Upper Egypt Drainage I; Upper Egypt Drainage II; Nile Delta Drainage II
Loan/Credit Number                     Cr. 393-EGT                Ln. 1285/Cr. 637-EGT     Ln. 1439/Cr. 719-EGT
Loan/Credit Amount (US$ million)         36                         10          40             39        27
Date Board Approval                    06/08/73                 06/11/76                  07/15/71
/1   a - agriculturist; b - economist; c - engineer; e - financial analyst; f - procurement specialist;
d - Division Chief.
/2   1 - problem free or minor problems; 2 - moderate problems; and 3 - major problems.
7    1 - improving; 2 - stationary; and 3 - deteriorating.
7T    F - financial; M - managerial; T - technical; P - political; and 0 - other.






- iii -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC CF EGYPT: NILE DELTA DRAINAGE PROJECT I
(CREDIT 181-UAR)
HIGHLIGHTS
The need to provide drainage in the Nile Delta, to control water-
logging and soil salinity, has been recognized since controlled perennial
irrigation started in the 19th century.     The problem became urgent when the
decision was taken to construct the High Aswan Dam (HAD) which would enable
double cropping and con,equently much higher water applications are becoming
the normal farming practice.    The only feasible way to drain the delta soils
was by buried pipes, art expensive and demanding operation.        Drainage will
eventually be needed on 6 million feddans (2.5 m ha), within no more than 30
years. Accordingly, the Government of Egypt approached the Bank Group in 1968
to assist with the first tranche of their drainage program, extending to
950,000 feddans (400,000 ha).    The planned project implementation period was
six years.
The project was expected to assist in installing buried field and
collector drains, remodel the branch and trunk open drains to convey the
effluent and construct and equip 11 pumping stations to pump the water into
irrigation canals for reuse or discharge into the Nile.      Factories to manu-
facture concrete pipes; pipe laying machines; vehicles and other equipment to
assist construction; suitable equipment to clean and maintain the drains after
installation and consultancy services to assist the implementation of tech-
nical and management aspects were to be parts of the project. The Ministry of
Agriculture would be provided with vehicles to assist extension services.
The project wE.s implemented as planned, but was delayed by four
years, due in part to the 1973 war and its aftermath.     Foreign exchange costs
did not escalate but local costs increased by about 45%.       No vehicles were
purchased for the agricu:Ltural extension service and only a minimal amount of
drain maintenance equipment was procured. Nevertheless, project benefits were
better than expected and the economic rate of return is now estimated at about
25% compared with the appraisal estimate of 18%.
The Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage Projects (EPADP) came
into existence during execution of this, as well as two other Bank-assisted
drainage projects in Upper Egypt and one in the Delta.       After some initial
problems, the Authority became a reasonably efficient organization charged
with implementing large projects.   This project is the world's largest drain-
age scheme and is only one of four for which EPADP is responsible.
Other points of interest, and lessons to be learned are:
the effectiveness of consultants in management positions is likely
to be at best marginal in projects where the borrower is inclined to



- iv -
resist having outsiders forced on them by the Bank (PPAM paras.
7-12);
the Borrower did not see the need for the use of an envelope mate-
rial for buried drains and the Bank prevailed in its efforts to
bring about a change in this attitude only recently. The absence of
envelope material could, possibly, lead to a shortened working life
of the drains (PPAM paras. 22-26); and
the flexibility shown by the Government of Egypt and the Bank in
accommodating drainage needs as they arose and not rigidly adhering
to areas identified at appraisal was highly commendable (PCR para.
4.11 and PPAM para. 17).



PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT: NILE DELTA DRAINAGE PROJECT I
(CREDIT 181-UAR)
I. SUMMARY
1.        The Nile Delta Drainage     Project was  the first large-scale tile
drainage project undertaken in Egypt.     It covered an area of about 950,000
feddans (400,000 ha) bettween Cairo and the Mediterranean Sea.        It is the
largest single tile-drainage project in the world.
2.        The need for drainage became obvious soon after controlled perennial
irrigation had replaced free flooding in parts of the Delta, starting over 100
years ago.    A system of open main and branch drains was being constructed
since around the turn of the century, augmented in many places with pumping
stations that lifted the effluent into the main irrigation canals, back
into the Nile or into the terminal lakes at the end of the canals. This trunk
drainage network was never expected to solve the problem of waterlogging, and
it soon became obvious 'that farmers were unwilling to lose some 10% of their
land for additional open drains that would be necessary for complete water-
table control.    In the late 1930s investigations started into buried tile
drainage, which eliminate land losses.       In anticipation of the perennial
irrigation and near 200% cropping intensities on all cultivable lands that the
High Aswan Dam (HAD) would make possible, a program was launched in 1956 to
provide the whole Nile valley with tile drains within 30 years.       Ten years
later, however, only about 300,000 feddans, or 5% of the total area, were
completed.   To speed up implementation, a UNDP pilot project was launched in
1963 to establish the criteria and feasibility of mechanized tile laying.
Machine operation was not only expected to speed up execution, but also to
allow pipes to be laid where the watertable was less than 1 m below the
surface and manual excavation of the trenches would cause sloughing before the
pipes are laid. Based on the UNDP study, the project under review was identi-
fied, and appraised in December 1968.
3.        The project was estimated to cost US$147 million equivalent, with a
foreign exchange component of US$26 million equivalent. The objective was to
prevent further farmland to be damaged by waterlogging and soil salinization
and to reverse the deterioration of land already affected. Improved drainage
was seen to permit not only continuation of high production but also introduc-
tion of new farming technologies not possible, or profitable, otherwise.      To
meet these objectives, the project would support:
(a) the construction of 11 pumping stations on the main drains;
(b)  remodelling about 1,700 km of open drains;



(c) installing subsurface field drains and collectors on some 950,000
feddans (400,000 ha) of land in the delta, which were in immediate
need of these works;
(d) providing the necessary infrastructure, equipment (mainly tile
laying and tile making machinery) and vehicles to execute project
works, and maintain them after completion; and
(e) financing consultancy services for management, training and tech-
nical assistance.
An amount of US$500,000 equivalent was provided to assist the agricultural
extension service with vehicles to give them better mobility and access to
the farmers, thereby enabling the earlier exploitation of the improved growing
conditions. The IDA credit of US$26 million equivalent would be spent entirely
on purchases abroad and on consultancy services, leaving local cost financing,
an estimated 82% of total project costs, to Government resources.
4.        Project execution ran far behind schedule and completion took not
the expected six years, but ten.   One of the reasons was the 1973 war and its
inevitable influence on the allocation of manpower, and on financial resources
and priorities. However, there were also serious organization and management
problems.   The project was eventually completed in December 1980 instead of
December 1976.    In spite of this delay, cost estimates proved remarkably
accurate when general cost escalation rates are considered: foreign exchange
costs were about US$24 million (92% of appraisal estimates) and local costs,
US$175 million (150% of appraisal     estimates).   The cost overrun of US$59
million equivalent was borne by the Government of Egypt.
5.        The project's economic rate of return (ERR) is difficult to estimate
because of the inadequate arrangements made under this project properly to
monitor yield responses to drainage.     However, the audit accepts the PCR's
estimate of a 25% ERR - if the project life will indeed be 35 years. The fact
that no gravel envelope was used with most of the pipes may,     in some areas,
reduce the expected life of the buried drains (see Section D, para 23).
6.        After a difficult start - aggravated by external circumstances -
the Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage Projects (EPADP)!/ has become a
fairly efficient organization. It is currently executing three Bank-supported
drainage projects in Upper Egypt and the Delta of about 1.2 million feddans
(over 500,000 ha) far exceeding in size any other single river basin drainage
project in the world.     Its ancillary organizations,   the Drainage Research
Institute and the Soil and Water Research Institute, when judged in the con-
text of the problems facing them, are also well established and coping with
1/   This is the present name of the organization.        All references apply
equally to the organization operating the project before EPADP was
so named in 1973.



their task.    The major issues, arising out of the project and the Bank's
performance as seen by the audit mission, are discussed below; they pertain
mainly to the Bank's performance in project planning and supervision and do
not question the overall results and benefits.
II. MAIN ISSUES
A.   The Use of Consultants
7.        Under the project, the Ministry of Irrigation was expected to engage
consultants to assist EPADP with the management and execution of the project.
The issue became a condition of project effectiveness - and caused a delay of
over five months. During negotiations, the Government of Egypt agreed to this
condition only with the greatest reluctance.       They believed then - and, as
explained by the Chairman of EPADP_/ to the audit mission - still do, that
an engineering organizatLon that operates, and has operated for many years,
the oldest controlled irrigation system in the world, does not require perma-
nently attached outside advisers.       The provision of consultants was also
questioned by one of the Executive Directors (ED) when the project was pre-
sented to the Board for approval. The Bank's point was that the project under
review required the resolution of technical issues in which Egypt's Ministry
of Irrigation had little or no experience.      Even more importantly, the pro-
jected rate of implement:ation, if the objective of completing all drainage
works in 30 years was to be met (para 2) would have to be between 150,000 and
240,000 feddans (65,000 to 100,000 ha) per annum, an output never before
achieved by any one drainage authority.       Therefore, the Bank believed that
Egypt needed additional expertise for organizing and managing this large
operation.
8.        During negotiat:ions, the Bank was able to prevail upon EPADP that a
resident consultant team was necessary and a consulting firm was engaged in
December 1970.    But bec:ause of the Government's reluctance to make use of
them, they were isolated, largely ignored27 and not allowed to be involved
in the mainstream of project execution; this occurred despite the fact that
official and personal relations with the authority, throughout their tenure,
remained correct.    The consultants'   influence on the project - through no
fault of their own - was therefore marginal.       When their contract ended in
March 1973, no other resident project consultants were engaged.
1/   The present Chairman was appointed in November 1981, shortly before the
audit mission's visit. However, in different capacities, his association
with the project goes back for several years.
2/   The Borrower in his comments points out that no complaints were received
from the consultants that would have indicated that they felt ignored.



-4-
9.        The EPADP's peformance however reconfirmed the Bank's view that
additional expertise to help organize and manage a project of this magni-
tude was necessary.    Therefore, in the three follow-on projects, the Bank
continued to insist through Loan Agreement covenants - but no longer as
conditions of effectiveness - on engaging resident consultants, for "...the
overall planning of works, land reclamation, water management and agricul-
tural extension services, and design of pumping stations" (SAR 80a-UAR,
Upper Egypt Project, May 23, 1973, para. 4.09).      These consultants were not
engaged.   Therefore, when the Upper Egypt Drainage II project was appraised
(SAR llll-EGT of May 27, 1976), no further funds were required for consul-
tants, but their engagement was again made into a loan covenant. Their
envisaged role was to render "advice and assistance in overall planning and
coordination of project works; ...the pre-design surveys and investigation;
...water management and reclamation of saline and alkaline lands; ...mainte-
nance of tile drainage and in the organization of the maintenance units;"
(Annex 5) the very role to which the Government of Egypt objected when the
project under review was negotiated.      The allocation in the Upper Egypt I
project was not used by either of the two Upper Egypt projects so that when
the Nile Delta Drainage Project II was presented to the Board in July 1977,
no funds had to be allocated to finance consultants to provide expertise
for the manufacture and laying of plastic drain pipes.
10.       While the audit at this stage is not directly concerned with the
events relating to the three follow-on projects, they are significant to
the extent that they follow directly from the Government of Egypt's stand
during the negotiations of the project under review. EPADP pointed out during
negotiations of the Nile Delta II Project that they recognize the need for
technical assistance in project design and management, and are receiving it
from the High-Level Dutch-Egyptian advisory panel, the services of which have
been provided under a bilateral Dutch Technical Assistance Project since
1975. The panel convenes once or twice a year to review progress and problems
that arise.   Dutch technical assistance has been providing resident experts
(para 15), some of whom are design and construction specialists.      This team
works with the Director of the Drainage Research Institute (DRI) and not
directly with the Chairman of EPADP or the heads of EPADP's main divisions.!/
The arrangements seemed to work well:     working relations were good and the
team was actively involved in technical and design aspects.
11.       The Chairman,   in discussions with the audit mission, pointed to
the excellent relations between Bank supervision missions and the Authority,
which, he stated, have never been otherwise.       In his view, technical and
management expertise over and above that provided by the High-Level Panel
should have been provided by supervision missions.     Since it is not possible
for the Bank to include in supervision teams at all times all specialized
expertise that may be required, in the audit's view EPADP should have been
1/   The Region points out that EPADP's performance continues, in their view,
to support the original contention that the Authority would benefit from
the services of a management consultant.



- 5 -
prevailed upon to finance, out of the credit, visiting experts who could
have cooperated with the supervision missions and provided them with some
necessary backup.   Later during project implementation the Bank did include,
at its own expense, such specialists, whose contributions were much appre-
ciated.   EPADP indicated to the audit mission that they would willingly have
paid for specialists as long as their role remained advisory and they were
not seen to direct project execution, and were not resident specialists.l/
12.       Obviously, whether the approach described would have been successful
is by no means certain; what is certain, however, based on experience and
the emphatic statements sl:eadily repeated since 1969, is that resident consul-
tants are not acceptable in a management function. Therefore, in the project
under audit, and certainly in all later projects, a different approach, fully
acceptable to the Ministry of Irrigation, should have been tried.         If then
this agreed approach proves not successful, it may well become easier to
revert to the Bank's original plan of resident consultants attached to the
implementing divisions of EPADP.
B.   Project Financing and Utilization of IDA Funds
13.       The credit was to finance only the foreign exchange component of
the project. This was estimated at 18% (US$26 million out of US$147 million);
it eventually turned out to be 12% (US$24 million out of US$199 million).
This relatively small IDA participation in total project costs was noted by
one of the Executive Directors during Board presentation; he was advised
that the reason for the small IDA share was due to shortage of funds at the
time.   In subsequent projects, Bank/IDA participation was, proportionately,
about double (in two cases, along with USAID and KfW2/ parallel financing).
The question remains whether it would not have been wiser to reduce the scope
of the project and the time targeted for its execution, but not the amount of
the credit, and contribute also to some of the local costs.      This would have
reduced the Government's financial burden, would have led to speedier project
execution and assured IDA more leverage on technical and operational issues.
14.       A further, more serious issue is the fact that about US$2 million
equivalent remained undisbursed and were cancelled, yet little equipment
for the cleaning of the lateral drains was ever purchased (US$18,000 against
appraisal estimate of U:S$200,000) and the US$0.5 million, allocated to the
purchase of equipment for the agricultural extension service (see para. 3
above), also remained unused. The balance of the savings, about US$1.3
million, was due to prudent purchasing and tendering procedures.         The need
for maintenance equipment,    despite the disappointing results of the early
1/   The Region points out that under the bilharzia control component of the
two Upper Egypt projects, which are managed by the Ministry of Health,
the project pays for the services of the bilharzia control consultant
who visits the project once or twice a year.
2/   The West German foreign aid agency (see Abbreviations).



trials, was always manifest, and was repeatedly pointed out by supervision
missions.   The delayed purchase (now to take place under the follow-on proj-
ect) may well have contributed to lowering the project's benefits, along
with the often less than adequate maintenance of the open collector drains.
C.   Determining Project Benefits
15.       In common with all Bank/IDA projects appraised in the late 1960s,
the project contained no monitoring and evaluation component; this omission
was rectified in subsequent projects. Information on the benefits of drainage
is now available from six different sources.     The audit does not have suffi-
cient information to comment on the reliability and accuracy of these indi-
vidual sources.    However, all of them give some very positive indications:
(a)  the many farmers    interviewed by the audit mission stated quite
unequivocally that their yields have improved; a few indicated that
rice yields did not improve with drainage but they were farmers who
already harvested around 6 tons/ha.      Several were able to bring
previously abandoned land back into cultivation and could grow crops
like potatoes and suyarcane for direct consumption which was pre-
viously not possible.-'    The farmers' recollections, in discussion
with the audit mission, indicated percentage yield increases as
follows (average of all interviews):
Wheat      60               Cotton      70
Maize      77               Rice        45
Berseem (Egyptian clover), a fodder crop which occupies some 80%
of the land during winter, was said to yield "much better": farmers
do not weigh their fodder since it is not sold and is harvested over
an extended period, unlike other crops.
(b)  The Evaluation Section of EPADP has reported the following data!/
resulting from seven years' observation, comparing drained with
undrained areas (in percent increase):
1/   For further discussion of this issue, see paras 29 and 30 below.
2/   There are no sugarcane mills in the Delta.
3/   Analysis of the Crop Yield Evaluation in Some Drained Areas, June 1981.



- 7-
Average            Range
Wheat              12               15-11
Cotton             15               19-11
Maize              19               23-11
Rice               10          No time series
data reported
(c)  The Soil and Water Research Institute shows the following results:-/
(i)  increase over (undrained)    control with different spacing of
laterals, for cotton (in percent increase):
12.5 m            67
25   m            38
50   m            29
For wheat, berseem and rice, the Institute only revealed to the
mission the range of yield increases (figures in percent increases):
Wheat:      2 to 28
Berseem: 18 to 61
Rice:       7 to 64
(ii) from another experiment, testing different buried pipe materials
and envelopes, the following results emerge (percent increase
over control):
Year of Installation      One Year Later
Cotton             107                    103
Wheat               53                     _
(d)  The "crash program" by DRI which was part of Dutch technical assis-
tance (para .IO) gave the following information, over two years
(figures show percent increases).
The detailed paper describing these experiments, presented in a seminar
in December 1981, was not made available to the audit mission.



-8-
Year 1          Year 2
Berseem          36               18
Wheat
grain            5              19
straw          36               31
Maize           +35              -35
Cotton          -29              -45
(e) UNDP investigations of the 1960s show "that yield increases, without
additional inputs, of at least 20% can be expected in the main crops
grown following tile drainage, provided that the drainage systems
are maintained in good working condition without blockage or silt"
(SAR No. PA-12a of October 14, 1969, Annex 1, para. 8).
(f) Time-series data provided by EPADP refer to four districts, two with
and two without drainage, and span six years.     The trend over time
is mixed:   down on wheat and up in cotton, maize and rice in the
undrained districts; up on wheat and cotton and unchanged in maize
and rice in the drained district.      The differences, however, are
equally accountable by the different attention to detail of culti-
vation and inputs.     However, comparing drained with undrained
districts, the average percentage change in yields is as follows:
Wheat      +7         Maize     -8
Cotton     +7        Rice       +4
16.       One major omission in all the foregoing studies/surveys is lack of
informlation on groundwater levels or on electrical conductivity (EC) of the
soil._
17.       Thus, it is almost impossible to be precise about the benefits of
the project as implemented,2/ although benefits due to drains, properly con-
structed and well maintained, in areas clearly and demonstrably in need of
drainage is obvious (see para 15 (c) above).     It is equally difficult to be
specific on the "without-project" picture (para 15 (b)), since areas not yet
drained presumably were deferred because they were less in need of it.      How-
ever, based on the interviews with farmers and EPADP's data (para. 15a and
b), the project was undoubtedly beneficial, and for farmers whose land was
definitely in need of drainage, it might well have been very beneficial indeed
1/   Except for "crash program."
2/   The Borrower in his comments draws attention to the fact that this is
mainly due to the lack of a well-defined methodology.



- 9 -
(para. 15 (c) and (e)). It is equally clear that the areas to be drained must
be carefully selected:    in this connection, the flexibility slhown in amending
the actual project area is most laudable (PCR, para. 4.11 and Annex 5).        The
audit, therefore, accepts the recalculated ERR (PCR, para. 7.11) since even
the least favorable of tbe investigations related in para. 15 conforms to the
criteria set out in PCR, para. 7.12.
D.   Design and Construction
18.       Design - Depth and spacing of laterals.       (PCR,  para.  5.03).     A
generally accepted agronomic finding is that for obtaining maximum yields of
annual - and also many perennial - crops, the watertable has to be about 1 m
below the surface if non-saline and about 1.60 m if saline.!/          Also, that
the soil should return to field capacity within the root zone not later than
three days after irrigation.     In most places, except near the north coast,
the groundwater is non-saline.     Near the coast the main crop is rice which
tolerates higher salinity than other crops.     Therefore there is no reason why
salinity and waterlogging should be a limiting factor to obtaining maximum
yields after drainage works that meet the foregoing criteria have been com-
pleted.   The depth and spacing of the laterals must be such that, given the
hydraulic conductivity of a particular soil - (which will largely, but not
entirely, depend on its clay content) - the watertable is at least 1 m below
the surface at mid-poini: between the laterals.      Obviously, for a given set
of conditions, the deeper the laterals, the further may be their horizontal
separation.   In the Nile delta, the trunk drainage network would have had to
be deepened considerably and would have occupied much valuable land to allow
the laterals to be placect deeper than about 1.60 m.2/
19.       The importance of horizontal spacing is shown in the investigations
described in para. 15(c) above.     The DRI consequently mostly advocates spac-
ings between 20 m and 50 m depending on soil conditions; occasionally, they
recommend spacings of 8() or 100 m.     However, most of the construction took
place at 40 m and 60 Dl spacings, which most probably has lowered project
benefits in areas requiring closer spacing. The audit mission has noted some
fields showing better crop growth close to the laterals than at the mid-point:
an indication that spacing of the drains was too wide. Regional staff dispute
this observation.3/
20.       The reason given for not following theoretical design criteria was
that the narrower spacing at higher cost and more tile-laying machine hours
1/   e.g., Lower Indus Report - by Sir Murdock MacDonald and Partners and
Hunting Technical Services Ltd., 1965.
2/   In areas where land is not a limiting factor proper drainage layout
design is the other way round:       the depth of the open drains, and,
following from that., the spacing of the laterals, is determined by the
most favorable engineering and economic criteria.
3/   See also footnote to para. 23.



- 10 -
per unit area would reduce the gross area on which drains can be installed.
The EPADP wished to benefit the largest possible number of farmers in a given
year, even if these benefits were less than the maximum obtainable under ade-
quate spacing; they expect to return to the same area at a later date and
double up on the laterals installed.
21.       Supervision missions have questioned the rationale of this approach
on grounds of costs, convenience and organization. File documents, however,
indicate that until quite recently the missions failed to persuade the author-
ity to install the laterals at spacings indicated by soil conditions. This
omission may be one of the reasons why the demonstrable benefits of the proj-
ect are lower than the potential indicated by the Soil and Water Research
Institute figures (para. 15); one other was, undoubtedly, the attention that
the Institute has paid to water management.
22.       Design - The Use of Envelope Material.     (PCR para.  5.02) The DRI
design criteria, supported by the High-Level panel are that in soils where
the clay content exceeds 40%, pipes may be laid without any envelope mate-
rial.   One of the principal reasons advanced was the difficulty of obtaining
the right envelope material at reasonable cost.      Perusal of file documents
indicates that the Bank acquiesced to this decision only with the greatest
reluctance.
23.       The audit mission does not agree with the panel's reasoning.l/
American experience in tile drainage at least equals that in the Netherlands;
and US experts are firmly opposed to the laying of any buried pipes without an
envelope.  While on theoretical grounds the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation accept
that an envelope may not be necessary if the soil's clay content is high,
their official view is that slight errors in the gradient, even if tile-laying
machines are laser-controlled, or errors of misalignment in laying pipes,
manufactured in about 30 cm units with a diameter of 10 cm, are bound to
occur.   Such errors would reduce the effective diameter of the conveyance
system and may even cause its complete blockage.      A gravel envelope allows
water to escape through joints that do not match and re-enter the lateral
downstream, past the obstruction.    In other words, the Bureau of Reclamation
advocates the use of an envelope under conditions when a filter may not be
necessary, as a safeguard against construction errors.
24.       The issue whether, and under what circumstances, a gravel envelope
is needed to act as a filter, was examined in depth by FAO in 1979.         They
convened an expert panel of drainage engineers; their recommendations were
incorporated in a paper of drainage guidelines.!'     This paper concludes that
1/   In April 1982 the panel, partly at least influenced by perusal of the
draft PPAM, has recommended that "high priority should be given to
ongoing research work...by DRI" on this issue (Annex 2).
2/   FAO Irrigation and Drainage Paper No. 38, Drainage Design Factors; 28
Questions and Answers, based on the expert consultation on drainage
design factors; Rome, 22-29 October 1979.



- 11 -
"in arid and semi-arid areas, alluvial soils of all textures are unstable and,
therefore, will require envelopes....     This may!! not apply to soils with a
high clay content, but even there, field experiments have to be conducted...
before final designs are made."      The reason for field experiments is that
"there is presently no laboratory test to determine whether a given irri-
gated soil can be drained without a drain envelope."      Therefore, lack of an
envelope, and therefore not providing a filter around the pipes, may increase
the likelihood of drain blockage, increasing maintenance costs and shortening
the economic life of the project (para 5).     At present, there is no conclu-
sive evidence that this has not, or will not, occur and may contribute, at
least partly, for some of the low and inconsistent recorded yield increases
(see para. 15 (d) and (f)). In the Region's view the standard of maintenance
of the open drains is also a contributory factor (paras. 14 and 30).
25.       Concerning  the availability   of envelope material,    tests  in the
laboratories of the US Bureau of Reclamation indicate that the material
available just outside the Deltatat reasonable distances, is suitable if some
of the fines are sieved out, and therefore need not be costly.
26.       Considering all the foregoing, the Bank continued to recommend the
use of a gravel envelope until trials prove conclusively that under the con-
ditions prevailing in the Nile Delta the envelope is not necessary.        These
trials are now being conducted in the Dutch-assisted pilot project; no results
are available to date. The audit mission was advised that following a super-
vision mission in October 1981 which included the former chief of the drain-
age division of the Bureau of Reclamation, EPADP is now finally convinced
that a gravel envelope is necessary with plastic as well as concrete pipes,
and advised the mission that in the future they propose to use it.      Only the
future performance of the drains, installed under this project, will answer
the question whether the Bank's - most reluctant - acquiescence of laying the
pipes without an envelope did not cause more damage, in monetary terms, than
the construction cost savings of omitting the envelope.
27.       Construction.   The audit mission has noted that the hydraulic exca-
vator used to dig trenches for collector pipes was also used to backfill the
trenches when this backfilling was not done by hand.    Using again the experi-
ence of the U.S. Bureau. of Reclamation, it is more economical to backfill with
a small bulldozer. Th.Ls bulldozer can most usefully assist the heavy machine
by levelling small field bunds and generally to prepare the ground for the
heavy, slow and expensive excavator, thereby enabling it actually to dig
trenches all the time.    Had this been done, unit area costs would have been
lower and output per expensive excavator higher.     Regional staff, as well as
EPADP have advised that backfilling is more often done by hand labor than
with the use of machinery and the operation observed by the audit mission was
an exception.
E.   Operation and Maintenance
28.       Originally, maintenance of the drainage system was in the hands of
the Irrigation Department. Partly due to the Bank's request, EPADP took over
1/   Underlining by FAO.



- 12 -
responsibility for maintaining all buried drains in 1977, and the open drains
except the main carriers, in 1979.      The Irrigation Department continues to
maintain the major drains, for which the same equipment and organization is
needed as for the irrigation canals.      The pumping stations are operated by
the Mechanical Section of the Ministry of Irrigation.
29.       In an attempt to clear and de-silt the buried pipes effectively,
the Region advises that the Irrigation Department, while they were still
responsible for drain maintenance (para. 28) have tried using flushing equip-
ment.   They then reported that the trial was unsuccessful, possibly because
the force of the water jet was dissipated in the wide pipe joints.      The use
of flushing equipment for cleaning and desilting drain pipes is standard
practice and therefore the Bank continued to recommend (see supervision
report of May 13, 1977) that such equipment be bought.       However, they were
unable to persuade EPADP to do so.      This fact is all the more regrettable
because some US$182,000 allocated for maintenance equipment remained undis-
bursed; only US$18,000 of it was used (see para. 14 above).      Maintenance at
present consists of manually cleaning the manholes where the laterals join
the collectors, and testing the pipes for blockage with drainage rods.       Any
blockage found in many cases cannot be removed without excavating the drain
and cutting into the section.
30.       EPADP purchased three different flushing units in the second half of
1981 and is testing them to determine which design to choose. These tests are
giving, as expected, positive results.       While such trials are completely
acceptable, the Bank should have prevailed upon EPADP to start them several
years ago.    By now a complete set of flushing and other appropriate drain
maintenance equipment should be available to all the district maintenance
units.   The lack of capacity to rectify any blockage rapidly and effectively
may also be a contributing cause to the apparently low overall yield increases
and has also given rise to exaggerated criticism and belittling of the bene-
fits of the entire program../ However, as mentioned earlier, delayed
maintenance and clearing of the open collector drains, for which both the
equipment and the technology is available, may also be a contributing cause.
1/   Evaluation of the Economic Feasibility of Tile Drainage Project in the
Arab Republic of Egypt - by Dr. Hassan Aly Khedr (Ph.D. thesis prepared
in 1978).



MINISTRY OF IRRIGAI'ION        - 13 -
WATER RESEARCH CENTER
DRAINAGE RESEARCH INSTITUTE                                      Annex 1
13 Giza Street - Giza                                     Page 1
A R E.
COMMENTS BY THE MINISTRY OF IRRIGATION
Our Ref No. ..  9.-J g1g .  / .  o.2.                                   Director Office
Tel. 897054
Date    May 9, 1982-
Mr. Shive S. Kapur,
Director, operations Evaluation Department
The World Bank
1818 H. Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433, U.S.A
U.S.A.
Re: Project performance Audit Report on Arab
Republic of Egypt. Nile Delta Drainage
Project I ( Credit 181 - U.A.R.
Dear Mr. Kapur ,
This is in reference to your letter dated 17 March 1982 Con-
cerning the above subject .
Enclosed please find my comments and some of my suggestions
with my best reclards.
Sincerely yours,
Dr. Mohamed H. Amer
Director
c.c : Mr. Elsheikh Abd Elrahman



MINISTRY OF IRRIGATION          - 14 -
WATER RESEARCH       CENTER
DRAINAGE RESEARCH INSTITUTE                                         Annex 1
13 Giza Street - Giza                                        Page 2
A. R. E.
Our Ref No. :..........  .                                                 Director Office
D ate  ........................................  ....... ...................0       5 4
It was mentioned in paragraph 8, page 5,that the consultants
were isolated because of the reluctance of EPADP and they were
igrnored.
- I think this is not true to this extent . I was working with
EPAD at that time as a technical officer at the Chairman office.
I did not notice any complain from the consultants side,   and
if there is a complain, then the duty of the consultant firm is
to report to the chairmans office in writing which was not the
case.
The approach of visiting experts that cooperate with the Super-
vision mission should be kept advisory. However visiting experts
should be confined to advice and analysis of the existing pro -
blems. Each problem should be treated separately and better
ways and means should be presented by them. Therefore generality
of visiting experts should be confined to study specific problems
of course very highly qualified visiting experts are appreciated.
B) Project Financing and utilization of IDA funds
- From the report paragraph 13 and 14 , it is clear that cleaning
equipment was not purchased. To my understanding EPAD has no
experience with these cleaning equipment. The solution was that
few machines should have been tried and tested and Training
should take place. In this case it would be easy for the Bank
supervising missions to insist on purchasing such cleaning equip-
ment .



MINISTRY OF IRRIGATION          - 15 -
WATER RESEARCH       CENTER
DRAINAGE RESEARCH INSTITUTE                                        Annex 1
13 Giza Street - G3iza                                      Page 3
A. R. E.
Our Ref No.  ........N.. .                                                Director Office
D ate  . ........................... ..... ... . .... . ...........       T el.   897054
- It is rEaly not clear to me wherether EPAD delayed the pur-
chase of such cleaning equipment or whether there was some-
thing else, in any case I agree fully that these equipment
should be purchased and tested from the beginning of the
project. The visiting missions could have played an effective
role in such situation.
C) Determining project Benefits.
In paraqraph 17. it is stated that : it is almost impo-
ssible to be precise about the benefits of the project .....
- This pa:?agraph is misleading to  any reader especially who
are not familiar with the subject . In fact the contraversary
between different results is due to lack of well defined
methodology as accepted to every body, beside lack of detail
investigations on both soils, groundwater , crops and water
managemrant conditions.
But the practice of this evaluation as given here is a
very good exercise to show the benefits of the drainage . In
future measures should be considered to have very well
established methodology and I think this as going now to take
place w.ithin DRI. future plan in cooperation with the other
institutes.
D)    Design and Construction
The question of installing drains to the spacing indicated
by soil conditions is a very important one. My personal view
is that I am in favour completely with the spacing as obtained
as a result of soil parameters.



MINISTRY OF IRRIGATION          - 16 -
WATER RESEARCH CENTER
DRAINAGE RESEARCH INSTITUTE                                       Annex 1
13 GIza Street - 3iza                                      Page 4
A. R. E.
Our Roef No. : .........- ... ..                                          Director Office
Dale              ...Tel. 897054
D a e ........................................ .............................T e . 8 7 5
But we should ask ourselves also about the suitable theory of
obtaining the spacing between drains applicable under Egypt
conditions . EPAD is still using the steady state concept
which is not true under Egyptian conditions, secondly the soil
parameters which are obtained are questionable. Therefore I
would like for the missions to stress on the suitable and the
best means of Investigations to find out the spacing rather
than the argument of using spacing of 4Q - 60 meter which is
different from the theory.
The theory and the parameters which are used are not
quite valid . So it is not only the spacing which should be
questioned but the creteria under which the spacing is obtained
which should be subject . The supervision missions should look
further to this matter.
The supervising missions should continue persuade EPAD
of the benefits of installing the drainage system according to
the assigned best possible creteria and theory and not on the
basis of initial investement costs.
Design the use of Envelope material.
- My own personal views are to use gravel envelopes under Egypt
soil conditions.
However DRI is following the panel reasoning - DRI is
at present launching a program of Investigation which will give
right conclusion to this subject .



MINISTRY OF IRRIGATION           - 17 -
WATER RESEARCH CENTER
DRAINAGE RESEARCH INSTITUTE                                          Annex 1
13 Giza Street - Gi:ra                                        Page 5
A. R. E.
Our  Ref f o .N ......                                                       Di-.-.--.--.-.- ....   Director  Office
D    a   t e . ........ ........ .......... .... - - - ..                   Tel.  897054
The project completion report
Art. 7.12 page 24 . Concerning the project Economic rate of return.
The statement : In conclusion it would seem that despite all
the administrative problems, it has been an excellent economic in-
vestement for the nation :
I think this is a very true, highly appreciated statement
The conclusion as stated in Art - 9.01 is self truly explanatory.
- The rate of installation achievement as stated was 141,000 feddan.
should be reviewed and modifications for planning and realoca-
tinq   the number of machines should be reviewed. The rate of
progress carn be improved definitly .
In Art. 9.08 page 27. It is clear that there is a need for
more analysis of the impact of drainage on water table levels.
- I think this could be achieved of funds are allocated within the
project funcds to be available for local Research organizations
as separate contract . DRI and soil and water institute could
undertake this responsibility . The availability of funds could
overcome the difficulties which was mentioned in the report
concerning the economic evaluation analysis .
One important point which should be considered is Training.
The on - corning projects should have allocations for Training for
local staff both inside and outside Egypt .



MINISTRY OF IRRIGATION          - 18 -
WATER RESEARCH CENTER
DRAINAGE RESEARCH INSTITUTE                                        Annex 1
13 Giza Street - Gize                                       Page 6
A. R. E.
Our  Rof No                                                               Di....... -......  Director  Office
Date  .......................................................             Tel.  897054
Training should be directed in the fields of
- Planning using new techniques such as PERT and critical path.
-organizational Management Technique .
- Investigations and design of drainage project
- Operation and maintenance.
- Training should be directed to level of senior, Junior,Engineers
and supervisors too.
- A traininq fund shoulc: be Rilocated within each project
- Another fund should also be available for DRI to tackle urgent
problems , such as gravel envelopes and Economic Evaluations.
I think this report ignored training, however the above
points of view on training could be considered.
D. Mohamed H. Amer



- 19 -
Annex 2
COIHENTS BY CHAkIU}AAN, EGYPTIAN PUBLIC
AUTHORITY FOR DRAINAGE PROJECTS
2 a  W4_2  .    K,J : L r - ":!li ' r^,/,F
,.t. SHIV KAPUR, DIT ECTORJ -Ocn7ATI0iTh  CJVALUTIGOil DEPARVTMENT:
APC WIV ATE \VRY SUCH RICE lVINA3 YG'JF- LLTTER OF t,ARGH 17 ENCLO5$ NG
P'? JJZvT  PJERFOG(iAfiC:E AUDJIT REPORT  i ';IL' DELTA DlRAINAGE PROJECT
i., SiJT7T$TEiZY OEDT lT  5-UA° UF 1?7,. THE 'PAFT REPORT v.Ih
&ARE_UJLY STUDIED AT THE AUTHOFRITY h; - ruUi'i) THAT M,OST OF OUR
Vkdl 'JE V iTPODUCED,- THELREI v. 0,;LY, '.iOULD LIKE TO CO MMMiET ON)'
1'O I SSUES Or CRPUCItAL I;mR{JTAUC    ,ZELY, THE US. Or ENiVELOPE
.(ATr'lIAL ANITUL          GP.II" iTS LAST FiLETINO APPIL S2.
T'.H- rA.cLL ;;AS5 ,iUCH C01iCEfP?iE  WVEIL THESE T\.J4o i SSUES AND RE MENCOM DED
HI3H PrICGrITY SHOULD EEL GIVLE  TO THE Oti-GOIN4G PESEARCH !IORK
CARE,I ED OuT 'Y JDRI TO GIVE C3i]CLUS)IVE EVI DENCE OF ANY CHANGES
IF  PrF.VE, Li EL iI THIS CONZEIRci.. llILL BE "LAD TO RECEIVE A COPY
OF TH2E F U,AL PREGARDS. E'IG. ?i.A. i1AKHLhLOUF. CHAIRPA,
93 4   P) A DP UNT.
q4J4`)3 4 'ORLD34NI(






- 20 -
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NILE DELTA DRAINAGE I PROJECT
(CREDIT 181-UAR)
July 16, 1981
Agriculture Division IV
EMENA Projects Department






- 21 -
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NILE DELTA DRAINAGE I PROJECT
(CREDIT 181-UAR)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     This completion report for Nile Delta Drainage I Project the first
phase of a multi-stage drainage program in Egypt gives a unique opportunity
to record and evaluate the performance on the first project in the largest
single tile drainage program ever undertaken in the world. The project
provided the first Pubstantive financial support to the Government of Egypt
(GOE) policy of providing improved drainage throughout most of the nearly
six million feddans /1 of the historically irrigated area ("the old lands")
in the Nile Valley below the newly completed dam at Aswan. The project
aimed to provide field drainage to some 18% of this area and, following the
pattern set by this project, the Bank extended its participation in the
drainage program by financing three similar projects involving three
credits and three loans totalling $152 million. The four projects together
cover improvement of surface drains in about 2.56 million feddans and
installation of tile drains in 2.16 million feddans (about 40% of the old
lands irrigated areas). Annex 2 presents salient features and present
status of each of the three repeater projects.    The project and its
successors has also attracted significant amounts of aid from other donors,
including USAID, KfW, thE Netherlands Government and the World Food Program.
1.02     This credit, thE first in the vital agriculture sector, also
resulted in the resumption of Bank group lending operations with Egypt
after nearly eleven years, following the only previous Loan (234-UAR) of
FY60 for $56.6 million for the Suez Canal improvement. The Credit 181-UAR
for $26.0 million was signed on April 17, 1970, and became effective on
December 22, 1970. The Closing Date, originally December 31, 1976, was
extended three times to December 31, 1980. On this date, the installation
of field drainage, an activity critical to full completion of the project,
was accomplished in 947,000 feddan out of the 950,000 feddans originally
planned. The final disbursement from the credit was made on March 5, 1981,
bringing the total amount: disbursed to almost $24.0.
Agriculture Sector Setting
1.03     Agriculture continues to be the principal sector of the Egyptian
economy, although it has been declining in relative terms with the growth
of industry. Between the! 1969 appraisal and the date of project completion
agriculture's share of total employment has fallen from 47% to 39%, its
share of GDP has fallen from 27% to about 22% and its share of direct and
indirect non-oil export earnings from about 80% to 70%. The agricultural
sector has faltered in the last decade, as evidenced by the fall in the
average annual growth rate of around 3% in the 1960s to below 2% in the
1970s. Population (currently estimated to be 42 million) has continued to
increase at an annual ral:e of 2.6% and rural to urban migration has
/L Or 2.4 million ha. 1 feddan = 0.42 ha.



- 22 -
accelerated. This population increase, together with massive infusions of
money repatriated by Egyptians working abroad has increased consumer
demands for more and better foods far beyond the ability of agriculture to
supply. The production of controlled crops, mainly wheat, beans, lentils
and cotton has been depressed by GOE controls over input distribution and
output marketing and associated pricing policies. Imports of key
foodstuffs have increasingly been required to complement domestic
supplies. During the same period the value of agricultural exports (mainly
cotton) stagnated, leading to a widening trade deficit in agricultural
commodities. Therefore, the fundamental underlying challenge facing the
Government is to bring about changes in technology, institutions, policies
and of necessity, improving drainage, for increasing the rate of growth in
agricultural production.
Land Constraints and Importance of Improved Drainage
1.04     Good land for crop production is scarce in Egypt and development
of desert/saline marshy lands identified by GOE for reclamation is cost
intensive with lengthy gestation periods.    Therefore, the main source of
increases in agricultural production in the short run must be the old lands
in the Nile Valley. On these lands productivity is still constrained even
today by inadequate drainage in about three million feddans.     The priority
thus lies in continuing, and to the extent possible, accelerating the
drainage program under which some 1.5 million feddans had been equipped
with tile drains by the end of 1980. This is readily justified since no
input package to increase production will be fully successful until the
drainage constraint has been removed.    While there is little evidence that
land is going out of production as a result of salinization caused by high
groundwater levels, it is clear that rising soil salinity in some areas is
causing yields to decline (see para. 7.06).
1.05     Fully aware of this stark reality, the Government has given high
priority to the tile drainage program in recent years. During the five
years ending 1979, the capital expenditures on all irrigation and land
reclamation activities in Egypt totalled £E 400 million (US$580 million).
Out of this, drainage alone accounted for EE 184 million (US$267 million)
or 46%. Annex 1, which shows the Ministry of Irrigation's budget,
indicates that over the same period the drainage projects consumed 53% on
average of the MOI's capital funds. The MOI current planning is to
complete all on-going projects covering about one million feddans by
1983/84.   Draining the remaining two million feddans is likely to take
till 1990.
Bank's Agricultural Lending
1.06     Since 1970, the Bank has financed ten projects in the agricultural
sector in Egypt. Initially the Bank's policy was to encourage Government
to maintain and increase production levels in the old lands. This was done
through the series of four drainage projects, of which 181-EGT was the
first, and through the Agricultural Development Project (Credit 830-EGT).
This is a pilot attempt to raise productivity in two governorates by
increasing the level of farm mechanization and strengthening agricultural
credit, cooperatives and extension services. Over time there has been
further diversification. The Fruit and Vegetables Project (Loan 1276-EGT)



-23 -
of FY?t incluced financing for a vegetable seed farmi, completion ut the
West Nubariya Drain, credit to fruit and vegetable processors/exporters,
and associated activities. The Agroindustries Project (Credit 988-EGT) ot
FY80 includes financing for small and medium sized agroindustries and
replacement of municipal slaughterhouses in Cairo and Alexandria. The Fish
Farming Development Project (Credit llll-EGT) of FY81 includes financing
for the development of a large commercial fish farming venture in Lake
Maryut and credit for smaller fish farms in other parts of the delta.     The
New Lands Development Project (Credit 1083-EGT) of FY81 marked the
beginning of a further shift in lending to agriculture, being the first
project primarily aimed at helping the Government's land reclamation
program. It will finance the development of 24,000 feddan of desert into
intensive smallholder farms of six feddan each. A Technical Assistance
Credit in FY81 will finance the establishment and training of two units tor
project preparation, one in the Ministry of Irrigation and one in the
Ministry of Land Reclamation.
Information Sources
1.07     This report has been prepared by consulting Bank files as well as
MOI records on drainage of0 irrigated lands and on project specific
studies. Discussions with the Bank staff and MOI officials, associated
with the project at various stages, were helpful in distilling views on
certain events. The Egypt:ian Public Authority for Drainage Projects
(EPADP) /1 in various fornms has been responsible for planning, design and
construction of the project. EPADP had agreed with the September 1980
supervision mission to present its views on the project, but its report was
never prepared. As a result, the views of EPADP are only indirectly
reflected in this Completion Report.
II. BACKGROUND
2.01     Egyptian agriculture has historically been blessed with Nile
waters which both contained very low concentration of salts, and annually
flooded the Nile Valley thus flushing salts from the soils.     Salinity was
thus never a problem. With the gradual introduction of large scale
perennial irrigation from the beginning of this century the natural system
of drainage was lost. Today, as a result of several decades of perennial
irrigation, a rather high water table has gradually developed with
consequent rise in soil salinity and reduction in plant production.
2.02     In order to prevent deterioration of the soil, an open drainage
system was constructed, beginning in the northern part of the Delta around
the turn of the century and, over the years, being extended to other parts
of the country. By 1965, nearly five million feddans were covered with
open drains. However, farmers did not fulfill their responsibility to
connect each plot with drainage channels, mainly because they could not
afford to lose the 10-15% of area that would have been occupied by these
ditches. Accordingly, the drainage system was neither complete nor
effective enough to have any significant control on the water table in clay
soils. The efficiency of
/1 Set up in 1973 by merging Nile Delta Drainage Authority and the
Egyptian Authority for Drainage Projects.



- 24 -
the system was further constrained by inadequate maintenance. Therefore,
inadequate drainage of the soils increasingly became the single most
important limiting factor in crop production.
2.03     As the land slopes only slightly, the operation of the drainage
system required the installation of pumping stations.     The number of such
stations increased steadily, from 18 in 1934-35 to 52 in 1964-65, of which
35 were located in the Delta.
2.04     Recognizing the inadequacy of the conventional methods, research
was initiated in 1938 at 15 experimental stations to try out covered tile
drainage systems in different parts of the country. By 1952, pilot
projects were extended to an area of approximately 50,000 feddans. Also in
the same year, the MOI organized the "Drainage Research Bureau" for
carrying out research on groundwater flow problems and on technical cum
economic studies related to tile drainage. This Bureau was later renamed
the Drainage Research Institute(DRI).
2.05     Encouraged by the results obtained with tile drainage, a law was
passed in 1956 giving the responsibility for the execution of field
drainage to the Government. An ambitious 30-year program to cover all the
areas under perennial irrigation with tile drains was also drawn up.
However by 1965, as a result of resource constraints, including scarcity of
foreign exchange, only about 300,000 feddans had been tile drained.
2.06     Between 1961 and 1965 modern techniques of tile drainage were
studied and tested through a pilot project covering five areas, each up to
2,000 feddans implemented under the auspices of the United Nations Special
Fund with FAO as the executing agency and ILACO from Netherlands employed
as consultants.   The purposes of this project, determining the technical
and economic viability of tile drainage under conditions prevailing in the
irrigated lands of Egypt and identifying issues on which further research
was needed, were largely achieved.
2.07     The final report /1 on the UNDP Project defined the task of the
DRI as "to try out new methods of investigation, construction and
maintenance." However, DRI's research on many of the important technical
issues recommended in the FAO report has been limited. Reliable or
conclusive answers to many of these aspects are still lacking, and
constitute a weakness of the drainage program. Of particular significance
is the lack of any monitoring of groundwater fluctuations and groundwater
movement in irrigated areas, the lack of measurements of piezometric levels
in drained areas or of discharges from collectors.
2.08      In 1964 a joint committee of the MOI and the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA) studied the effect of tile drainage on crop yields in an
18,500 feddans area in the Delta where buried drains had been installed
between 1940 and 1942. A statistical analysis showed that maize and cotton
recorded yield increases of about 32% and 35% respectively, mainly because
of field drainage. Similar analysis carried out regarding wheat in another
/1 Pilot Project for Drainage of Irrigated Land-UAR-Final Report,
FAO/SF:30/UAR-1967.



- 25 -
aLc3J iaila LOCaLcU LU Llik Delta, showea avera6e yield increase of about
2/X. flnebe results strengthenea the views of tne MOI to provide tile
drainage in much of the irrigated lands.
2.09     The commissioning of the HAD in 1968 brought both development
opportunities as well as challenges. Relevant to irrigated agriculture,
the HAD potential opened the possibility for large scale expansion of
perennial irrigation area. As regards drainage the large additions to
irrigation water supplies deriving from the HAD were to aggravate the
problem, thus forcing GOE to take accelerated measures for counteracting
extensive deleterious effects on groundwater levels.
2.10     Although the prLority attached to the drainage program greatly
increasec after 1966 and plans for draining over one million feddans in the
Delta over the next five years were drawn up, progress on the drainage
program continued to be ,3low, hampered mainly by budgetary constraints and
lack cf ecuipmert. Bvi the time the Nile Delta I Project was appraised in
L968/b9, the total area provided with tile drainage was about 360,000
teddans and was proceeding at the rate of about 50,000 feddans per year.
It was explainea to the various Bank missions that visited Egypt during the
late 1960s that the MOI intended to undertake an accelerated program for
drainage provided foreign exchange was available for the import of
machinery.
III. PROJECT FORMULATION
Project Origin
3.01     The firbt hint ot a Bank-financed drainage project followed the
Bank Economic Mission tc Egypt, in 1966, when two of its members from the
FAO/IBRD Cooperative Prc,gram recommended Bank consideration of a project
that would include tile drains as well as the expansion of open drains and
pumping stations.
3.02     The idea of a drainage project was further advanced late in 1967
Dy the visit of the Director of EMENA Projects Department, in early 1968 by
another Economic Mission, and in July 1968 by a visit of the President.
These contacts culminated in a Bank Agricultural Mission which visited
Egypt in September 1968. This reviewed a number of project possibilities
from which a drainage project for part of the Nile Delta was chosen as
tirst priority. The tentative proposal agreed in this respect was to
establish 15 pumping stations in the Delta, and at the request of GOE,
which was anxious not to phase or divide the MOI program, to provide for
tile drainage in 1.4 million feddans in the Delta including 460,000 feddans
outside the areas served by the 15 pumping stations.
3.03     Several technical and other questions/issues raised by the
Agricultural Mission aeserve special mention because of their validity and
the fact that, even today, reliable information on many of them is still
lacking. The prominent issues included; lack of basic information on
vertical drainage; inadequacy of experimental evidence to quantify the
increase in the yields of cotton, maize and wheat and GOE inability to
assign benefits to berseem that covered the largest winter crop area in the
Delta; and the fact that insufficient data was made available on water



- 26 -
logged ana saline soils and the rate at which the affected area was
spreading; inadequate information on the pumping need; and lack of water
charges. The Agriculture Mission did not provide a comprehensive diagnosis
of MOl's implementation capability and the need or otherwise for
consultants, both of which became crucial at appraisal and during
negotiations.
Feasibility Report
3.04     On October 9, 1968, the Minister of Irrigation forwarded a
Feasibility Report to the Bank for a US$172.5 million project to be
completed in six years as a part of larger 15 year Government program. In
the letter of transmittal, a request was made for financing by IDA of
foreign currency costs estimated at US$24.8 million. The main components
of the project were the same as proposed by the Bank Agricultural Mission
(para 3.02). Based on yield increases of 35% with cotton, 32% with maize,
and 2-/% with wheat, the ERR was assessed at 37.8% and 34.4% in terms of
border and farm prices respectively.
3.05     The Feasibility Report provided only a generalized justification
based on slender evidence gathered from the proliferation of experimental
work and studies. It failed to give specific answers to most of the
questions raised by the Agricultural Mission. The areas included in the
project appeared to have been selected on practical considerations,
ignoring priority needs for drainage. The implementation schedule was
ambitious, projecting completion of open drains and pumping stations in
four years and field drainage in five and a half years. This scheduling
was done without relating the rate of implementation to equipment needs,
and without providing adequate lead time for procurement. The schedule
also provided no tie up with the pre-drainage surveys and the preparation
of designs, perhaps because of the general thinking prevailing in the MOI
that these precedent steps involved no loss of time.
Appraisal
3.06     The appraisal of the project was carried out in December 1968.
The appraisal mission reviewed the basic assumptions made in the
FeasiDility Report; giving special attention to the managerial capacity of
the MOI, to the rate of implementation, and to the increases in crop yields
anticipated with the project. The major issue revolved around the
mission's opinion that all construction should go to ICB against the
insistence by the MOI that the bidding for construction of open and buried
drains be restricted to quasi independent, government owned contracting
firms.  In the end, the mission accepted the MOI arguments but insisted
that ICB be followed for the procurement of all pumping equipment and
construction machinery including maintenance and training of Egyptian
operators and mechanics by technicians supplied by the equipment
manufacturers.
3.07     Following the Appraisal Mission, the scope of the project and its
period of implementation were intensely debated in the Bank. As a result,
the size of the project was finally scaled down to cover only 11 pumping
stations and an area of 950,000 feddans including 637,000 feddans to be
served by the project pumping stations. The period of implementation was
kept at 6-1/2 years. Both these decisions were taken in order to reduce



- 27 -
the risk as well as to learn more about possible increases in the rate of
implementation before preparing further phases of the drainage program.
Limiting the size of the project caused no problems with GOE, possibly
because the curtailment from 8 to 6 years in the period of implementation
did not affect the program of the MOI or the amount of financing by IDA.
3.08     Some non-technical difficulties were apparent at appraisal.     There
was only a partial response to the mission's concern over the lack of
closely knit organizational arrangements within the MOI. Also the MOI in
very clear terms informed the mission that they would not be prepared to
have expatriate consultants supervising any of the work under the project.
However, the mission, notwithstanding the views of the MOI, emphasized the
benefits of strong unified management supported initially by the best
advice available on managiement techniques.   On both these issues, the
Government was advised before negotiations that its negotiators should be
prepared to reach necessa1, agre_.,ents.
Negotiations
3.09     Negotiations took place between September 8 and October 3, 1969.
The two principal issues were how to give the project organization adequate
authority and the employment of outside consultants. The first was
resolved with the presentation by the Egyptian delegation of a draft
Presidential Decree for the establishing of the Nile Delta Authority for
Tile Drainage Projects (NDDA), as a semi-autonomous body within the MOI.
An off-shoot issue concerned pre-consultation with the Bank on the
appointment of its Director/Chairman which was only agreed after
negotiations, and recorded in the agreed minutes. As regards hiring of
consultants, the Borrower came to negotiations prepared to resist on this
issue, but ultimately agreed when it was softened to limit consultants'
input to providing only management techniques.
3.10     During negotiations some relatively minor changes in the project
were also agreed. The covenant on recovery of field drainage costs
recommended by the appraisal mission was revised to accord with Egyptian
Law under which land tax is levied on owners of land based on the
productivity of the land. This tax is reassessed automatically every ten
years but the law permits more frequent reassessment. Such reassessment is
usually made shortly aftE!r the completion of public works that affect the
productivity of the land.. At the request of the Egyptian delegation the
project phasing was also rescheduled to permit a more gradual build up in
project implementation.
3.11     Procedural matters discussed and agreed during negotiations
included amendments to local construction contracts to meet the conditions
of the Credit Agreement, including utilization and maintenance of the
equipment to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and training of
contractors' mechanics and operators at the Authority's training centers.
Auditing of the Authority's accounts and financial statements by the GOE
Central Organization for Accounts and Audit was considered satisfactory.



- 28 -
The Project
3.12     The primary objective of the project approved by the Bank Board on
March 24, 1970 was to improve drainage in 950,000 feddans in the Delta at a
total cost of USt147 million equivalent with an IDA credit of US$26
million. The project description incorporated in the Credit Agreement is
given in Annex 4. The project included remodelling of some 1,700 km of
existing open drains, construction of 11 pumping stations for evacuating
drainage water, the installation of tile drains in 950,000 feddans of
irrigated land and the provision of maintenance workshops, storage
facilities and a training center. The IDA financing was to be used
primarily for importation of construction machinery and pumping equipment
including its installation and spare parts, as well as for consulting
services. Only nominal sums were provided for procurement of equipment for
maintenance and for agricultural extension services.
IV. IMPLEMENTATION
Credit Agreement and Side Letters
4.01     The Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was signed on April 17,
1970, as were the three side letters. Of these, two were an adjunct to the
Agreement and the third by GOE provided, as of June 30, 1969, the
statements and facts regarding its external debt. Side letters 1 and 2
recorded the understandings reached in amplification of two conditions of
the DCA, on employment of consultants and on technical staff needs for
implementation respectively.
An Overview of Project History
4.02     The agreed implementation schedule projected completion of the
project by December 1975. The Credit Closing Date was set as December 31,
1976. While the project objectives remained unchanged, many events
conspired to cause delay. The closing date was revised three times,
generally to accommodate slippages in implementation. The Credit was
finally closed on December 31, 1980, with the completion of installation of
tile drains.
Effectiveness and Start-up
4.03     Of the two conditions for effectiveness, the first was met when
the Borrower's National Assembly approved the DCA in its session of July 1,
1970, and a Presidential Decree ratifying the same was published on October
22, 1970. The second condition required appointment of qualified and
experienced consultants upon conditions and under Terms of Reference
approved by the Association. In order to achieve this, four supervision
missions visited Egypt betweeen April and December 1970. The consultants'
contract was concluded and signed on December 21, 1970, and the Credit was
declared effective the next day, a delay of five months compared to the
original date of July 14, 1970.



- 29 -
Construction of Project Works
4.04     In general, prcgress in implementing the project can only be
viewed as poor since it took almost four years longer to complete the
principal objectives than the originally agreed period of about six years.
Of the three main components viz pumping stations, open drains and buried
drains, it was the thirc which proved the critical bottleneck to full
completion of the project. On the original Credit Closing Date of December
3i, i976, tne completior. achieved was 73% on open drains, 86% on civil
works of pumping stations and some 49% on field drainage. Aside from the
time factor, there was noticeable deficiency in coordinating supporting
activities. The three tile-making factories only partially served the
project because they became operational only during 1976/77. The delay
occured entirely due to the slow construction of civil works since the
equipment for these factories was delivered during 1974. Neither were the
two main workshops set up under the project of much help during
implementation sInLe they were only compl2_e-~ {n 1079. Whilp the -"oiect
did not contain unusual engineering features, it entailed a massive task of
construction management and logistics particularly the rate of tile
laying. It was planned to increase the amount of tile laid annually from
3,200 km to 20,000 km covering 40,000 and 240,000 feddans respectively.
During the course of the project, the maximum area provided with tile
drains in any one year was only 141,000 feddans.
4.05     In general, the delays were due to weaknesses in EPADP's /I
construction planning and management organization as well as the low
implementation capacity of the public sector contractors. While EPADP
failea to manage the program rigorously enough, the delays largely related
co the management weakness of the contracting organizations. They lacked,
anG stilL lack, normal commercial incentives to meeting construction
schedules ana EPADP has no effective means of enforcing the conditions of
contracts. Project progress was also affected by events not directly
relatea to these organizations. The October 1973 war, its impact on
sKilled manpower, resulting shortage of local funds, scarcity of cement
supplies and the overalL variable quality of staff available to the project
were factors not directLy under the control of the project management or of
the public sector contractors. Nor could some of these problems be solved
in the short run. To some extent, the farmers' resistance to destroying
partially matured crops as well as heavy watering of the rice fields
disrupted smooth operatLons by the contractors.
4.06     The problems faced by the project during the first few years were
considerable, and requi:ced painstaking effort and persistence on the part
of the Bank staff to gel: them resolved at Government/Authority level. Six
supervision missions were mounted between April 1970 and October 1971. The
problems reported by these missions were discussed in a special Loan
Committee meeting held Ln December 1971, following which the project was
placed on the Problem Projects list in January 1972. A supervision mission
visited Egypt in the following month; simultaneously the Director EMENA
Projects Department discussed a specially prepared aide-memoire with the
/I EPADP was only estaiblished in 1973. Remarks here refer to its
predecessor organizations as well, viz. NDDA and the Egyptian General
Authority for Drainage Projects.



- 30 -
Government.  This supervision mission recommended along with other
suggestions that IDA urgently reformulate the project.    In December 1972, a
four member mission made a comprehensive reassessment of the project, whose
physical execution by then had fallen two years behind schedule. This
mission succeeded in getting assurances from the Minister of Irrigation,
the Deputy Prime Minister and the Vice President that all needed actions
would be taken soon. As a follow-up of these assurances, the Egyptian
Public Authority for Drainage Projects (EPADP) was established by a
Presidential Decree in early 1973 by merging the NDDA and Egyptian General
Authority for Drainage Projects. The July 1973 mission was encouraged by
the progress made with the reorganization and by filling up of all key
positions but was disappointed with inadequate allocation of local funds.
4.07     A possible and partial solution to the situation prevailing during
the early seventies could have been for EPADP to make more extensive use of
the consultants. However, efforts made by the supervision missions to
persuade EPADP to do this had no success mainly because the Authority was
unwilling to share any management responsibility. Thus, when the
consultant's contract expired in March 1973, it was not renewed.
4.08     As a result of the October 1973 war, there was relatively slow
progress during 1974. As of October 1974, roughly 40% of the originally
estimated disbursements had taken place and only about 26% of the tile
drainage had been completed.   The project by then had fallen three years
behind schedule. Thus the project remained on the Problem Project list for
a period of over three years beginning with January 1972.
4.09     Annex 7 presents the construction schedule agreed during
negotiations for the three major components, those revised from time to
time for installation of tile drains and as actually implemented. This
presentation shows that slippages occured on every schedule for tile
drainage. While EPADP construction planning and control continued to be
lacking in certain respects, a greater part of the responsibility must be
apportioned to the inadequate construction management by the contracting
agencies.
4.10     The options available to the Bank staff to do anything about this
situation were, however, limited, because IDA had very limited leverage for
interference with the working of the public sector contractors. In spite
of constant follow-up from Washington, project progress remained
disappointing. One supervision mission even suggested posting a resident
mission in Cairo. However, it was realised that the distinction between
providing technical assistance on a day-to-day basis and taking de-facto
charge of project management would be difficult to maintain and could even
increase Egyptian resistance to outside interference. It became clear that
direct control over project activities and decisions had to be the
prerogative and the responsibility of the local EPADP staff, and that Bank
staff influence could at best be indirect. Few new alternative courses of
action were therefore available to the Bank to bring about a faster rate of
implementation. When opportunities presented themselves, however, action
was taken. For instance, when shortages of local funds continued to remain
a significant delaying factor the Bank, apart from constantly stressing the



- 31 -
need for adequate funding to the Minister, inserted a covenant into the
next drainage project (Nile Delta Drainage II) requiring the Government to
establish a Special Fund ifrom which EPADP could draw without restriction
for implementing all IDA/]Bank financed drainage projects. Another instance
was in 1977, when shortage of cement emerged as a likely cause of delay the
Bank agreed to finance its import under the Upper Egypt Drainage I Project
for use in all the on-going drainage program of EPADP. This enabled EPADP
to maintain its planned rate of implementation.
Revisions
4.11     During the course of the project, no changes were made in the
project scope, its objectives and basic design. However, the original
selection of the areas, a; a result of changes in the behavior of
groundwater over a period of about 11 years, had to be greatly amended from
time to time, excluding or reducing some and substituting equivalent new
areas. It seems clear that these changes were beneficial by allowing areas
where the more serious drainage problems were emerging to be given
priority. Annex 5 preseni:s by catchment unit the areas at appraisal, those
revised in June 1976 and again in November 1978, and areas in which
drainage was ultimately improved.    As compared to appraisal, the area in
the East Delta increased by 53% and those in the Middle and the West Delta
underwent reductions of 6'% and 32% respectively.
4.12     Given the extended life of the project, the original cost
estimates and allocations for most items were remarkably accurate (see
Annex 6). Allocations for equipment for the tile drainage construction and
main drainage remodelling (Categories I and II) were originally $13.6
million. Final disbursements on these two accounts were $ll.6 million, a
shortfall of 15%. Allocations for machinery, equipment and civil works for
pump stations (Category ILI) were originally $6.8 million, while final
disbursements were $8.0 million, an overrun of 18%. Allocations for
training and consultants (Category IV) were $6.6 million against
disbursements of $0.58 million. The largest increase was on tractors,
trucks and motorcycles (Category VII) where $2.6 million were allocated
against $3.8 million disbursed, an overrun of 68%. This was partly the
result of a substantial i;ncrease in the number of trucks and trailers
purchased late in the project life, and partly a matter of inflation.
Category V, for maintenance equipment was virtually untouched ($18,000
disbursed against $200,000) allocated). In addition, the $100,000 in
Category VI (agricultural extension equipment and vehicles) was not used at
all. Given these relatively minor changes, the original allocation of the
proceeds of the credit was only amended twice. The first time was not till
January 1977 (6-1/2 years after effectiveness) to cater to the increased
costs of pumping stations and trucks. The second time in September 1978
mainly to cover further increases in the costs of pumping stations.     In the
end, an amount of just over $2.0 million still remained undisbursed and was
cancelled.



- 32 -
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
4.13      It was only during the initial years ot project implementation
that it was realized that the accounting system of the project organization
provided neither an adequate account of the use of project funds nor a
useful estimate of the cost of drainage. As a result of the realization
that the in-place accounting system was inadequate and needed to be
reorganized, special covenants were made in the Project Agreements for
succeeding drainage projects. This required that the Authority would
establish a new cost accounting system satisfactory to the Association.      In
accordance with terms of reference prepared by the Bank staff, a new
accounting system was eventually, in 1980, designed by an Egyptian firm of
chartered accountants. It is not fully operational as yet. Even to
provide the summary data presented in Annexes 6 to 10, the Authority,
assisted by its accounting consultants, had to devote considerable effort
to sort out actual project costs.
4.14     Auditing of the Authority's accounts and financial statements is
carried out by the Central Organization for Accounts and Audit. The audit
reports submitted to the Bank for each financial year/period were generally
some six months later than the date stipulated in relevant covenant of the
Project Agreement. These audits did not reveal any mismanagement of funds
although they did sometimes reveal certain deficiencies in the Authority's
accounts. As this system was designed for all Government agencies, Bank
attempts to make it more rigorous in accordance with normally acceptable
commercial practices never met with significant success.
4.15     The Drainage Authority furnished, on a regular basis, 43 quarterly
progress reports, generally with considerable delays. The initial
reporting requirements agreed in June 1970, based on suggestions by Bank
staff, included many unneeded details. They imposed an unnecessary burden
on the Authority, which somewhat diminished their utility as a management
tool. The reporting format was improved in 1973 by eliminating unnecessary
details and by substituting simplified summary tables. The reporting was
strongly oriented to progress on implementation of works. It was weak on
organizational and other activities. As to the engineering works, a major
shortcoming was that no meaningful comparison was made of achievements with
planned targets; nor were comments made on major difficulties encountered
and actions taken or proposed to overcome such problems. Thus the
quarterly reporting was unsatisfactory, both in content and timeliness.
Procurement
4.16      Procurement of imported equipment was arranged in accordance with
IDA procedures for international competitive bidding. Initially
preparation of contract documents proved a major undertaking. Despite
IDA's attempts to speed procurement, prior to the appointment of
consultants, by retaining an individual consultant for a few months to
assist in the preparation of documents, the time taken in preparation of
tender documents and the time-consuming procedural delays in evaluation of
bids were responsible for most of the initial delays in implementation.
Delays also occured in procurement of some equipment due to disruption
caused by the October 1973 war.



- 33 -
4.17      Remodelling of open drains and installation of tile drains were
carried out through contracts let out under local competitive bidding
procedures, under terms and conditions agreed with the Association.
According to information supplied by EPADP, these works were performed
through some 659 contracts of which about 159 were for installation of tile
drains. Delays in the procurement of spare parts and their distribution by
the Authority impeded efficient utilization of the equipment.     Instances
were not uncommon whereby equipment that was spare with one contractor
remained idle till he was given a new contract. Accordingly, the
arrangements practiced for equipment distribution ought to have been
predicated by advance planning of contract packages and the contractors
should have been allowed to import spare parts suiting their operational
needs.
Final Cost Versus Appraisal Estimate
4.18      The total project expenditures as of December 31, 1980, together
with the estimated cost at appraisal are presented in Annex 8. The
expenditures for local costs on various components, expressed in US dollar
equivalent, take into account the parallel market rate of exchange during
each year of project implementation, excepting 1970-73 for which the
official rate of exchange has been used.    On an overall basis, the cost in
US dollars rose by 35.4% from the appraisal estimate of US$147.0 million to
US$198.9 million. This comparison, however, does not reflect the true
picture due to the change to the devalued parallel market exchange rate for
Egyptian pounds between ].974-80. A clearer picture emerges from the
comparison of local costs in Egyptian pounds.    On this basis, the appraisal
estimate of LE 52.7 mill-ion increased by almost 112% to LE 111.86 million.
The entire local cost overrun was financed by the Government. The high
increase in local cost w.ls due mainly to inflation in the post 1973 period
and underestimation at appraisal of the cost for open drains. However,
given the cost overrun, the cost of construction of drainage facilities per
feddan works out to a seemingly reasonable US$210. (See para. 7.10 for
costs in 1980 prices).
Disbursements
4.19     Actual disburseinents by half yearly semesters for the full term of
the project are presented in Annex 9. Four years delay in completion of
the project is reflected in the extended disbursement period. As shown in
this Annex, only about 67% of the credit was disbursed by the original
target date of December 31, 1976.    The disbursement from the credit of only
about 20% in the three years following effectiveness (50% of the original
completion time) is indicative of the Authority's inadequate operation
during the initial years of the project. The credit was closed finally on
December 31, 1980, cancelling the unutilized amount of some US$2 million.
4.20     Annex 10 compares the IDA financed equipment as estimated at
appraisal and those actually procured, together with cost in each case.
The reduction in the amount of the equipment imported for open and tile
drain construction and installation had little adverse effect on the rate
of implementation because of the higher output efficiency of the imported



- 34 -
machinery compared with the somewhat conservative assumptions made by the
appraisal mission. While some difficulty was experienced due to inadequate
informsiLion submitted by the Authority both for approval of bid documents
and for reimbursements, IDA, in the interest of expediting matters, always
responded promptly in obtaining clarifications and/or taking final actions.
Performance of Consultants
4.21     The agreement for employment of consultants as embodied in a side
letter provided for only limited manpower input; its use was further
constrained by provisions which restricted consultants only to giving
advice on resource deployment, logistics, management and training. The
Borrower refused to accept the necessity for retaining consultants'
services in order to assist directly in project implementation despite
strong feelings within the Bank that such assistance was needed. Soon
after credit effectiveness, it became apparent that this compromise, made
to accommodate the Egyptian sensitivity to the use of consultants, was a
major obstacle to achieving project objectives.
4.22     Appointment of consultants was a long, drawn-out process.
Following receipt of proposals from four firms, it took almost seven months
to resolve some minor issues and conclude a contract with the selected
firm. The Authority's wisdom in selecting this firm can also be questioned
because at that time the firm had practically no experience in tile
drainage works. The Association's agreement to employing this firm was
given after the firm acquired the services of two specialists in tile
drainage.
4.23     The relations between the Drainage Authority and the consultants
remained polite but remote. Discords appeared only when financial
interpretations of their contract were involved or when the consultants
were asked to do something over and above that specifically set out in
their contract.   Otherwise, the Authority kept the consultants somewhat
isolated and their effectiveness was undoubtedly impeded. The individual
members of the consultants team were competent, but most of them were
underutilized. Efforts made by various Bank supervision missions failed to
bring about substantial improvement. They also failed to persuade EPADP to
extend the consultant's contract despite considerable efforts during the
year before it expired in March 1973.
4.24      Because of the delays which occured with procurement of equipment,
the consultants staff was not able to be of much assistance in the
introduction of control methods; nor was it of significant use for
establishing monitoring procedures.    While the senior draughtsman's report
was fully adequate, reports made by the stores specialist and workshop
engineer failed to lead to results which were comensurate with the
investment of time and money involved. In general, the material available
on file provides little indication that the work of the consultants had any
major impact.
V. OPERATING PERFORMANCE
5.01     Because the execution of this massive drainage program has not
resulted in advancing the art of tile drainage technology beyond the level
already practiced in Egypt following the UNDP/FAO Pilot Project recommenda-



- 35 -
tions of 1965 (para. 2.06), the Bank retained a consultant in 1980 to
review EPADP's drainage design and procedures. He found them generally
adequate for Egyptian conditions, but did make several suggestions for
improvement.
5.02     Two features in particular deserve special attention.     The first
is the fact that all pipe drains are being placed without a gravel
envelope, primarily because of the perceived high cost of proper gravel
envelope materials and increased construction time. Drains installed in
hydraulically unstable soils require envelope materials. In arid and
semi-arid areas alluvial soils of nearly all textures are unstable and,
therefore, will require envelopes to stabilize the soil and to prevent
sediment problems within the drain. A possible exception are soils having
a significant clay content. Field experiments should be conducted on these
soils before final designs are made. Fine textured low permeability soils
may require a permeable envelope (sometimes called a permeable surround) to
increase drainage efficiency.   It is quite probable that many of the cases
of drain malfunctioning that are reported (see para. 5.04) are associated
with the present practice of installing drains without an envelope,
particularly as the envelope helps to compensate for the effects of the
poor tile laying which has been observed. Earlier, Bank supervision
missions also found totally unsuitable gravel mat:erial being used. The
research currently beirLg carried out on this subject by DRI needs to be
studied carefully to see whether changes are needed.    The general shift to
PVC pipes will also have a bearing on this decision.
5.03     The second feature is that of drain depth and spacing.     The design
criteria in the appraisal report was to install the tiles at 1.4 m in order
to maintain the water depth between laterals at 1.0 m. This is
substantially less than has been found necessary in some parts of the
world, for example in wiestern USA. It is also slightly less than the
depth, quoted in the appraisal report, found necessary under experimental
conditions in Egypt to give optimum crop yields.    Furthermore, while
variable spacings of t.ile rows were visualized, depending upon soil
permeabilities, most drains appear to have been placed at a uniform 40 m
spacing, under perceived advantages of time saved in preparing designs.
However, the amounts by which yields may be increased or decreased by
increasing the depth oE tiles and the spacing between tile rows, and the
relative economics of any resulting changes in production income and costs
and the drainage costs, are still open questions. Until recently, no
further work had been done on this matter than had been available at
appraisal. However, work is now going on under the DRI program (see para.
5.07) to compare crop yields at depths of 1.2, 1.5 and 1.8 m at different
drain spacings. This should provide data needed to determine if the
present practice is optimum or should be revised.
Operation and Maintenance
5.04     It was agreed during negotiations that the operation and
maintenance (O&M) of completed drainage systems would remain the
responsibility of the MOI Maintenance Department outside the purview of the



- 36 -
project. Under this arrangement, the O&M left much to be desired due
mainly to inadequate allocation of funds, lack of equipment and
organizational problems.   In order to improve this situation, IDA obtained
GOE agreement to transfer responsibility for O&M of surface and sub-surface
drains in tiled areas to EPADP. This took effect from January 1979. Since
then, the Authority has established a well structured organization
including one management center for each parcel of 20,000 feddans. Also,
with better allocation of funds and more effective control of field work,
the standard of O&M has considerably improved. However, much more still
remains to be done.   Improper functioning of the drains, whether due to
poor installation or inadequate maintenance, is still the single most
important deficiency of the project. As an indication of this, under a
recently introduced system for registering and redressing farmers
complaints regarding malfunctioning of tile drains the Authority is
receiving an average of 200 complaints per month. How many more complaints
remain unregistered cannot be assessed. In the long run, the success or
failure of the project will be judged by the ability of EPADP to maintain
the drainage system in working condition everywhere. To do this, the
Authority still needs to plan and devote concerted efforts to develop cost
effective methods and work cycles for deweeding, desilting and reshaping of
open drains as well as for routine inspection and flushing of buried
networks. One result of the original arrangement, whereby MOI was
responsible for maintenance, was that only minimal provision was made in
the project for the import of maintenance equipment, especially equipment
needed for flushing tile drains and for deweeding open drains and even this
was not disbursed. This has been remedied in subsequent projects but lack
of equipment was an important handicap in the early phases.     It is
emphasized that it is very important to establish the reasons for any
malfunctioning of drains, as no amount of maintenance can offset entirely
inadequacies in design or construction.
Cost Recovery
5.05      Section 4.07 of the Credit Agreement required the Borrower to make
suitable arrangements to have the recovery from users of irrigated land
drained under the project of; (a) the maintenance costs of field drainage;
and (b) over a period of 20 years, the capital invested in tile drainage
without interest. This requirement has only been partially complied with.
The principal legal basis for recovering such costs is provided by the
Irrigation and Drainage Law No. 74 of 1971. As required by this law, land
tax assessments--supposed to be based on the land's net productivity
--have not been adjusted in line with actual land market value during
recent years and collections have tended to lag. /1 Thus, in the
mid-seventies, land tax collections on a country-wide basis, were only
about 25% of the system O&M costs unadjusted for capital charges and power
subsidies. No specific data are available regarding the project area alone
but the position is assumed to be similar to the country-wide position.
/1 In addition, owners of three feddans or less, comprising 80% of the
owners, are exempted from land taxes.



- 37 -
The process for the recovery of field drainage costs is time consuming.
While recovery of capital cost should have started one year after
completion of tile drainage in each functional sub-unit of the project, it
commenced only in 1978. According to the information provided by EPADP, a
total of LE 2,936,197 had been recovered as of February 1981.(See para.
7.13)
Monitoring and Evaluation
5.06     Proposals for monitoring and evaluation of- agricultural benefits
in the project area were to be developed by the contsultants.
Unfortunately, nothing specific materialized from t:his and, in line with
current Bank practice at the time, no other provision for monitoring and
evaluation was included in the project.   To make good this gap a covenant
was included in the second Upper Egypt Drainage Project (signed in June
1976) and further elaborated in the second Nile Delta Drainage Project
(signed in July 1977), which required EPADP to evaluate the effect of
drainage works completed under the first Delta Drainage Project on crop
yields and soil propertiEs.
5.07     Even before this, however, in December 1975 EPADP had begun an
evaluation program under urging from supervision missions and had
established an Evaluation Committee for the Drainage Projects including
representatives of MOA, and set up an Evaluation Division. The early work,
however, was unsatisfactory because of the way the data was collected and
the lack of information on variables other than drainage.    By 1977 the
committee had lapsed and had to be reestablished in 1978.    At the same
time, help was sought from the Drainage Research Institute of MOI which
conducted a statistical evaluation comparing drained and undrained areas
using MOA data. Although this statistical analysis was a refinement over
the procedures used by EPADP it still did not take into account all the
variables other than drainage that influence yields.    Thus, later in 1978,
a new program was instituted with aid from the Netherlands Government which
would examine the impact of drainage taking into account also the effect of
other factors. This began as a "crash" program lasting four cropping
seasons and covering initially a few representative areas. It has now been
merged into a larger long-term "regular" program which will continue over
the next several years.   In addition, EPADP's  Evaluation and Training
Division has continued to ex-post evaluation using MOA district data. This
so called "regular" drainage monitoring program is supervised by a Higher
Committee established in September 1979. With the! Chairman of EPADP as its
president, its members are representatives of EPADP, Universities, MOA, MOI
and its subordinate research organizations DRI and GRI. Responsibility for
the program rests with DRI with assistance from the Netherlands Institute
for Land Reclamation and Improvement, Wageningen with financial assistance
from the Joint Program of Technical Cooperation between Egypt and the
Netherlands.
5.08     Some interesting results have emerged from the "crash" program.
Besides the economic impact which is examined in section 7, these results
indicate that; (i) tile drained areas have considerably higher average
crop yields than non-tile drained areas, in spite of the fact that tile
drains may not be functioning fully adequately; (ii) the increase in crop



- 38 -
yields due to tile drainage is closely related to the level of the
groundwater prior to drainage; and (iii) soil salinity has a distinct
impact on crop yield in the non-drained areas but in the drained areas its
impact i,. negligible.
5.09     As yet no monitoring has been undertaken of the simplest and most
direct measure of the effectiveness of drainage--its impact on the level of
the water table. Although no piezometers have yet been installed, it would
be possible to monitor water level response to drainage with relative ease
by comparing water depth-duration curves for drained and undrained areas.
These would indicate the degree of control that was being obtained over the
water table. Although provision of piezometer pairs and recorders for
monitoring deep and shallow water level changes should be included as a
component in the next drainage project enough data already exists to enable
depth-duration curves to be developed now for many areas. This data is
widely scattered but there do exist already over 4,000 groundwater
observation wells many of which have been recorded regularly since the
1930s, by the Groundwater Research Institute (GRI). Recently, supplemen-
tary funding was made available by the UNDP/Bank Water Master Plan Project
(EXWAP), and some of this information was successfully extracted and used
in their groundwater studies of Upper Egypt. A similar approach could be
adopted for the monitoring and evaluation of the drainage projects, with
funds being provided through the ongoing drainage projects to both GRI and
DRI to carry out this work.
Extension
5.10     The Bank's lack of experience with the Egyptian agricultural
sector shows up in the appraisal report's optimistic assessment of the
extension and research services in the project area which were regarded as
adequately staffed.   The only shortcoming was thought to be the lack of
mobility and this was to be remedied by the provision of vehicles through
the project. Further experience has shown that the extension and research
services do have serious shortcomings and, since the extension vehicles
were never procured, the lack of supporting services has been a handicap to
the intensification of agriculture after the installation of drainage. On
the other hand, because other factors such as inadequate input supplies and
low crop prices were not improved, the inadequacy is perhaps less serious
than might at first sight appear.    In recent years, there has been some
improvement and since 1979, EPADP has been running training courses on
drainage for MOA extension staff.
VI. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
Nile Delta Drainage Authority
6.01     Although the MOI insisted that its line departments were perfectly
competent to execute the project, the Assocation insisted that a Nile Delta
Drainage Authority (NDDA) be set up under the administrative control of MOI
with provision for consultants to carry out the project. This was a
suitable technocratic response to what was essentially seen as a problem of
improving the overall effectiveness of a project organization. The arrange-



- 39 -
ments established were thus based on conventional principles of organizational
design for single unit, centrally controlled enterprises with respect to
functions, powers, repoiting relationships, authority and responsibility. The
Association and GOE also agreed during negotiations that the top management of
the project would be one of the most important elements for its success.
Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage Projects
6.02     In late 1972, iLn order to unify the organizations working on drainage
in Egypt, the Association agreed to the GOE proposal to merge NDDA with the
Egyptian General Authority for Drainage Projects the organization responsible
for drainage in Upper Egypt. Accordingly, the Egyptian Public Authority for
Drainage Projects(EPADP) was established by a Presidential Decree issued in
February 1973 with responsibility for executing all drainage works in Egypt.
Tne Association's agreement was strongly influenced by the fact that a second
IDA credit for drainage, this time in Upper Egypt, was under consideration and
it did not want to deal with two organizations. Secondly, it seemed that such
a unified organization would best meet the need to more fully utilize the top
management ana allow more efficient use of construction equipment and repair
facilities.
b.03     The institutional problems of the MOI we!re correctly diagnosed at the
time of appraisal. The remedy recommended and effected was sound in concept
and had proved successful in many countries. Therefore, the project does not
highlight too many factors of structure. Insteacl, the problems responsible
for the Authority's performance centered on: the process of decision making
in the new bureaucracy; the variable quality of t:he staff; the shortage of
stafting at miadle and working levels throughout the implementation of the
project; the need for training, and career advancement of, and incentives for,
technical staft at all levels; the frequent turnover of staff including having
seven chairmen in a period of 11 years; the underutilization of expatriate
consultants and the failure to use them for introducing proven construction
planning and management: techniques or to give them responsibility for
implementation; and inadequate attention having been given to a general
upgrading of skills wilth respect to project planning, programming, monitoring
and implementation.
6.04     It is also to be noticed that the Authority was generally not keen to
make substantive changes in the traditional administrative pattern, nor to
attempt seriously to absorb innovative ideas for creating a result-oriented
group. This was especially important since staff were being
transferred/secondea from various Ministries, and needed to be shaken out of
the constraints of their previous work environment. External assistance
provided by the consultants as well as by the Association's massive
supervision effort had only partial success in transferring management
techniques.
u.05     Tne present organization structure of EPADP is shown in Annex 11.     It
is basically the same that existed in 1977 when the Nile Delta Drainage II
Project was appraised. During the course of the project, the number of
engineers employed for implementation was consicierably below the strength
agreed in side letter No. 2. The Authority's efforts to make up this shortage



- 40 -
met with little success due mainly to its low wage structure and to the
constant outflow of qualified Egyptian engineers to foreign countries. This
affected both the quality of staff as well as the intensity of construction
supervision.   This problem of staff shortages is one which has become a common
problem on most IDA/Bank financed projects in the public sector in Egypt.
Given the low level of public sector salaries relative to those which trained
staff can earn either in the private sector or more particularly outside
Egypt, there is little that the Bank can do.    To a limited extent, the payment
of salary supplements is being tried but this is not something which is
readily replicable across a whole agency such as EPADP. The planning of
future projects needs to keep in mind that implementation rates are likely to
lower than technically feasible.
6.06     Irrespective of the weaknesses in areas of management, the project
has made some positive impact in shaping EPADP as well as bringing about some
gradual improvements in its operational character. The Egyptian staff
associated with the project received valuable on-the-job training in planning,
design and construction of drainage works as well as in procurement. However,
the Authority's performance in construction planning, scheduling and
management leaves substantial scope for improvement. Following termination of
the consultant contract in 1973, the Association continued to assist the
Authority in these areas through well timed supervision efforts.
VII. BENEFITS AND ECONOMIC EVALUATION
Estimated Benefits from the Project
7.01     The basis for estimating benefits in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR)
was that crop yields in the project area were directly limited by poor
drainage. It was estimated that yields would increase about 22% after
drainage without any change in the level of farm inputs applied.     Appraisal
missions for the subsequent Delta and Upper Egypt projects went on to make a
further assumption that waterlogging would become more widespread without the
Project, causing yields to fall by 30% after 35 years, the useful life of the
drains.
7.02     During execution of the Project, crop yields have been recorded by
MOA inside the project area before and after drainage. These yields have been
compared with yields in similar undrained areas outside the project area over
the same time period to act as a control. The results have been analysed by
the Evaluation and Training Division of EPADP/1 and are summarized below
together with the estimates made in the SAR.
/1 Analysis of the Crop Yield Evaluation in Some Drained Areas, Eng. Wadie
Rafla Ibrahim, Director General, Evaluation and Training Division, EPADP.
Cairo, July 1980.



- 41 -
Comparison of Yield Increases in SAR and in EPADP Evaluation
SAR Estimates                      EPADP Evaluation
Before        After      Increase        Area A /1      Area B /2
Project      Drainage                   160,000 fed    320,000 fed
-   (tons/fed)-----      ----------------(percent)-------------
Wheat               1.12         1.35          20             16             14
Maize               1.54         1.95          27             16             17
Rice (paddy)        2.5          3.0           20             15              -
Cotton (lint)        .32          .38          19             12             13
7.03     Insufficient detail is provided in the EPADP evaluation to check the
statistical soundness of the analysis made. /3    Therefore a fresb analysis has
been made for the PCR using the data available in the Bank.     The results of
this analysis are summarfized below.
Yields changes Before (1970/1-73/4)
.ind After Drainage (1975/6-77/8)
Project                     Control            Overall
1970/1  1975/6               1970/1   1970/1            Change
-73/74  -77,t78  Increase    -73/74   -77/78  Increase
(tons/fedd-a     -  (%)      (tons/feddan)       T)T      (%)
Wheat          1.54    1.52       -2        1.68     1.51      -9       11
Maize          2.23    2.33        4        2.34     2.24      -4         8
Rice           2.21    2.38        8        2.35     2.30      -3       11
Cotton (lint)   .35     .38        9         .36      .35      -3       12
7.04     Inspection of the individual district records highlights some
interesting trends and provides some guidelines for further monitoring.
First, the response to drainage is apparent in the year following installation
of the field drains. The SAR assumed a build up in yield over several years,
/1 An area of 160,000 feddans in which drainage construction commenced in
1971-72.
/2 An area of 320,000 feddans comprising the same 160,000 feddans as in Area
A plus an additional 160,000 feddans in which construction commenced in
1973-74.
/3 The evaluation unit has gone to great efforts to provide information on
areas of each crop by village, but has then used a single average yield for
each district. As a result we have effectively one observation only per
district.   If the individual crop cutting results, which went to make up the
mean district yield, were available it would provide a measure of the variance
of the mean district yield, and the statistical analysis could be enormously
strengthened.



- 42 -
whereas in fact once drainage and leaching can take place, yields build up
almost immediately to levels where constraints other than drainage provide a
limit to production.
7.05     Some areas show that yields started to fall back towards previous
levels after initial increase. This may well be related to lack of
maintenance of drains. Visual observations on supervision missions show
that some drains are working and others are not. The overall incidence of
failure is not known, but it could be a factor leading to underestimation of
the benefits from those drains which are working.    This aspect is further
discussed in the next sections.
7.06     A third indication from the data is that, whereas yields within the
project area rose following drainage, crop yields outside the project area
tended to fall over the same period.    Taken on their own, neither the
increase in yields within the project area, nor the decrease in yields
outside is statistically significant, although this may be due largely to
the limited number of observations. However when considered together there
is a statistically significant difference between the trend in yields inside
and the trend outside the project area as shown above. The data provide
support, albeit tentative, to the hypothesis that drainage not only leads to
increase in yields in the areas drained, but also combats deterioration in
yields that would otherwise have occured through the gradual filling of the
aquifer in the Delta that has taken place since the expansion of perennial
irrigation following completion of the HAD.
Other Monitoring of Benefits
7.07     As discussed in paragraph 5.04, the DRI has been conducting more
detailed monitoring through a micro-level "crash" program. The "crash"
program has concentrated on monitoring crop yield, depth to watertable, and
salinity in several pairs of similar villages, one with drainage and the
other without. Initially a pair of villages was selected in the Western
Delta and a second pair in the Eastern Delta for the 1978-79 crop year.
This has now been expanded to a total of six villages (three with drainage
and three without) by the addition of a pair of villages in the Middle Delta.
7.08     The results from sample surveys in these villages show similar
trends and problems as indicated by the overall monitoring described above.
Poor operation of drainage in some 40% of the area is a major problem which
reduces response in parts of the drained villages. Of particular interest,
berseem yields are significantly higher in the drained areas where salinity
is observed to be lower. Yield responses for wheat are much less, probably
due to a greater salt tolerance. The results of two summer seasons show
increased yields in the drained areas for rice in both years but little
response has been observed with maize probably due to poor functioning of
the drainage system. However with cotton where yields for the period
1974-1980 are available from the cooperatives large increases in yield have
been recorded following drainage. In the three drained villages, yields
were about 30% higher in the period 1977-80 than 1974-76 compared to a 17%
increase over the same period in the three undrained villages. In terms of
economic response, net economic benefits in the order of LE 80-100 per
feddan per year have been recorded.



- 4L3 -
7.09     The results from this "crash" program indicate that there is
clearly a complementary role between monitoring of yield on a wide scale as
carried out by EPADP and the more intensive "regular" program monitoring of
watertable, salinity and yields etc. for a few selected villages, as is now
being started by DRI. This is particularly so because even if a
statistical relationship between areas drained and trends in yields can be
established, it is difficult to be sure whether there is also a causal
relationship involved. The problems associated with yield measurements are
well known - annual climnvtic variation, pests, diseases, sampling
difficulties etc. Moreover, once the drainage constraint has been removed
it is likely that farmers will apply more intensive input packages, thereby
increasing crop yields. Therefore, the measurements of crop yields need to
be supported by some more direct physical measures of the project's
effectiveness such as groundwater levels and soil salinity. To some
extent, this information will be provided by the new regular monitoring
program of DRI, but analysis of the groundwater data collected by DRI over
a wider geographical area would greatly strengthen the monitoring and
evaluation program.
Project Economic Rate of Return
7.10     The re-estimation of the project's rate of return provides some
interesting insights concerning the value of the overall drainage program.
The local cost component of costs has been converted to US dollars at the
parallel market rate prevailing at the time (Annex 12). Project costs have
then been converted to constant 1980 dollars using the International Price
Index, /1 to give a total cost in US dollars of US$ 302 million expressed
in constant 1980 dollars. This compares surprisingly closely with the SAR
estimated cost of $319 million expressed in 1980 dollars. Unit costs were
$319/feddan, compared with $336 at appraisal, or roughly a capital
investment of $800/hectare at 1980 prices.
7.11     Net incremental income was estimated at US$ 35/feddan in the SAR
equivalent to US$ 130/fE:ddan in 1980 constant prices. The question then
arises as to what is an appropriate incremental income to use in the
benefit stream. A series of benefits have therefore been used to provide a
range of estimates of the ERR. The most reasonable estimate from the
results to date is that yield increases within the project area have
resulted in an increase of 7% in the net economic benefits. /2 In addition
annual losses of almost 1% have been averted. Calculated over a 35 year
project life the ERR would be 25%.    (It is assumed that losses averted
increase to a maximum of 30% of the net value of production by the 17th
/1 World Bank Report No. 814/80 Price Prospects for Major Primary
Commodities, p. 25.
/2 At the time of appraisal, there was no data on the impact of drainage
on berseem production. The appraisal report, therefore, excluded berseem
from their benefit calculations. In order to make the recalculated ERR
comparable, berseem has also been left out of the calculations here.
However, information from the crash program indicates that berseem benefits
more than any other winter crop from drainage, because it is very
sensitive. The true ERR is thus considerably higher than the 25% adopted
for the PCR.



- 44 -
year). Excluding any benefits from losses averted tne ERR would be 17%.
If on the other hand the more optimistic estimate made by EPADP of 14%
incremental benefits is accepted then the ERR would be 65%. Details are
given in Annex 1.
7.12     Finally a switching value has been estimated to indicate the
minimum net benefits that would result in a minimum acceptable ERR of 10%.
This minimum acceptable rate of return woula be achieved even if drainage
provides only a 5% increase in net benefits. Although yield increases have
been less tnan anticipated in the SAR, the benefits in each area drained
accrue in the very next year rather than the gradual build up assumed in
the SAR. The resulting ERR is higher than that projected in the SAR
(18%). In conclusion it would seem that despite all the administrative
problems associated with the project, it has been an excellent economic
investment for the nation.
Farmers Benefits
7.13     Calculations have been made to indicate the level of farm
benefits. These indicate a net increase of LE 40/feddan, comprising LE
25/feddan inside the project area and losses averted of LE 15/feddan
compared with undrained areas outside the area over four years of
implementation. Farmers are liable to pay a drainage tax of LE 7/feddan
following drainage. This is less than the full economic rent but the
present pricing structure results in such a level of agricultural taxation
that any discussion of increasing recovery from farmers can only be looked
at in the wider context of agricultural pricing policies as a whole. These
pricing policies during the project period resulted in a substantial net
taxation of agriculture, estimated at some 30% in the mid seventies. They
acted as a disincentive to the increased use of farm inputs and to that
extent must have acted as a brake on the full attainment of the benefits of
drainage by farmer beneficiaries. The last three years or so, however,
nave seen a diminution of this burden of taxation as a proportion of value
added and an increased use of fertilizers though to what extent this can be
correlated with drainage is impossible to say. While drainage is a
necessary condition for the intensification of agriculture, it is not
sufficient by itself. As policies and services to farming improve, so will
the potential benefits from drainage increase.
VIII. BANK PERFORMANCE
8.01     In evaluating the Bank's performance consideration must be given
to the fact that this was the first IDA-assisted project in the
agricultural sector. It was an ambitious attempt to implement the largest
single tile drainage operation ever undertaken in the world by a newly



- 45 -
established agency of the Government. Looking back, it is apparent that in
managing the massive task of implementing tic project, both the Bank and
the Government placed too much confidence on the construction administra-
tion capability of the MOI personnel and on the capacity of the public
sector contractors.
8.02     The joint FAO/IBRD Coope~rative Program members of an economic
mission identified the project in 1968. Subsequent Bank missions provided
assistance in formulating and elaborating the plan. Verifying the informa-
tion collected by the preceding missions as well as the data provided by
the MOI in the Feasibility Report, the appraisal team put together a
technically and economically viable project.    A searching scrutiny of the
project in the Bank scaled down the scope of the project proposed by the
appraisal team in order to reduce the risk as well as to gain more
experience with rates of implementation before preparing further phases of
the drainage program.
8.03     Supervision of the project was intensive in the start-up phase and
later on timely and satisfactory. During the initial stages, the Bank
provided extensive assistance to the Authority in preparing bid documents
for procurement of equipment under ICB procedures.    Although the use of
consultants by the Authority became a contentious matter, the Bank staff
succeeded in maintaining a continued good rapport with the Egyptian
officials. Because of b:he the problems and delays faced by the project,
the Bank had to maintain a heavy supervision load during project implemen-
tation. The well-timed supervision nmissions were instrumental in drawing
attention to potential difficulties and generally eliciting appropriate
actions.
8.04      Since this was the first project in the phase of Bank lending to
Egypt that began on FY70, it was important in that it established the
patterns and the precedents for other projects and many of the lessons that
it has provided in terms of what was feasible and what was not have been
taken into account in the design of future projects.    For instance, the
organizational proposals made at appraisal and the arrangements for
consultants to assist the Authority in management techniques did not work
well. The options available to the Bank for improving the situation were
rather limited. Although with a delay of four years, the achievement of
the project appraisal objectives shows that the flexible position taken by
the Bank was correct in the given circumstances.    However, since the Bank
is likely to be involved in the drainage program for some time to come it
is critical that ways be found to assist Egyptian contractors engaged in
installing the drains to devise ways and means for upgrading their
construction management: capability and capacity. Further effort is also
needed to upgrade implementation planning, control and reporting systems.
Efforts made during the course of the project towards achieving these
objectives have been relatively unsuccessful but, since they are the keys
to accelerating the drainage program, it is important that the pressure for
improvement be maintained.
XI.  CONCLUSIONS
9.01     There is now sufficient experience in the Bank with the Egyptian
drainage program as a whole, and with this project in particular, to give
definite conclusions about the successes and failures of the project. In



- 46 -
terms of its impact on the economy in general and on each of the many
beneficiaries it was a highly successful project.     Despite the fact that it
took four years longer to implement the project than expected, project
benefits suffered very little because each drainage sub-area is in a sense
a discrete sub-project and benefits normally become available immediately
upon completion of each sub-project. Delays in execution have lowered the
value of benefits in total over the project life but not the ERR of the
project. Recalculation of the ERR indicates that actual results have been
better than estimated at appraisal, although for somewhat different
reasons, and have also been unexpectedly variable. Overall, however, they
are higher than for the general run of agricultural projects.
9.02     There can also be no doubt that the Bank made the appropriate
choice in selecting drainage for its first lending activity in the
agricultural sector and for staying with drainage for three subsequent
projects. Even today investment in drainage is among the highest
priorities for agricultural investment in Egypt and gives a higher economic
return than almost any other type of agricultural project.
9.03     Appraisal estimates of the likely rate of implementation were
overoptimistic. The appraisal mission underestimated the magnitude of the
task which the new Drainage Authority was proposing to undertake and
overestimated the capacity of the local contracting industry to implement
it rapidly. Given that this was only the Bank's second project of any kind
in Egypt, and the first for over ten years, the appraisal mission had no
prior experience to guide them in assessing the likelihood of major
delays. On top of this the project was further delayed by the 1973 war and
its aftermath of resource and financial shortages. At no time, however,
even when the war's effects had passed, did the annual rate of progress
reach the appraisal estimate of 240,000 feddans of tile drains. The
highest achievement was 141,000 feddans, although taking into account the
fact that EPADP was also undertaking three other Bank group assisted
projects as well as some other smaller ones, its total implementation rate
reached about 200,000 feddans. Over the years different single factors
emerged as the critical reason for slow progress; at one time it was
shortage of local funds, at another shortage of labor, then later shortage
of equipment or shortage of cement. None of these factors are significant
at present and yet still the rate of progress has not improved. An
underlying cause that has delayed the project since its beginning is more
clearly evident, that of management, both at the EPADP and the contractor
level.
9.04     The Bank made a number of efforts from the start of implementation
to assist the Drainage Authority to improve its management, most notably
through urging the Authority first to employ consultants and then to
utilize them in helping to improve the management system. These efforts
through the use of consultants were fruitless and in the prevailing
circumstances perhaps this was inevitable.
9.05     On the other hand, Bank supervision missions have had a major
impact in maintaining momentum during implementation although they appear
to have paid inadequate attention, at least until recently, to the problems



- 47 -
associated with the use of public sector contractors, particularly the lack
of incentive to timely completion of work and the inadequacy of any control
mechanizms available to EPiiDP. The problem was recognized early on in the
project but no adequate soLution has yet been proposed. One response of
the Bank has been to open up bidding to international competition. In the
first two drainage projects bidding for the civil works drain laying
contracts was confined to 1Egyptian bidders on the grounds that there was
adequate competition and capacity. While this was true as regards
competition to win contracts, it does not appear that poor performance on
one contract carries any penalties in subsequent ones. Nor did the Bank
disburse against local contracts. In the third and fourth projects, ICB
procedures were followed for civil works contracts. However, since
Egyptian firms have continued to win all the contracts, this has not
introduced any outside competition. An alternative, yet to be tried, would
be to encourage private Egyptian contractors to bid. Until a better system
of incentives and awards for good, or penalties for bad, performance is
introduced it is unlikely that a substantial increase in the rate of
contractors' output can be expected.
9.06     One area where the Bank and the Borrower have cooperated to
develop a useful working system is in the area of monitoring and
evaluation. Although the project did not lay down specific requirements
for this in subsequent projects it became a covenant in the project
agreement. As a result, useful data on the impact of drainage on
agricultural production i; becoming available. However, there is still
need for analysis of the impact of drainage on water table levels. While
data exist to make this analysis a coherent framework needs to be developed
for assembling these data in a single place and using them as part of an
on-going monitoring program.
9.07     Over the longer term, the success or failure of the project will
depend on whether the drains which have been installed are properly
maintained and continue to operate properly. Effective monitoring of
maintenance has yet to be established and should be addressed by future
supervision missions of the other three ongoing drainage projects. In
addition, more work is still needed on the design of the drainage.
Although the growing use of PVC pipe for tile drains may ease some of the
problems hitherto associated with the use of cement pipes (e.g., excessive
gaps between pipes, breakages) insufficient information is as yet available
on drain depth and spacing and the use of gravel envelopes to know whether
the present system is a reasonable compromise between technical, economic
and managerial optima and constraints. While work on this is now under
way, it is still on a small scale relative to the size of the drainage
program and should be exp-anded. Furthermore, the use of vertical drainage
needs to be tested in a pilot area since it appears likely that it will
provide a more economic solution to drainage problems in many of the areas
remaining to be drained in Upper Egypt than the use of buried pipes.






ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NILE DELTA DRAINAGE I PROJECT
(CREDIT 181-UAR)
Recurrent and Capital Expenditures 1975-80
1975                   1976                1977                  1978                  1979                 1980(6 mo.)
Ministry of Irrigation            Recurrent   Capital   Recurrent  Capital    Recurrent  Capital   Recurrent   Capital   Recurr nt  Capital    Recurrent  Capital
…(---------------0---------------------------         '000 LE)---------------------------------------------------------------
Central Administration                 324          -        339         -         210         -         192        72        26:          -        122         -
Irrigation Department               15,228     14,000     16,253    10,924      22,073    15,804     31,977     30,108     34,629    27,354      23,678     23,296
Mechanical and Electrical Dept.      9,606      1,064     13,100     1,082      10,492     1,440     12,343     10,344     15,23r'    15,525      6,375     6,13,0
Drainage Authority                   3,504     21,435      2,172    20,035       2,964    34,378      4,277     41,257      6,03      66,568      3,285     28,787
Water Research Center                     -         -        385         95        656       607         807     1,208        94       2,312        505       505
Survey Authority                     4,143        233      4,996       200       5,195       260      6,066        362      7,18,        378      3,766       376
Aswan                                 1.536       394      1,559       620       1,741     1,952       1,321    12,424      1,92--    14,640       n.a.         -
TOTAL                       34,341    37,126      38,804    32,956     43,331     54,441     56,983    95,775      66,21:   126,777      37,731    59,094
Drainage as Percentage of
MOI Capital Funds                              57.7%                 60.7%                64%                    43%                  52.5%                48.7%
SOURCE;  Ministry of Irrigation.
tT
x
X-



- 49 -                       ANNEX 2
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NILE DELTA DRAINAGE I PROJECT
(CREDIT 181-UAR)
Principal Features of Nile Delta II and
Upper Egypt I and II Drainage Projects
Upper Egypt
Description                    Nile Delta II /1         I          II       /2
Loan/Credit No.                               Ln. 1439-40/       Cr. 393-EGT  Ln. 1285
Cr. 719-EGT                     Cr.637-EGT
Signing Date                                    07/15/77          06/08/73     06/11/76
Effective Date                                  04/17/78          11/28/73     01/31/77
Estimated Project
Completion at Appraisal                         12/82             06/79         12/81
Expected Project
Completion Date                                 12/84             06/82         12/84
Original Loan/Credit
Closing Date                                   12/31/83          12/31/79 /3  12/31/83
Extended/Expected Loan
Closing Date                                  12/31/84 /4        06/30/82 /4  12/31/84 /4
Appraisal Cost Estimate
($ Million)                                     207.0              123.8        282.0
Revised Estimated as Per
Latest Supervision ($ Million)                  207.0              104.2 /5      221.4 /5
Loan/Credit ($ Million)                           66.0 /6            36.0          50.0 /6
Disbursement as of 3/31/81 ($ Million)             19.8              33.6          26.4
Project Area (feddans)                          810,000            300,000       500,000
Major Project Works
A. Remodelling/Construction of Open Drains
(i) Area (feddans)                            810,000            300,000      500,000
(ii) Remodelling Drains-Km                       1,565                775        1,226
(iii) New Drains-Km                                -                   865          345
(iv) Completion 03/31/81                        47%                 100%         61%
B. Field Drains (feddans)                       400,000            300,000      500,000
Completed 03/31/81                            1.5%                 75%          2%
C. Pumping Stations                               6                  5             1
Completed                                      9%                 87%          14%
Reclamation of Saline Land (feddans)               -               22,400       12,000
Bilharzia Control Program (feddans) /5     Extension to 1.2        900,000     120,000
million feddans                    (Extension)
including Upper
Egypt I & II areas
/1  KfW financing by an additional DM 100 million loan.
75  Additional $30.0 million financing provided by USAID for procurement of equipment
for three PVC pipe making factories as well as of 6,000 tons granulate material.
/3  Loan Closing Date extended to 7/31/81.
/4  Loan Closing Date expected according to latest schedule of the Drainage Authority.
/5  Applying parallel market exchange rate.
/ Bilharzia Control Component included in various Credits/Loans is:
Upper Egypt I       US$6.4 million
Upper Egypt II      US$5.1 million
Nile Delta II        US$10.4 million



ARAB REPtlBLIC OF EGYPT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NILE DELTA DRAINAGE I PROJECT
(CREDIT 181-UAR)
Bank and/or IDA Financed Projects Other Than Tile Drainage
Estimated      Credit/Loan
Credit/Loan        Date    Effectiveness      Original       Amount
Project                   Number          Signed        Date        Project Cost   (I Million)                         Remarks
million
I. Projects in Agriculture Sector
Agricultural Development              Cr. 830       07/24/78      02/21/79         45.8           32.0       To increase productivity in two Governorates
by strengthening agricultural banking,
extension & cooperatives and providing
tractors, agricultural implements & pumping
units.
New Land Development(W. Nubariya)    Cr. 1083       12/16/80    Not Yet          193.0            80.0       To develop 24,000 feddans desert land
including settlement of 4,000 small-
holders families and a component for
Bilharzia Control Program.
Fish Farming Development             Cr. 1111       04/24/81    Not Yet           26.3            14.0       Establish fish farms on 1,800 feddans in the
Delta. Project also includes facilities 6
equipment for training, consultants services
& programs for strengthening extension
services & monitoring.
II.Agroindustry Projects
Fruit & Vegetable Development        Ln. 1276       06/11/76      12/20/76       106.0            50.0       To develop a seed farm & associated
activities 6 to provide credit to processors
& exporters of fruits 6 vegetables.
Agroindustries                       Cr. 988        05/01/80      12t3/89         60.8            45.0       To establish small 6 medium sized agro-
industries as well as replacement of
slaughterhouses at Alexandria & Cairo.
IlI.Other Support Projects
Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation       Cr. 423        07/30/73     02/15/74         40.4            18.5       To finance the first of a three-phase
program for modernizing cotton ginniuig
industry.
Talka II Fertilizer                 Cr. 484        06/24/74     01/22/75        132.0            20.0       To expand urea production capacity.
Agricultural/Industrial              Cr. 524       12/20/74      03/19/75         -              15.0       To finance imports of foodstuffs, pesticides,
Imports                           Ln. 1002                                                                tractors & machinery spare parts.
Regional Electrification             Ln. 1453      07/15/77      02/06/78        70.6            48.0       To extenid power facilities for multiple uses
including irrigation water punmping.



- 51 -
ANNEX 4
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NILE DELTA DRAINAGE I PROJECT
(CREDIT 181-UAR)
Project Description From the Credit Agreement
The Project is designed to provide tile drainage for about
950,000 feddans of irrigated land in the delta of the Nile River and to
increase crop production on such land, and includes:
(i) the construction of eleven drainage pump stations with
related electric power transmission facilities;
(ii) the remodelling of about 1,700 km of main open drains and
their associated structures;
(iii) the installation of field tile drainage in about 950,000
feddans of irrigated land by mechanical equipment;
(iv) the construction and equipment of four divisional workshops
for maintenance and repair of construction equipment and
vehicles, within eighteen months from the Effective Date;
(v) the acquisition of mobile field workshops adequate for
maintenance and repair of construction equipment and
vehicles, promptly as required by the construction schedule
for the Project in accordance with a procurement schedule
approved by the Association;
(vi) the acquisition of tile drain maintenance equipment; and
(vii) the acquisition of vehicles and farmer training equipment
for the agricultural extension services in the Project area.



ARAL RFPUB.I(C OF F('YPT
PROJECT C(OMPITIPN PEPORT
NIl.L KlAETA ;)RAINA(.F I PROJECT
(MRF nTr 1.1 1-UAR )-
Tile Drainage Areas - Appraised and Revised
Region/Catchment Area            Project Area (Feldlans)         Final Areas (Feddans)
Percentage                Remarts
Revijed /1 Revised /1  Tile Drained /2   of Appraised
Ntimbers Name of the Catchment Unit Appraised .lmne 19T7h  Nov. 107F  Ending 17/80)      Area
A. Eastern Delta
OEI        Qaltbiva                  80,000  II?,noo 0166 ((1)        164,3R4           2(05%     New areas included in the project.
vc2 z -, S--f t )  ___ .   .. -                58 ,3(3 56,(00             I   1O%
OE3        N izam        l > [       L1,0O   vIlu.. 5 4,.-  70, n1( /1 ,>~(, 
I II       Sadaka                   43 ,noo ...3X*,noo   46h01(         4c, 6,h76   I       I h    Ad justed area .
OE7        East Bahr Saft      _            .   .        .... _ 31,0nn  27,7hh      _              New area included in the project.
OEB        Belbis                      _        _         15,0()()      17,600            _        New area included in the project.
SUBTOTAL                251,000  301 ,00()3  386gh,(111    3R2,826           153%
B. Middle Delta
OMI        SabAl                     40,000  14n,o00     39,00          39,())           1655      New area included in the project.
OM2        East Menu!is                                      00 27,r00  27,000
11         Mehallet Roah             70,000   7(0,000    63,000         61,200            90%      Ad justed area.
IV         P.S. No. 5                75,000   25,000       -              -               0        Area shifted to Nile Delta IT Project.
VIl        Samatai                   55,000    55,00n     52,nn(0       54,882           loot
VIIi       Segaeya                   75,3)00   75,000   8R,3(10         81,880           109%      Adjusted area.
Xi         Upper No. 8               34,000    34,000    39,0(0         25,sO(           7s%      Adjusted area.
O!tlE      Sabal East                  -         -       30,0100        3n,000            _        New area included in the proiect.
OM3        Tala                        -         _        6,3(30         6,00n0                    f New area included in the project.
SIIBTOTAL               349,000   2Q, 00O   337,3,nn       327,462            94%
C. Western Delta
OW         Delinegat                 65,000    6S,,000   43,0nn         43,0(00           66%      Area reduced.
V          Khandak                   38,000    38,0013    36,00(        38,100           100%
IX         Khairi                    57,000   57,3000    52,000         57,444           lo0%
X          Shereshra                 90,000    QO0,(0       -             -               0        Area shifted to Nile
Delta 1I Project.
I          Etai Elbaroud             24,000   24,000     24,000         25,000           104%
VI         Shobra Khit               76,00n    76,n0o     7?,O0n        73,340            972      Adjusred area.
SUBTOTAL                350,000   35C,000   227,3)0n       236,884            68%
TOTAL                   950,000   950,000    950,0(f0      947,1i72 /3        99% /3
/1  Areas were revised each time with the agreement of the Bank.
/2  Actual areas represent adjusteents necessary as compared to November 1978 revised areas.
7T Final area which tile drains bave been installed.



- 53 -,
ANNEX 6
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NILE DELTA DRAINAGE I PROJECT
(CREDIT 181)
Allocation of Proceeds of Credit
Final
Credit           1st           2nd           Disbursement
Category                          Agreement      Revision /1    Revision /2     Allocation /3
--…-----------------------…USS Equivalent--------------------------
I. C.I.F. cost of tile drainage
construction equipment                  10,800,000       9,140,000     9,500,000        9,094,169.84
II. C.I.F. cost of main drainage
remodelling equipment                    2,800,000       2,800,000     2,800,000        2,526,290.67
III. C.I.F. cost of pump stations-
machinery, equipment & installation      6,800,000       7,870,000     8,500,000        7,987,968.69
IV. Training & consultants                  600,000         700,000       600,000          583,003.83
V. C.I.F. cost of maintenance
equipment                                  200,000         200,000        50,000           18,325.35
VI. C.I.F. cost of agricultural
extension equipment & vehicles             100,000         100,000       100,000
VII. (a) C.I.F. cost of imported,
and/or
(b) ex-factory price of locally
manufactured tractors, trucks
& motorcycles                     2,600,000      4,500,000      3,800,000        3,778,918.04
VIII. Unallocated                           2,100,000         690,000        650,000
Total Allocation/Disbursement              26,000,000      26,000,000    26,000,000       23,988,676.42
Cancellation                                   -                -             -            2,011,323.58 /4
Total Credit Amount                        26,000,000      26,000,000    26,000,000       26,000,000.00
Exchange Adjustments                                                                         245,450.21
TOTAL                                                                                     26,245,450.21
/1 First revision made on January 25, 1977.
/2 Second revision made on September 18, 1978.
/3 CTR Office Memorandum dated April 16, 1981, addressed to EMIA.
/4 GOE, Ministry of Economy, informed by telex dated April 3, 1981.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NILE DELTA DRAINAGE PROJECT
(CREDIT 181-UAR)
Construction Schedule Actual Vs. Scheduled
Item No.     Description         1970       1971       1972        1973       1974       1975       1976        1977       1978       1979        1980
I          Pumping Stations
Appraisal
Actual                                    --- - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - -
Open Drains
Appraisal
Actual                         --------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------
III          Tile Drains(Fed.)
Appraisal       40,000 - 40,000 - 130,000   l 170,000 -) 200,000 + 240,000 -+ 130,000
Revised 6/9/71   …------ 40,000 -- 40,000 - 130,000 -- 170,000     200,000 -- 240,000 -- 130,000 --
Revised 12/4/72 *-------Completed 120,000------) 90,000     100,000      170,000    170,000    160,000     140,000
Revised 6/15/76 0-------Completed 250,000----------------------------- 90,000       130,000    160,000     160,000    160,000
Actual           (------ 40,000 --- 80,000 ------ 70,000      60,000      80,000    133,000    141,000     131,000    126,000     86,000
U1
I-J



- 55 -
ANNEX 8
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NILE DELTA DRAINAGE I PROJECT
(Credit 181-UAR)
Appraisal and Actual Cost Estimate
Appraisal Cost Estimate               Actual Cost Estimate
Description               Local /1    Foreign    Total      Local /2     Foreign /3    Total
----------------------------USS million-----------------------------------
Tile Drainage
Equipment                    0.14         13.01     13.15       2.00          9.10         11.10
Construction               53.10            -       53.10      67.84           -           67.84
Subtotal             53.24          13.01     66.25      69.84 /4      9.10          78.94
Remodelling Open Drains
Equipment                    0.05          2.79      2.84       0.32          2.52          2.84
Construction               22.35            -       22.35      73.53           -           73.53
Subtotal             22.40           2.79     25.19      73.85         2.52          76.37
Building and Housing           2.81           -        2.81       2.94           -            2.94
Pumping Stations
Equipment-Civil Works       4.46           5.71     10.17       7.42          6.78         14.20
Transmission Lines          0.89           1.12      2.01       1.00          1.20          2.20
Subtotal              5.35           6.83     12.18       8.42         7.98          16.40
Crop Compensation            10.80            -       10.80      10.17          -            10.17
Staff
Supervision & Admin.       10.79            -       10.79       8.66          -             8.66
Training & Consultants       -             0.60      0.60        -           0.58           0.58
Subtotal             10.79           0.60     11.39       8.66         0.58           9.24 L5
Tile Drain
Maintenance Equipment          -            0.20      0.20        -           0.02           0.02
Agricultural
Extension Equipment            -            0.49      0.49        -           0.02           0.02
Tractors,Trucks&Motorcycles/7   -             -         -         1.01 /6       3.77          4.78
Contingencies                 10.81          2.08     12.89        -            -              -
Total Without Duties         116.20         26.00  - 142.20     174.89         23.99 /7     198.88
/1  Using official exchange rate at Appraisal of LE 1.00 = USS2.30.
/2  Using official exchange rate fo- the period ending 1970-73 and parallel market exchange rate for the
period 1974-80.
/3  Approximate amount for each item.
74  Includes cost of three cement pipe making factories.
75 The expenditure is low because of cost sharing by other drainage projects.
/6  Includes expenditure on miscellaneous items.
/7  Included under Tile Drainage Equipment or Remodelling Open Drainage Equipment in Appraisal Cost
Estimates.



- 56 -
ANNEX 9
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NILE DELTA DRAINAGE I PROJECT
(CREDIT 181-UAR)
!kppraisal Estimate and Actual Cumulative Disbursements
Bank Fiscal                                           Actual Disbursements
Year and Half        Appraisal    Actual Total      As Percentage of Appraisal
Year Semester        Estimate     Disbursements             Estimate
1970/71
June 30, 1971          6.40             -
1971/72
December 31, 1971      -                0.17                     -
June 30, 1'72         15.90             0.33                    2%
1972/73
December 31., 1972     -                1.20                     -
June 30, 1973         23.30             3.80                   16%
1973/74
December 3L, 1973      -                5.10                     -
June 30, 1974         25.00             8.29                   33%
1974/75
December 31, 1974      -               11.12                     -
June 30, 1975         26.00 /L         13.98                   54%
1975/76
December 31, 1975      -               15.30                   59%
June 30, 1976          -               15.86                   61%
1976/ 77
December 31, 1976      -               17.47                   67%
June 30, 1977          -               18.04                   69%
1977/ 78
December 2.1, 1977     -               19.66                   76%
June 30, ]978          -               21.06                   81%
1978/79
December i1, 1978      -               22.55                   87%
June 30, 1.979         -               23.91                   92%
1979/80
December 31, 1979      -               24.03                   93%
June 30, 1980          -               24.15                   93%
1980/81
December 31, 1980      -               24.22                   93%
(March 5, 1981)       -                24.23 /2             93% /2
Closing Date        12/31/76          12/31/80 /3
/I Later increased to t26,245, 450.21 including $245,450.21 for exchange
adjustmentE.
/2 Actual amount disbursed as of March 5, 1981, was t23,988,676.42 excluding
exchange rate adjustment of t245,450.21. The amount of $2,011,323 was
cancelled on April 3, 1981.
/3 Loan Closing Date was revised three times, finally on June 25, 1979 to
12/31/80.



- 57 -
ANNEX 10
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NILE DELTA DRAINAGE I PROJECT
(CREDIT 181-UAR)
Comparison of Appraisal Estimate and Actual Financing Through Credit 181-UAR
Appraisal Estimate               Actual
Cost                       Cost
Item                    Quantity    US$'000       Ouantity     US$o000
Tile laying machines                  100       3,370             48       3,550
Pumping stations & workshops           11       6,830             11       6,670
Power transmission lines                                                   1,200
Tile making machines                   50         700             23       1,600
Hydraulic backhoes                     10         300             10         300
Draglines - excavators                 43       1,840             27       1,700
Transporters                           14          510             7         450
Mobile cranes                           4          120             3         180
Agricultural tractors                 400       1,400            220       1,980
Agricultural trailers               1,000       1,150            480         570
Motor graders                           4          170             4         100
Back fillers                           50         280              -           -
Workshop equipment                                390                          -
Jeeps & general purpose vehicles      100                        100         560
Pickups                               120        f600             80         440
Station wagons                         49       J 
Microbuses                              -            -            10          60
Trucks & trailers                     107         960            131       1,940
Caravan trailers                       60         270              -           -
Motorcycles                           750         380            750         260
Forklifts                               -           -             12         180
Laboratory-office equipment                       180                         30
Collector laying machines               -           -              1         130
Tile drainage maintenance equipment    40         200             50          18
Extension equipment-projectors          -           50                        25
Crushers                                -           -              3          80
Spare parts-miscellaneous                       1,700                      1,383
SUBTOTAL                          21,400                    23,406
Consultants-training                              600                        583
Contingencies                                   4,000                          -
TOTAL                             26,000                     23,989



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
DRAINAGE PROGRAM
EPADP - 1980 Org8nization Chart
t WFP l/ I    IDG SECURITYI I|I                         I DG-TECH I      PUBLIC    I I LEGAL   |
I OFFICE I I OFFICEC1        I    I-               i      OFFICE   I     RELATIONSI I OFFICE I
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   I   CHAIRM4AN I    _    _   _ _       _   _  _
;ORGANIZATION                   I ;  ;     ; -OG
I    MArrERS     I |INSPECTION ;I                              ICONSULTANTSI    ISECRETARY I
_              _I                                        __ , ! 
i                                                           I__ _ _ _I                                                                   I
;  VICE CHAIRMAN |
;  FOR EXECUTION |                                                   I                 i
i& MAINTENANCE ;                                                     I                 ;
IUNDERSECRETAXIESI 2/                i UNDERSECRETARYI                       IUNDERSECRETARYI    IUNDERSECRETARYI     |UNDERSECRETARY I    IDS ADMIN   I   IUS PLANNING I
IIRRICATION IN     I                 I UPPER EGYPT     i                     IMAINTENANCE     I   NHECH 6 ELECT   I   I    DELTA        I  16 FINANCE I    I6 FOLLOW-UP I
IGOVERNORATES      i     __                                                              _   _             F--T5r----F__
_ _ _ _ _ _ _     _ __DG _TRUCT RES_   I   I    D     EAST_                  _    I  _ _   _ _  _      I    __A_I           _ _   _N
i __I     DG       ;        iDDGSTRUCTURES ;         ;     DG   I I         I |     DGLOWER i  I iI|DG STRUCTURESI  i     DGII _I     DG PLANNINGI I
1    1  EXECUTION ;         i    DESIGN       ;      i I    DELTA    |       I  EGYPT     ;  1 I   DESIGN      I I    I FINANCEI    I 6 FOLLOW-UPI l0
I     _   _    __            _   _    _   _     I     _ _  _ _ _       I       _   _  _    I                    I                I__ _   _ _ _I
i    i    WC                                  i_       i DG   IDDLE       ;   DGUPPER      I;        DG        Ii     i   DG    I I IDG FIELD      I I
1    i BENI SUEF   |        i DG MINYA        ;      i I    DELTA    i      I   EGYPT     i    i EXECUTION     ;      I ADMIN   i    IINVEST. & 6
___________   _ ____________   I     ________7  _      I                      _  _ _ _  _ _IDESIGN                               I
i_;       DG       ;                          i_ III       DG WEST     I  I                        DG EAST     I I                                   I
i    I ASSUIT      ;        ;  DG SOHAG       1      i I    DELTA     I     i                        DELTA     i1D -FIELD                           I
i                             I                                       |INVEST. &   I
i     i   DG                                  i i I      DGNIDDLE         I                    ;    DGWEST     iI DESIGN                           II
I QENA                  i DG ESNA        i    I   i     EGYPT    I                         I    DELTA     i                       _              i
;__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   I  ___________  I  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _            C 1 TRAINING !  I
i I_l  DG      i        I    DC PIPE      I _        DG UPPER    | __                      I   DCNORTH    II                     I 6 EVAL.     I
I ASWAN       ;        ;    FACTORIES    i        i     EGYPT    i                         IMIDDLE DELTA ii
;   DG SOUTH     ii
IMIDDLE DELTA I    I
I  DGPIPE         __I
I FACTORIES     I
WFP--World Food Program
2/ UnderSecretaries Irrigation in Governorates provide general supervision of General Directors responsible for construction work.



- 59 -
ANNEX 12
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NILE DELTA DRAINAGE I PROJECT
(CREDIT 181-UAR)
Project Cost by Year
Year                        Project Cost US$ Million Equivalent
Local 1/             Credit            Total
1970                     2.39                  -                2.39
1971                     4.13                  0.17             4.30
1972                     6.37                  1.13             7.50
1973                     6.44                  3.90            10.34
1974                    10.69                  6.02            16.71
1975                    19.24                  4.15            23.39
1976                    16.25                  2.17            18.42
1977                    26.94                  2.19            29.13
1978                    27.98                  2.68            30.66
1979                    35.21                  1.38            36.59
1980                    19.25                  0.20            19.45
174.89                 23.99           198.88
1/ Conversion rates;
1970-72 official   LE 1.00 = US$ 2.30
1973    parallel      1.00 =      1.70
1974    parallel      1.00 =     1.57
1975    parallel      1.00        1.50
1976-80 parallel      1.00        1.43
Maintenance Excluding energy costs
up to Dec 1978     LE 2/feddan
1979    LE 4 to 5/feddan



- 60 -
ANNEX 13
Table I
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NILE DELTA DRAINAGE I PROJECT
(CREDIT 181-UAR)
Project Benefits and Justification
Economi.c Prices and Incremental Production
Before    After   Xncrement  Economic   Increment 2/ Cropping   Incremental
Project  Project              Price 1/                Pattern    Production
------tons per feddan-----     $/ton   $/per/feddan       %        $/feddan
Economic Benefits Within Project Area
Cotton    1.0      1.09       .09     1,320          119        33           39
Rice      2.21     2.38       .17       275           47        35           16
Maize     2.23     2.33       .10       190           19        32            6
Wheat     1.5      1.5       -          250            -        29            -
129           61
Berseem etc. 3/                                                 71
200
Economic Losses Outside Project Area - Over 4 years
Cotton    1.03     1.0      -.03      1,320          -40        33           13
Rice     2.35      2.30     -.05        275          -14        35            5
Maize     2.34     2.24      -.10       190          -19        32            6
Wheat     1.68     1.51     -.17        250          -42        29           12
i129         76
Berseem etc. 3/                                                 71
200
Source; Evaluation and Training Division, EPADP
1/   Border prices adjusted to farmgate.
2/   Incremental production costs, such as additional harvesting, have been
assumed to be offset by incremental by product yield (straw, stova
etc.).
3/   No economic value assigned to berseem and other crops, for
comparability to Economic analysis made in SAR.



- 61 -
ANNEX 13
Table 2
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NILE DELTA DRAINAGE I PROJECT
(CREDIT 181-UAR)
Project Benefits and Justification
Project Economic Rate of Return - Base Case
Period    Year      Capital      Incremental        Net          Incremental
Cost         Operating         farm          Benefits
Cost           Benefit
----------------------(LE million)---------------------
1         1970        7.9            0.0            0.0              -7.9
2         1971       13.1            0.2             1.8            -11.5
3         1972       20.6            0.4            4.4             -16.5
4          1973      23.6            0.6             8.0            -16.2
5          1974      30.7            0.7            13.2            -18.2
6          1975      37.2            0.8            18.3            -19.7
7          1976      28.8            1.0           25.1              -4.7
8          1977      42.2            1.3           35.7              -7.8
9          1978      38.3            1.5           47.8               8.0
10        1979       40.4            3.2           60.6              17.0
11        1980       19.5            3.4           74.0              51.1
12        1981        0.0            3.8           86.0              82.2
13        1982        0.0            3.8           93.6              89.8
14         1083       0.0            3.8          101.2              97.4
15        1984        0.0            3.8          108.8             105.0
16        1985        0.0            3.8          116.3             112.5
17        1986        0.0            3.8          123.9             120.1
18        1987        0.0            3.8          131.5             127.7
19        1988        0.0            3.8          138.8             135.0
20        1989        0.0            3.8          145.8             142.0
21        1990        0.0            3.8          152.4             148.7
22        1991        0.0            3.8          158.5             154.7
23        1992        0.0            3.8          164.1             160.3
24        1993        0.0            3.8          169.0             165.2
25         1994       0.0            3.8          172.9             169.1
26        1995        0.0            3.8          175.6             171.8
27        1996        0.0            3.8          177.3             173.5
28-35   1997-2004     0.0            3.8          178.0             174.2
ERR = 25%, includes benefits within project area and losses averted outside
of project area.



- 62 -
ANNEX 13
Table 3
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
PROjECT rOMPLRFTTON REPORT
NILE DELTA DRAINAGE I PROJECT
(CREDIT 181-UAR)
Project Benefits and Justification
Project Economic Rate of Return - Alternative Case
Including Incremental Income but Excluding Losses Averted
Period    Year     CapitaL     Incremental        Net          Incremental
Cost        Operating        farm          Benefits
Cost          Benefit
----------------------(LE million)---------------------
1         1970       7.9           0.0            0.0             -7.9
2         1971      13.1           0.2            1.8             -11.5
3         1972      20.6           0.4            4.2             -16.8
4         1973      23.6           0.6            7.2             -17.0
5         1974      30.7           0.7           11.4             -20.0
6         1975      37.2           0.8           15.0             -23.0
7         1976      28.8           1.0           19.8             -10.0
8         1977      42.2           1.3           27.8             -15.7
9         1978      38.3           1.5           36.2              -3.6
10        1979      40.4           3.2           44.1               0.5
11        1980      19.5           3.4           51.7              28.8
12-35   1981-1982    0.0           3.8           56.8              53.0
ERR = 17% excluding benefits from losses averted outside the project area.






3-                                         3                                           32-
M01edlterrdneon    ief                                                                                  a  Sa
f        <                    <                  s              W             X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oltrroneon  5ea
;Q$CEXS AStv                                                                    X i 4SC9V\\ I 
REGIoke ATCFMaT ,nzal,  ,Port Said
KrelDawar  ~ 'Disuq
0E 2 Bahr Soft                              v 'l tX 8 ( 2   w     /< E
CE 8 Belbois~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
2Mddle ofDelta  DRAINAGE   I PROJECT      X   '.X<          1l      ,5                                      Get\
OMIE East Sobol   Proiect Completion Report     (o,'       _      +, /t                                             i
CM 2 East Monofra~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ofr
OM 3 lola       ~-     Nile Delta           }z,MI\C/       / i 
II  Mohollet Rooh         <  Drainage I  rlc  j9/                                                             LEBANON 'SYRIA
Y1II  Samotar               Ma,n Canals  |      D/TA 8AREADEa                                      Medazeran,ea, Sea  IsRAEt~ -  0-
Xl  Upper No 8        ----Morn Drains    I   Ros,ETTA AND DAMU/fTA9  r
Y1IT Segoeyo                Moaor Roads  N                                                                       S ~f¢ AR JORDAN
3 West af Delta                                                                                                  \   uz au < c'' \, 
OW  Deligot                 Rve AkE>A                                                                           d   erafertO S FuaL\\AAUDI
VA  Shabo khit       IOlEES     0   20   30  40   50  60                                              ARA  R 9r.e  :>rz b  dnhhhsn  Sdte h   F EGPUBLI  .s,
MILES2                  30     400               -;,    doo'i ,pi. 00 ip OF r  5  I Wbs 7@eP 
30'                             ~~~~~~~~~~31,.                vi, .oepiteoe of .000bovutdeoeoe  32  -  S  t  A  N  -  -  7a



