RESTRICTED
Report No.   PA- I 2a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
NILE DELTA DRAINAGE PROJECT
UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC
October 14, 1969
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00 = LE 0.43
LE 1.00 = US$ 2.30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES - METRIC SYSTEM
1 mdllimeter (mm)        = 0.039 inches
1 meter (m)              - 39.37 inches
1 kilometer (km)         = 0.62 miles
1 feddan (fed)           - 1.038 acres
1 square kilometer (km ) - 0.386 square miles
1 cubic meter (x3)       - 35.31 cubic feet
1 milliard Gubic meters
(1,000 Mm')            = 0.81 million acre-feet (M ac-ft)
1 kilogram (kg)          - 2.2046 pounds
1 cuVic meter per second
(ma/sec)               - 35.31 cubic feet per second
UAR = United Arab Republic



UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC
NILE DELTA DRAINAGE PROJECT
APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE CF CONTENTS
Page No.
SL2wMARY ....         ..*.*.*.*. .   .             *. .  . ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . .
I.    INTRODUCTION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
II.   BACKGROUND  ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  2
General .   . . . . . .  ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2
The Role oAgriculture ir. the UAR  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2
Irrigation and Drainage                       ...................   3
III.  THE PROJOECT AREA .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    3
General ...............................................................     3
Climate, TopographyandSoils  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    4
Population and Land Tenure          . . . .   . . . . . . . .  . .          4
Cropping Pattern and Yields . e .... ...............                        4
Marketing, Credit and Transportation    . . . . . . . . . . .               5
Supporting Services .g.S.e .s. .       .  ...     .....................     6
Irrigation  ....  .        .  .  .  .    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    .    6
Drainage  . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   .................................... 6
IV.   THE PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    7
Introduction  . . . . . . . . . . . .          . . . . . . . . . . . .    7
Project Description....                     . . . . . . . . . . .. .        7
The Project Works . . . .  .                .. .      .  .    .  .  . . .   8
Equipment Maintenance ...   .......  .                  ..  ..  .  ..    .    10
Engineering ..........                 ...      .... ........    10
Construction Schedule . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
Cost Estimates   . . . . .  . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    12
Financing . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . .        . .    . . . . . .   14
Procurement and Contract Procedures . . . . . . . . . . . . .   14
Disbursement   . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   15
V.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ..  . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   16
Ministerial Responsibility  . . . . . . . . . .                     .      16
Project Authority . . . . . . . . . . . . ..16
Staff Availability and Training ..17
Consultants . . .... ...18
Operation and Maintenance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   19
Operation and Maintenance Costs . . . . . . . . . . . . ..                 19
Iecovery of Costs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..  20



VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND FARM INCOMES  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  21
Cropped Area, Production and Yields . . . . . . . . . . . . .  21
Market Prospects and Prices . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
Farm  Incomes  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  23
VII.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  25
VIII. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  25
ANNEXES
1.  UNDP Pilot Project for Drainage of Irrigated Land
2. Agriculture
3. Soils
4. Goundwater Regime and Project Drainage Criteria
5. Description of Works
6. Construction Schedule
7. List of Equipment to be Imported
8. Cost Estimates
9. Organization Chart, Consultants and Staff Requirements
10. Market Prospects and Prices
11. Economic Rate of Return
MAP
Nile Delta Drainage Project
This report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission which
visited the UIAR in December, 1968, composed of Messrs. Malone, Bolt,
I'french-Mullen, Myint and Hulsbos (consultant).



UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC
NILE DELTA DRAINAGE PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        The Government of the United Arab Republic (UAR) has requested an
IDA credit to assist the newly established Vile Delta Authority for Tile
Drainage Projects ("the Authority") in financing part of its plan to pro-
vide tile drainage in irrigated areas. The project proposed for IDA sup-
port would cover an area of about 950,000 feddans of land in 17 catchment
areas located in the Nile Delta, to be completed within a 6-1/2 year period
beginning in 1969. The project is a continuation of the UAR's drainage
plan in which about 360,000 feddans of land have already been tile drained.
ii.       The project would be implemented by the Authority and would
include:
(a) mechanical installation of covered tile drains;
(b) the construction of pump stations;
(c) the remodeling of opeii drains and structures;
(d) building facilities for equipment maintenance and technical
training, and the provision of transport for agricultural
extension services; and
(e) the employment of consultants to advise and assist the
Authority.
In addition, the project would provide for expatriate technicians to ELSsiSt
in equipment maintenance and operational training.
iii.      The total cost of the project would be iE64 million (US$147 mil-
lion equivalent).  The foreign exchange component is estimated at about US$26
million, equivalent to about 18% of the cost, and would be financed by the
proposed IDA Credit. The Credit would be disbursed against evidence of
foreign exchange expenditure, or against the estimated imported component
(with a maximum of US$1.7 million) of some locally manufactured types of
vehicles where local suppliers would participate in bidding with a prefer-
ence allowance of 15%. All local currency expenditure would be met by gov-
ernment budget allocations.
iv.       By improving groundwater control and surface drainage in the area,
the project would lower the water table and reduce soil salinity, thus pre-
venting the decline of existing crop production and raising crop yieldis by
at least 20%. The project would lead to substantial increases in the incomes
of about 250,000 farm families and would improve the balance of payments by
increasing export earnings from cotton and rice and reducing the need for
wheat.imports. The rate of return to the economy is estimated at about 18%.
In addition, substantial indirect benefits would be obtained. The project
would be suitable for an IDA credit of US$26 million on standard terms. The
borrower would be the Government of the United Arab Republic.






UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC
NILE DELTA DRAINAGE PROJECT
APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1,01      The Government of the United Arab Republic (UAR) has requested an
IDA credit to help finance part of its drainage program in irrigated areas.
A Bank economic mission visited the UAR in February/March 1968 and reported
that salinization due to lack of field drainage was the most important
limiting factor to any increases in agricultural production. Subsequently,
a Bank mission consisting of Messrs. D. J. Parsons, C. M. Bolt, J. P.
Bhattacharjee (FAO) and T. N. Jewitt (consultant) visited the UAR in Sep-
tember, 1968 to assist the Ministry of Irrigation in the preparation of
a drainage project in the Nile Delta. The Ministry's feasibility report
was submitted to the Bank in October, 1968. An appraisal mission consist-
ing of Messrs. J. M. Malone, C. M. Bolt, M. D. ffrench-Mullen, J. K. Myint
and W. C. Hulsbos (consultant) visited the UAR in December, 1968.
1.02      The Government plans to improve drainage throughout the whole irri-
gated area of about four million feddans in the Nile Delta by 1985. Some
360,000 feddans have already been equipped with tile drains and the rate of
construction, which reached a maximum of 80,000 feddans in one year, has aver-
aged 50,000 feddans a year during the last seven years. To complete the
drainage of the irrigated area of the Delta by 1985, the Government would
have to achieve a vastly increased rate of development, which would only
be achieved by using mechanized methods. The initial Government proposal
to the Association was for a project covering 1.4 million feddans, to be
carried out over eight years. In view of the uncertainties involved in
achieving and sustaining the proposed rate of development, a more limited
project is now proposed which would cover 950,000 feddans in 6-1/2 years,
with an initial construction rate of 40,000 feddans for each of the first
two years.
1.03      The project would be the largest single tile drainage operation
ever undertaken, and substantial organizational changes and improvements in
planning techniques would be needed for its implementation. A measure! of
flexibility would be maintained against the possibility that the proposed
rates of implementation might not be achieved, since the project cornsists of
a number of separate and independent drainage units, whose construction can
be rephased in the light of experience.



1.o4      The project appraisal is based on documents and material submitted
by the UAR authorities, on the results of a UNDP pilot project 1/ for which
the FAO were the executing agency (see Annex 1), and on the findings of
the appraisal mission. This report was prepared mainly by Messrs. Bolt,
ffrench-Mullen and Myint.
II.  BACJGR0UND
General
2.01      The UAR has a population of about 32 million and a total land area
of about one million km2 About 96% of the area of the country is barren
desert, and the remaining 4%, concentrated mostly in the valley of the Nile
and its delta, is intensely cultivated. These irrigated areas support al-
most the whole population of the UAR, and have a density of about 800 per-
sons per km2.
The Role of Agriculture in the UAR
2.02      The agricultural sector is dominant in the economy and provides em-
ployment for over 50% of the population; it contributes about 27% of the
total GDP, as against 21% for iradustry. About 80% of exports are agricultural
products, mainly cotton, rice and onions. Agricultural programs are given a
high priority in the government's development planning, with particular empha-
sis on increasing production of food to reduce imports and on increasing
export crops, primarily through further development and improvement of
the irrigation and drainage systems of the country.
2.03      Between 1960 and 1965, the value added by agriculture increased
annually by 3 to 3.5%. Despite this increase, the food grain deficit has been
widening due to an annual populE6tion growth of 2.8%, government controlled low
consumer food prices, and static productivity caused mainly by deteriorating
drainage conditions. The UAR imports large quantities of wheat and flour,
with lesser quantities of maize, sugar and edible oils, and over 100,000 head
of livestock annually, at a cost of about LE90 million (US$207 million equiv-
alent).
2.04      The area under cultivation amounts to about 6.8 million feddans and
is practically all irrigatea~ including half a million feddans of recently re-
claimed land, some of which is not yet in full production. With an average
of 1.6 crops per annum on each feddan, the Egyptian farmer is already making
good use of the area available to him. A recent change of policy has given
higher priority to increasing even further the productivity per feddan in
existing irrigated areas, rather than to relatively costly new developments
on the fringes of the Nile Valley. Under this policy considerable capital
1/ "Pilot ProJect for Drainage of Irrigated Land", United Arab Republic,
1961-65. Contractors:- NEDECO; sub-contractors:- ILACO of Arnhem, the
Netherlands.



-3-
has recently been invested in the conversion of older, non-perennial basin
irrigation areas to perennial cropping. Sizeable investment has also been
made in dr6inage and in agricultural research, extension and supporting serv-
ices. Further details of the UAR's agricultural sector, services and input
provisions are included in Annex 2.
2.05      Two major constraints to increasing productivity -- water-logging
and salinity -- have not yet been tackled on a scale sufficient to arrest the
worsening situation, and there is urgency in proceeding with this work, part!-
cularly in the Delta. The ameliorating effect of good drainage on crop yields
has already been spectacular on some of the 360,000 feddans already tile
drained (see Annex 1).
Irrigatiorn and Drainage
2.06      The irrigation and drainage systems stretch almost continuously from
Luxor to Alexandria, a distance of over 700 km. The systems have been planned,
constructed, maintained and firmly controlled for the past 130 years by the
former Public Works Department Irrigation Service, now the Ministry of Irri-
gation.
2.07      In line with government policy, the Ministry has allocated priority
to schemes in areas where the need for drainage improvements is acute, in
which increasing salinity conditions are likely to affect crop yields seriously
in the near future, where investigations are advanced, and which will give the
highest returns on investment. The Ministry has estimated that the cost ofE282
million (US$650 million equivalent).
2.08      The scheme given the highest priority by the Government is located
in the Nile Delta, which contains a formerly very fertile area of about 4 mil-
lion feddans under irrigation. The project area is in the southern part of
the Delta (see Map 1), where salinity is becoming critical, and in which a
considerable amount of investigation has already been carried out. The
Authority was established in September, 1969 to implement all tile drainage
projects in the Delta, with special reference to the present project.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
General
3.01      The project covers 17 drainage catchment units containing sc,me
950,000 feddans in the Nile Delta, from within 25 km of the Mediterranean in
the north, to 140 km away from the coast at the project's southern limit.
The project is located in 23 districts 1/ of seven of the governorates in
the Delta. As shown on Map 1, it is situated as follows:
1/   District boundaries do not coincide exactly with drainage catchment
boundaries of the project area. Most statistics were available on a
district basis only.



Area           No. of Drainage
Location                   '000 feddans          Catchments
Eastern Delta Group
East of the Damietta Branch
of the Nile Delta;                       251                   4
Central Delta Group
Between the Damietta and
Rosetta Branches of the Nile Delta;    349                     7
Western Delta Group
West of the Rosetta Branch of
the Nile Delta;                          350                   6
TOTAL                                      950
Climate, Topography and Soils
3.02      The climate in the area is warm and dry, with pronounced changes
between day and night temperatures. The cool winter season continues from
November to March; the summer season begins in May and ends in September.
Only about 180 mm of rain falls at the coast annually, mainly between November
and February. The amount decreases rapidly inland to about 26 mm at Cairo.
Near Tanta, in the center of the project, the mean daily temperatures over a
30-year period vary from a maximum of 34.70C in August to a minimum of 5.3%C
in January. The topography is flat, and slopes gently from Cairo towards the
sea. The soils consist of heavy deltaic alluvium, being somewhat lighter in
the southern part of the project area, and becoming heavier to the north (An-
nex 3). The alluvium averages some 9 to 10 m in depth and overlies deep de-
nosits of water bearing sands and gravels. The soils are suitable for the
cultivation of cotton, rice, maize, wheat, Egyptian clover, barley, beans,
vegetables and fruit, provided they are supplied with irrigation water and
drainage. There are salinity problems, particularly in the northern part of
the project, which are rapidly worsening due to inadequate drainage, and which
are adversely affecting crop production.
Population and Land Tenure
3.03      The rural population of the districts in which the project is con-
tained has been estimated to be 5.2 million. About 39% of the farms are
owner-cultivated, with an average size of 3.86 feddans; 28% are rented with
an average size of 2.66 feddans and the remainder are made up of owner-
tenant operated holdings with an average size of 4.27 feddans. In the
project area itself, average farm sizes are slightly smallt#r (see para.
6.09).
Cropping Pattern and Yields
3.04      Cropping rotations are well established throughout the project area,
with cotton and rice as the principal cash crops (Annex 2). The Ministry of



-5-
Agriculture and Agrarian Reform regulates by decree the area planted under
cotton each year throughout UAR, and this is currently fixed at one third of
the arable land in the project area. Irrigated rice is restricted by decree
to the northern governorates, and the area cultivated is dependent on the
amount of irrigation water available after the demands of the cotton crop
have been met. In 1968, about 40% of the area in the rice-growing governorates
was cultivated under rice. Cotton is grown on the same land every third year
and is the controlling factor in the crop rotation. After cotton is planted,
it is normally succeeded by wheat and clover in winter, and by maize in the
following summer in the southern part of thefproject area; in the northlern
part, irrigated rice or maize is grown in th! following summer. The rotation
presently practiced is well suited to the conditions in the Delta and no major
change is envisaged in the near future. Up to the present, the area under
cotton and rice has been limited by the amount of irrigated water available
in summer. With the completion of the Aswan High Dam, this constraint should
be removed.
3.05      In the Delta, yields of the major crops, while high by world stand-
ards, have remained relatively constant for the past decade, in spite of the
use of improved varieties and increasing quantities of fertilizer and other
inputs and associated services. In general, the data available indicate that
there is a slight long-term fall-off in yield which becomes more noticeable
in the northern areas of the project, where drainage has deteriorated further
than in the south, and there are indications in the northern, north-western
and north-eastern sections of the project that impeded drainage and salini-
zation might reach a point in a few yRaars where yields may fall sharply. There
appears to be considerable variation in the yield of cotton, usually directly
related to drainage conditions, although other factors such as infestation and
humidity clearly have an effect.
Marketing, Credit and Transportation
3.06      The policy of the government is to extend to cooperatives a monopoly
in marketing of all crops; this is currently enforced for cotton, rice and
onions. Cooperatives also make substantial purchases of wheat, beans, maize
and other crops. They take delivery, at fixed prices, of the amount of produce
which has to be sold to the government (Annex 2, para. 6). Wholesale markets
for grain, livestock, fruit and vegetables, owned and operated by the Ministry
of Supply or cooperative market associations, are located in several parts of
the country, and are expanding.
3.07      The Organization of Agricultural Credit in Cairo deals with an agri-
cultural credit cooperative in each governorate. In turn, these make loans
to each of the 4,500 farmer cooperative societies in the villages, and all
farmers, both owner-cultivators and tenants, are members. These societies
supply credit both in cash and goods to the farmer on the basis of the area
planted to a specific crop. Farmers receiving credit are closely supervised
and receive advice from extension personnel as to the recommended methods of
cultivation, fertilization, pest and disease control, livestock management,
etc. In 1967, the loans made amounted to LE80 million (US$184 million). Al-
though no interest is charged, a fee of 4% on loans is levied on the Village
cooperatives, who in turn charge a 7% fee to the farmers.



- 6 -
3.08      In general, sufficient credit and supplies of farm inputs andc equip-
ment are available to all farmers on reasonable terms, and there are suffi-
cient crop processing facilities. The area is adequately served by the ex-
isting system of paved and unpaved roads, as well as by a railroad, provid-
ing good access to urban and rural consuming centers, processing plants and
to ports.
Supporting Services
3.09      The supporting services available to the farmer are generally ade-
quate. The extension service reaches the farmers through an extension agent,
often a graduate officer, stationed in the village and assisted by the direc-
tor of the farm cooperative in the village and backed up by district and
governorate organizations, staffed with a full team of specialists. The
area farmed by a village varies from 500 to 2,000 feddans. There is how-
ever a need to improve the mobility of extension workers and their farmer
training equipment (para. 5.11).
Irrigation
3.10      The intensity of irrigation in the Delta is exceptionally high.
About 90% of the 4 million feddans 1/ commanded by the canals in the Delta
receive a perennial irrigation supply once every 18 days in sunmmer and
winter, and every 15 days in spring and fall. Rice areas, however, receive
a supply every eight days in summer.
3.11      The annual volume of water available for diversion from the Nile
in the Delta since the first barrage was commissioned in 1890, averaged
about 26 billion m3 (21 M ac-ft.). Continuance of this adequate supply,
amounting to a depth of about 1.3m of water each year, has been assured by
the construction of the High Dam, now nearing completion. The Nile water
has a low salt content averaging about 200 parts per million. Nevertheless,
the quantity of salt passing annually into the Delta soils for the last 80
years has been about 1.5 tons per irrigated feddan; it is now evident that
too low a proportion of this salt is being leached out of the soil by ef-
fective percolation, with the result that the salt accumulation has already
reached a level which is potentially dangerous to crops in more than half
of the northern part of the Delta (Annex 3).
Drainage
3.12      Since the introduction of I)erennial irrigation 80 years ago, the
natural drainage of the Delta has bean increasingly incapable of discharging
the large quantity of surface run-of' and year-round seepage from the fields,
canals and branches. Despite the construction of a widespread system of sur-
face drains and pump stations over 40 years ago, the groundwater has gradually
risen in consequence; it is now less than 60 cm from the surface in much of
1/ Statistics in remainder of chapter relate to the entire Delta.



-7-
- 7 -
the area for several months of the year (Annex 4). The high water table causes
water-logging and prevents leaching of incoming salts from the root zone.
Crops suitable for Delta conditions are not particularly salt tolerant and,
if the productivity of the area is to be maintained, accumulated salinity must
be removed and the high water table must be lowered. The installation of sub-
surface drainage on a massive scale thus becomes a prerequisite for preserving
this otherwise well-developed and productive area of Egypt's limited lands
under irrigation.
3.13      Of the three methods of groundwater extraction and control in use
in the Delta at present, tile drainage, as proposed for the project, is the
most appropriate.  It removes excess soil moisture through concrete or clay
pipes buried horizontally below the crop root zone, does not require permanent
removal of land from crop production, needs (only minor maintenance, has been
fully tested in 360,000 feddans in the Delta, and has been shown to be suc-
cessful. The other two alternative methods, deep open field channels and
tubewell drainage, are discussed in Annex 4.
IV. THE PROJECT
Introduction
4.01      The project would be part of an overall program to provide tile
drainage in much of the Nile Valley within the UAR over the next 20 years.
The estimated cost of the project would be TE64 million (US$147 million
equivalent). The program has been held up due to the lack of foreign ex-
change required for drainage pumping machinery, and for mechanical drain-
laying equipment to be used in accordance with the Ministry of Irrigation's
policy of mechanizing construction wherever this would result in reduction
of cost and faster implementation.
4.02      The project is contained within that part of the Delta in which it
has been known for some time that tile drainage is the most economical and
effective method of groundwater control (Annex 4). Similar projects will be
started in the remaining areas in the Delta and elsewhere as soon as appro-
priate techniques have been developed and when the necessary construction
capacity and equipment become available.
Project Description
4.03      The project is designed to achieve the following objectives::
(i)  to increase crop production in the Delta by improving>
soil moisture and salinity conditions (para. 6.03 and
Annex 2);
(ii)  to effect discharge of excess groundwater from the project
area, so as to depress the water table to a depth of about
one meter below the surface (except in rice-growing areas),
in less than five days after irrigation in any season
(Annex 4);



(iii) to desalinize the soil through leaching excess salts from
the root zone by control of the water table, and the main-
tenance of this improvement at minimum cost (Annex 2 and
para. 5.11); and
(iv)  to dispose of the subsurface drainage effluent and surVace
irrigation waste from the project area, by low-lift drain-
age pumps (Annex 4).
4.04      The physical works in the project would consist of:
(i) the construction of 11 drainage pump stations;
(ii)  the remodeling of about 1,700 km of main open drains and
their associated structures;
(iii) the installation of tile field drainage in 950,000 feddans
of irrigated land by mechanical equipment; and
(iv)  building facilities for equipment maintenance and for the
training of staff and operators in tile drainage construction.
The project would also provide:
(i) transport and farmer training facilities for the agricultural
extension services (para. 5.06 and Annex 2);
(ii)  tile drain maintenance equipment;
(iii) equipment suppliers' technicians to assist in maintenance and
operational training; and
(iv) consultants for advisory services in management and
training (para 5.08).
The Project Works
4.05      The project would include the installation of tile field drains 1/ in
17 drainage catchments adjacent to the existing tiled area, as well as the
means of discharging effluent from these catchments into the present disposal
system as shown on Map 1. Drainage flows would be pumped from the suitably
1/   Tile drainage consists of clay, concrete or plastic pipes laid continuously
at a slight slope below the crop rooi zone. When groundwater rises above
the tile field drains, due to either the application of irrigation supplies
or upward pressure, water from the saturated soil seeps through the open
joints or slots of the pipes into the field drains, and thence into col-
lector drains, until all the drainable surplus water is removed from the
soil abovre the drain. The crop root zone is thus relieved of water-
logging, and the effluent carries with it the surplus soluble salts.



-9
deepened open drains in 11 of these catchments (numbered II to XV on Map 1),
which vary in size from 24,000 to 90,000 feddans, with a total of 637,000
feddans. The pumps would discharge the effluent either into large irrigation
channels f,r dilution and re-use, or into main drains flowing to outfalls on
the coast. In the other six catchments (numbered OE, OM and OW), totalling
313,000 feddans, the land levels are sufficiently high to permit the effluent
to flow into the branches of the Nile or main drains without pumping, and
thence to discharge into other systems or to sea outfalls.
4.o6      The tile field drains or laterals would be installed at about 1.4 m
below ground level by machines which would excavate a narrow trench and lay
the 10 cm diameter tiles continuously. Concrete tiles would be used 1/, ind
altogether about 270 million pipes of 30 cm length would be required. The
manufacture, inspection, storage and transport of these pipes is in itself a
very considerable undertaking; it would need 50 semi-automatic moulding ma-
chines, to be provided under the credit, in several factories for the produc-
tion of an average of 900,000 pipes a week. The laterals would be about 200 m
long, with a spacing dependant on soil conditions and averaging 50 m, each
flowing into a piped collector drain. The total length of laterals in the
project would be about 80,000 km. The collector drains would discharge into
the existing open channel branch drains which would be deepened by about one
meter and widened to receive the deeper inflow. The main drains would also
be remodeled accordingly, and all drain control struc~ures and bridges would
be lengthened or rebuilt to suit. About 23 mLllion m of earth would have to
be excavated from the branch and main drains. The remodeling process would
be the minimum practicable and, because of the high value of land, would be
less costly to construct and maintain than the alternative arrangement with
deeper, wider drains and greater distances between pump stations.
4.07      To dispose of the increased amount of drainage effluent from the
project area which would have to be lifted from the deepened main drains, some
existing pump stations would be replaced by new stations having larger lift
and discharge capacities, and additional stations would be constructed at new
locations. Eleven stations would be built in the project, with 47 pumps in-
f3
stalled and a total pumping capacity of 213 m /sec, and with operating heads
varying from 1.2 to 4.6 m. Details of the mechanical and electrical pumping
equipment proposed are given in Annex 5. The installed pumping capacities
proposed are satisfactory (see Annex 4, paras. 26-27). The power transmission
lines to the pump stations would be quite short, and would be included in the
project together with a new substation. Assurances have been obtained that
the pover supplies would be provided in phase with the scheduled requirements
of the project.
1/   Sulfate resistant cement, which is available in the UAR, would be speci-
fied and incorporated where necessary to prevent deterioration of tiles
by chemicals in the soil or drainage water.



- 10 -
Equipment Maintenance
4.o8      A large, well-equipped government central workshop is available in
Cairo for the assembly, testing and major repair of machinery. The storage,
distribution, maintenance and repair facilities are, however, inadequate in
the project area. To carry out normal repairs and maintenance of equipment
and vehicles, about 10 mobile field workshops and 4 divisional workshops would
be set up and equipped under the project. Arrangements for the scheduled
establishment of these facilities, under the direct control of the Authority,
would have to be made as soon as possible. Assurances have been obtained
during negotiations the divisional workshops would be completed within eighteen
months of the effective date of the credit.
4.09      Competent foreign technicians would be provided by the equipment
suppliers under their contracts and would be resident on site.  They would be
responsible for the maintenance and minor repair of the equipment. Assurances
have been obtained that import licenses for equipment and spares for the
project would be issued without delay when required. Major overhauls and
repairs would be carried out in the additional divisional workshops as neces-
sary under the supervision of the equipment contractors' technicians. In this
way it could be expected that a reasonable level of construction equipment
serviceability and output would be maintained. Assurances have also been
obtained that all equipment supply contracts would contain suitable pro--
visions for the attendance of suppliers' technicians (see para. 5.09).
Engineering
4.10      The detailed engineering for th;! whole of the proposed works is in
a preliminary stage of preparation by the staff of the Authority, who are
technically capable of designing and specifying the works. In the gravity
flow drainage catchments, many of the open drains have already been deep-
ened, and about 160,000 feddans are ready for tile laying to start. Bid.
documents and drawings are in preparation for the first tile drainage instal-
lation contracts in these areas. Bid documents for the supply of tile lay-
ing machines, excavators and pumping machinery are being drafted by the
Mechanical and Electrical Department.
4.11      The present capacity for the production of printed drawings and
other documents are not adequate for the project, and it would be necessary
to import additional, modern drawing office and reproduction equipment and
materials, which have been allowed for in the cost estimates.
4.12      The design for the tile drainage would be based on seven years of
experience gained in the Delta on the successful FAO/UNDP Pilot Project for
Drainage of Irrigated Land (Annex 1) and other tiled installations, now total-
ling about 360,000 feddans. The criteria used by the government Drainage
Research Bureau for design of the systems are appropriate and are on the whole
satisfactory. The present staff, transport and equipment for pre--dreinage
field surveys is far from sufficient but could readily be expanded to meet
the maximum requirements for the project. Most of the survey and design work
for the remodeling of the open main drainage system has already been com-
pleted, and surveys are regularly updated. Detailed design of pump stations



- 11 -
and pumping equipment would be done by the construction and equipment supply
contractors, to the specifications and approval of the Authority.
Construction Schedule
4.13      The phasing of equipment supply and construction within the project
is determined by the rate of increase in tile drainege inst,allation capacity
which could be achieved by the Authority and the contractors, the progress
already achieved in drain remodeling, and rate of the construction of pump
stations. A reasonable division of work load between the Eastern,, CerLtral
and Western Delta Drainage Groups is another factor in determining the con-
struction program.
4.14      From previous experience in the Delta, the Authority's engineers
have programmed the work so that all open drains would be remodeled to the
appropriate depth and, in pumped drainage areas, all new pump stations3 would
be operational, before starting the installation of tile drains in a catch-
ment unit. This procedure has been followed in the construction schedule
shown in Annex 6. The phasing of pump station construction, drain remodel-
ing and tile drainage installation would have to be carefully coordinated
and maintained. Installation would be in progress generally in not more
than four drainage catchments simultaneously although at increasing rates,
so that the extent of logistical effort in the last year of the project
would be six times that in the first year. Delays in obtaining accesis and
the acquisition of rights-of-way are not anticipated, since the necessary
powers were vested in the Ministry by laws updated and decreed in 1968; no
problems in this respect have arisen since then.
4.15      While the project does not contain unusual engineering features the
intended rate of tile laying, planned to rise from 3,300 km/year (40,000 fed-
dans/year) to 20,000 km/year (240,000 feddans/year) in five years, entails a
massive task of construction management and logistics (Annex 5). The maximum
implementation rate is the highest attempted. anywhere. It is only achievable
with mechanical tile laying machines, successfully developed and proven in
EuroDe and the USA and already in operation in the UAR. A fleet of 100 such
machines could achieve an average production of about 22,500 km/year when
provided with reasonably efficient operators, good logistical support and
regular maintenance. This would be 10% more than the maximum intended with
the same number of machines under the project; the proposed implementation
rate would be feasible under the conditions outlined, provided that the im-
plementation agency is adequately supported (see para. 5.08).
4.16      The Ministry has achieved installation rates of 80,000 feddans a
year but the present annual achievement is only about 40,000 feddans. This
rate would be the target for the first two years of the project. However,
in the third year the full benefit of the new tile-making and laying machin-
ery (Annex 7) would be achieved and the annual rate would jump to 130,000
feddans; at full production, in year 6, the target would be 240,000 feddans.
The phasing of the program, by catchment areas, is given in Annex 6 and sum-
marized below.



- 12 -
Annual Rates of Implementation
Financial Year:/- 1969/70 1970/71 1971/72 1972/73 1973/74 1974/75 25L76
Project Year:          1       2        3       4        5       6       7(part)
----('000 feddans)----------------------
Area tile drained:   40       40      130     170      200     240      130
Cumulative area:      40      80      210     380      580     820      950
/1   July 1 to June 30.
The first tile installation contracts could be started in some of the gravity
flow areas towards the end of 1969, and the project could be substantially
completed by the end of 1975.  However, construction of further projects in
the drainage plan must start in 1973 in order to maintain the momentum of
the overall drainage plan.
Cost Estimates
4.17      Cost estimates for the pump stations and their machinery are
based on unit prices for similar stations recently constructed in the
Delta. The quantities and rates for the deepening of drains are accu-
rately known from surveys and current work, and the cost of mechanical tile
laying was estimated from details recorded in the FAO/UNDP Pilot Project
as well as on present contracts. The foreign exchange costs of the equip-
ment and machinery are based on current sellers' quotations for the UAR.
Contingency factors of 5 to 20% have been applied as appropriate, with an
overall average of 10%, and varying allowances have been included for es-
calationi in equipment and labor costs (see Annex 8). These estimates are
considered reasonable. The cost of the project is estimated to be about
UE64 million (US$147 million equivalent) including the residual value of
construction equipment on completion of the project. The foreign exchange
component is estimated at IEll.3 million equivalent (US$26 million), mostly
for equipment, and the average cost per cultivated feddan is LE66 (US$152
equivalent). The costs are summarized in the following table and further
details are given in Annexes 7 and 8.



- 13 -
Cost Estimates
hE million equivalent      US$ million equivalent
Local  Foreign  Total       Local  Foreign  Total
1. Tile Drainage:
Equipment 2/               0.1     5.6      5.7        0.1    13.0    13.1
Construction             23.0       -      23.0       53.1      -      53.1
Training center,
offices, workshops
and stores             0.9       -       0.9       2.0       -       2.0
2. Remodeling Main Drainage:
Equipment                  0.1     1.2      1.3        0.1     2.8      2.9
Construction               9.7      -       9.7       22.3      -      22.3
3. Pump Stations:
Equipment, machinery
and construction 3/   2.7       2.9      5.6       6.2      6.8    13.0
4.  Crop compensation             4.7       -      4.7       10.8       -     10.8
5. Administration, super-
vision, training and
consultants               4.7      0.3      5.0       10.8     0.65   11.4
6. Tile drain maintenance
equipment               -       0.1      0.1        -       0.2      0.2
7. Agricultural extension
service vehicles            -      0.2      0.2         -      0.5      0.5
8.  Contingencies                 4.7      0.9     5.6       10.8      2.1    12.9
9.  Customs duties                2.1       -      2.1        4.8     _        4.8
Total project cost:       52.7    11.2    63.9       121.0    26.0   147.0
1/  All figures rounded.
2/  Includes machines, vehicles, workshop, office, stores and training equip-
ment, spares, freight, foreign suppliers' technician costs and aLllowances
for escalation.
3/  Includes pumps, motors, switchgear, electrical transmission, imported
construction equipment and contractors' overhead costs.



- 14 -
Financing
4.18      The proposed IDA credit would cover the foreign exchange require-
ments of the project, estimated at about US$26 million, or 18% of the total
project cost. Government allocations would provide the balance of the
project cost, some US$121 million equivalent, and disbursements would be
required approximately according to the following schedule:
/1   1969/ 1970/ 1971/ 1972/ 1973/ 1974/ 1975/  Total Project
Financial Year-   1970  1971  1972  1973  1974  1975  1976   Requirements
Project Year:         1     2      3     4      5     6     7
…     --------- US$ million equivalent -----e
Government Contri-
bution:            6.1   9.1  20.2  26.2  25.5  23.2  10.7        121.0
IDA Credit:          0.3   6.1   9.5   7.4   1.7   1.0    -          26.0
Project Totals    6.4  15.2  29.7  33.6  27.2  24.2  10.7         147.0
/1   July 1 to June 30.
Annual public investment in agriculture, irrigation and drainage has
recently been more than "E60 million (US$138 million equivalent), includ-
ing amounts of at least LE9.5 million (US$22 million) for the Aswan High
Dam now nearing completion. The annual local currency requirements for the
project should, therefore, be readily available within the government bud-
getary allocations.
4.19      Nearly 90% of the foreign exchange would be required during the
first four years of the project for the importation of equipment and for
the services of consultants and expatriate maintenance and training tech-
nicians. Some of the machinery and equipment financed would not be fully
depreciated under the project and assurances have been obtained that they
would be used for the continuation of the government's drainage plan.
Procurement and Contract Procedures
4.20      Construction equipment, drainage pipe manufacturing machinery,
vehicles and associated spares would be procured by international competi-
tive bidding in accordance with the Association's standard procedures, ex-
cept for minor contracts not exceeding US$10,000 individually and US$100,000
equivalent in aggregate. Local manufacturers of trucks, tractors and motor-
cycles would be allowed to bid, with a preference of 15% or the actual cus-
toms duty, whichever is lower.
4.21      International bids would be obtained for the construction of the
11 pump stations, complete with pumping equipment. It is anticipated that,
when bidding, foreign manufacturers would either enter into joint ventures
with Egyptian civil engineering contractors, or would sub-contract the
structural work to approved Egyptian concerns. However, in accordance
with the Association's normal procedures, no preference would be given to
local civil works contractors in comparison of bids.
4.22      There are a large number of experienced Egyptian construction
concerns, including two who have been successful in international bidding
on Bank Group projects. In the near future, with the completion of the



- 15 -
High Dam, these concerns will have a considerable amount of excess capacity.
It was therefore agreed during negotiations that contracts solely for civil
engineering work would be awarded on the basis of local bidding. Although
the larger hgyptian construction firms have been nationalized, they continue
to operate on commercial lines and there would be an adequate degree of
competition in bidding. Since very few of these concerns have the special-
ized equipment required for the project field works, contracts would in-
elude provision for the purchase of construction machinery from the Authority
(see para. 4.20). The terms and conditions of purchase by contractors were
agreed with the Association during negotiations and include that the price
to be paid by the contractors for the machinery would be that paid by the
Authority with the addition of a 10% administration charge; that payment
would be made by installments over the contract period; that the contractor
shall submit a letter of guarantee covering the full price of the machinery;
that the machinery shall remain Government property until the completion of
the contract; and that the machinery shall be constantly maintained in good
working order. It is intended that the 300 million drainage pipes required
would be supplied by local manufacturers under contract, and that the pipe
moulding machinery to be purchased by the Authority under the credit would
be resold to them on similar terms to those agreed for the resale of construc-
tion equipment.
Disbursement
4.23      The proposed credit would be disbursed against evidence of:
(i) certified payments made under contracts for construction
of complete pump stations; disbursements would be made
on the basis of the foreign exchange element of the con-
tract price;
(ii) the landed, foreign exchange cost of construction equip-
ment and spares imported for the project and the foreign
exchange element of salaries for manufacturers' technicians
who would be resident in the UAR under the equipment supply
contracts;
(iii) the foreign exchange component, agreed as 65% of th(s
invoiced price, of contracts for trucks, tractors and/or
motorcycles if supplied by Egyptian manufacturers;
(iv)  the foreign exchange element of fees, expenses and salaries
reimbursable under contracts for foreign consultants andi
technicians who would provide advisory services for the
project; and
(v) the foreign exchange costs of overseas training to be gLven
to operators and staff participating in the project, as
certified by consultants to be responsible for the super-
vision of this training.
Accounts and Audit
4.24      The Ministry of Irrigation, like all other ministries of the UAR
Government, is subject to an annual external audit by the government's Central
Organization for Accounts and Audit, which reports directly to the Presidency.
In addition, resident auditors are stationed in field inspectorates of the



- ±0 -
Ministry of Irrigation to pre-audit accounts before disbursement. These
procedures would also apply to the Authority. Assurances, however, have
been obtained for:
(i)  establishment and maintenance of separate project accounts
by the Authority;
(ii)  annual auditing of such accounts by an independent accountant
and the Central Organization for Accounts and Audit, in accord-
ance with procedures satisfactory to the Association;
(iii)  submission of copies of each audit report to the Association
within six months of completion of each financial year.
V. ORGAiIZATION AND MANAGEiMENT
Ministerial Responsibility
5 01-     The Minister of Irrigation would be responsible for the general
supervision of the implementing agency for the project, and for the main-
tenance and operation of the works after completion. The Minister of
Agriculture and Agrarian Reform would be responsible for providing exten-
sion services, on-farm inputs and agricultural credit through the coopera-
tive organizations, to enable full benefits to be achieved from the project.
Project Authority
5.02      Executive responsibility for constructioi of the project has
been vested in the Nile Delta Authority for Tile Drainage Projects, which
is an independent government agency under the supervision of the Ministry
of Irrigation, established by Presidential Decree in September 1969. The
Authority is in process of formation on the organizational pattern shown
in the chart on page 1 of Annex 9. Its management would be comprised of
a Chairman and a Board of eight directors, five of whom would be executives
on the project. The Minister of Irrigation can in addition appoint the
Under Secretary of Agriculture and two other directors of high technical
competence. The administrative and technical staff would be transferred
to the Authority mainly from associated departments of the Ministry of
Irrigation, and also from other agencies of the government.
5.03      The formation of the Authority provides the basis for the effi-
cient implementation of the project, since the staff would be engaged solely
on project execution, and the Authority would have the necessary control
of all technical, administrative and financial aspects of the project.
These include:
(i) planning, budgeting and progress control;
(ii) investigations and detailed engineering;
(iii) procurement of goods and services;
(iv)  acceptanee, storage, sales and distribution of equipment
and spares;
(r) training facilities for project staff and operators;



- 17 -
(vi) coordination and supervision of all project field forces
on drain remodelling, pump station construction and tile
laying;
(vii) equipment maintenance and repair facilities;
(viii) funding and allocation of local currency requirements;
(ix)  separate project accounting and audit procedures; and
(x) planning of project maintenance and introduction of
monitoring and evaluation of agricultural benefits.
All these activities would be concurrent throughout the first four years,
while most of them would be continuous for the full period of the project,
and thereafter for subsequent phases of the overall drainage plan.
5.O4     The organizational scheme as presented would be adequate to enable
the Authority to direct, coordinate and supervise the numerous activities
of all the government forces, local construction concerns and foreign
svtppliers involved in the project. The selection and appointment of com-
petent, experienced and suitably qualified officials for top management;
posts in the Authority would be one of the most important elements for the
success of the project. The government recognizes this and during negotia-
tions agreed to make every effort, including that of keeping the Association
informed on any significant changes prior to the event, to maintain an
effective organization and management structure.
Staff Availability and Training
5.05      A summary of technical staff requirements for the implementation
of the project is given in Annex 9. More than 200 engineers and 400
technicians would be needed in the Authority for the design and supervision
of construction of civil works, and for supervision of erection of mechanical
and electrical plant. The total present technical staff of the Ministry of
Irrigation is also shown in Annex 9, and it is evident that the number of
civil engineering staff required for the project would be available from
the Ministry, while the mechanical engineering staff needed would be avail-
able from the Ministry's Mechanical and Electrical Department. Assurances
have been obtained that the required numbers of qualified staff would 'be
transferred to the Authority in accordance with a timetable which has Ibeen
agreed with the Association. Sufficient numbers of foreign technicianis, to
be provided by the equipment suppliers, would be resident in the UAR to
ensure proper assembly and maintenance of the imported equipment. It was
agreed during negotiations that the supply contracts would require these
personnel to be available from the date of delivery of the construction
equipment to the construction contractors until completion of its use on
the project or, in the case of pump station equipment, a six-month train-
ing period for operating staff has been completed after the comwissioning
of each installation.



- 18, -
5.06      The agricultural extension serviLce provided by the Ministry of
Agriculture and Agrarian Reform to farmers in each gove;rnorate, district
and village is presently staffed with an adequate range of specialists to
meet the needs of crop ana livestock Droduction in the project area, andi
for the ginning of cotton, together with the production and storage of
cotton seed (see Annex 2). The extension staff is backed up by suitable
research organizations in crop, livestock and all necessary specialist
disciplines. Similarly, the cooperative and agricultural credit organiza-
tion is adequate.  The extension services in the project area would be
considered adequate if the mobility of field officers and the availability
of training aids were improved. To meet this need, allowances have been
made in the cost estimates for appropriate vehicles and equipment. These
items would be specified by the MinistrJy of Agriculture and procured on
their behalf by the Authority under international competitive bidding in
accordance with the Association's procedures. (See also Annex 2).
5.07      Agencies of the UAR government have the proven capability of
implementing very large projects (viz-  the operation and widening of the
Suez Canal and the completion of the High Dam).  However, in order to
achieve significantly faster drainage construaction rates than at present,
their engineers and technicians need additional training to up-date their
management and operating methods.  The provision ol trained personnel
would be a critical aspect of the execution of the project. The principal
training requirements for the project are for tile laying machinery operators
and mechanics, drainage investigation technicians, tile drain layout de-
signers and supervisory engineers, as well as f'or -;Ianning and construction
control engi-neers.  The requirements are related t- the increasing rates
of installation which would have to be achieved on the project (see Annex 9).
The scale on which new technical skills would have to be acquired by large
numbers of lower echelon staf'f In preparatory survey work, drainage design
and installation, would necessitate the establishment of' a project training
center in the Delta.  It would be important to prevent untimely dispersion
of trainees to other work. Assurances have been obtained that staff who
have been trained under the project programs would return to and remain on
the project for a minimum period of at least two years in the field in
which they were trained.  Until the full reauirements of trained staff for
the project were met, the Authority would not be in a position to under-
take similar drainage projects elsewhere themselves without detriment to
the project. Assurances have been obtained that no other similar work
would be undertaken by the Authority during the construction period of this
project without first having satisfied the Association that its prompt and
efficient completion would not be adversely affected.
Consultants
5.08      There is an urgent need to plan ard implement appropriate train-
ing courses for nroject personnel, both at the proposed training center and
overseas, in modern methods of vrolect manage7ement ard control as well as.
equipment operation and maintenance.  It w7ould, however, be beyond the
initial capacity of the Authcrity to make all the necessar- arrangements
for this in the short term. To ens u-e tmat  t -ra_ning -p ogr&ms would be
carried out ranidly and effectivelY. it w-cullld be ne;cessarv for the Authority



- 19 -
to engage a firm of consultants to devise and assist in the training pro-
grnms in the UAP, and overseas. Before trained Egyptian personnel could be
made available or fully effective, the firm of consultants would also have
to provide advice and assistance to the Authority's staff in planning.,
coordination, and progress control; in establishing appropriate procedures
for the survey, design and the production of drawings for the project;
in procedures for bid evaluation, equipment maintenance and for stores
control. It was agreed during negotiations that a firm of consultants
would be appointed under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association.
Summarized terms of reference for the consultants are given in Annex 9.
The appointment of consultants acceptable to the Association would be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit agreement. The foreign
exchange costs of consultants' services is provided for under the proposed
credit.
ODeration and Maintenance
5.09      After their construction and formal acceptance from the con-
tractors, the project works would be handed over by the Authority to
established Departments of the Ministry of Irrigation which would then
be responsible for all operation and maintenance. The staff required for
operation and maintenance of the project drainage system are shown in
Annex 9, and they would be trained at the Authority's training center.
The continuous monitoring of the general effect of tile drainage on soil
conditions and crop production in the project area would be an important
element in the evaluation and design of future projects. Assurances have
been obtained that suitable monitoring services would be set up and main-
tained by the Authority.
Operation and Maintenance Costs
5.10      Operation and maintenance cost estimates for the pump stations
and the open drain system within the project have been based on actual
expenditures previously experienced on similar works in the Nile Delta.
Estimates of the cost of maintenance of the tile drains were based on
expenditures incurred on the FAO/UNDP Pilot Project for Drainage of Irri-
gated Land and elsewhere in the project area, as well as on costs of similar
work in Syria and in Europe. Appropriate adjustments were also made *to re-
flect the improved level of operation and maintenance assumed for the proj-
ect. The estimates include charges for wages and salaries, energy and
lubricants, repairs, materials, replacements of parts for pumps and motors,
and a contingencies element of 15%. These costs would be incurred by the
I)rainage, Tile Drainage Maintenance and Mechanical and Electrical Depart-
ments of the Ministry of Irrigation.
5.11      Operation and maintenance cost estimates during the six and a
half years of the construction period would be as follows:



20 -
Financial ,ear~ 1969/T0 1970/71 1971/72 1972/73 1973/74 1974/75 1975/76
Project Year       1        2       3       4        5       6       7
-   -- -- -   - millions-- 
Egyptian LE        -       0.04    0.08    o.16    0.26    o.45    o.63
US $ equivalent    -       0.10    0.18    0.37    0.59    1.03    1.45
After 1977 (year 9), the annual operation and maintenance cost is estimated
at LS0.7014 (us$1.6M equivalent) until 2003 (year 35), when replacements for
the -p-umps and tile drainage would be necessary. Of this amount, about LEO.33M
(US$o,76M equivalent) would be for the maintenance of field tile drains.
Recovery of Costs
5.12      The government is empowered by legislation to recover the costs
of field tile drainage directly from beneficiaries by means of charges
levied annually. The charges are designed to recover not only the
capital cost of tile drainage over 20 years, free of interest after the
addition of 10% to cover administrative charges, but also the maintenance
cost of clearing pipelines. These costs and charges would be approximately
as follows:
us$
LE            Equivalent
Over Project Area:
Capital cost of tile drainage in
project area                                     33.3M             76.7M
Administrative charge, 10%                        3.3M              7.7M
36 .6M     M     8 .T
Equivalent to:
Annual capital repayment from project
area over 20 years                                1.8M              4.2M
In addition:
Annual maintenance cost of tile drainage
in project area (see para 5.11)                   0.3M              0.8M
Per Cultivated Feddan /1:
Annual capital repayment charge                   1.92              4.42
Annual maintenance charge                         0.35              0.80
Total charges:                                 2.27              5.22
Per Cropped Feddan /2: 
Annual capital repayment charge                   1.63              3.75
Annual maintenance charge                         0.29              0.67
Total charges:                                 1.92              4.42
/1   Cultivated area of 950,000 feddans in project.
/2   Taking double cropping into account, a cropped area of 1,176,000 feddans
a year is assumed for the four main crops cotton, rice, maize and wheat
in the project area (see Annex 11, page 2).



- 21 -
It was agreed during negotiations that suitable arrangements would be made
to ensure that the cost of maintenance and the capital invested in field
tile drainage would be recovered from beneficiaries by way of the charges
described.
5 13      The other project costs, consisting of remodelling and maintaining
main drains and the construction and operation of pump stations, plus the
provision of agricultural extension services, research and training faLcil-
ities, would amount to about LE30 million (US$70 million equivalent) over the
35-year life of the project, and would be met by budget allocations out of
general revenue. A significant contribution to the revenue is made by, a
land tax which is related to the productive capacity of the land and which
is reassessed shortly after the completion of public works which affect
the productivity of the land. Anticipating yield improvements from the
project, it would be reasonable to expect an increase of about LEl (U'S$2.30
equivalent) per feddan in the average annual land tax paid in the project
area, presently about LE4.50 (US$l0.35 equivalent). This level of in--
crease, extended over the 35-year life of the project, would more than
offset the costs remaining after direct recoveries for field tile drain-
Age. The benefits arising from the works would enable farmers to meet;
drainage charges and increases in land tax without impairing their in--
centives to increase production (see para. 6.og).
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND FARM INCOMES
Cropped Area, Production and Yields
6.01      At full development the project would halt the present tendency of
crop yields to decline and also lead to considerable improvements in yields
resulting in the increased production of principal crops as indicated below.
PRESENT AND PROJECTED CROPPED AREA, YIELDS AND
ANNUAL PRODUCTION OF PROJECT
CROPPED AREA       YIELDS                PRODUCTION         INCREASE IN
'000 feddans   m tons/feddan             '000 m tons        PRODUCTION
'000
Present   Projected      Present   Projected m tons      %
Cotton
(lint)/l       316       0.32        0.38          101        120        19      18
Rice
(paddy)        328       2.50        3.00          820        984        164     20
Maize
(hybrid)       339       1.54        1.95          522        661        139     27
Wheat          193        1.12       1.35          217         260        43     20
Total    1,176
/1  Cotton seed oil and cake have not been taken into account in evaluating
the output as their value would be offset by ginning and other associated
costs.



- 22 -
Most of the increased output of cotton and rice would be exported, while the
increase of maize and wheat would help to replace imports and meet the needs
of the increasing population.
6.02      In addition to the four principal crops grown in the rotation, which
is expected to remain relatively unchanged, large areas are cultivated with
Egyptian clover in the winter for livestock feeding. Beans and barley are
also raised in winter, and throughout the year vegetables and fruit are grown,
including citrus where drainage is adequate.
6.03      From information received from the Ministries of Agriculture and
Irrigation, both in Cairo and in the field, as well as from farmers and others
in areas that have been tile drained, there is no doubt that all crops grown
in the Delta have responded favorably to improved drainage and the reduction
in salinity which results therefrom. A conservative overall increase in yield
reaching 20% in the third year following completion of the drainage work in
any one area, has been assumed as the full quantitative benefit that would
accrue from the project for cotton, rice and wheat, and 27% for maize. The
incremental benefit attributable to maize assumes that only hybrid maize would
be planted in the area on completion of the drainage works. In calculating
the benefits, a 10% increase was anticipated in the yields of rice, cotton,
wheat and maize in the first year following the completion of field drainage;
15% in the second year for cotton, rice and wheat, and 20% for maize. In the
southern half of the project, those maxima may be reached earlier, while in
some areas in the north, where there are more intense salinity problems, the
maximum crop increases may be arrived at in four to five years; a three year
period was therefore taken as an overall average for the project.
6.04      The project would also increase the availability of forage and rough-
age and, in the long term, grain available for livestock rations. This should
lead to an improvement in the standard of nutrition of livestock, as well as
to the expansion of the industry, thereby reducing imports and making available
locally produced meat and milk.
6.05      No comparative yield data were available for Egyptian clover, the
major winter forage crop in the Delta, and benefits for it could not be quan-
tified. Nor was it possible to quantify benefits attributable to the pre-
vention of any further decline of yields of all crops in the area. Because
of these omissions, the incremental production attributable to the project
has been very conservatively estimated.
Market Prospects and Prices
6.o6      Cotton.  As noted above, the project would result in an annual in-
crease in cotton lint production of 19,000 m tons, consisting of about 56%
of Egyptian Extra Long and 44% of Medium Long Staples, both of which are
classified as Extra Long Staple (ELS) by international standards. This
would be destined mainly for export and represents about 0.5% of current
world cotton exports. Unlike shorter staple cottons, ELS has not been
in surplus recently, and for the last five or six years world consumption,
production, trade and prices have followed a practically stationary trend.



- 23 -
In the long run, however, the outlook for ELS cotton is likely to be in-
fluenced by increasing competition from man-made fibers; by the uncertain-
ties surrounding imports by Soviet Bloc countries which have recently ac-
counted for 35% to 40% of total world ELS imports; and by cotton policies
of the USA (Annex 10). The UAR intends to meet this situation by a policy
of careful control over production and exports, combined with a planned
expansion of its textile industry. Nevertheless, market prospects for
ELS cotton are such that it would be prudent to assume that the 197T5 world
market price would be about 25% lower than the average of the last few
years, and in the evaluation of project benefits a range (according to
staple lengths) of 30 to 37 USk per lb CIF Liverpool has been adopted.
6.07      Foodgrains.  In spite of its rapidly growing foodgrain deficit, the
UAR has found it advantageous to promote exports of rice, which is of minor
importance in the Egyptian diet, especially since imports of other foodgrains
have been available on relatively favorable terms. Accordingly, most of the
increase of rice production resulting from the project would be exported. Its
m,arket prospects appear good, especially in the Arab and African countries.
T'he valuation of the increase in rice production from the project is based
on a price of US$115 per ton ex mill, which corresponds to current long run
world market projection of US$140 per ton (5% broken FOB Bangkok) after ad-
justment for quality and other differences (Annex 10).
6.08      In view of the large current imports and the projected further in-
creases in local demand, the market prospects for the increased output of
wheat and maize from the project are unlikely to present any marketing
problems. For the valuation of output from the project, the last five
years' average import prices have been used for maize and wheat of US$65.71
and US$69.00 per ton respectively, adjusted for transportation and other
charges.
Farm Incomes
6.og      The potential benefits obtainable under the project at full
development would provide considerable incentive for farmers. The pro-
jected net income (after charges) from the four main crops / of an owner
cultivator with an average size holding of 3.75 feddans would be expected
-to rise from US$228 to US$293, or by US$65 - an increase of 28%. Similarly,
the projected net income of a tenant cultivator with an average size hold-
ing of 2.5 feddans would rise from US$73 to US$120 - an increase of US$47
which represents a 65% increase. Details of the present and projected
incomes incomes per cropped feddan are given below.
1/   All figures are rounded and relate only to the cotton, rice, maize
and wheat crops.



- 24 -
Present and Projected Farm Income per CropPed Feddan
for Owner and Tenant Cultivators /1
Owner Cultivator                  Tenant Cultivator
Present Projected Increase Present Projected Increase
___--__-T_JUS$ equivalent per cropped feddan) -------
Gross Production
Value               156        183         27       156        183         27
Production Costs /2  85          88          3         85        88          3
Gross Income before
project charges      71         95         24         71        95         24
Charges:
Land Tax /3          10         13          3          5         6          1
Rent  /4              -          -          -         37        37          _
Tile Drainage As-
sessment Charges /5  -           4          4         -          4          4
Net Income after
Charges              61         78         17        29         48         19
_                    =          =          . .
Percent Increase      - - - - - 28% - - - -                      65% - - - -
/1   All figures are rounded and relate only to the cotton, rice, maize and
wheat crops.
/2   Includes both family and hired labor costs.
/3   The average annual land tax for the owner-cultivator is at present about
IE 4.50 (US$10.35 equivalent) per feddan, and for the tenant (who pays
50% of the tax) LE 2.25 (US$5.18 equivalent) per feddan.  Projected
increases in the land taxes for both categories of farmers might be of
the order of LE 1 (US$2.30 equivalent) and LE 0.5 (US$1.15 equivalent),
respectively, at full development of the project.
/4   Assumes an average rent per annum for all crops of LE 16 (US$37
equivalent) per feddan.
/5   See para. 5.12.



- 25 -
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The major quantifiable benefits to be derived from the project would
be the substantial increase of agricultural production (para. 6.01) and farm
incomes (para. 6.09), affecting about 250,000 farm families. These would re-
sult from the improved drainage, desalinization, and other facilities enabling
farmers to increase their yields per feddan. Additional annual output result-
ing from implementation of the project would consist of 19,000 m tons of lint
cotton, 115,000 m tons of milled rice, 139,000 m tons of maize and 43,000 m
tons of wheat. The project would contribute substantially to the UAR"s bal-
ance of payments position through:
(i) an increase (valued at about US$28 million), in its
annual exports of cotton and rice, and
(ii) annual savings (estimated at US$12 million) in im:ports
of maize and wheat.
Benefits from increased production of Egyptian clover, which occupies a large
part of the crop area in winter, have not been quantified owing to the absence
of data relating to yields of this crop before and after drainage.
1.02      At full development the annual gross value of production from the
project area is expected to reach about Egyptian "E92 million (US$215 million
equivalent), which is about 17% more than present levels. After deducting
production costs, the net value of agricultural production would reach BE48
million (US$112 million) 1/, of which more than two-thirds would consist
of the value of cotton and rice. This net production would, at full develop-
ment, represent a direct, annual benefit to the economy of about nE14 million
(US$32 million) after deducting project operation and maintenance costs.
7.03      Investment costs were adjusted to remove customs duties.  The rate
of return to the economy, based on a useful life of 35 years for the instal-
lations, would be about 18% (Annex 11 page 1). This analysis does not take
ilnto account any indirect benefits of the project, such as the eventual in-
crease in reuse of drainage water for irrigation, and the economic and social
impact of preventing further deterioration of one of the UAR's finest assets
- the fertile soils of the Lower Nile Delta - which otherwise stand in danger
of being ruined by the rising groundwater table and increasing salinity.
VIII. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      The project is technically sound and of high economic priority
for the United Arab Republic.  It is considered suitable for an IDA Credit
of US$26 million on standard terms.
1/  Details in Annex 11.



- 26 -
8.02      During negotiations assurances were received on the following
principal points:
(a) that the formation of the Nile Delta Authority for Tile
Drainage Projects had been authorized by Decree, that the
Authority had been given the necessary responsibility and
control to implement the project, and that the required
staff would be made available to the Authority (para. 5.05);
(b) that staff trained under the project training programs would
be required to serve the Authority or contractors employed
for the project, in the field for which they were trained,
for a period of at least two years after completion of such
training (para. 5.07);
(c) that the Authority would not undertake any work other than
that included in the project until the project has been
cmipleted, unless the Association shall first have been
satisfied that such work would not affect the prompt and
efficient completion of the project (para. 5.07);
(d) that contracts for the supply of equipment would contain
provisions for the attendance of qualified technicians
experienced in the maintenance and repair of the equipment
and who would be available in the UAR for suitable periods
(paras. 4.09 and 5.05);
(e) that the terms of sale of imported equipment to local
contractors would be acceptable to the Association and
that on completion of their use on the project all con-
struction equipment and vehicles obtained by means of the
Credit would be used in carrying out similar works
(paras. 4.19 and 4.22).
8.03      Agreement was also reached during negotiations on the phasing of
construction of power transmission lines and provision of power supplies
for pump stations (para. 4.07), on the construction and equipment of main-
tenance workshops (para. 4.08), on the establishment of project monitoring
facilities (para. 5.09), on the establishment of separate project accounts
and the transmittal of annual audit reports (para. 4.24), and the recovery
of field tile drainage costs (para. 5.12).
8.o4      A condition of effectiveness of the Credit would be that the
Authority will have employed a firm of consultants acceptable to the
Association, and on terms and conditions, as well as terms of reference,
approved by the Association, to advise and assist in carrying out the project
(para. 5.08).



ANNEX 1
Page 1
U.A.R.
NILE DELTA DRAINAGE PROJECT
UNDP PILOT PROJECT FOR DRAINAGE OF IRRIGATED LAND
1.       In 1958, the Government of the United Arab Republic asked for the
help of the United Nations Special Fhnd in demonstrating the use of mechani-
cal means of tile-laying in the drainage of irrigated lands in Egypt. The
United Nations Special Fund accepted this request and asked the Food and
Agriculture Organization to be the Executing Agency.  The Plan of Operation
was signed by the three parties on December 27, 1960, as follows:-
Spcil dA          aion:                                  US $ 456,200
consisting of: Special Fund contribution  US $ 428,lo5
Government contribution
towards local operating
costs                       US $  28,o95
Government counterpart contribution in cash              US $   4,000 equiv.
Governmen-t counterpart contribution in kind             US $ 810,000 equiv.
Duration                                                 3 years
Executing Agency                                         Food and Agriculture
Organization of the
United Nations
Cooperating Government Agency                            Ministry of Public
W4orks United Arab
Republic
2.       The problem to be solved by this project was to determine, techni-
cally and economically, the value of tile drainage under conditions prevail-
ing in the irrigated lands of Egypt. The studies included determination of
spacing, depth and type of drains, method of execution of tile drainage,
selection of suitable machinery and economic analysis of comparative costs
and benefits.
3.       Keeping the objectives of the project in mind, the following targets
were fixed:
(a) Selection of five pilot areas, 1,500 to 2,000 feddans each,
situated in separate localities, and with different soil
characteristics prevalent on large areas of land.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
(b) Collection of necessary field data and prepa:ration of
detailed designs of dramiage systemvis for each of the
five pilot areas.
(c) Supp y, installation and operationl of machinery required
for tile-making as wqell as for biLe-laying, including
t'aifing of local personnel for cperation of these machines,
(d) Excecution of drainage systems by mechanical -methods in four
areas and by hand labor in the fifth.
(e) Economic analysis of comparative costs and benefits.
As Execeating Agency, the FGod and Agriculture Organization of t..e
United 1 ations (fA)1 entered into a contract TdritLth Netherlands Engineering
Consultants (NEDECO) represented by Koninklijke HIeidemaatschappij,
Internati-onal Land Davelopment Consultants NV  (ILACO) to undertake the
field work on itbs behalf.
5.       The field workc was started on October 27, 1°61 vwhen the first mem-
bers of the tear arrived in EKypt. Initially, five sites for pilot areas
were selected),  redrainage surveys carried oult and tne necessary field data
collected.  Thereafter, the deotailed designs of the drainage systefmes were
prepare,d,
6.       All collector drains wfere constructed by a contractor who used hand
labor.  In the case of laterals, imported tile-laying machines were assemabled
on schedule, and training of local operators took place.  During this train-
ing period, collection of tiles and construction of some collectors went
ahead.  Meclanical laying of laterals actually began in the first pilot area
towards the end of September 1962.  Completion of the work in the first pilot
area took nine months, a period longer than anticipated.  Thzis was due to in-
adequate experience of operators and also to the iLnitial inertia in organiz-
ing repairs, spare parts, special tools and other matters. However, in t] e
second pilot area the work progressed at a satisfactory rate; having star-;ed
in October 1963, it was czompleted in February 1961h, a period of five months.
During the sumner muntlhs, July throuigh September 1963, no work could be
accomplished due to cultivation of rice and cotton.  In the meantime, the
work in the third area wTas completed by hand labor as required in the Plan of
Operation.  Execution of the work in the fourth pilot area was delayed due to
lack of tiles.  The manufacture of tiles had to be put out to tender and the
work in the third pilot area started in the last week of April 1964.  Unfor-
tunately, the construction work had to stop on July 1  due to rice and cotton
cultivation.  As of that (late construction of all collectors and nearly half
the laterals bfas completed. Thus, at the comp:ietion of the project period,
construction of drainage sys,tems was ccmpleted in three areas and nearly clom-
pleted in the fourth,
7.       The purpose of the project was largely achieved in developing a
design for the drainage system suitable to the conditions prevaili ng in t.e
Nile Delta, in demons tratirig the possibility of mechanical means of tile-
laying and in comparing trie costs involved in miiechanical methods with construc-



ANNEX 1
Page 3
tion by hand labor. The actual execution of work in the pilot areas showed
clearly the type of difficulties to be expected, such as necessary training
of local machine operators, adequate prior preparation for servicing and
repairs of machines, ensuring timely supply of tiles and proper scheduling
of the working period to avoid any disturbance of the cultivation of cash
crops.
8.        The yield increases following installation of tile drains have been
monitored in the pilot areas and elsewhere in the Delta by the Research
Departments of the Ministry of Irrigation, Ministry of Agriculture, and
Alexandria and Cairo Universities.  These investigations have shown that
yield increases, without additional inputs, of at least 20% can be expected
in the main crops grown following tile drainage, provided that the drainage
systems are maintained in good working condition without blockage by silt.
October 14, 1969






ANNEX 2
Page 1
U.A.R.
NILE DELTA DRAINAGE PROJECT
AGRICULTURE
Agrarian Reform
1.       Only4 % of the area of the UAR is suited to agriculture.  The
rural population dependent on agriculture amounts to some 18 million,
cultivating 6.3 million feddans together with recently reclaimed land
of about half a million feddans, which is not yet fully settled.
2.       Prior to 1952, land owners possessing more than 100 feddans
numbered 5,000 and owned 1-1/2 million feddans or about 25% of the
cultivated area. Most land owners were absentee proprietors and rented
out their holdings.   As a result of the competition for land amongst
farmers, rents were high.   In consequence, the Agrarian Reform Law
was promulgated in 1952 which fixed the upper limit on land owned by
an individual at 200 feddans., which ceiling was subseqnently reduced to
100 feddans, when the law was amended in 1961.   Land in excess of the
above limit was distributed to landless workers and small tenants. The
law further regulated the landlord/tenant relationship by fixing an
upper limit on rent at seven times the land tax, which resulted in
reducing rents by more than 50%.   The tenants' rights were further protect-
ed by fixing a minimum period of tenancy at 3 years and the provision
of minimum wages for agricultural workers.   Farmers Cooperative Societies
were set up to provide agricultural credit, farm inputs and supplies,
marketing facilities and other services.  To date, about 760,000 feddans
have been distributed amongst some 300,000 families.   Incomes of
peasant farmers have risen markedly and the wages of agricultural
laborers have almost doubled in the last five years.   Tenants have gained
security of tenure: they can only be evicted for failure to pay rent.
Cooperative Societies and Agricultural Credit
3.       The General Cooperative Organization supervises the technical and
administrative operations of Farmers Cooperative Societies while the
Agricultural Credit Organization supervises the Agricultural Credit Banks
providing the Societies with credit and auditing personnel.   Agricultural
Credit Banks have been set up at Governorate, district and village levels
and the Farmers Cooperative in each village (there are 4,500 such
Cooperatives) obtain finance from the district and village credit banks
for the purchase of seeds, pesticides and fertilizers, to be issued to
farmers in kind and cash advances to finance wages for cultivation and
harvesting as well as for livestock and fodder.   Both the Agricultural
Cooperative and Credit Organizations are responsible to the Minister of
Agriculture and Agrarian Reform.  No mortgage on the farmer's land is



ANNEX 2
Page 2
required; the crop is the security used for the loan.   Loans are made
on a per feddan basis by crops.   The authorized rates are given in the
table as follows:
LOAN RATES PER FEDDAN BY CROP
Cotton       Rice       Maize         Wheat
E. E.       1*E*        E. E.        +, E.
In Cash
For services           5.000         b.000
For harvesting         5.000           -
Total               10.000         b.000        -
In Kind
For seeds              1.500         2.665      1.180        3.670
For fertilizers        7.850         6.550      8.h5O        7.150
For pesticides         b.000           -        2.000        1.000
Total               13.350         9.215     11.630       11.820
Grand Total          23.350        13.215     11.630       11.820
Livestock loans are made for varying terms depending on the type of
livestock being purchased.   The amount of any one loan is generally
not more than two-thirds of the purchase price.   Additional monthly
amounts of f.E.2-3 are allowed for a period of 6-12 months following
acquisition for the purhcase of fodder.
b.        In 1967, credits to the agricultural sector by the Cooperatives
and Credit Banks amounted to about -.E. 80 m, (see Table hereunder):
SHORT TERM LOANIS TO FARMERS
Loans in Kind for     Cash Loans for    Total
Fertilizers  Pesticides     Services
Year         Seed        ----(in 1000  .Es)---
196V/65     3,032          25,328         6,ohl         2b,257       58,658
1965/66     4,633          3h,7W2         7,860         2b,092       71,327
1966/67     5,859          38,0b9         9,699         25,509       79,116
It has been estinated by the authorities that over the next three years
additional credit will be required in the region of f.E. 20 million
annually.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Marketing
5.        The producer sells his seed cotton to his village cooperative who
in turn supply the ginneries operated by the Egyptian Cotton General
Organization, wAhich is a holding organization for six cotton export, five
ginning and one export baling companies.   The ginning equipment is repo-^t-
ed to be several decades old and it is planned to re-equip and resite
them commencing with 23 factories over five years.   This was planned to
begin two years ago but has been deferred because of the emergency.   There
are 100 ginneries of which 75 are presently ginning 1,575,000 m tons of
seed cotton. The existing ginning capacity is 2.0 to 2.b million m tons;
there is therefore adequate reserve capacity.   In general, the distribution
of the ginneries throughout the cotton producing areas is poor.   Serving
the Delta, there are 63 ginneries.with a total of 3,550 gins.  Storage
of seed cotton is in bags in the 6pen and offers no problem in Egypt
because of the lack of rainfall.
6.        A farmer growing two or less than .two feddans of rice must by
law sell 1.25 m tons of the paddy harvested per feddan to the Government
and if he grows more than two feddans, the compulsory delivery is increased
to 1.5 m tons.   The remainder of the harvest can be sold to the Govern-
ment, or on the free market, or retained for home consumption.   The
price of paddy is fixed annually.   There is reportedly adequate milling
capacity. However, the mills are old and are liable to produce rice
not up to the specification required for Western markets.   The result
is that the bulk of the rice is sold as cargo rice.   The production of
rice for export is being encouraged by fixing high retail prices for local
consumption.   The effort has been successful as judged by the fact that
rice exports in 1967 amounted to some 700,000 m tons compared with less
than half this tonnage prior to 1960.   The sale of paddy to the Govern-
ment is through the Farmers Cooperative.
7.        The producer of maize is able to sell his produce on the free
market. However, the Cooperative is prepared to buy any quantity of
maize at prices announced annually.
8.        The producers of wheat and beans are required to surrender a
percentage, which varies from area to area, of his harvest to the Govern-
ment, through his Cooperative.   Present average quotas are 300 kg per
feddan for wheat and 310 kg per feddan for beans.   The remainder of
these crops can be sold to the Government, on the free market or retained
for food.
Consolidation of Land Use
9.        The long established and efficient crop rotation used in the
Delta, to which the farmers are accustomed, leads to the inter-mixing of
different crops in small scattered areas which, in turn, affects the
efficiency of cultivation, pest control and marketing.   With a view to



ANNEX 2
Page 1
to improving this situation on peasant farms which vary in size from less
than a feddan upwards, the consolidation of land use and organization of a
crop rotation project was introduced in the first five-year development
plan, 1960-1965.   This provided for the consolidation of crop areas iTL
village into units of not less than 20 feddans.   This consolidation wvas
carried out by the Farmers Cooperative Society in the village with the
consent and cooperation of its members.   The project commenced with
cotton and has subsequently been extended to other crops such as rice,
maize, onions and sugar-cane.   The consolidation has been especially
valuable in pest control operations.   It also enables tractor ploughing
to be undertaken as well as mechanical threshing and improves the efficiency
of irrigation and marketing.
Supporting Services
10.       The Ministry of Agriculture, and Agrarian Reform is equipped to
provide the research and extension services required for Egyptian agricul-
ture.   Besides the main research station at Giza there are four crop
research stations in the country as well as four livestock research
stations.   The varieties in use for all major crops namely cotton, rice,
maize and wheat are the products of the research services.   Work is
carried out on the agronomy of the various crops, fertilizer requirements,
pest and disease control etc.   There is an efficient soil survey depart-
ment and in general the Ministry is well equipped with research personnel
and facilities to meet the requirements of the agriculture of the country.
11.       An important aspect of the work of the Ministry is its extension
operations which cover the whole country.   The organization of this ser-
vice at the Governorate, district and village level is illustrated in
Annex 2 page 9.   The staff is adequately qualified and, at the village
level, the extension agent is quite frequently a graduate.   The follow-
ing table illustrates the staffing in five of the Governorates in which
the project is situated and the spread of the staff down to the village
level.   The staffing intensity appears to range between one officer
per 310 to 550 cultivated feddans, with a mean of about bOO feddans.
PROVINCE
Beheira Gharbiya Minufiya Qalyubiya Shargiva
No. of Provincial Staff         108       100       l05        15        122
No. of District Staff           166       126        109        106       154
No. of Village Staff            695       18         395        243       749
Total                        969       710       609         494    1,025



ANIUEX 2
Pa ge 7
12.       The extension staff at Governorate, district and village levels
is short of suitable transport.   Provision is made to supply each of the
seven Governorate offices, as well as each of the 23 district offices in
which the project is located,with one vehicle. Ten vans equipped with
visual aid equipment are also allowed for, and 700 motorcycles would
be provided for use of village agents and sub-agents.
Cropping Patterns and Rotations
13.       The cropping pattern in the project area is based on a long
established and efficient crop rotation and results in a cropping inten-
sity of about 180%.   The area under cotton, the major cash crop, is
limited by decree to one-third of the arable area cultivated in any one
summer.   The cotton crop is preceded by a winter fallow or a catch crop
of clover from which only one or two cuttings are obtained as the cotton
crop is normally commenced in March and extends through to September.
The remaining two-thirds is planted to winter crops, the most important
of which are clover, alfalfa, beans and wheat.   Other winter crops
include barley, flax, potatoes, tomatoes and vegetables.   These are
generally followed by summer crops of maize and rice, maize being a main
sumner crop in all Governorates while irrigated rice is very limited in
the southern part of the project area compared with the northern section,
where it currently covers some LO% of arable acreage. Other summer crops
are groundnuts, potatoes, tomatoes, vegetables etc.  Orchard and fruit
crops such as bananas and citrus, can be planted where drainage is adequate.
However, it would be preferable to concentrate any expansion of orchard
crops, such as citrus, olives, mangoes etc. in the reclaimed areas and
along the fringes of the Delta where they have been proved to grow satis-
factorily.
1.       Livestock for draught purposes as well as for meat and milk is
of considerable importance to the farmers in the project area.   The major-
ity of the land in the Delta is cultivated by water buffalo and oxen.
Donkeys, horses and camels are used also for light cultivation and trans-
port. The extensive areas of Egyptian clover cultivated throughout the
Delta in winter are utilized for livestock feeding while cereal straT-s are
used for sunmmr feeding supplemented with cotton seed cake, cereals
and beans.   The older leaves of the maize crop are stripped and used for
fodder during the sunmer.
Seed Production and Storage
15.       Improved varieties of cotton, rice and wheat and hybrid maize
seed are produced by the Research Stations of the Ministry of Agriculture.
Once the varieties are released their dissemination to the farmers as well
as the production of pure line seed becomes the responsibility of the exten-
sion service.   In the case of hybrid seed, the research stations gn)Tr
several thousand feddans for release to the farming community.   A separate
section under a Deputy Director General of the Extension Services, in each
Governorate, is directly responsible for seed production, processing and



ANNEX 2
Pa ge 6
storage.   Hybrid maize seed production should be expanded owing to the
increased yields that can be obtained by its use.   The projected benefit
from miaize production is based on the assumption that hybrid maize seed
would be grown throughout the p roject area; this will involve a con-
sicderable increase in the annual production of hybrid maize seed.
]6.       Owing to the dry climate of Egypt, the storage of seed cotton
and cereals in bags in the open offers no problem.   The Goverrment has
large tower silos in which imorted cereals are stored.
Fertilizers
17.       Farmers use fertilizers in addition to farmyard manure.   Egypt
produces nitrogenous and phosphatic fertilizers which are the two main
fertilizers required.   The quantity of potassic fertilizers used is small,
only amounting to a few thousand m tons. The production of nitrogenous
fertilizers within the country, relative to total consumption, has been in-
creasing steadily from just over 22% in 1959-60 to 63% in 1966-67.   The
consumption of nitrogenous fertilizers is presently 1.7 million m tons.
The production of superphosphates is niow practically equal to consumption,
which is in the vicinity of 285,000 m tons. Fertilizers are available to
the farming comriunity on credit from their Cooperative Society and are
supplied in kind in accordance with the recommendations of the Fxtension
Services for the various crops. Farmers appeared to have no difficulty
in procuring their requirements and the credit to finance them.
Crop Varieties and Yields
Cotton:
The main commarcial varieties of cotton being grown in Egypt
are as follows:
Type                Commercial Varieties       New Commercial Varieties
Extra Long Staple              Giza 45                       Giza 59
Karnak 1/                    Giza 68
Menoufi                      Giza 70 2/
1qediumn Long Staple           Giza 7 1/                     Giza 71 2/
Giza 30 1/                   Giza 67
Dandara                      Giza 69
Medium, Staple                 Ashmouni                      Giza 66
1/ Being phased out of production
2/  Promising varieties not yet released.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
18.       Farmers in areas that have been tile drained reported yield in-
creases of seed cotton of the order of 315-472 kg per feddan, with yields
of the order of 620-9L5 kg before drainage. In general, the yields of
Egyptian medium long staple cottons are higher than that of extra long
staple and this twas borne out by an analysis of area and production of
cotton varieties in 19 of the 23 districts in which the Project is
situated, which figures were obtained from the Ministry of Agriculture and
Agrarian Reform.  The weighted averages for these districts for 1962/67
indicate a decline in seed cotton yields as illustrated below:
1962,  1963,  1964,  1965,  1966,  1967
Mean Yield
per feddan in
m tons            0.90  0.91   0.95   0.81   o.68   0.71
19.       For purposes of calculating the benefits accruing from the
Project mean yields prior to implementation were taken of 954 kg of seed
cotton per feddan (353 kg lint) for medium long staple cottons and 738 kg
(273 kg lint) for extra long staple. The drainage and salinization
patterns in the project area (see Annex 2) were such that it was decided
to assume that cotton yields would reach their maximum increase, on average,
in the third year following the completion of tile drainage and would be
of the order of 20%.
Rice
20.       The local rice variety Nahda is grown on about 75% of the area
cultivated in this crop and has been the standard variety for some 20 years.
This variety is reported to be showing some signs of deterioration and is
to be replaced by Giza 170 which outyields Nahda on average, by about
150 kg per feddan of paddy.   The variety Giza 159 is similar in yield to
Nahda under normal conditions but outyields Nahda in saline areas.  The
variety Arabi is also grown.
21.       The weighted average yield of paddy in 19 of the 23 districts
previously mentioned is as follows:
1962,  1963,  1964,  1965,  1966,  1967
Mean Yield
per feddan in
m tons           2.73   2.11   2.09   2.11   2.05   2.25
For purposes of the project, present yields have been estimated to be
2.5 m tons of paddy per feddan and from the third year onwTards 3.0 m -tons.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
Maize
22.       The Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform has been producing
Hybrid maize seed and currently there are three commercial hybrids in
use namely DC51, DC186,and DC175. These outyield the main long established
variety Anerican Early by about 255g. The latter variety is grown on
some 25% of the annual area planted to maize.   A number of other local
varieties are gro'wn; their yields are inferior to that of American Early
by about 15$.
23.       The average yields of local varieties are of the order of 0.77 m
tons per feddan, while that of American Early is 1.26 m tons and the hybrids
1.5 m tons.   For purposes of the project, present yields are taken as
i.-5 m tons per feddan, increasing to 1.95 m tons in the third year and
subsequent years after drainage. It is assumed that only hybrid maize
will be plaited in the project area.
Wheat
2!.       WKheat varieties are Gtiza 155 and Giza 114h.  An improved variety
Giza 156 has not yet been released.   These varieties are reputed to be
capable of yields of up to 2 m tons per feddan under research station
conditions.   Mexican wheat has not equalled in yield the standard wheat
varieties groim in Egypt and is being used in the breeding program.
25.       The weighted average yields of wheat in 19 of the 23 districts
previously mentioned are as follows:
1962,  1963,  196L,  1965,  1966,  1967
Mean Yield
per feddan
in m tons        1.10  11b   1.19   l.05   1.15   1.00
Fcr the purposes of the project, Dresent yields have been estimated to be
1.12 m tons per feddan increasing to 1.35 m tons in the third and subseqluent
years after tile drainage.
October 1h, 1969



ORGANIZATION OF THE AGRICULTUIRAL EXrTNSION SERVICES IN EACH GOVERNORATE
_Director General
3 Inspectors for:
Legal, Planning
and Technemical Bureau
Staff at       |  Deputy Director                           Deputy Direator                            j Deputy Director
Governorate            General                                   General                                    General
Level           ______                                                                                 __
12 Inspectors with 35 Assistants for:                          3 Inspectors for:
Extension   Lepidopterous Pests  Agronomy             Agricultural Equi-pent         Seed Production
Statistics  Other Insect Pests   Horticulture         Mechanisation                  Ginneries
I4Tarketing   Rotation            AniTmal Production  Cooperatives                   Seed Storage
District Inspector
10 Sub-Inspectors for:                                         3 District Sub-
Staff at          Extension   Lepidopterous Pests  Rotation        Animal Production                    Irispectors for:
District          .Statistics  Other Insect Pests   Horticulture  Mechanisation                         Seed Production
Level       I4arket~In                                       Coprtvs1GinnLerie s
Level             liarketing                                       Cooperatives                         Seed Storage
Village Agen
StUaf f at                             Di>ctor of        S~ub-kge~nt                                                       .
Village                                Cooperative                                                                       0C
Level                                  Society
October 14, 1969






AMETX 3
Page 1
U.A.R.
NILE DELTA DRAINAGE PROJECT
SOILS
General
1i        The soils of the project area are recent alluvium., formed of ma-
terial from the Abyssinian plateau brought down by the Nile river during
flood. The are typical heavy deltaic alluviums with an average depth of
9-10 ta and overlie deposits of varying or unknown thickness of water-bearing
sands and gravels. The soils in the southern part of the Delta are honoge-
nous clays, while in the north they become heterogenous, with either the com-
paratively lighter soils alternating with heavy clays, or the two types are
stratified. A compressed, impervious peat layer exists at a depth of about
6 m in the north of the Delta.
2.        The Soil Survey Department o2 the I4inistry of Agriculture has for
some years been conducting a soil classification of the cultivated lands of
Egypt, and maps are available showing soil texture, drainage classes, depth
of water-table and salini-ty. The project is spread over seven of the Govern-
orates in the Delta namely, Beheira, Kafr ai-Sheikk, Gharbiya, Daqahliya,
Minuflya, Sharqiya, and Qalubiya.  The area of cultivated land in each of the
above Governorates is given in the table at the end of this Annex.
Texture
3.        In general, the soils consist of medium heavy to heavy clay allu-
viuims.  In the southern part of the project area, the surface one meter of
soil consists of 75-85% of fine silt and clay and 25-15% of very fine sand
with very little coarse sand. In the northern part of the area, slightly
heavier clays may be expected and a greater number of sandy layers exist in
the profiles.
Structure
4.        The structure of the heavy Nile alluvium is subangular and blocky
in the arable layer. In its natural condition, the fresh deposits are angular,
blocky with very sharp edges. With increasing depth the soil is macro- and
micro-layered. When saturated, the soils often become structureless and,
when dry, extremely hard. They are brown clays merging at depth into bluish
grey.
Permeability
5.        The permeability of the soil varies from less than 10 cra per day in
most of the heavy soils, to 0.5 m per day or sometimes considerably mc're in
the lighter soils. Some very sandy profiles may have a permeability of sev-
eral meters per day. The following simplified relation may be taken as a



ANNEXX3
Page 2
guideline; clay percentages over 50, between 40-50, between 30-40 and less
than 25, results in average permeabilities of 0.1, 0.25, and 0.5, and 1 me-
ter per day respectively.  In homogenous clay profiles, the permeability
tends to decrease with depth. In the arable layer and in the root zone val-
ues of 2 m per day have been measured occasionally, which decrease rather
abruptly to values below 0.10 m per day at depths greater than 1 m.
Salinity and Alkalinity
6.        Very little detailed information on salinity throughout the prc'ject
area is available. Observations made during the FAO/UNDP Pilot Project for
the Drainage of Irrigated Land, which was located in the project area, indi-
cated that 30% to 80% (or sometimes even more) of the land has a salinity- in
the root zone exceeding 4 mmhos/cm. On this land, only salt tolerant crops
will yield satisfactorily. There will be a definite improvement of crop
yields following desalinization. For salt sensitive crops, such as maize,
these yield increases may be more than 50% for the most saline part of the
area.
7.        Very little of the project is out of cultivation due to saliniza-
tion and this is located in the northern part of the project area. The Soil
Survey Department of the Ministry of Agriculture has over the past six years
completed land classification maps of the Delta based on four salinity groups
namely:
(a)  Non-saline soils, less than 4 mrhos/cm
(b)  Moderately saline soils, 4-8 mmhos/cm
(c) Highly saline soils, 8-16 mmhos/cm
(d)  Very high saline soils, more than 16 rimhos/cm
The surveys on which the maps for the project area have been based have been
carried out over a period of about six years. W<hen comparing the degree of
salinity between areas, care has to be taken, due to this time lapse and the
continuing increase in salinity of the Delta. However, the maps clearly show
that the southern part of the pg'oject area is much less saline than the
northern section.
8.        The Soil Survey Department considers that alkalinity affects only
5-10% of the land in the Delta. No alkalinity problem is expected in the
project area.
9.        Complete desalinization of the top 0.5 m of soil in the project
area is expected to take 3 to 4 years, with most rapid leaching taking place
immediately following the completion of the drainage. In some restricted,
very saline areas, the desalinization will take more than 4 years. The pro-
posed drainage system within the project will be able to reduce all salinity
to a level where all crops can be grown withou-t any depression of yield due
to salinity or inadequate drainage.
April 7.8, 1969



ANNEX 3
Page 3
CLASSIFIGATION OF CULTIVATED LAND IN THIE GOVERNORATES
. Classes of Cultivated Land   _    Total        Total Area
First    Second    Third   Fourth  Cultivated    of Gover-
Area         norate
Beheira and
Alexandria,
feddans          69476   138,552   463,276 118,317  726,62].    1,147,898
-- ditto -- %    0.56     12,07      40,36    10.31    63.30         100
Kafr E1-Sheikk,
feddanis          --      63,007   296,469   69,719  429,195         817,671
-- ditto -- %     --       7.73      36.24     8.52    52.49         100
Gharbiya 1/
feddaris        18,427   137,259    78,082   11,500  2455,268        271 ,868
-- ditto -- %    6.78     50.49      28.72     4.24    90.22         100
Daqahliya !/,
feddaris         3,0114  102,139   226,933   43,236  375,322         522,908
-- ditto -- %    0.58     19.53      43.40     8.27    71.78         100
Manufiya,
feddans         75.375   190,050    49,660   10,510  325,595         365,561
-- ditto -- %   20.61     51.99      13.58     2.88    89.06         100
Sharquiya 24
feddaris        13,058   172,437   189,576  .35,704  410,775         492,167
-- ditto -- %    2.65     35.04      38.52     7.25    83.46         100
Qalyubiya,
feddans         64,171    85,511    38,365    5,534  193,581         244,362
-- ditto -- %   28.60      38.11     17.1      2.47    86.28         100
To-tal, feddans 180,521   888,955 1,342,361  294,520 2,706,357     3,862,,435
Total, %         4.7       23.0      34.8      7.6      70.1         100
1/  Except districts of El Mehallat & Somanoud.
2/ Except districts of Aga, Senbelawni, Mansoura and Nit Ghamu.
2/ Except districts of Menia El Kanh, Hosenia and Fahous.
April 18, 1969






AW]EEX 4
Page 1
U.A.R.
NILE DELTA DRAINAGE PROLECT
GROUNDWATER REGIME AND PROJECT DIAINAGE CR=ERIA
Groundwater and Salt Accumulation
1o       Prior to closure of the Aswan High Dam in -964, the average volume
of water which passed Calro annually in the Nile was about 69,000 Tbi3
(56 M ac-ft) of which up to about 40,000 Ni3 (32 M ac-ft) was diverted at the
barrages in the Delta for irrigation of an area of 3.8 million acres. Before
the annual flood was controlled by the High Dam, about 10 million tons of
salt were transported past Cairo each year, of which at least 6 million tons
were deposited in the Delta.
2.       The capacity of the artificial drainage system provided in the Delta
in the past has been insufficient to prevent disequilibrium arisiDg in the
grourdwater aquifer. As a result there has been a gradual rise in the mean
annual level, of the water table in the southern Delta during the last half-
century, and ar increase in the upward pressure of the groundwfater (piezo-
metric pressure) under the clay sa,il cap in the north.  In Delta areas which
do not have tile drainage a seasonial rise of the water table occuIs in win-
ter, often to within 60 cm from the surface. In this season, Egyptian clover and
wheat are grown and, being shallow rooted, they are not so directly affected
by the rise. Perennial crops and orchards are adversely influenced, however,
in some inadequately drained areas where the winter rise is excessive.
3.       In midsummer the evapo-transpiration rate is such that throughout
most of the DeltCa the soil moisture level is reduced to well below saturation
poin-t, down to a depth of 1.50 m or more beneath the surface, except during
the two or three days nfter irrigation of crops other than rice.  The water
table is therefore at an average depth which is satisfactory for most crops
in midsummer, including the varieties of cotton developed and gro,n in the
Delta.  In early and late summer, however, the water table in inadequately
drained areas is at intermediate depths which are too shallow for the opti-
mum development of the rooting systems of cotton or maize.
4.       Following the introduction of controlled perennial irrigation, the
increase in total quantity of irrigation water diverted and applied annually
resulted in a comparable need for drainage water to be removed froDi the area.
Although the irrigated lands are underlain at depth by very permeable strata,
the overlying soil horizons are of comparatively low permeability, and give
rise to a rather complex natural drainage system. The characteristics of
the soil and the shallow slopes of the topography have not permitted the na-
tural drainage to cope with the drainage demand imposed. The comfbined sur-
face drainage and groundwater flows leaving the Delta have for some decades
been insufficient to remove these salts in solution from the soil at the
same rate at which they were brought into the area in the irrigation water.
This imbalance has caused a serious increase in the quantities of salts



ANNEX 4
Page 2
contained in the crop root zone throughout the irrigated areas of the Lelta.
5.       No systematically observed data on groundwater quality in the pro-
Ject area are available, apart from those mentioned in the report on the
FAO/UNDP Pilot Project for Drainage of Irrigated Lands.  These indicate
that groundwater salinity increases towards the north, wfhere up to 50,000
ppm of salts may be expected. The drainage effluent in these northern areas
cannot be reused for irrigation, even when diluted.
Effect of Depth to Water Table on Crop Yields
6.       It is extremely difficult to quantify the permissible groundwater
depth for optimum production of various crops grown in the Nile Delta with
any accuracy. In recent years some results have been obtained in Egypt
from soil-filled tank experiments at Bahtim in the project area. Although
it is doubtful whether all other factors affecting yields have been eliimi-
nated, the average results over the years 1965-68 may be used as a guide-
line. These show that maximum crop yields were obtained in typically heavy
soil where depth from ground level to water table was stabilized as foLLows:
Cotton            - 1.30 m
Egyptian clover  - 1.0 m
Wheat             - 1.10 m
Maize             - 1.15 m
7.       Very limited data are available on the direct effect of a fluctuat-
ing, shallow water table (as distinct from the effect of salinity) on crop
yields, or on the effect of varying water table depths during the growing
season. It may reasonably be assumed that early in the growing period and
for short periods after each irrigation, higher non-saline water tables will
not harmfully affect the yields, unless the root zones are waterlogged con-
tinuously for several days, in which case the affected roots of most dry-
land crops, including cotton, will rot.
8.       Rice is an important crop in the project area.  About 550,000 fed-
dans, or half the project area, are included in the so-called rice zone,
which receives a considerably higher water supply at more frequent intervals
than for dry-foot crops. In this area in summer, 30% to 60% of the land is
inundated for rice.
9.       The rice crop is at p;,esent inadequately drained by a simple sur-
face drainage system without any appreciable subsurface drainage flow. In-
formation obtained by the mission indicated that the rice crop itself also
benefited from subsurface drainage and leaching resulting from the construc-
tion of tile drains, and that yield increase of up to 25% were obtained.
Tile drainage leads to yield increases due to the removal of accumulated
to-cic elements in the root zone.
10.      Land in the rice zone should also be provided with tile drains, to
improve the water table controi. for dry-land summer crops and all winter
crops, as well as to raise the yields of rice.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Project Criteria for W,ater Table Depth Control
11.      Although only limited data on the seasonal and annual variation of
the depth to water table throughout the project area are available, these
data, and general knowledge of the soil hydrology of the area, indicate that
during winter the water table rises practically to the surface after each
irrigation application throughout the Delta. In summer, the water table is
drawn down everywhere except in the rice zone, because of the high evapora-
tion rate. It may reasonably be assumed that the whole project area i- in
need of water table control, since the depths to groundwater tables every-
where are significantly less than those mentioned in paragraph 1 above for
several months of the year.
12.      In addition, the accumulated salts can only be removed by leaching,
which requires the water table to be lowered to a depth significantly below
the root zone.
13.      After adequate water table control has been achieved in the Delta
areas, no special consideration need then be given to the salinization hazard.
The cropping pattern is so intensive (averaging 180%) that the irrigation per-
iods and associated leaching effect virtually cover all months of the year,
thereby eliminating periods of salt accumulation by capillary rise except in
the zones of seepage flows near canals and barrage ponds.
14.      The design procedure to be adopted in the project would be the same
as that used in the FAO/UNDP pilot drainage areas.  This aims at controlling
the depth to water table at about one meter midway between the field drains,
with a drainage discharge of 1 mm/day, less the anticipated natural drainage,
ibich varies from minus ½ mm/day (upward seepage) in the north, to i mm/day
(down flow) in the south of the Delta. Consistent monitoring of the pi:Lot
areas has shown that the minimum required depth to water table of one mester
is actually obtained in from one to five days, depending upon the season.
This is a satisfactory result, and the established design procedure may safely
be continued in the project.
15.      The proposed criteria for water table control will be appropriate for
the agiicultural conditions in the project area during the effective life of
the drainage system, which is considered to be between 30 and 40 years.
Project Criteria for Subsurface Drainage Design
16.      The design criteria for the project are based on those recommended
by the FAO/UNDP report which have proved satisfactory.  The mission agreed
that the estimated variation in field drain spacing would be from 40 to 60 m,
and that the average spacing for the project area to be used for the cost
calculations should be 50 m, taking into account the spacing for rice areas.
17.      With regard to the question of increased drain spacing for rice areas
to reduce the water losses during rice irrigation, there is at present no
better solution than the one recommen4ed by the FAO report, i.e. to increase
the spacing by an arbitrary figure of 20%.   It is important that the



ANIEX I_
Page t
Drainage Research Bureau concentrates on this problem so that this solution
can be verified and if necessary modified during the construction period of
the project.
Tile Drainage Construction Criteria
18.      It is proposed in the project feasibility report that the depth of
the lateral drains should be maintained at 1.5 m at the collector. This is
reasonable since no saving in cost or other aclvantage would result from in-
creased lateral depth.
19.      In the FAO report it is claimed that, with proper construction under
adequate supervision, no gravel filter around the tiles is required in t[ie
heavy soils and that this would result in a 15% reduction in cost per meter.
During the missionts visit to some of the'FA0 pilot areas, it appeared thlat
the drains without gravel were running well. However, since the scattered
lighter soils in the project area would need a gravel filter around the
drains, and since it provides a general insurance for the maintenance of the
system, it would be advisable to cover all drains in the project area with
a gravel filter, as proposed in the feasibility report. In the cost estimate,
an allowance of LE 0.03 per m has therefore been included. Specifications
should require separate deposition of the gravel in the drain trench after
the tiles are laid, and only after the tile lines have been inspected.
20.      The diameter of the field drains is 10 cm, which is far larger than
the hydraulic design requires. However, as this provides a considerable
safety margin against blockage due to silt, it would be advisable to use
this diameter for the present Egyptian conditions.  The Drainage Research
Bureau should be required to investigate whether reductions in the diameter
(and thereby the cost) would be justified in future projects.
21.      In general there is a tendency to overdesign tile drainage systems
in Egypt to compensate for shortcomings in their construction.  To reduce
these shortcomings field supervision would have to be intensified by pro-
viding one engineer per 5,000 feddans per year from the ainistry instead of
one per 8,000 feddans of drainage installed per year as at present. The
mission considered this to be an essential requirement.
22.      Although the necessity for pre-drainage field surveys and design
facilities are recognized in the feasibility report, there is at present a
severe shortage of trained personnel available for carrying out this work.
A properly staffed drainage construction training center for engineers and
technicians will be essential to overcome this shortage, and is provided for
in the project.
Drain Discharge Capacities
23.      The design discharge capacities of the collector drains which are
part of the field drainage system are to be based on 8 m3/feddan/day for
dry-land crop areas and 16 m5/fedd c-n/day for rice areas. They include an



ANNEXL
Page
adequate safety margin to allow for a decrease in hydraulic cross-sections
through silting in. These capacities and the consequent areas served by
the various diameters as mentioned in the feasibility report are those rec-
ommended by the FAO report.
24.      The proposed peak design capacities for the project main drains
vary from 7 m-5/feddan/day to 30 m3/feddan/day. These are generally of thLe
same order as the recommendations in the FAO/UNDP pilot area report,, with
the exception of the highest discharges to be provided for particularly low
lying areas. The design capacity are acceptable even though the proposed
drainage duties are somewhat lower than comparable peak discharges measured
at existing pump    stations (see paragraph 26).
25.     tl'nder existing conditions, waste surface irrigation flows add con-
siderably to drainage quantities, especially in rice areas. With the de-
velopment of drainage, it will be important for the irrigation system to be
operated with a view to keeping losses to a minimum, not only to reduce
wastage but also to prevent overloading of the drainage pump    stations.
Project Pump    Station Capacities
26.      The pump    station capacities proposed include at least one standby
unit, and have an installed capacity which exceeds the design peak dischairge
by about h0%. This makes allowance for past experience of frequent lengthy
breakdowns, and lack of manufacturer's service and spares.
27.      Since the designed drainage duties are considered to be rather low,
the actual over-capacity of the stations will be less than 40% and are accept-
able. Particular attention will have to be paid to the establishment of
maintenance routines and spares availability for the project pump    station.
Possibilities for Vertical Drainage by Tubewells
28.      Observations and investigations on vertical drainage in the Delta
are insufficient to determine its technical and economic feasibility. The
available data, however, indicate that groundwater pumping is not very ef-
fective in lowering the phreatic water table in the uppermost clay layer. The
collection of more information on vertical drainage is urgently needed,
though studies and investigations will take several years to complete.
29,      An important additional advantage of vertical drainage research is
that data on the possibility of groundwater development for additional irri-
gation supplies will also be collected. With a fully integrated use of
groundwater and surface water in the zones with usable deep groundwater,
vertical drainage may ultimately prove to be a better solution than tile
drainage.  This, however, will only be applicable to the southern part of
the project area, as in the northern part groundwater will be too salirle to
reuse, and moreover groundwater pumping may induce sea water intrusion into
the aquifer.



ANNEX 4
Page 6
30.      Vertical drainage, where practicable, will involve costs per fed-
dan which would be comparable to those for tile drainage. Its feasibility
will depend on consideration of the additional data to be collected, and
on the possibility of reusing the drainage effluent. As there will be no
demand for additional irrigation supplies for a long period after completion
of the High Dam, vertical drainage is not considered to be a viable alter-
native to the method proposed in the present project. For the southern part
of the project it may be possible that after the drainage system has depre-
ciated it may then be replaced by a vertical drainage system.
Effect of Control by Aswan High Dam
31.      The advent of complete control of the flow in the Nile downstream
o f the High Dam has resulted in considerable changes in the regime of the
river and its branches in the Delta.  The annual flood will now be impounded
in Lake Nasser, and the high discharges which were experienced in the Rosetta
and Damietta branches during September and October will no longer occur
except during two or three years in a century. The Rosetta branch will
act as a drain for most of the time, and areas adjacent to it will benefit
from the drainage effect which can be expected to affect lands within about
1 km on either side. The Damietta branch will continue to act as a carrier
for supplies to the Zifta Barrage, and so the drainage benefit will not ap-
ply to it. Neither branches will however contribute to the influx to the
groundwater which used to take place from these, mainly during the flood
season. In addition, seepage losses from the Delta Barrage pond to the
groundwater aquifer will be reduced, since the average pond level will be
lower and the level during September and October will be several meters
lower than previously.  These factors will reduce the influx to the ground-
water, so reducing the drainage problem slightly. The canal losses in the
Delta will, however, probably be increased, since the silt content of the
irrigation supplies is now mucl lower than previously, and the self-sealing
effect will be reduced.
32.      The deep aquifer underlying the bed of the Nile is a major lateral
contributor to groundwater influx in the extreme southern part of the Delta,
and there are indications that its piezometric pressure has dropped since
the elimination of the flood season in 1965. It should be borne in mind,
however, that this lateral contribution is probably very minor in comparison
with the vertical component of influx from percolation through the root zone.
In general, the variations in the groundwater regime brought about by the
commissioning of the High Dam will not significantly affect the design cri-
teria for groundwater control in the project area.
October 14, 1969



ANNTEX 5
Page 1
U.A.R.
NILE DELTA DRAINAGE PROJECT
DESCRIPTION OF WORKS
Location
1.        The existing sub-surface drainage system in the Nile Delta
includes about 360,000 feddans of irrigated land between Cairo and Tanta in
which tile field drains have been successfully installed. The proposed
project would consist of the installation of tile drains in a further
950,000 feddans in 17 adjacent catchment areas in the Delta and the pro-
vision of disposal arrangements for the effluent from these catchments
into the existing system of channels, as shown on the Map.   From 11 of
these catchmen-ts wihich vary in size from 24,000 to 90,000 feddans
drainage flows would be pumped from existing open drains, suitably re--
modelled, either into irrigation aanals for re-use, or into main drains
flowing to sea outfalls on the Mediterranean coast. In the remaining
6 catchments, totalling 313,000 feddans the land levels are sufficiently
high to perrit drainage flow by gravity into main channels discharging
into other systems or to sea outfalls.        f
2.        Six of the catchment areas and five of the pump station sites are
located in the western part of the Delta, lying on the left bank of the
Rosetta Branch of the Nile in the W4estern Delta Drainage Inspectorate.
Seven of the catchments and five of the pump station sites are situated
in between the Rosetta and Damietta Branches and are in the Central Delta
Drainage Inspectorate, while four of the catchments and one pump
station site lie on the right bank of the Damietta Branch on the EXstern
D lta Drainage Inspectorate.
Existing Drainage Facilities
:3.       The drainage facilities in the project area presently consist
almost entirely of open branch drains which are from 0.5 to 1.5 m deep and
spaced at about 2 km or more apart, running into main drains which are
about 2 m deep. Except in the tile drained area referred to in para.1,
farm drainage consists of narrow open ditches which are frequently too
shalloi. to have any sub-surface drainage effect. They discharge into the
branch drains in which water is often ponded up,due to inadequate fall
and insufficient pumping capacity at their lower end.   In this condition
they ar-D more likely to contribute to a high water table than to prevent
it.   The branch drains are in most cases of insufficient depth to receive
tile collector drains.
14.       The existing drainage system has evolved over 60 years or more and
was based largely on natural drainage channels.  Pump stations, mostly
diesel-engined, were first installed before World lfar I and were extended
over several decades. In many instances the effective life of the original



ANNEX K,
Page 2
stations is at an end, and several have been replaced recently by
electrically driven pumps, including some of the main outfall pump
stations near the coast.
l/
5.        Between 1961 and 196!, a small-scale pilot project  wTas imple-
raented in the Nile Valley to test and demonstrate tile drainage methods.
The project was executed by the FAO as agents for UNDP and financed by
the UNSF and the Government of the UAR.   It included five areas of
between 1,300 and 2,250 feddans in the Delta. Most of the work was
supervised by FAO's contractors, ILACO of Holland, and the remainder by the
Drainage Project Office of the Ministry of Public Works, who have since
monitored the effects.   The results have been very satisfactory.
Tile Field Drains Installation
6.        The basic element of the proposed project would be the network
of the tile field drains or laterals, using very similar methods to
those employed in the FAO/UNDP pilot project.  Tile drains would be laid at
an average depth of about 1..0 m below ground level in the irrigated
area to be drained.   The lines of drain laterals would consist of butt-
joined 10 cm. diameter pipes which would be laid to a continuous slight
fall, and which would collect groundwater or excess, percolated irrigation
water and discharge it either directly into a piped collector drain or
into a manhole on the collzctor line.   The pipes would be made of fine
concrete and would be cast in semi-automatic electrically operated moulds
at one main location and also, in some cases, in the vicinity of the
installation work.   Altogether about 270 M 10 cm pipes of 30 cm length
would be required.
7.        The laterals which would be about 200 m long, wuould be laid
parallel to each other at spacings determined from field surveys of the
parmeability of the soil to be drained and the type of crop to be grown.
The average spacing bet-ween laterals in -,he project area would be about
50 m and the total length of lateral lines would be of the order of
82,000 km.  A layer of fine gravel would be poured to cover the pipes
after they are laid, to act partly as a filter to prevent ingress of silt,
but mainly to preserve a line of flow along the lateral in case of block-
age or damage.
8.        The collector drains would receive the flow from laterals and
would be closed-jointed pipes of 30 cm to 60 cm diameter, laid at a fall
to their outfall into the open branch drains, and buried about 1.50 m
1/ FA0/UNDP Pilot Project for Drainage of Irrigated Land, United Arab
Republic 1961-65. (See Annex 1).



ANNEX '
Page 3
to 2,f0 m below ground level. They would generally be laid parallel to the
adjacent collectors; and about 400 m apart.  Collectors would be about;
1 km in length, and would have manholes located on them at intervals of
100 to 200 m for maintenance purposes.  Excavation would mainly be
carried out by hydraulically controlled mechanical back-hoes.
9.        The concrete drain pipes would be manufactured largely in the
centhal factory at Tanta, and the installation of tile drains and collect-
ocs, iusing machinery to be imported under contract and sold at cost by
the Yinistry of Irrigation to the contractors. come local contractors
already have experience in constructing tile drains by the use of machines,
waile others have previously used hand labor.   Contracts will be awarded
by ccvnpetitive tender between these nationalized concerns. Maintenance of
colleo-tors and laterals would be carried out annually by 1Xinistry of
Irrigation forces, using high-pressure water jets on small-bore flexible
pipec- introduced through the manholes, with pressure provided by mobile
pumps.
Branch and vain Diains
10.       The open channel branch drains would be deepened and widened
to permit free-fall discharge of the piped collectors into them at the
collector outfalls.   This remodelling would lower the open drain water
surface levels b-y abouL one meter.  Remodelling would also be extended to
covex all maii drains in the system wherever this work has not alreadly beenr
carried out. This would also involve remodeling the drain control
structures and bridges which in many cases would have to be widened
or rebuilt.  The quantity of earthwork which would have to be excavated
from branch and main drains has been calculated to be about 23 million
ci.bic meters, and the length of drains involved exceeds 1,700 km.
This work would be supervised by the Ministry of Irrigation and carried
out b-y local cont;ractors who have considerable experience in -the remodeling
of charmnels.   Contracts would be awarded by compe-titive tender. Naina-
tenance of the open drains would also be carried out annually by contract.
llo       The  installation of tile drains would increase the amount of
drainage eMmuent from the project area.  To dispose of effluent which
raquiLres to be lifted from the deepened main drains, some existing pump
stations would be replaced by stations having larger lift and discharge
capacities, and in certain cases additional stations would be constructed
at new locations.  A total of 11 stations would be built within the
project, with installed pumping capacities ranging from 8 to 42 m /sec,
and with operating heads varying from 1.2 to 4.6 m.  A total of 17
electrically driven pumps would ae installed, with individual discharge
capacities ranging from 2 to 7 m'/sec.   Details of the plant requirements
are showin in the table on page 6 of this Annex.
12.       The mechanical and electrical equipment for the pump stationas
would be imported and installed under construction contracts to be aw-arded



ANNEX 5
Page l
by international competitive bidding.   The contractors would be required
to provide their own technicians to install the equipment, to be resident
in the UAR during the running-in period, and to establish a suitable supply
of spares locally.   The Ministry of Irrigation engineers have had many
years of experience in handling this type of contract for pump station
equipment.
13.       The civil works associated with the construction of the 11 project
pum- stations would be straightforward and would be carried out by
local contractors who have much experience in this field, acting as sub-
contractors to the pumping equipment suppliers.   The specification and
supervision of the civil and mechanical works would be the responsibility
of Ministry of Irrigation staff, who have previously engineered many
similar pump stations in the Delta.
Construction Methods and Equipment
L1.       From previous experience in this work the Ministry of Irrigation
has found that, before work is started, on the installation of tile field
drains, it is mandatory to have all the associated open drains completely
remodeled to the appropriate depth, and all new pump stations in the
system constructed and operational, wherever drainage flows have to be
pumped. This work must be properly coordinated so as to ensure that
the additional drainage affluent can always be safely disposed of.   In the
project, the large-scale remodelling of the open drains would be executed
according to surveys and designs which have already been prepared, and the
work would be done mainly by groups of dragline excavators as listed in
Annex 7, supplemented by dredgers which are locally available for use in
some of the larger drains. Some of this work has already been partly corm-
pleted in about 160,000 feddans of the gravity flow drainage catchments
in the east of the project area, where no pump stations would be re-
quired.   These catchments would, therefore, be among the first in which
the installation of tile drains would be started under the project, as
shown in the construction schedule in Annex 6.
15.       The building of pump stations would present no technical problems
as the sites are within reach of good rail and road communications, and the
techniques for constructing heavy foundations below the water table with
steel piling are frequently used in the UAR.
16.       The only really unusual engineering feature of the project is the
very large scale of tile drainage construction which is envisaged.   The
intended rate of construction increases from 40,000 feddans, or 30300 km, to
reach 2b0,000 feddans, or 20,000 km of ti-e drains a year after 5 years.
This rate would only be possible by using mechanical combined trenching and
tile laying machines and, at peak drain production on the project, 100
machines would be in use.   Fully tracked, narrow bucket chain excavators
developed for this work have been successfully used in Europe, the USA
and in the UAR for several years, and when operated and maintained by alert,
trained personmel they can consistently exceed the construction output
required in this project.



ANNEX _5
Page 5
17.       Such a .sleet of these machiiaes would require massive logistical
support, including:
(i) timely setting-out of the designed drains layout;
(ii)  land ready for access;
(iii)  an adequate and continuous supply of cured and
inspected drain pipes laid along the drain line;
(iv)  readily accessible fuel and water supplies;
(v) adequate gravel supplies for filter material;
(vi)  well-trained operators, relief operators and
inspectors;
(vii) trained field maintenance crews and spares facilities
on hand;
(viii)  district workshop stores and transport facilities;
and
(ix)  experienced engineering supervision.
The total equipment needs for the project which are related to these
requirements are given in Annex 7, and the staffing and organizational
requirements are discussed in Annex 9.
October lL, 1969



ANNEX 5
Page o
Nile Delta Drsainage Project
Anil-1 Stations D;7t>a
Jt tion    <isch&arr-   'Urea         N Ao. of  Dischar-e   1ix.      i.. of       i.erarks
nd                           '.ead.  Uni-ts   of' pU,:lp   load    natig        Draina-c
,^-tttl:lent                              unit        of         of          Lut.
Sroa                                                    Jtation   Trans-        9   7 
former    m '/fed/day
. r13 sec    1,000    m,          m>/Sec        1Jr.
f ed,.
i'ah~alet   II   8.1       70   3.5       8        3         680      2 x   500       10
£"oh
a dadaka   III  15.0       4 3   2.0     Li4                 560     2 X   500        30
lieo  5   TV  12-'.67      73   1.3       1        8.5       0440     2 x   500       15
.hand k    V   6.59        38   4.15      5          S       680      2     500       15
>nc1a^.tai  VI I   9.55    55   1. 8 5    4        3.5         0      2 X   500       15
Segaeya JIIL  13.02       75   1.3       4        4.5       440      2 x,  500       15
-.hairi    IX  21.0        57   1.95               5      1,000       2 x 1,000       30
cIhereshra  X  30.         90   2.4       6        7      1,5h0       2 x 1,500       30
Zta'; el  7CIV   4.16     2-   4.65       82                 600      2 x   500       15
Baroud
10 e. 81/  7I   5.9 2/    3      .8                7         320 3/  2 x   300        15
S.hubr Yhit    13.9        76   1I5        L       5         500      2 x   500       15
fotal                  635              7
1/ Station to serve t,wo additional catchments in the next phase of development.
2/ Relates to catchment XI only.
3/ Initial load only.
October 14. 1969



ANNEX 6
PAGE I
UAR: NILE DELTA DRAINAGE PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
PROJECT                  2          3       4            5
YEAR                              34                               67
iLE DRAINED   40,000   40,000   130,000    170,000    200,000    240,000   130,000
___KF~v                              I T - r71
900                                   I cATcHMENT xv
PUMP STATIONS              F  xi
800                  I I lXVI         89,F,tEI   
800I  i
700
CIVIL WORKS         INSTALL PUMPS
REMODELING MAIN DRAINS          I
500                                  IV
40 0              OE
300                                                                -
TILE DRAINS                                            Vill
200                                / 
COMPLETED AREA                   XIV 
100-
Iow
Om
0 0/'
FINANCIAL    969/70    1970/71    1971/72    1972/73 |973/74    1974/75    1975/76
YEAR
(JUJL-JUN)
IBRD -4608



ANNEX 6
Page 2
UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC
NILE DELTA DRAINAGE PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
Derivation of Tile Drainage InstaIlation Capacities
used for Scheduling Construction
Cotton areas    Rice areas   Average
Calendar days/year                      :      365            365
Days access not possible due to
irrigated crop                                50            100
Calendar days remaining/year                   315            265
Non-working dEys/year                   :       50             41
Possible working days remaining/year   :       265            224
1/
Possible working hours remaining/year  :   2,120            1,792
2/
Estimated productive hours/year.   1,270                    1,075     1,170
Average installation capacity,
meters/machine-hour                                                   190
Tile installation rate, km/machine/year:       240            205
Average installation rate on project:-
k/machine/year;                                                       225 km
@ 85 m/feddan;                                                      2,650
feddans/year
1/   Based on 8 working hours/day
2/  Assumed 60% effective working time, with foreign resident maintenance
technicians*.  Ineffective time assumed:
Transport of equipment : 2%
<Maintenance time       : 0% (all out of normal working hours)
Repair time            : 7%
Waiting time           : 31%
Total ineffective time : 0% (60% effective time)



ANNEX 6
Page 3
U.A.R.
NILE DELTA DRAINAGE PROJECT
PHASING OF AREAS OF TILE DRAINS INSTALLED
(feddans 'OOOs)
Financial Year:  1969/70  1970/71  1971/72  1972/73  1973/74  1974/75  1975/76
Project Year:        1         2         3        4         5         6               Totals
Project
Annual Installed
Area:          40       40       130       170       200      240       130
>,  _  _   _   _    _==
Catchbent Area: /
OEl              5         5       30        40                                      80
fOE2)12
UE3)            17        17       56        38                                     128
Omi)                                                                             )
0M2)            10       10        20                                                40
OW               8         8       24        25                                      65
313
LI                                           20       50                             70
III                                          23       20                             43
IV                                                    40        35                   75
V                                                      38                            38
ViI                                                    12       43                   55
VIII                                                            45        30         75
IX                                                     35       22                   57
x                                                       5       48        37         90
xI                                                              34                   34
xIV                                          24                                      24
xv                                                              13        ii3        76
637
Totals:             40        40      130       170       200       240      1:30       950
Areas:             Free flow areas            Pumped Areas                Total
In project:           313,000                   637,000                  950,0130
1/ For location see Map 1.
October 14 1969






AINEX 7
'Pge 1
UNITED ARAB RFUPUJLIC
NILE DELTA DRAIN,iGE PROJECT
LIST OF EQUIPMENT TO BE IMPORTED
A.  Tile Drainage construction Equipment:
Approx. unit pric-   F.o.b. cost
Item                     Quantity        f.o.b.,US$ _        US$ 000's
(a) Tile making, laying and collector
drain installation equipment:
Tile laying machines                   100           30o,000             3,000
Spare chains                         1,600              230                368
Excavators, hydraulic back hoe,
including spares                        10           30,000                300
Tile making machines                    50           l1,OOO                700
Transporter tractors, 10 ton)           10           20,000                200
Transporter trailers, 10 ton)            10          11,500                115
General purpose trailers  3 ton      1,000            1,150              1,150
Tractors, wheeled, 35 hp_/             1400           3,500              1,)400
Tractors, tracked, 50 hp, with
trench backfiller attachment            50.           5,500                275
Spares                                 -            790,000                790
8,298 (1)
(b)  Vehicles and workshop equipment:
Trucks, 7 tonL/                        100            7,000                700
General purpose trailers, 3 ton        100            1,200                120
Road graders                              b          L2,000                16B
Pick-up trucks, 21½ ton                100            2,300                230
Station wagons, 6 seats, 4-wheel
drive                                    35           3,000                105
General purpose vehicles, L-wheel
drive                                    70           2,000                lbO
Sedans, 5seats                          10            2,000                 20
Motor cycles2/                           50             500                 25
Spares for transport vehicles                       690,000                690
Divisional workshops and stores
equipment                                            75,°000               300
Mobile workshops                        10            8,000                 80
Caravan trailers                        60            L,500                270
Investigation aquipment (inml. mobile
auger), laboratory,training center
and office equipment (inc. ;alevator,
air-conditioning and printing
machinery)                                          18b,000                184
Mobile cranes, 7 ton                      b          30,000                120
3,152
(c)  Contingency allowance; 6% approx. of (1) and (2)                             700
1/ Escalation allowance of -5. included.
2/ Items which may be bid for by local manufacturers.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
B.  Drain Remodeling Constraction Equipment
Item                    Quantity      Approx.       F.o.b. cost
unit price,1/    US$ 000's
f.o.b., US$
(a) Construction equipment and
vehicles;
Excavators, dragline, IL             3           70,000           210
Excavators, dragline, lm-           10           55,000           550
Excavators, dragline, In3           17           37,000            629
Excavators, hydraulic boom, !wm3   18            25,000            450
Transporter tractor, 40 ton          4           30,000           120
Transporter trailers, 25 ton         3           23,000             69
Trucks, tipper, 10 ton               7           13,000             91
Trucks, pick-up, 2½ ton             20            2,300             46
Station wagons, 6 seat, 4-wh.
drive                                4            3,000            12
Mobile workshops                     3            8,000             24
Spares                                          230,000            230
2,431 (4)
(b) Contingency allowance; 5% approx.                                   126 (5)
C. Pmi2 Station Machinery and Equipment
Item                       Quantity      Cost c.i.f.
UTS$ 000's
(a) Electrical and Mechanical pumping machinery;
Pumps, motors and switchgear                   47 sets          4,796 (6)
(b) Pbwer equipmernt;
Transformers (incl. Kafr-el-Sheikh sub-station) and    )        1,116 (7)
Transmission line equipment                              )
(c) Civil works construction equipment;
Sheet piling and dewatering equipment           11 sets            280 (8a)
(d) Contractors' overheads;
Foreign exchange element of contractors'
salaries, temporary housing, oncosts                              635 (8b)
6 827
a) Contingency allowances 20; approx. of items (61,5 s    (9)
1/ Escalation allowance of 8% included.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
D. Tile Drain Maintenance Equipment
Item                    Quantity      Approx.       Total cost
unit price,    US$ 000's
c.i.f., US$
Tile drain flushing machines,
spares and rod sets                   40           5,000            20()
E. A ricultural Extension Service Equipment
Item                    Quantity      Approx,       Total cost
unit price,    US$  000's
f.o.b., US$
(a) Vehicles;
General purpose vehicles            30           2,000           i6O
Motorcycles                        700             500            350
Demonstration vans                  10           5,000             50
Spares                                          35,000             30
490 (11)
(b) Zontingency allowance: 5% approx.                                    20
October 14, 1969






ANNEX. 8
Page 1
U.A.R.
NILE DELTA DRAINAGE PROJECT
COST ESTIMATES
A. Estimated rile Drainage Costs
lo  Foreian Exchame Costs:                                          US$ '000 guivalent
(a)  Tile laying and collector drain inistallation
equipment;  /                                                      8,298
.reight charges (5%);                                                423
14aintenance technicians (64 man-years  @ $12,500);                  800
(b)  Vehicles and workshop equipment; 1!                                3,152
Freight charges (5%);                                                153
Maintenance technicians (15 man-years @ $12,500);                    188
Sub-total:      1.3,014
(c)  Contingencies, 5%                                                    700
13s714
2. Local Currency Costs:
(a)  Freight charges (local)                                              140
(b  Tile laying:
950,000 feddans
x 85 m lateral drain per feddan
x LE 135 per 1,000 m 2/         = LE 10,900,000
(c)  Collector drains:
950,000 feddans
x 13 m collector drain per feddan
x LE 990 per 1,000 m 2/           LE 12,200,000
IE 23,100,000                   53,100
(d)  Training center, workshops, stores
and office land, buildings and services                            2,000
(e)  Contingencies, 15% apprax.                                         7,500
(f)  Insurance of equipment in transit (Egyptian Insurance
Organization)                                                        150
(g)  Customs duties (25%)                                               2,880
I/ Escalation allowance of 6$ inclucted. (See Annex r).
2/  &cluding charges for imported equipment, and including 8% escalation.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
B. Estimated Pump Station Costs
Station No.         II  III IV   V  VII VIII IX   X  xI  XIV XV      Totals
LE,  US$ M
'OOOs eqiiv.
1. Foreign Exchange:                     LE '°OOs  -
(a) Pumps, motors
& switchgear;  150 175 17  150 150 175 250 305 260 130 i65 2,085 4.796
(b) Transmission
line & trans-
formers;        60  80  5   20  55  30  20  30  80  30  30   485 1.116
(c) Civil works &
structures;2/   35  37  37  35  35  37  37  38  35  35  37   398 0.915
Sub-total;   215 292 262 205 240 242 307 373 375 195 232 2,968 6.827
2. Local Currency:3/
(a) Pumping equip-
ment;           28  35  3   25  28  52  37  45  40  26  32   383 0.881
(b) Transmission
lines;          50  30  40  15  60  30  24  30  70  15  25   389  .895
(c) Civil works;   120 118 138 120 130 138 165 185 155 120 138 1,557 3.581
(d) Housing;        30  30  30  30  30  30  10  10  30  30  30   350 0.805
Sub-total;   228 243 243 190 248 250 266 300 295 191 225 2,679 S.162
1J/ Includes part cost of Kafr-el-Sheikh sub-station.
2/ Includes allowance for foreign contractors' staff, housing and overhead
costs.
3/ Excluding supervision costs and contingencies.
October 14., 1969



0DaT ISTUOT&3
US$ # xLlion eouiv.
Periodz                                         Total           ban 1        ~                 en             eel            .8            ba6             Year ?
Currency! I/                                                     .              ,      .                           .
1. Ti-le Drainage
(a) Eoqpmat nm~ts,
(i) Tile making, laying, and
collector drain inetal1latian         --                                   0.50           3.33      -    4.l14     -    0.33      - 
equipmenft;
(ii) Freight charges on (i)              0.10   0.4:2                 -        0.02    0.03  0.17    2.5  0.22    0.01  0.01                 -
(iii.) Maintenance techni.ciansi                  0.80             -        -    0.05      -    0.20      -.   0.25      -    0.20      -    C0.10
(iv) Vehicles,woerkashps, trAning
center and office equinmt             -    3.1        -    0.20      -    X.6G      ..   0.32      -    0.92      -    0.11      -      -
r)Freight charge.f on (iv)             0.0k   0.:        -    0.0.1     -    0.08           0.01    0.52  0.0o4      -    0.01      -
(vi) Maintenance tecvmiciarna far (iv):   -      0.19       -              -    0.01    __    0.03       -    0.06      -              -    0.06O
0.11:13.01       -    0.21      -    2.26    0.03  4:.06    0J.7  5.61    0.01  0.1         -    0,16
(b) Constrwtion costs:
(i) Tile making anid IVing;
(tI) Collector drain inetal1lation)      53.10    -       2.30   -       7,20            7.20   -       5.2,0   -     1-1.20   -     13.50          7.2C      
(c) -2rtai.nig Center,   smintenance 
5e2±iope.s.oreand office UM45gug  2.00              Q.0            1.00    -      0.50 -                          -     -       -      -
2. Rwaoc.eling Main Drainage
(   E).qi    t9Drot                       -   1,1                -             0.20     -     1.75                                      
(i)  reaight chargee on (i);           0.03  0.10        -     -      0,01   0.02    0.02  0.09        . -                    
(ill) Maintenance techoiclene;              -   0.38                      -      0.01     -    0. CY      -   0.04     -      0.05           0.04  ~
(lv) Vehicles and workshops eq'cLp-
ment;                                  -   o!.A00                                   -    0.1:3       -    .                         
(v) Freight charges on (i,);,           0.02  0.03         -             .01   0.01    0.01  0.02       -     -              -       -      -
(it) Yaintenance technician. for (iv):   -   2.0            -                   00      __   0.01        -   001-  0.01                -    0.21 -'
0.06  2.79        -     -      0.02   0.T0    0.03  Z.33            00 -    0-0     .0       -     .05           -
(b) Corutruction costs:
(i) tend acquisition;                   0.148   -
(ii) Excavation;                        10.97   -
(iii) Structures:                        10.90   -           --                   --                      -      -       -     -
22.35   -         2.25-          2.50-          1:.o   -          ,           6.00   -       1.60 -
3. Pucw Station.
(i) Pumps, motors end switchgear;    0.88   4:.80
(ii) Power transmiseion equiait;    0.89   1.'12
(ill) Civil works;                       3.58   0.91
(iv) Hovsing:                           0.81    -                                                                       
6.16   6.63        -              .90  2.70    2.10  1.85    v.30  1.10    0.70  0.73    0.16  0. L'.
1. Crop Co,~~~~ensation ~10.80                       0.60   -       0.60   -       1.4:8    -     21:            2.20    -      3.00  1-        -
5. Staff
Su~pervsiion;                                9.00   -         0.35           0.60   -       1.25              '           1.9~0   -       .4:0
Admin.istration;                             1.79    -        0.10    --     0.10    -      0.20   -          .            .ko           0.4:6 -
Trami ng;                                     -    0.16        -  0.03        -    0.26      -              -.                  0.72      -    00
Consultants:                                       0           -              -    0.20           0.12                     -    00 
10.79  0.60o      o.5  0.06.   0.60  0.26   1i1:5  0.18    1.94: 0.05    2.30  0.02    2.86  0.01:  21-9           -
6. Tile drain maintenance ecuipwent-    0.20                       -     -       -      -            0.10             -              -        -     0.1
7. Agricultural extensien service
-t                               ~~~~~0.1:0                                      0.30      -              -      -       -     0.19
8. Coignis10.31  2.08                                                    -      0.81:  0.60    1.82  0.70    :.56  0.55    2.51:  0.17    2.05  tl0o  1-02
9. Customs dutiea                               4.80   -         0.10   -       0.1:0          i .60   -      210   -        0.60 -          -      -
Totals L.C. and F.E.                      121.00 26.00        6.10  0.29    9.09  6 .32   20.21  9.52   26.21  7.36   25.65  1.69   23.17  1.01  11.57        -
Coehined tatals                                1L7.00            -6,37          15.21          29.73         2,3.57          5'.2L          24.19       x
(W/D Cuotmec)                                 (Ill2s2)           (6.29)        (15.81)        (28.13)        (31.07)       (26.61:         (21.19)  (ic,
I/ L.0. - S.co.1 Currany
F.1. -Foreigv Exchange
October 11:, 1969






UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC: NILE DELTA AUTHORITY FOR TILE DRAINAGE PROJECTS
ORGANIZATION CHART
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD
CHAIRMAN'S         CONSULTANTS          PLANNING &                            SECRETARY OF THE         PUBLIC RELATIONS &       PETITION OFFICE
TECHNICAL OFFICE        & EXPERTS      FOLLOWING OFFICE                               BOARD               SECURITY OFFICE
I                             I                                                             I                              I
DIRECTOR GENERAL FOR          DIRECTOR GENERAL FOR           DIRECTOR GENERAL FOR          DIRECTOR GENERAL FOR            DIRECTOR GENERAL FOR
TILE DRAINAGE                OPEN DRAINAGE &                MECHANICAL AND              TILE DRAINAGE RESEARCH             ADMINISTRATION
AND TRAINING                    CIVIL WORKS                  ELECTRICAL WORKS              AND EVALUATION                    AND FINANCE
FIELD INVESTIGATION        -DESIGN OFFICE FOR OPEN           GENERAL DIRECTORATE          TILE DRAINAGE RESEARCHES
AND DESIGN OFFICE            DRAINAGE & CIVIL WORKS                 FOR                 -AND SOIL MECHANICS LAB               CONTRACTS
MECHANICAL PROJECTS
EAST DELTA DEPARTMENT         EAST DELTA DEPARTMENT           GENERAL DIRECTORATE
AND                            FOR                             OF                      EVALUATION OF TILE             FINANCIAL AFFAIRS
TILE DRAINAGE PROJECTS        OPEN DRA;NAGL PROJLCrTs            WORKSHOPS                    DRAINA_E PROJEC.S
MID DELTA DEPARTMENT
FOR
TILE DRAINAGE PROJECTS        MID DELTA DEPARTMENT                STORES                    MECHANICAL & ELECTRICAL           LEGAL AFFAIRS
FOR                                                         RESEARCHES
WEST DELTA DEPARTMENT         OPEN DRAINAGE PROJECTS
FOR
TILE DRAINAGE PROJECTS
WEST DELTA DEPARTMENT         DIRECTORATE OF OPERATION                                                                  >
LTRAINING CENTER                                                                                                                 PERSONNEL            G)Z
FOR                            AND                           LIBRARY-PRONLCZ
OPEN DRAINAGE PROJECTS        MAINTENANCE OF VEHICLES                                                                 m
IBRD - 4618



ANNEX 9
Page 2
U.A.R.
NILE DELTA DRAINAGE PROJECT
CONSULTANTS AND STAFF REQUIREMENTS
Consultants
1.        In para. 5.08 of the report, reference is made to the need for
consultants to assist the Authority in planning and establishing the pro-
posed project training center, and to advise on and assist in introducing
management techniques and procedures suitable for the project.
2.        An Egyptian firm of accountants would be selected by the Authority
to assist in establishing effective project cost accounting and budget methods.
3.        Another firm of consultants, who would have to be acceptable to the
Association, would be selected by the Authority and appointed on terms and con-
ditions approved by the Association. The foreign exchange cost of their ser-
vices would be provided for under the credit, and their terms of reference
would include the matters outlined below.
Consultants' Draft Terms of Reference
4.        Objective
4.1       The Consultants' services are required for making detailed recom-
mendations and introducing recently developed management techniques for
planning, investigation, design, administration and evaluation of the projects
and for training the Authority's staff in the methods to be adopted.
5.        Scope of Service
5.1       Within the six-year construction period of the project, the
Consultants are to provide qualified and experienced experts who will make
detailed reviews of certain aspects of the project, make recommendations to
the Chairman of the Authority for implementing these aspects, train the
Authorityts staff in the use of the appropriate techniques, and assist in
their introduction and use on the project. In particular, the experts will
apply themselves to the following activities;-
(a)  the overall planning and progranming of the implementation
of the project, the ccordination and control of construction
of its component parts, together with appropriate methods of
recording progress on all components;
(b)  the organization and establisiment of a center for technical
and operational training for the project, and the planning
and administration of a short-term study program in manage-
ment techniques for selected executives of the project auth-
ority, including the necessary practical training overseas;



ANNEX 9
Page 3
(c) the timely inwestigation of soil and drainage conditions
prior to tile installation, using the latest survey and
laboratory techniques, and the establishment of design
and installation criteria for the project;
(d) the preparation of suitable documents for international
bidding, the evaluation of bids for the supply of equip-
ment, and the subsequent administration of these contracts;
(e) the timely production of large numbers of working d.rawings
for the installation of tile drains;
(f)  the storage of equipment and spares for use in the projiect,
including the establishment of suitable stores control
methods,;
(g) the establishment of workshops for the maintenance and re-
pair of all construction equipment, and the control of
workshop activities;
(h) the recording and evaluation of physical improvement3s and
economic benefits actually derived from the project.
5.2       Although the main emphasis of the Consultantal se:rices
will be on assisti).g in the application of management techniques to be
introduced for the planning and control of the project construction activities,
the Consultants will also be expected to demonstrate the techniques at the
Authority's training center and to train staff in the methods introduced.
5.3      lThe objective and scope of the Gonsulttatu' services will require
the folowing professional staffs-
'Plavnin  a Pniroress P&i.eer: (Required for about 4 years and at
intervals subsequently 
To adapt and demonstrate recently developed, appropriate methods
for the planning and progranning of the coordinated implementation of the
project; to assist with the preparation of detailed programs for preliminary
work, procurement, construction and maintenance of the project; to devise
methods for the continuous recording of progress on all aspects of the pro-
ject, the indication of delays and their affect, and the hastening action
taken; and to establish the forms of progress report as required.
Training Advisor: (Required for about 2 years).
To advise and assist in the organization and establishment of a
center for techrical and operational training for the project, and to assist
in the adiidnistration of courses for all project requirements.
Drainage Eniineer: (Required for about 1½ years).
To advise and assist in the introduction of the mst appropriate
survey and laboratory techniques for the investigation of soil and drainage
conditions throughout the project area, and to assist in the establishment
of drainage design and irLstallation criteria for the project.



ANNEX 9
Page 4
Senior Draughtsman: (Required for about 2 years, and at intervals
subsequently).
To make recommendations for the introduction of drawing office
methods and equipment appropriate for the production of the many working
drawings required for tile drainage construction on the project, and to
assist in ensuring their timely production and printing.
Gontracts Engineer: (Required for about 6 months and at intervals
subsequently).
To advise on the preparation of international bidding documents
(time permitting), and the evaluation of equipment bids, and to assist in
setting up the subsequent administration procedures for the equipment con-
tracts.
Stores Specialist: (Required for about 1½< years and at intervals
subsequently).
To establish and demonstrate stores control methods appropriate
for the project, and to assist in their introduction and use.
Workshops Eineer: (Required for about 1½ years and at intervals
subsequently).
To make recomaendations for the equipment of workshops, to devise
suitable procedures for the control of workshop activities (including pro-
grammed maintenance) and to assist in the introduction of the necessary
equipment and methods.
Evaluation Specialist: (Required for about 1 year and at 6-monthly intervals
subsequently).
To devise and introduce metiods (in collaboration with the Ministry
of Agriculture) for recording the inci'emental changes in drainage and soil
conditions and crop yields in the project area, and to evaluate the agricul-
tural production benefits.
5.4       It is expected that the team of consulting experts will individually
be required in the UAR for varying periods from 6 months to about 4 years,
approximately as indicated in 5.3 above and depending upon the requirements
of project implementation. If needed, specialized assistance from the firm's
head office, or elsewhere, should be made available for short-term assignments.
The requirements for expert services will be reviewed at intervals of 6 months,
and the Authority will determine whether any changes will be required in the
numbers or duration of service of the experts.
6.       Coordination
6.1       The Consultants are to provide supervisory control and technical
review of the services rendered by their field staff and by visiting special-
ists. With this in view, a senior official of the firm will be made respon-
sible for all official contacts and relations with the Authority and the
Government, and will be technical and financial manager of the team.



ANNEi S'
7'        Time Schedule and Reports
7.1       The Consultants will be required to start work in the UAR wi.thin
6 weeks of appointment. The team will be expected to be based in Cairo.
7,2       The Consultants will prepare and submit the following reports to
the Chairman of the Drainage Project Authority within the time interval stated
from the date of appointment. *
(a) Project Workshops and Stores: Proposals for building plans
for stores and recommendations for workshops and stores
equi pment and procedures, with estimates of costs; within  * months.
(b)  Training Center: Proposals for staff organization for
technical and operational training to meet project require-
ments; within  *  months.
(c) Drawing and Printing: Proposals for drawing office methods
and equipment to meet project requirements, with estimates
of equipment costs; within * months.
(d)  Investigation and Design: Recommendation for the raethods,
equipment and criteria to be adopted for preparatory inves-
tigations and design of the tile drainage system in the
project area; within * months.
(e)  Bid Ewaluation: Recommendations for the basis of bid conpar-
ison to be adopted for all international bids; within  *
months.
(f)  Benefit Evaluation: Recommendations for methods and proced-
ures to be adopted for monitoring the agriculture benefits
achiered in the project area; within * months:
Staff Requiremenxts
8,        Estimates of the nwubers of government technical staff requ-ired
for the implementat-ion of the project are given on page 5 of this Annex, and
are listed by financial years.  These figures do not include either the con-
tractors' technical staff orforeign maintenance technicians.  The tech-
nical staff availability within the Ministry of Irrigation is shonm on page 6,
from which it is esident that the project staff requirements would not neces-
sarily overstrain the present organizationts capacity to supply the engineers
and supervisors for transfer and training.
9.        The staff requirements for the operation and maintenance of the
pump stations, tile drainage and mai-n drainage systems within the project
area are given on page 7.  There would be no difficulty in meeting these
requiremenits, and they would represent a small element of cost for a pro-
ject of this size.
* To be agreed between the Authority and the Consultants.
October 14, 1969



ANNEX 9
Page 6
U.A.R.
NILE DELTA DRAINAGE PROJECT
RANGE OF NUMBERS OF TECHNICAL STAFF REQUIED
1969/70                   1970/71                    1971/72
CE /  ME 2/  Sup 3/        CE      ME       Sup       CE      ME     Sup
Pump Stations      5-7    5-7       -         9-11    5-7    15-20     15-17    7-9   27-32
Remodeling
Main Drains     10-15   1-2    20-30      12-16    2-3    25-35      20-25    3-4  40-45
Tile Drainage     20-25   2-3    50-60       25-30    8-10   86-95     58-62   10-12 180-190
Project Office     5-6    2-3      -         6-8      4-6      -        8-10    6-8      -
40-53  10-15   70-90      52-65   19-26  125-150   101-114  26-33 247-267
1972/73                   1973/74                    1974/75
CE      ME      Sup       CE      ME      Sup        CE      ME     Sup
Pump Stations     15-18   14-16   32-37     12-15   17-19   46-50       7-10  20-22  50-55
Remodeling
Main Drains     30-35    4-5    60-70     30-35    4-5    60-70      30-35    4-5   60-70
Tile Drainage     80-90   12-14  250-260    90-95   12-14  280-300   100-lUO  14-16 300-330
Project Office    10-12    8-10     -       12-15    8-10      -       15-17    8-10    -
135-155  38-45  342-367   144-160  41-48  386-420   152-172  46-53 410-455
1/ CE = Civil Engineer )
) including 10% for senior divisionAl staff
2/ ME  = Mechanical Ehgineer )
2/ Sup = Supervisors, including mechanics



ANNEX 9
Page 7r
U.A.R.
NILE DELTA DRAINAGE PROJECT
PRESENT TECHNICAL STAFF OF NINISTRY OF IRRIGATION
Engineotrs    Technicians      Skilled Labor
1.  Head Office                     15              4                31
2. Egyptian Technical
Organization for
Nile Water                      43            16              1,655
3. Executive Authority for
expansion on High Dam
Water                          226            226               178
4.  Irrigation Departrment         967          1,050            20,464
5.  Survey Department              193          3,970             4,578
6.  Mechanical and Electrical
Department                     664           561              7,142
Total                        2,109         5,827             34,048



ANNEX 9
Page d
U.A.R.
NILE DELTA DRAINAGE PROJECT
OPERATION AND M.INTENANCE STAFF AND EQUIPMNT REQUIREMNTS
1.     Pump Stations:
k mechanical/electrical engineers
35 machine attendants
8 drivers
70 laborers
4 cars
h pick-up trucks
2.     Main Drainage System:
4  civil engineers
8 supervisors
20 equipment operators
17 drivers
50 laborers
h cars
8 pick-up trucks
15 dragline excavators
5 hydraulic boom excavators
3.     Tile Drainage System:
8 civil engineers
50  supervisors
40 equipment operators
48 drivers
400 laborers
8 cars
50 motorcycles
40  drain flushing machines
40 pick-up trucks
October 14, 1969



ANNEX 10
Page 1
U.A.X.
NILE DELTA DRAINS 3E PROJECT
IARKET PROSPECTS AND PRICES
le       At full development of the project, the increase in cotton lint
output from the project area has been estimated at 19 ,000 m tons, 56 % of
which would consist of extra long staole (ELS) types, and the other 44 %
being medium long staple cotton (EgyDtian definition which corresponds to
the lower levels of 1.LS under international classification). This increase
would represent about 0.2% of the current total world cotton production,
and about 0.5% of annual world cotton exports.  These types of cotton,
unlik-ethe uplaid varieties, have not been in surplus in world markets.
About 40% of the UAR's total production comprise ELS varieties, most of
which are exported and account for almost 56% of the total value of the
annual ex?orts (1965).  Three countries, the UAR, Sudan and Peru account
for about 92% of the world'sELS cotton production.
2.       World surplus stocks of upland cotton have been largely liquidated
(through a substantial reduction in world output) over the last two years,
with substantial improvement in prices.  Prior to this, world cotton prices
have generally been moving downwards since the Korean Wdar, due largely to
competition from man-made fibers and a recurring tendency for supply to ex-
ceed demand. Consumption on the one hand has been growing at a declining
rate, due largely to increasing competition from man-made fibers - with sub-
stantial deterioration in cotton's competitive position occurring in the
last two years because of higher cotton prices, coupled with dramatic re-
ductions in prices of man-made fibers (due to over-production and increasing
competition within the fiber industries). On the other hand, it is uncer-
tain whether the tendency for production to rise faster than demand in
earlier years has been arrested, despite the sharp reduction in production
which has occurred as a result of voluntary United States curtailment of
production to reduce world stocks.
3.       While significant increases were registered in the fifties, world
consumption, production, trade and prices of ELS cottons have moved along
at a practically stationary trend over the last five to six years, and
fluctuations from these trends have been caused mostly by fluctuations in
area and yields attributable to weather conditions.  In 1968-69, the world
supply of ELS cotton will be the smallest in many years. Stocks are down
and although definite production estimates for the current crop are not yet
available, preliminary data indicate that production may well be smaller
than in 1967-68. Total availabilities, therefore, are almost certain to be
down this season. Demand on the other hand has been relatively strong, as
the high prices of medium long staple cotton have made some grades of ELS
cotton attractive. Consequently, prices on world markets for ELS cotton
have been high (over 10% higher than a year ago).



A i\JEX 10
Page 2
4.       As far as the future is concerned it should be noted that, over
the long term, the outlook for ELS cotton is likely to be influenced by
the overall outlook for cotton in general. Tne outlook for cotton of all
staples continues to be somewhat depressing due to competition from man-made
fibers.  In addition, there are certain specific uncertainties regarding the
outlook for ELS cottons, such as increasing competition from man-made fibers
in specific ELS uses; uncertainty regarding future trend of Soviet Bloc
countries' imports which accounted for 35-40% of world imports of ELS in
recent years; and uncertainty regarding USA cotton policy which could re-
sult in inducing consumption of domestically produced ELS and reducing im-
port demand for ELS cottons. Increased output of ELS cottons from the pro-
ject area could also, in the long run, contribute to depressing world prices
if supplemen-ted by larger quantities from other producers of such cotton.
The Egyptian Government intends to cope with such market developments by:
(i) using large quantities locally for the manufacture of
textiles; 1. and
(ii)  implementing a policy of planned expansion for its
cotton spinning and weaving industry, coupled with
effective control of production through the direct
supervision and control of water supplies.
5.       The supply demand position of ELS cotton in 1975 could result _-n
price declines of about 30-35% from the current high levels or 20-25% from
the average of the last few years. It is difficult to project at this time
tihe level of prices beyond 1975. However, it appears reasonable to assume
that the trend will remain fairly level, or decrease moderately thereafter.
Prices equivalent to USO 33 per lb foT the average mix of Egyptian ELS cot-
ton (lint) and US¢ 27 per lb for the .verage mix of the Egyptian medium
loog staple (lint) cottons (which coriespond to the lower range of ELS
cottons under international classification) have consequently been used for
calculating the potential benefits of cotton production from the project
area. These prices are very roughly equivalent to US¢ 37 for ELS cottons
and US¢ 30 per lb (c.i.f. Liverpool) for Egyptian ELS cottons. These prices
take into account the market factors summarized above including the Egyptian
Government's policies relating to production, supply, control and export.
They are also in line with average long-term commodity projections made, for
1975, by the Trade Policies and Export Projects Division of the IBRD.
1/  Domestic consumption of cotton in the UDA. has in fact increased from
113,000 m tons in 1959-60 to nearly 190,000 m tons in 1967-68.



A102xi0
Page 3
6,       1bre favorable prospects exists in the UAR for foodgrain produc-
tion.  Cereal requirements have substantially outpaced local production
during the last decade.  Wheat and flour imports, in terms of wheat equiv-
alent, approached 2.5 million m tons annually by 1966. In addition, there
has been, over the period 1964-1967, average annual imports of 173,000
m tons of maize. Factors such as population growth, urbanization., low sub-
sidized food prices and the failure of local production to keep pace with
effective dermands, have all contributed to the growing deficit of cereals.
With expected increases in per capita incomes, the market for foodgrains
is likely to grow even more, resulting in the growing cereal deficit in
the country.
7.       In spite of the growing cereal deficit, the UAR has found it ad-
vantageous to promote rice exports V. Rice is also of less importance in
the Egyptian diet. About one-third (700,000 m tons) of the UAR's produc-
tion of rice is normally exported. The increased output of 164,000 mn tons
of paddy (equal to 115360 m tons of rice) from the project area would be
destined for export. - Market prospecta for it appear good, especially in the
Arab and African countries.  In valuing the rice outputs a price equivalent
to US$ 115 (farmgate equi-±alent to US$ 120 FOB Alexandria) per m ton of milled
rice has been used. This, with allowance for qualitative and other differ-
ences, is in line with long run average projections, of world market prices
for ndlled rice in 1975* of US$ 140 per m ton (5% Broken FOB Bangkok).
83.      Wheat - the preferred bread grain of the Igyptians - constitutes
the staple diet of the growing urban population. On the other hand, corn
is the principal staple food in rural areas.  The level of wheat output
projected for 1975, assuming present area and yield trends prevail, is ex-
pected to meet about one-half of the projected total requirements of wheat
for the UAR, while maintaining per capita availability at the 1959-1961
level of 105 kg. Therefore, wheat is likely to be a deficit crop during
the life of the project.  Although the UA-R imports maize, it is likely tk;at,
with the expanded use of higher yielding hybrid seed, self-sufficiency 2/
or even surpluses, could be obtained by 1975.  Such surplus, if any, could
be used for feeding livestock. Larger quantities would probably be used for
human consumption in the light of the large deficit forecast for wheat. The
market prospects for the increased output of wheat and maize made by the
1/ Especially since wheat imports have been available at relatively
favorable terms.
2/ Based on the per capita availability of 6,2 kg reported for the
1959-1961 period.



ANlEX 10
Page 4
project is unlikely to present any marketing problems. For valuation of
output of wheat and maize, the last five-year average import prices have
been used, adjusted for transportation and other charges to consuming cen-
ters. The prices used are US$ 65.71 and US$ 69.00 per m ton for maize and
wheat, respectively.  There are approx-iately in line with long run ave:rage
conmodity projections for these products.
October 14, 1969



U.A.R.
NILE DELTA DRAINAGE PROJECT
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
Present Worth
Net Production Value                   Attributable                   Discounted at
Years            With    Without  Incremental    0 & M      Incremental       Capital     Berefits  Costs
Project  Financial     Project  Project      NPV         Costs       Benefits         Costs       @  18%   @ 18%
- ------ --TIn US$ million) - - 
0      1969/70       78.22    78.22         -           -            -             6.29          -       6.29
1      1970/71       78.70    78.22       0.o8        0.10          0.38           14.81        0.32    12.5it
2      1971/72       79.50    78.22       1.28        0.18          1.10           28.13        0.79    20.20
3      1972/73       82.24    78.22       4.02        0.37          3.65           31.47        2.22    19.17
4      1973/74       86.63    78.22       8.41        0.59          7.82           26.64        4.04    13.75
5      1974/75       92.80    78.22      14.58        1.03         13.55           24.17        5.92    10.56
6      1975/76      100.46    78.22      22.24        1.45         20.79           10.69        7.69     3.95
7      1976/77      106.96    78.22      28.74        1.54         27.20             -          8.54
8      1977/78      110.51    78.22      32.29        1.62         30.67             _          8.16
9      1978/79      111.71    78.22      33,49        1.62         31.87
10      1979/80      111.71    78.22                   1.62
11      1980/81      111.71    78.22                   1.62
12      1981/82      111.71    78.22                   1.62                                     4 46.56
35      2005/06      111.71    78.22      33.49        1.62         31.87           _
TOTAL:                                                                       142.20        84.24    86.46
-~~ 



ANNE 11
Page 2
U.A.R.
NILE DELTA DRAINAGE PROJECT
PRESENT AND PROJECTED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION OF MAJOR CROPS
Crop              Cropped     Production       GPV         NPV
area          '000         '000        t000
1000       m. tons          US$         US$
feddans
PRESENT -PRODUCTION
Cotton (lint)        316          101         71,b09      32,029
Rice (paddy)         328          820         62,238      35,097
Maize                339          522         34,300       8,050
Wheat                193          217         14,973       3,048
Total            1,176        1,660        182,920      78,224
PROJECTED (FULL DEVELOPMENT)
Cotton (lint)        316          120         79,344      43,9502
Rice (paddy)         328          984         74,686      46,443
Maize                339          661         43,434      16,539
Wheat                193          260         17,932       5,227
Total            1,176        2,025        215,396    111,711
(1) The above cropping intensity is about 125%.
The cropping intensity in the project area is about 180%;
the difference is made up by wirrter crops of permanent and
tenporary clover, vegetables, etc.
(2)  The following farm gate prices were used:
MIS Cotton $595.20 per metric ton lint  (equivalent to 27¢ per lb)
ELS Cotton $727.50  "   "      "  "    (equivalent to 33¢ per lb)
Rice       $ 75.90  "    "     " paddy  (equivalent to $115 per m
ton rice f.o.b. Alexandria)
Maize      $ 65.71  "    "     "
Theat      $ 69.00  "    "     "
(3) Discrepancies due to rounding.
October 14, 1969



M e       d    i    t   e    r    r    an. . s - ::e.:-: -a    n                      S e       a
RQT SAID
;                        NILE DELTA  DRAINAGE PROJTECT TROe 
ProjecE ARAiE, <g t  \   t   t /   +  -  ts  Projett pumping stations
0,C       t W   Del t   nage  200            Ma 0n ro ads
z   VSwsn //igh DV  V                                                                 w             F=  X  -' Ex~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1~i.tisg tile drained areas
KILO SET URS
APRIL 1969                                                                                                                                                                                                            IBRD - 2495R1



