CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 181 UAR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Nile Delta Drainage Project)
BETWEEN
UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 17, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 181 UAR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Nile Delta Drainage Project)
BETWEEN
UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 17, 1970


﻿1rotapmunut (rbit Agrermntut
AGREEMENT, dated April 17, 1970 between UNITED
ARAB REPUBLIC (hereinafter called the Borrower) and IN-
TERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssOCIATION (hereinafter called
the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the Association dated
January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Appli-
cable to Development Credit Agreements of the Association
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the term "Drainage Project Author-
ity" means the Nile Delta Authority for Tile DrL:inage
Projects under the supervision of the Minister of Irrigation
of the Borrower entrusted with the implementation of the
Project and organized pursuant to Decree of the President
of the Borrower No. 1783 /1969.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in this Development
Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to twenty-six million dollars
($26,000,000).


﻿4
SECTION 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit
Account on its books in the name of the Borrower and shall
credit to such Account the amount of the Credit.
(b) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account as provided in, and subject to the
rights of cancellation and suspension set forth in, this
Development Credit Agreement and in accordance with the
allocation of the proceeds of the Credit set forth in Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, as such allocation shall be modified
from time to time pursuant to the provisions of such
Schedule or by further agreement between the Borrower
and the Association.
SECTION 2.03. The Borrower shall be entitled to with-
draw from the Credit Account in resi -ct of the reasonable
cost of goods or services required for the Project and to be
financed under this Development Credit Agreement:
(i) such amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the
Association shall so agree, shall be required to meet
payments to be made) for goods or services in-
cluded in Categories I to VII (a) of the allocation
of the proceeds of the Credit referred to in Sec-
tion 2.02 of this Agreement;
(ii) the equivalent of sixty-five per cent (65%) of the
invoiced price of such goods included in Category
VII (b) of said allocation of the proceeds of the
Credit as shall have been manufactured in the ter-
ritories of the Borrower from imported components
or raw materials, which percentage represents the
estimated foreign exchange component of the cost
of such goods;
provided, however, that if there shall be an increase in the
estimate of such payments for goods or services included
in any of Category VII (b), the Association may by notice


﻿5
to the Borrower adjust the stated percentage applicable to
such Category as required in order that withdrawals of the
amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and
not withdrawn may continue pro rata with the payments
remaining to be made for goods or services included in
such Category.
SECTION 2.04. No withdrawals from the Credit Account
shall be made under Categories I to VII (a) of the alloca-
tion of the proceeds of the Credit referred to in Section
2.02 of this Agreement on account of payments in the cur-
rency of the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services
supplied from, the territories of the Borrower.
SECTION 2.05. The currency of the United States of
America is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02
of the General Conditions.
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.07. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
SECTION 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account
in semi-annual installments payable on each May 1 and
November 1 commencing November 1, 1979 and ending
May 1, 2019, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on May 1, 1989 to be one-half of one per
cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each install-
ment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (11/2%) of
such principal amount.


﻿6
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall apply the proceeds of
the Credit in accordance with the provisions of this Devel-
opment Credit Agreement to expenditures on the Project,
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
SECTION 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
a,ree, (i) the goods and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and
IDA Credits, published by the Bank in August 1969, and
in accordance with such other procedures supplementary
thereto as are set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement
or as shall be agreed between the Borrower and he Asso-
ciation, (ii) contracts for the procurement of stich goods
and services shall be subject to the prior approval of the
Association, and (iii) construction equipment financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be made available to the
contractors employed for the Project on terms and condi-
tions approved by the Association.
SECTION 3.03. Except as the Association may otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be imported
promptly as required, used exclusively in carrying out the
Project and, when no longer required for the Project, in
carrying out similar works.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall, through the
Drainage Project Authority, carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency aid in conformity with sound


﻿7
agricultural, engineering, and financial practices, under the
supervision of competent management.
(b) To that end, the Borrower shall grant the Drainage
Project Authority direct authority and control over the
execution of the Project, and shall at all times make avail-
able, promptly as needed, all funds, facilities, staff and
other resources which shall be required for the Project.
SECTION 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall employ qualified
and experienced consultants acceptable to the Association,
upon terms and conditions and under terms of reference
approved by the Association, to advise and assist the
Drainage Project Authority in carrying out the Project.
(b) In the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower
shall employ qualified and experienced contractors upon
terms and conditions agreed upon by the Borrower and
the Association.
(c) Upon request from time to time by the Association,
the Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Association the
plans, specifications and work and procurement schedules
for the Project and any material modifications subsequently
made therein, in such detail as the Association shall request.
SECTION 4.03. Except as the Borrower and the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, the Borrower undertakes to
insure the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit against marine, transit and other hazards incident
to acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
SECTION 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall maintain separate
records and accounts adequate to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, to dis-


﻿8
close the use thereof in the Project, to record the progress
of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations, budgetary allocations and expendi-
tures of the Drainage Project Authority with respect to
the Project; and shall enable the Association's representa-
tives to inspect the Project, the goods, and any relevant
records, accounts and documents.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate
fully to ensure that the purposes of the Credit will be
accomplished. To that end, the Borrower and the Associa-
tion shall from time to time, at the request of either party,
exchange views through their representatives with regard
to the performance by the Borrower of its obligations under
the Credit Agreement, the administration, operations, budg-
etary allocations and expenditures of the Drainage Project
Authority and, with respect to the Project, of all other
agencies of the Borrower responsible for the carrying out
and operation of the Project or any part thereof.
(c) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished
to the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit, the goods financed out -"0 such pro-
ceeds, the Project, and the administration, operations, budg-
etary allocations and expenditures of the Drainage Project
Authority, and, with respect to the Project, of all other
agencies of the Borrower responsible for the carrying out
and operation of the Project or any part thereof.
(d) The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to
interfere with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof or the per-
formance by the Borrower of its obligations under this
Development Credit Agreement. Such information shall in-
clude information with respect to financial and economic


﻿9
conditions in the territories of the Borrower and the inter-
national balance of payments position of the Borrower.
SECTION 4.05. The Borrower shall cause the records and
accounts of the Drainage Project Authority to be audited
at least once a year by a competent and independent auditor
and in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation and an audit report thereon to be furnished to the
Association each year within six months after the end of
the preceding fiscal year.
SECTION 4.06. (a) The Borrower shall cause all works,
facilities and equipment related to the Project to be ade-
quately maintained and from time to time shall cause all
necessary renewals and repairs thereof to be made in ac-
cordance with sound agricultural and engineering practices.
(b) The Borrower shall establish and maintain adequate
facilities as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the
Association for the purpose of monitoring the effects of
the drainage system included in the Project on soil condi-
tions and crop production in the area of the Project.
(c) The Borrower shall cause the electric power supply
required for the operation of the drainage pump stations
included in the Project to be made available as each such
station shall become ready for operation.
SECTION 4.U7. The Borrower shall make suitable ar-
rangements to ensure the recovery from users of irrigated
land drained by the works included in the Project, by way
of charges, of (a) the maintenance costs of field tile drain-
age in the area of the Project, and (b) over a period of
twenty years, the capital invested in field tile drainage
in the area of the Project without interest.
SECTION 4.08. The Borrower shall make adequate ar-
rangements to ensure that all technical and administr%tive


﻿10
staff and equipment operators trained under training pro-
grams included in the Project shall be required to serve
the Drainage Project Authority or contractors employed
for the Project in the field for which they were trained, for
a period of at least two years after completion of such
training.
SECTION 4.09. The Borrower undertakes that, until the
Project shall have been completed, the Drainage Project
Authority shall not undertake or execute any work other
than that included in the Project, unless the Borrower shall
have first satisfied the Association that the execution of
such other work shall not adversely affect the prompt and
efficient completion of the Project.
SECTION 4.10. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions, imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
SECTION 4.11. This Development Credit Agreement shall
be free from any taxes that shall be imposed under the
laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories on
or in connection with the execution, issue, delivery or regis-
tration thereof.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 5.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of
the General Conditions or in Section 5.02 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein
set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continu-
ance thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice
to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then
outstanding to be due and payable immediately together


﻿11
with the service charges thereon and upon any such declara-
tion such principal, together with such charges, shall become
due and payable immediately, anything in this Development
Credit Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding.
SECTION 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is speci-
fied, namely:
The organization, responsibilities or functions of the
Drainage Project Authority shall, before the completion of
the Project, have been modified in such a manner as to
affect adversely the efficient execution of the Project in
accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of this Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 10.01 (b)
of the General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower shall
have employed consultants in accordance with the provi-
sions of Section 4.02 (a) of this Agreement.
SECTION 6.02. The date of July 14, 1970 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General
Conditions.
SECTION 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under
paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of Section 4.04, Section 4.05
and paragraph (a) of Section 4.06 of this Agreement shall
terminate on the date on which this Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date 25 years after the
date of this Development Credit Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.


﻿12
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 7.01. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1976 or such other date as shall be agreed between the
Borrower and the Association.
SECTION 7.02. The Minister of Economy and Foreign
Trade of the Borrower is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the Gen-
eral Conditions.
SECTION 7.03. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade
Lazoughly
Cairo, United Arab Republic
Alternative address for cables:
Ecotrade
Cairo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have


﻿13
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names and to be delivered in the District of Colum*bia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC
By /s/ A. GIIORBAL
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssOCIATION
By /s/ J. BuRKE KNAPP
Vice President
S


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Allocation of Proceeds of Credit
Amounts Expressed
Category                             in Dollar Equivalent
I. C.i.f. cost of tile drainage construction
equipment                           10,800,000
II. C.i.f. cost of main drainage remodel-
ing equipment                        2,800,000
III. C.i.f. cost of pump stations-machin-
ery, equipment and installation      6,800,000
IV. Training and consultants' services       600,000
V. C.i.f. cost of maintenance equipment     200,000
VI. C.i.f. cost of agriculture extension
equipment and vehicles                100,000
VII. (a) C.i.f. cost of imported, and/or
(b) ex-factory price of locally manu-  2,600,000
factured tractors, trucks and
motorcycles
VIII. Unallocated                            2,100,000
TOTAL       26,0000
Reallocation Upon Change in Cost Estimates
1. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any
of the Categories I to VII shall decrease, the amount of
the Credit then allocated to, and no longer required for,
such Category will be reallocated by the Association to
Category VIII.
2. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any
of the Categories I to VII (a) shall increase, an amount
equal to the portion, if any, of such increase to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit (or, in the
0


﻿15
case of Category VII (b) an amount equal to 65o of
such increase) will be allocated by the Association, at
the request of the Borrower, to such Category from
Category VIII, subject, however, to the requirements for
contingencies, as determined by the Association, in re-
spect of the cost of the items in the other Categories.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of Project
The Project is designed to provide tile drainage for
about 950,000 feddans of irrigated land in the delta of the
Nile River and to increase crop production on such land,
and includes:
(i) the construction of eleven drainage pump stations
with related electric power transmission facilities;
(ii) the remodeling of about 1,700 km of main open
drains and their associated structures;
(iii) the installation of field tile drainage in about 950,000
feddans of irrigated land by mechanical equipment;
(iv) the construction and equipment of four divisional
workshops for maintenance and repair of construc-
tion equipment and vehicles, within eighteen months
from the Effective Date;
(v) the acquisition of mobile field workshops adequate
for maintenance and repair of construction equip-
ment and vehicles, promptly as required by the con-
struction schedule for the Project in accordance
with a procurement schedule approved by the Asso-
ciation;
(vi) the acquisition of tile drain maintenance equip-
ment; and
(vii) the acquisition of vehicles and farmer training
equipment for the agricultural extension services
in the Project area.
The Project is scheduled to be completed by the middle
of 1976.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 3
Supplementary Procurement Procedures
1. For all contracts for the construction of complete pump
stations and for the procurement of construction, operation
or maintenance equipment totaling $50,000 equivalent or
more, the procedure outlined below will be followed:
(a) If bidders are to be pre-qualified, a description of
the pre-qualification procedure, a list of pre-qualified
bidders and the recommendations and comments of
the Drainage Project Authority will be submitted to
the Association for approval.
(b) Before invitations to bid are issued, a copy of such
invitations, draft forms of contract, specifications and
all other bidding documents, together with a complete
description of the international advertising proce-
dures to be used, will be submitted to the Association
for approval.
(c) Contracts shall include appropriate clauses for the
provision of (including pa- .ment for) a sufficient
number of fully experienced technical personnel to
supervise the assembly and maintenance of the equip-
ment in the Project area and to train the operators
of such equipment. The required number of per-
sonnel shall be made available for field maintenance
duties in the Project area on the machinery and vehi-
cles supplied from the dates of delivery to the con-
struction contractors until the completion of their
use on the Project; or in the case of pump station
equipment, from the start of installation until a six-
month training period for operating staff has been
completed after the commissioning of each installa-
tion.
(d) After bids have been received and analyzed and
before a contract is awarded or a letter of intent


﻿18
is issued, a copy of the analysis of bids together with
the recommendations of the Drainage Project Au-
thority and the proposals for the award stating the
reasons for such proposals will be submitted to the
Association for approval.
(e) If the proposed final contract is to differ substan-
tially from the terms and conditions contained in the
documents approved by the Association under (b)
above, a copy of the text of the proposed changes
will be submitted to the Association for approval
before the signature of the contract.
(f) Promptly after the signature of each contract, two
conformed copies thereof will be sent to the Associa-
tion.
(g) If during the term of a contract there is any change
or addition which is in excess of 10% of the original
value of such contract, a copy of the proposed amend-
ment to the contract, or variation order thereunder,
will be submitted to the Association for its approval.
2. With respect to each contract involving an amount below
$50,000 an analysis of bids received together with two con-
formed copies of the contract shall be sent to the Associa-
tion promptly after execution of any such contract and
prior to the submission to the Association of the first appli-
cation for withdrawals, in respect of such contract.
3. With respect to goods included in Category VII of the
allocation of proceeds of the Credit and- where bids are
submitted by local manufacturers of tractors, trucks and
motorcycles, the following rules will be observed for the
purpose of comparing any such bid to any competing bid
of the foreign manufacturer:
(a) All applicable customs duties and similar taxes shall
first be deducted from the total cost submitted by such
foreign manufacturer;


﻿19
(b) The portion of such cost representing the c.i.f. landed
price of the goods shall then be increased by 15% thereof
or the actual rate of such duties and taxes, whichever is
lower;
(c) The resulting figure plus the portion of such cost
representing inland freight, insurance and other costs of
delivery of the goods to the site of use in the Project, shall
be deemed to be the price of the foreign bid;
(d) The ex-factory price of the goods offered by a com-
peting local manufacturer plus inland freight, insurance
and other costs of delivery to the site of use in the Project
shall be deemed to be the price of the local manufacturer's
bid.
(e) If the price of the local manufacturer's bid is equal
to or lower than the price of the foreign bid, and other
terms and conditions are satisfactory, then the local manu-
facturer's bid will be considered the lowest evaluated bid.
4. Any contract for the procurement of imported equip-
ment, materials and supplies not exceeding the equivalent
of $10,000 is exempted from international competitive bid-
ding, provided that the aggregate of all such contracts shall
not exceed $100,000 equivalent.


