Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 18054
IMPLEMENTA'ION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
(LOAN 3362-AR)
June 30, 1998
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distiibution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Peso (Arg$)
EXCHANGE RATE
Arg$1 = US$1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANA          -     Nacional Customs Administration
(Administraci6n Nacional de Aduanas)
CBRA         -     Central Bank of the Republic of Argentina
DGI          -      General Tax Directorate
(Direcci6n General Impositiva)
ICR          -     Implementation Completion Report
1DB          -     Inter-American Development Bank
PERAL        -     Public Enterprise Adjustment Loan
PEREL        -     Public Enterprise Reform Execution Loan
PSRL         -     Public Sector Reform Loan
PSRTAL       -     Public Sector Reform Technical Assistance Loan
SEF          -     Superintendency of Financial Entities
SIDIF        -     Integrated Financial Management System
(Sistema Integrado de Informaci6n Financiera)
TATAL        -     Tax Administration Technical Assistance Loan
Vice President: Shahid Javed Burki
Director, SMU: Guillerno Perry
Director, CMU: Myrna Alexander
Task Manager: Luis-Jose Meiia



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
(Ln. 3362-AR)
Contents
Preface ....i
Evaluation Summary.ii
Part  L Project Implementation Assessment
A.           Statement of Objectives .,....................,,.,,.,.,.1
B.           Achievement of Objectives          .3
C.           Customs Modernization Program         .5
D.           Administrative Reform of the Central Government .  7
E.           Financial AManagement Refor          .8
F.           Modernization of the Central Bank and SEF .11
G.           Major Facitors Affecting the Project .13
H.           Project Sustainability .14
I..          Bank Performance .14
J.           Borrower Performance ..................        15
K.           Assessmet of Outcome .15
L.           Future Operations ........................,,.,.,.,.,.,.,.16
M.           Key Lessons Learned .16
Part  II. Tables and Appendices
Table 1:   Summary of Assessment .18
Table 2:     Related Bank Loans/Credits .                   19
Table 3:  Project Timetable .20
Table 4:     Cumulative Loan Disbursements:
Estimated and Actual .20
Table SA:    Project Costs ......................,,.,.,,.,.21
Table SB:  Project Financing .21
Table 6:     Status of Legal Covenants .                    22
Table 7:     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs..                 25
Table 8:     Bank Resources: Missions ...................,.,,,,,,,,.,,.... 25
Table 9:     Matrix of'Project Activities ...................,.,. 26
Appendix A: Borrower's Contribution to ICR                  31
This document has a restricted distribution and niay be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
AlRGENTINA
PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
(In. 3362-AR)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Public Sector Reform
T'echnical Assistance Loan in Argentina, for which Loan 3362-AR in the amount of
US$23 million equivalent was approved June 25, 1991, and became effective December
10, 1991. Final disbursement took placie on May 17, 1996.
The ICR was prepared by Cecilia Zanetta (consultant), under the supervision of
Luis-Jose Mejia, Task Manager (LCSPR), and reviewed by Antonio Martin del Campo
(LCSPR) and Carmen Machicado (LCISPR).
The ICR is based on information in the project files, discussions with staff in.the
project's implementation unit, the Ministry of Economy, Customs Department and the
Central Bank, UNDP and OPS. The Borrower contributed its own evaluation of the
project's experience and provided baclkground material and support.



IMPLEMENTATICON COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
(Ln. 3362-AR)
Evaluation Summary
1.    The Public Sector Reform Technical Assistance Loan (PSRTAL) was primarily
designed to provide technical assistance and support to the Argentine Government to
carry out activities identified as critical uander the Public Sector Reform Loan (PSRL) for
drastic change in the public sector during the Menem administration.
2.    Supporting public sector reform. was a fundamental objective in Argentina, because
of the public administration's inefficiencies, excessive size, and pervasive effects on the
economy. The PSRL provided support for measures that improved the efficiency of
current and investment expenditures, increased revenues while reducing the distortions in
resource mobilization, and transformed the Central Bank into a monetary authority. The
PSRTAL was designed to complement the PSRL by providing technical support to
strengthen the agencies responsible for these reforms.
3.    Project objectives were to support: a) modernization and computerization of the
Customs Department (Administraci6n Nacional de Aduanas --ANA); b) the
administrative reform and modernization of Central Government administration and the
Central Bank; c) a new framework and systems for comprehensive financial management,
integrated budgetary processes and effective control of allocation of public resources; and
d) restructuring of the Superintendency of Pinancial Entities (SEF).
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    The project advanced the reform and modernization of the public sector at the
iederal level, and set the basis for their extension to the provinces. It helped in
consolidating in particular the reorganiization and downsizing of the federal government,
the decentralization of secondary education and other public services, and the
reorganization of the Central Bank and the SEF.
5.    After a successful start, the implementation of the project experienced considerable
delays in 1992-93, due to tardy passage of legislation, the complexity of the operational
and technological frameworks, and procurement difficulties. However, these difficulties
were overcome and smooth implementation ensued.
6.    Federal employment decreased by 15 percent (and an additional 41 percent were
transferred to the provinces); the latter now manage education and health services, and



iii
legislation deregulating economic activities has been passed. The budget is again effective
to plan, manage and control public expenditures. A state-of-the art financial management
system has been implemented and continues to be expanded and perfected. The Central
Bank and SEF changes helped to improve monetary policy management. The elements
required for reform and modernization of customs are in place: a new automation system
has been implemented, a new code has been developed, and the ANA school and lab are
operational. But the consolidation of the reforms is still pending, as the result of ANA's
merger with the Tax Directorate.
7.    The Bank's performance with respect to project identification, preparation and
implementation was highly satisfactory; somewhat less so for project appraisal. It correctly
identified the need for focused assistance for implementation of the reforms supported
under PSRL but failed to foresee the length of time needed to do this. During supervision,
the Bank project helped balance the maintenance of planned course of action with the
flexibility to respond to macroeconomics and political changes. The Borrower's
performance was highly satisfactory regarding project preparation, implementation and
compliance with loan covenants. Its combination of political support, strong
determination of individual actors and excellent technical resources were key to the
project's success.
8.    The outcome of the project was highly satisfactory in promoting public sector
reforn and effectively consolidated the changes advanced by the PSRL. Moreover the
reorganization of the Central Bank was helpfiul in sustaining monetary stability which with
the passage of the Convertibility Law, became the cornerstone of the government's reform
strategy.
9.    The lessons of this Loan were;
a. Technical assistance loans can be effective complements of structural adjustment
loans in lending for reform.
b. Bank interventions can be most effective when they capitalize on windows of
opportunities that provide unique momentum to the implementation of reforms.
c. Individual reforms are more likely to be implemented when they are critical to
the success of an overall reform strategy.
d. The success of technical assistance loans depends on a combination of factors,
among the most important of which is strong political support.
e. Overcoming resistance of the status quo is critical to the long-term sustainability
of the improvements and reforms.
f. Strong leadership within the target government agencies is required to
successfully carry out the reforms.



iv
g. The lack of ownership and responsibility tend to result in excessive reliance on
information technology specialists for business solutions.
h. It is important to identify key in-house personnel receptive to change to bring
them on board in the reform process.
iL Non-technical aspects are crucial in terms of the impact they can have on the
successful incorporation of reforms.
j. Training components are key to jproject sustainability.
k. Technical assistance loans shoulcl not be expected to be short-term, one-time
interventions.



Part I
Project Implementation Assessment
A.   Statement of Objectives
1.    When the Menem administration took office in July 1989, Argentina was
experiencing a four-digit hyperinflation, vwidespread economic stagnation and massive
public sector deficits, as the result of over four decades of heavy state interventionism,
inward-looking trade orientation, and a clhronically inefficient public sector. The
Government decisively undertook the implementation of structural measures that
drastically reduced the role of the state in the economy and tackled fiscal imbalances. The
reform of the public sector was central to the Government's reform program, as the
public sector's structural inefficiencies, disproportionate size, and the pervasive distortions
it introduced into the economy were at the core of the staggering fiscal deficits and
economic instability. Moreover, the sustainability of the Government's stabilization
program depended on the successful reform of the public sector, as increasing public
savings was the most effective and direct way to generate the aggregate domestic savings
necessary to fuel economic growth.
2.    The Bank provided strong financial and technical support to the Government's
efforts to reform and modernize the public sector through several lending operations,
including the Public Sector Reform Loan (PSRL), and the Public Enterprise Reform
Adjustment and Execution Loans (PERAL and PEREL). The PSRL was highly
instrumental in supporting the design and financing of measures that improved the
efficiency of current and investment expenditures, increased revenues while reducing the
distortions in resource mobilization, and limited monetary emission by disengaging the
Central Bank from public finances and transforming it into a monetary authority with
circumscribed powers. The Public Sector Technical Assistance Loan (PSRTAL) was
conceived to complement the PSRL by providing additional technical support to
strengthen the capacity of key governmment agencies responsible for the irnplementation of
the reforms aimed mainly at expenditure reduction and rationalization, while the Tax
Administration Technical Assistance Loan (TATAL) was conceived to play the same role
in relation to revenue mobilization.
3.    The PSRTAL's specific objectives, as stated in the Memorandum to the President
were to support:
a)   the modernization and computerization of the Customs Department
(Administracion Nacional de Aduanas -- ANA);
b)   the administrative reform and modernization of the internal administration
of the Central Governmenit;



2
c)   the establishment of a new framework and the development of systems for
comprehensive public sector financial management, integrated budgetary
processes and effective control of improved allocation of public resources;
d)   the reorganization and modernization of the Central Bank; and
e)   the implementation of a program for a complete restructuring of the
Superintendency of Financial Entities (SEF).
4.    To accomplish these objectives, the project was designed to strengthen the
capacity of the following institutions:
a)   the Ministry of Economy by providing consultant services, computer
equipment and software to:
i)    manage the economic reforms;
ii)   allocate and control public resources through an integrated national
budget and accounting information system for financial
management, budget programming, execution and control --
including institutional strengthening of the entities that constitute
the internal and external control network; and
iii)   administer customs by establishing new administrative procedures
and related computerized systems;
b)    the Central Government Ministries and the Presidency by providing
consultant services, computer equipment and software to modernize its
internal administration by developing new uniform procedures and
information systems for personnel, financial resources, and facilities
management;
c)   the Central Bank through the provision of consultant services, computer
equipment and software to improve its organizational structure and
administrative procedures, develop key information systems and enhance
staff capabilities, with special emphasis on the SEF.
5.    The total cost of the project was US$31.5 million equivalent, with US$23 of IBRD
financing. A matrix of key project activities specifying objectives, outputs, impact and
timing targets was agreed during the project design. This matrix provided a sound, well-
thought-out road map for the project, effectively identifying barriers to the implementation
of the reforms being promoted under the PSRL and providing a sequence of activities
designed to overcome these baniers. In general, the activities that were actually
implemented under the project do not show major deviations from those in the original
matrix, except as required by changes in macroeconomic conditions, political strategy, and
lessons from earlier project implementation. Although evaluation criteria and performance



3
indicators were identified for each project component during project design, no baselines
were estimated at the time and no emphasis was placed on their systematic follow-up.
Thus, their contribution was limited to expanding the conceptual understanding of each
component, rather than as serving as an effective monitoring and evaluation tool.
B.   Achievement of Overall Project Objectives
6.    Overall, the project, in conjunction with other Bank operations -- i.e., PSRL,
PERAL, PEREL, and TATAL -- has been highly successful in supporting the
government's program to reform and modernize the public sector. This program has
been widely recognized for its effectiveness in reforming and modernizing the public
sector at the federal level and setting up the basis for extending the reforms to the
subnational governments. The PSRTAL has been highly instrumental in the
implementation of key reforms, in particular the reorganization and downsizing of the
federal government, the structural reform of the central administration (which included
decentralizing secondary education and other public services to the provinces), the
implementation of a financial management system that has revolutionized the
government's budgetary and accounting systems, and the reorganization of the Central
Bank as an independent monetary authority.
7.    The success of the PSRTAL is closely linked to that of the PSRL, complementary
in terms of objectives, government counterparts, and time frames. Through the PSRL, the
Bank worked closely with top government officials in the design of the necessary reforms
and provided strong financial incentives for the adoption of an enabling policy framework
within a short time frame --i.e., two-and-a-half years. Concomitantly, the PSRTAL
supported the government administration in crafting and adopting the normative and
operational tools required to carry out these reforms, a sustained effort which lasted over
a seven-year time span. Thus, the PSRTAL played a key role in doing the field work that
enhanced the operationalization of the drastic reforms introduced under the PSRL.
8.    Macroeconomic Policies: Substantial Achievement. Despite its relative small
size, the project has effectively contributed towards the stabilization and eventual
rebounding of Argentina's economy by supporting the implementation of measures to
reform and modernize the public sector. The savings in public expenditures resulting from
the downsizing and reorganization of the central administration have had a direct and
significant impact in reducing fiscal deficits. The increased efficiency in the management
of public financial resources resulting from the implementation of a modem financial
management system has permitted the rationalization and control of public expenditures,
the preparation of a rigorous budget for the first time in decades, all of which ultimately
corntributed to tight control of monetary emission and, consequently, inflation. Finally,
the successful reorganization of the Central Bank as an independent monetary authority
has been critical to the success of the 1991 Convertibility Law.
9.    Financial Objectives: Substantial Achievement Although financial objectives
per se were not pursued in this project, significant savings have resulted from increased



4
efficiency in the functioning of the public sector, the reduced role of the government in the
economy, and the rationalization of public expenditures. They included increased customs
collections of approximately US$150 million per month after 1991; savings of US$63
million from the optimized use of physical space; fiscal net gains from deregulation
estimated at approximately US$322.4 million per year; and gains from foregone interest
resulting from the implementation of the Consolidated Treasury Account, estimated at
approximately US$21 million per year. Finally, the closer more effective monitoring of
the banking system by a strengthened SEF should help prevent future sector crises, as it
already demonstrated during Argentina's successful containment of the spillover effects of
the 1995 Mexican financial turmoil. This helped the Government to react swiftly to
strengthen the banking system, and with comparable fortification of the fiscal accounts,
sustain Argentina's reform program. This contrasted markedly with the banking collapse
in 1980-82, whose cost has been estimated at approximately US$60 billion, equivalent to
55 percent of GDP at the time1
10.   Public Sector Reform: Substantial Achievement. This is the area in which the
project has made its central contribution. It has successfully accomplished its original
objectives by effectively supporting the administrative reform and modernization of the
internal administration of the Central Government; the establishment of a public sector
financial administration system for the comprehensive public sector financial management,
integrated budgetary processes and effective control of improved allocation of public
resources; and the reorganization and modernization of the Central Bank and the SEF.
The successful implementation of these three components has consolidated the reforms
introduced during the first part of the Menem administration with the support of the PSRL
and other related Bank operations, thus drastically transforming Argentina's public sector
by redefining the role of the Central Government, modernizing it, and increasing its
efficiency while simultaneously decreasing public expenditures. All the government entities
that participated in the program are now significantly stronger, both in terms of their
organizational structure as well as technological environments. Although the Ministry of
Economy, the Central Bank and the SEF were the focus of specific reform and
modernization components, all other ministries and some decentralized agencies in the
Central Government have also been strengthened and modernized through the
administrative reform component and their incorporation into the new financial
management system.
11.   The project has helped set up the basis for modernization of the Customs
Department (ANA) and supported the development of specific elements of its
computerization system. However, the final outcome of this component is less certain, as
the final implementation of the reforms has recently been put on hold after the demotion of
ANA's top administrator and the decision to merge ANA with the General Tax
Directorate -- Direcci6n General Impositiva, DGL.
'World Bank and IMF reports, Sept. 1997.



5
12.   A detailed analysis of the factors t;hat affected the implementation of each
component and the achievement of their specific objectives follows below.
C.   Custom Modernization Program (US$6.8 miOion)
13.   Traditionally, ANA imposed an excessive administrative burden on business
activities and introduced significant distortions in the economy by distributing unevenly
among importers its direct discretionary costs, imposing unduly complex, lengthy
procedures for the entries of goods, and tolerating smuggling. Similarly, the inefficient
management of customs activities contributed to the country's fiscal imbalances, both
directly by under-collecting revenues as the result of the deficient coverage of taxable
transactions and/or inaccurate valuations, and indirectly by failing to provide accurate
controls to enforce the compliance with domestic taxes.
14.   Moreover, the legal framework ol ANA was highly complex and provided its top
administrators with much decision-making discretion but no accountability. External
monitoring was virtually impossible and the fragmented nature of the operations provided
fertile grounds for corruption. Attempts to remedy the situation failed.
15.   Component's Objectives and Implementation: Full restructuring of ANA was
conceived as part of the program supported under PSRL This aimed at streamlining
operations as much as possible, bringing neutrality to the determination of value, and
increasing coverage to encompass the maximum number of transactions. The PSRTAL
was set up to provide support for: a) preparing, monitoring and implementing an
Automated Plan to develop and implemerLt a computerized customs information system to
simplify and improve administrative, operational and control systems; b) preparing new
guidelines and procedures including legal framework and administrative reorganization;
and c) training staff on related new regulations, plus introductory courses on the proposed
information systems.
16.  In view of past failures, the government's strategy was to reform, modernize and
bring transparency to the entity from the outside. A close collaborator of the Minister of
Economy become ANA's top administrator. ANA's new administration decided to
develop the MARIA system, an adaptation of SOFIE, the French customs system. As this
was to be financed with ANA's own funds, the Bank agreed to utilize some Ln. 3362
resources to support the development of components of the MARIA, such as the
establishment of the secondary communication networks linking some of the ports and
Customs headquarters, the acquisition and installation of computer equipment to set up
internal electronic mail, and the installation of a chemical analysis laboratory to improve
valuation assessments of exported goods.
17.   Despite resistance within ANA, the implementation of the MARIA system and the
overall restructuring of ANA's operations continued until 1996, when reports of an
organized smuggling network ("Aduana Paraleld') resulted in the firing of ANA's top



6
administrator. ANA has since been merged with DGI --Direcci6n General Impositiva-
thus creating considerable uncertainty regarding the future of the both agencies.
18.   Achievement of Component's Objectives: Partial Achievement.2 By 1994,
several performance measures indicated that the reforms being implemented to modernize
ANA were successful. Collections had been increased from US$100 million to US$250
million per month since 1991, irregularities in the valuation of merchandise was decreased
from 50 percent in 1992 to 18 percent in 1993 and the dispatch costs and times of imports
and exports had been reduced by 30 percent. Finally, through automation, discretionality
in Customs operations had been reportedly reduced and the number of intervening agents
was reduced by 15 percent. against the backdrop of the controversy over " Paralela" --
and because of inconsistency in reports, it is difficult to assess the value of the MARIA
system and the benefits of activities financed under the project. For instance, the future
implementation of the simplified procedures and norms that resulted from the revision of
the Customs Code financed under the project is not guaranteed. The same is true for the
electronic mail system. Although the equipment has been purchased, the system is not in
place and its implementation is on hold because it is not fully compatible with that of DGI.
In the meantime, it has been proposed that the equipment be used to continue to support
the transition to the MARIA system.
On the other hand, the remaining activities financed under the project are rendering the
expected results. The chemical analysis lab is now in place and effectively contributing to
the improved valuation of exported goods. Also, the Customs School has been newly
equipped and more than 1500 ANA staff members trained in management and customs
procedures. Computer equipment to support the transition to the MARIA system has
been financed instead of the originally proposed secondary network system, as such need
has now been satisfied with DGI's own communication system. Moreover, the new
administration has confirmed the continued implementation of the MARIA system, which
was expected to account for approximately 85 percent of all customs operations by the
end of 1997.
2 Ref. Table 9



7
D.   Administrative Reform and Modernization of the Central Government
(US$4.9 million)
19.  In one of its first steps towards sitructural adjustment, the Menem administration
embarked on an Administrative Reform Program aimed at reducing public expenditures
and rehabilitating the oversized and deteriorating public administrative apparatus through
streamlining employment levels and rationalization of administrative structures and
functions in the federal government. Another important objective was to deregulate some
of the functions of the central government, to free a significant number of economic
activities, such as insurance, ports, regional markets, and pharmaceutical products from
the highly complex, outdated, vague, and often redundant government regulations. Finally,
the reform program also included the decentralization of some public services -- mainly
health and education -- to the provinces in exchange for an increase in the revenue-sharing
transfers.
20.   Component's Objectives and Ifinplementation: The focus of the activities
financed under this component was to support the implementation of reforms in: a) the
continued modernization of the National Public Administration; b) deregulation; and c)
decentralization of public services. Most of these activities were implemented early on in
the project and provided the basis for the rationalization of public expenditures that
characterized the first part of the govermnent's reform program.
21.   Those activities related to the modernization of the national administration
included the redefinition of organizational structures, the rationalization of physical space,
the development and implementation of tnonitoring systems of administrative reforms
(SIPRA), the simplification of administrative procedures and the internal administration
system, inventory and asset management, a new procurement system, and the development
of a human resource database linked to the payroll. In relation to deregulation, the project
provided support to rationalize and simplify the body of norms and regulations governing
vatious economic activities. Finally, withL regard to the transfer of public services to the
provinces, the project provided support to formulate the conceptual and operational
frameworks for the decentralization of health and education services including analyzing
the impact of the transfer, preparing the legal basis for decentralization, and formulating
guidelines for the actual transfer.
22.   Achievement of Component's Objectives: Substantial Achievement. The
overall objectives of this component were largely attained, with the activities financed
playing a key role in the implementation End monitoring of the government's
Administrative Reform Program. This has led to a major reorganization of the federal
government. By early 1993, the Federal Government shrank from 671,000 in 1990 to
284,000 as a consequence. Actual employment fell by 15 percent while an additional 41
percent (teachers and health workers) were transferred to the provinces. The immediate
fiscal savings were relatively modest because of the Government's obligation to pay
severance claims associated with these reductions, which totaled some US$312 million in
1991-92. Moreover, there was a 50 percent reduction of organizational structures and



8
average processing time of administrative documents, as well as savings of US$63 million
from the optimized use of physical space.
23.   Activities under the deregulation component have also been very successful,
supporting the preparation of norms deregulating a number of economic activities,
including the insurance market, elimination of restrictions on air transportation, opening of
fishing and mining markets to foreign participation, simplification of procedures for
pharmaceutical operations, demonopolization of the postal system, elimination of major
import and export quotas, merchant marine, interest rates, corporate law, transfers of
funds, and mergers and acquisitions. The fiscal net gain from deregulation was estimated
at US$322.4 million from 1992 to 1994.3 Moreover, the impact resulted in increased
production, competitiveness and exports, reduced costs, as well as demonopolization and
increased transparency of markets.
24.   The decentralization of public services to the provinces was implemented between
1992 and 1993. The transfer of health and education services and related public
employees to the provinces resulted in US$1.2 billion in savings in the federal 1992
budget, which cut has been maintained thereafter. Of course, the related expenses had to
be absorbed by the provinces, for which increased resources were transferred through
national revenue-sharing.
E.    Public Sector Comprehensive Financial Management and Performance
Control Reform (US$5.1 million)
25.   Another basic problem was the government's inability to program and control
public spending efficiently. The bulk of the public expenditures occurred in decentralized
agencies, special accounts, public enterprises, provinces and social security funds, with the
Treasury having discretionary control over only 20 percernt of non-interest expenditures in
1988. As the former entities reached the limits of their budgets, they customarily arranged
for ad hoc, bail-outs by the central government or the Central Bank, ultimately financed by
the inflation tax.
26.    The budgetary process had been destroyed by the early 1980's, and successive
attempts to reestablish it since 1983 had all failed. Unstable macroeconomic conditions
aggravated the weakness in the budget process, as the Treasury was forced to manage
short-term flows on the basis of the immediate priorities of continually changing quarterly
targets rather than an agreed budget. The budget became just a formality, as inflation
usually rendered it irrelevant within weeks of its preparation --(and the 1990 budget was
never approved). Other problems included: a) omission from coverage of important
sources of expenditures, such as public enterprises' revenues and other funds; b) absence
of budget programming and subsequent review oriented towards improving the allocation
of public resources; c) ex-ante and ineffectual control of budget execution; d) weak
3The fiscal net gain is calculated as the difference between reduced expenditures and increased revenues,
minus revenue losses and severance payments.



9
senior-level monitoring and unenforceable reporting requirements; e) no public investment
planning; and f) the lack of modern information systems to support financial management.
27.   To regain control, the Government, with assistance from the Bank, prepared a
Public Sector Financial Management Reform that established a comprehensive definition
of the public sector, defined financial responsibilities and set up a modern control and
auditing framework. The Public Sector Financial Management Law -- Reforma de la
Adninistraci6n Financiera del Sector Pzublico Nacional, Ley 2415 -- enacted on Sept. 30,
1992, focused on: a) implementing a comprehensive budgeting process; b) clearly
delineating responsibilities; c) developing mechanisms for control and auditing; and d)
defining levels of indebtedness.
28.   Component's Objectives anid Implementation: The activities financed under
this component directly supported the implementation of the Public Sector Financial
Management Reform. Specifically, they supported: a) the design of new criteria, methods,
and normative frameworks for budget programming and public sector financial
management consistent with the new law; b) the development and implementation of an
Integrated Financial Management System (SIDIF4); and c) the training and professional
enhancement of officers of key agencies.
29.   This component became highly important after the Convertibility Law, as
programming and controlling of public expenditures was central to maintaining price
stability. The Public Sector Financial Management Reform invested full financial and
budgetary authority in the Secretariat of Finance, within the Ministry of Economy. Its
Minister then designated one of his close collaborators to serve as both Secretary of
Finance and executive coordinator of the PSRTAL implementation unit. This was key to
the successful implementation of the Public Sector Financial Management Reform and the
SIDIF, as it combined ample political support with strong leadership. The strategy
adopted was to reform from within the Secretariat of Finance, with the overall concept for
the SIDIF being developed in-house by permanent staff with consultant support.
30.   Although generally underestimated, non-technical strategies for introducing the
reform within the key agencies in the national public administration were as important as
developing a sound technical solution for the SIDIF. Key officers from the budget,
treasury, accounting, and public credit units were involved early on in the process, which
proved to be critical in developing a sense of ownership of the reforms among the main
users. Structured group interactions led by a sociologist were organized over week-ends
to promote cohesiveness between staff of different units, which helped to integrate
previously encapsulated centers of power. An aggressively implemented training
component effectively disseminated the reform in financial administration by orienting
2,800 professionals in the national arnd provincial administrations and universities in the
SIDIF and new budget, treasury, and accounting procedures.. Finally, regular meetings
and retreats between the Minister of Economy, the Secretary of Finance and top officials
4 This system was originally named SIPRECO.



10
in the national public administration where the final objectives of the reform were
continuously emphasized (informally dubbed "spiritual retreats" by the administrators)
were critical to build up and sustain the momentum for change that characterized the early
years of the Menem administration.
31.   Achievement of Component's Objectives: Substantial Achievement.5 The
implementation of the Comprehensive Financial Management and Performance Control
component has been highly successful in drastically revamping the national fiscal
accounting and budget processes, thus contributing to the improved allocation of public
resources and control of spending. In 1991, for the first time in nearly half a century, the
National Administration budget for the following year was submitted on time, and
approved before the start of the fiscal year. Savings in non-interest expenditures have
been estimated at approximately US$450 million. Also, the consolidation of
approximately 5,000 public bank accounts into the Consolidated Treasury Account --
Cuenta Unica del Tesoro - has resulted in the almost complete elimination of check and
cash transactions, and savings in maintenance and commission costs as well as foregone
interest from idle funds estimated at approximately US$21 million per year.6 Finally, the
adaptation and implementation of the SIGADE (Debt Management and Analysis System),
a system developed by UNCTAD, has contributed to the optimization of the debt
portfolio.
32.   The SIDIF has revolutionized the allocation and control of public expenditures in
the national government, incorporating into a single operational framework the previously
dissociated functions related to the budget, treasury, accounting, and public credit. It was
developed around two basic concepts: a) total interrelation between the different systems
and b) normative centralization and operational decentralization. In this way, the SIDIF
was conceived as a system that interrelates a central database managed by the Ministry of
Economy (central SIDIF) with local databases (local SIDIFs) corresponding to the
administrative/financial units (SFAs) of the different organisms within the central
administration, and decentralized entities. The central SIDIF is now totally operational,
with local SIDIFs operating in three organisms of the central administration and three
decentralized entities. The remaining SFAs, which are currently operated and connected
to the central SIDIF with a transitory software package, will continue with the
implementation of their local SIDIFs under a loan by the IDB.
33.   Overall, the implementation of the SIDIF has contributed to increase transparency
in the management of public resources by having on-line, real-time information on all
financial transactions within the national public administration integrated into a single
database with access open to multiple users. It has also contributed towards increased
efficiency and effectiveness in the allocation of financial resources by relating budget
allocations to physical output measures, thus allowing the better estimation of costs and
5 Ref Table 9
6 Estimated based on US$40 million of public current expenditures, 50% of which has been assumed to
be transferred through public bank accounts, with an average of ten days of idle funds, and an annual
interest rate of 5 percent.



11
productivity measures. Finaliy, it has strengthened policy decision making by providing
timely and dependable information on. public finances.
F.    Reorganization and Modernization of the Central Bank (CBRA) and
Superintendency of Financial Entil:ies (US$3.28 and US$1.62 million respectively)
34.   The need to reorganize and redefine the role of the Central Bank was recognized
early on during the Menem administration. For decades the Government had abused the
power to create money, using the Cenltral Bank as the ultimate source of revenue for the
public sector. With the support of the PSRL, several reforms were adopted to separate
the Central Bank from the non-financial public sector and establish it as a monetary
authority. A new CBRA charter adopted in 1992 provided it with sufficient autonomy to
function as a monetary authority, restricted CBRA financing for the public sector, and
removed functions not directly related to the preservation of currency stability, including
the removal of trade credit and bank liquidation functions and the transfer of legal
authority over failed institutions to the courts.
35.   The reorganization of the Superintendency of Financial Entities (SEF) was also an
important element in the government's reform strategy and a condition of the PSRL. The
CBRA's Directors approved a reorganization of the SEF in July 1990 and carried it out in
September 1990. An action plan was developed aimed at strengthening the functions of
the SEF, which are a vital complemenrt to those of the CBRA. Among the functions to be
strengthened were the evaluation of banks' portfolios, banks' inspection, and the overall
prudential regulation of the banking system.
36.   The CBRA and the SEF had severe deficiencies in their computing and
communication equipment. These seriously limited the CBRA's capacity to maintain and
process information for policy-making modeling, as well as routine daily activities such as
monetary programming, balance of payments programming and analysis of financial
institutions. The lack of up-to-date communication systems also posed an additional
obstacle to the modernization of the CBRA's operational capacity. Transmission of
information on transactions to the CBRA's accounting system as well as between the
CBRA and SEF was generally poor and slow, thus hampering the decision making ability
of CBRA's management. Moreover, the CBRA's mainframe computer was both obsolete
and operating dangerously close to its capacity limit.
37.   Component's Objectives anid Implementation: Although originally conceived
as two separate components, the reorganization and modernization of the CBRA and SEF
were later merged into a single component to reflect the integration of the two entities that
resulted from their reorganizations. The PSRTAL supported the design and
implementation of a computerization and communications strategy to support the
CBRA/SEF organizational reform, including the development of main applications, such
as accounting and current accounts, and the training of technical personnel and end users.



12
38.   The implementation of the CBRA component illustrates some of the key elements
that contribute to the fate of technical assistance projects. During the first two years, the
leadership of the CBRA relied almost exclusively on external consultants to design the
main computing and communications strategy that was to support the modernization of
the CBRA/SEF. Given the high degree of specific know-how involved in the functions
performed by the CBRA, the lack of involvement of CBRA staff resulted in the inadequate
definition and specification of the systems designs. This affected the bidding documents
for the corresponding computer and communication systems. As a result, bids were
several times higher than anticipated and the procurement process was voided in October
1992.
39.   Thereafter, the institution decided to have another go at the procurement, mainly
for the transparency of working under the Bank and UNDP/OPS' procedures. This time,
however, it was decided to redesign the computer and communication strategy mainly in-
house, with the ownership of the systems in the hands of permanent CBRA staff working
with potential providers in the definition of the final product. Several providers were
willing to participate in giving informal advice to the CBRA.
40.   Both the Bank and UNDP/OPS worked very closely with the CBRA in designing
the second round and permitted some flexibility in procedures. Under a two-step process,
technical proposals were analyzed first. An evaluation commission reviewed all proposed
technical solutions and those found acceptable were asked to supplement them with
complementary elements to level the proposals. Prices were considered in the second step.
The winner finally was awarded the contract with a bid price less than a fourth of the
lowest bid under the previous process. The CBRA is a success regarding the ownership
and acceptance of the new systems within the institution, and the transparency and
competition of the procurement. The record contrasts sharply with the comparable case
for the Banco Naci6n, which took place at the same time and ended up with a scandal
involving the supplier and government officials.
41.   Achievement of Component's Objectives: Substantial Achievement. The
successful reform and reorganization of the Central Bank played a principal role in
controlling inflation and stabilizing prices. The average monthly CPI inflation fell from
24.9 percent in 1990 to zero in February 1994 and an annual inflation rate of 3.92 by the
end of 1994. The restructuring in the CBRA operational structure has been complemented
with a communications and computer system that provides adequate information storage,
transmittal, and processing capacity. The new systems are now being fully operated by
CBRA staff. In-depth training was provided for final users and almost 900 applications
were developed at no cost to the CBRA. The information required for routine daily
operations and policy making is readily available and reports are produced on demand.
42.   The SEF has also been restructured to strengthen its monitoring and regulation of
the banking system. With the support of the new CBRA communications and computer
systems, the time between the moment in which a financial institution presents its
information and the moment in which it is available to be used in SEF's analysis has been



13
reduced from six months to five days. Information from "alarm indicators" as well as
current accounts are available in real time, including disqualified current accounts (it used
to be more than four months). The tirne required to prepare information of the
consolidated financial system and the principal debtors has been reduced to five days.
.Banks' inspections have been greatly improved, CBRA teams are on-site in banks
iidentified as problematic, and other banks are inspected at least once a year.
G.   Major Factors Affecting the Project
43.   After a successful start, the implementation of the project experienced considerable
delays during 1992-93. These resulted from such factors as delays in the passage of
enabling legislation, the high complexity of the operational and technological frameworks
to embody the different reform components, and difficulties in some bidding processes.
Many of the products to be developed were highly innovative for which it developed that
there was no available "know-how" . Where government agencies failed to clearly
determine the conceptual definition of the final products, bidding documents were vague
and unclear. As in the case of the communications system for the Central Bank and two
other sub-components, poorly defined bidding documents resulted in highly inflated prices
and unenforceable contractual arrange:ments which ultimately retarded implementation.
44.   The UNDP/OPS was responsible for the purchase of all the equipment and hiring
consultant services. It caused some delays in the implementation of the project, partly due
to the fact that UNDP/OPS' operational procedures atop those of the Bank extended
processing times and added to the complexity of administrative procedures. This
however, was considerably improved after 1994 when UNDP/Buenos Aires took
responsibility for managing local consultants and small purchases of equipment and
training. On the other hand, the project benefited from its increased administrative
transparency and additional technical support, particularly in relation to complex bidding
processes, as in the case of the Central Bank, (reportedly key to the success of the second
bidding process).
4 5.   Although the different components financed under the PRSTAL generally resulted
in the expected outputs, the Government continues to develop further some sub-
components, now under a loan from the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB). This
suggests that even after the seven years of support through the PSRTAL, there is still a
need for both technical and financial assistance to continue with the implementation of the
second and third generations of reforms.
46.   Project Costs. The Loan financed some 70 per cent of the sum originally
allocated for the Customs Modernization component, as ANA decided to self finance the
MARIA system. The cost of the Administrative Reform component was approximately 10
percent below the planned US$5.6 million. The cost of the Central Bank and SEF
Modernization component was 97 percent of the initial allocation; and the Financial
Management Reform component exceeded the original budget by approximately 15
percent. Finally, the administration costs of the project were four times higher than



14
anticipated, including the costs of both the implementation unit (US$1.4 million) and
UNDP/OPS (approximately US$1 million). The extended duration of the project, as well
as the complexity of coordinating so many diverse components appear to have contributed
towards the higher administration costs.
H.   Project Sustainability
47.   Sustainability: Likely. The intended reforms have been successfully implemented
and are now operational. On administrative reforms, education and health services have
been effectively transferred to the provinces, and legislation has been passed deregulating
economic activities. The budget has regained the status of an effective tool to plan,
manage and control public expenditure, and the new financial administrative system
continues to be expanded and perfected. It is now under the leadership of the former
Treasurer of State, which reflects its genuine acceptance by the government bureaucracy.
And the Central Bank and SEF have been restructured and modernized. All these reforms
have been fully consolidated and the corresponding technological support systems are
currently being operated by permanent staff.
48.   In the case of the Customs Administration, the MARIA system has been
implemented, the new Customs Code has been developed, and the ANA school and lab
are operational. However, the final consolidation of the reforms is still pending, as the
result of the recent ANA merger with DGI.
49.   Moreover, those activities whose results fell somewhat short of the expectations,
such as SIRHU and SABEN7, are continued under the project financed by the IDB.
T.    Bank Performance
50.   Project Identification: Highly Satisfactory. The Bank correctly identified and
diagnosed the need for financial and technical support to consolidate the public sector
reforms under the PSRL. The PSRTAL was just one of several operations implemented
within the framework of a broad, comprehensive Bank strategy designed to support the
Government's efforts to reform at all levels of government.
51.   Project Preparation: Highly Satisfactory. The Bank's performance was highly
satisfactory with respect to the sectoral and technical aspects of project, identifying a
detailed matrix of activities to be performed under each component, as well as the
corresponding inputs. Greater effort should have been made though in defining baselines
for project evaluation criteria and following them up systematically.
52.   Project Appraisal: Satisfactory. During appraisal, the Bank set up useful
mechanisms to mitigate the various risks. It also took advantage of a historic opportunity
with timely support of Government efforts to implement reforms and actions that were
7 See Table 9, components BI. 5.1 (Human Resources Management System; SIRHU) and 1.5.3 (Pilot
Inventory of National Real Estate Assets; SABEN).



15
critical to the country's adjustment.. However, the appraisal failed to assess the project
execution period properly.
53.   Project Supervision: Highly Satisfactory. The Bank worked closely with the
Borrower to adopt corrective measures when necessary. Strong close technical assistance
was provided by the Bank's task rrmanagers.
J.    Borrower Performance
54.   Preparation of the Project: Highly Satisfactory. The project had a unique
combination of political support, strong determination of key actors and excellent
technical resources that were pivotal in the success of the program. The Govermnent also
successfully made it an integral element in the reform of the public seztor.
55.   Project Implementation: Highly Satisfactory. The project executing unit had
excellent performance in providing technical support to the different participating
agencies coordinating the different components, and firthering compliance of the
covenants. Its systematic progress tracking contributed to the effective implementation of
the program. The record also illustrates the utility of using top professionals in project
management with experience with ]Bank procedures in accounting, disbursement and
procurement.
56.   Compliance with Covenants: Highly Satisfactory. Over the life of the project,
compliance with the legal covenants and agreements was complete.
K.   Assessment of Outcome
57.   Overall Rating: Satisfactory. On the whole, the project objectives have been
satisfactorily met. The project widely promoted public sector reform and effectively
consolidated the reforms supported by the PSRL, It also set the grounds for the reform of
the Customs Administration, whose final consolidation is still pending.
58.   Moreover, the reforms supported under the PSRTAL, particularly the
establishment of a financial adminisiLration system to manage and control public
expenditures and the reorganization of the Central Bank as an effective monetary
authority, helped sustain monetary stability which, after the passage of the Convertibility
Law, became the cornerstone of the government's reform strategy.
59.   In summary, through the PR.STAL and related operations, the Bank helped
Argentina capitalize on a rare historic opportunity in which a group of decisive politicians,
charismatic leaders and sound professionals transformed a structural crisis into a
successful redefinition of Argentina' s public sector.



16
L.    Future Operations
The Project provided support for a first phase of the government's program to reform and
modernize the public sector. It effected improvements which remain inforce, whose
operational arrangements are in place and continue to be satisfactory. Also, the
Government's pursuit of still further performance betterment and efficiency continues. It
is thus anticipated that, assisted by inputs from the IDB, federal level operations will
continue to be upgraded. Also, the Project set a basis for extending these reforms to
provincial and municipal levels, on which Bank dialogue and assistance have been
continuous and are ongoing.
M.   Key Lessons Learned
60.   The lessons from this experience are;
a.    Technical assistance loans can be effective complements of structural
adjustment loans in lending for reform.
b. Bank interventions can be most effective when they capitalize on windows of
opportunities that provide unique momentum to the implementation of reforms.
c. Individual reforms are more likely to be successful when they are critical to the
success of an overall reform strategy. The PSRTAL benefited from its interdependency,
e.g., passage of the Convertibility Law put additional pressure to implement the financial
management system and to modernize the Central Bank, thus providing additional impetus
to the implementation of these components.
d. The success of technical assistance depends on a combination of factors, among
the most important of which is strong political support. The reforms supported under
the PSRL and consolida cd under the PSRTAL benefited from a unique combination of
strong political support and a solid leadership with a high level of determination, and
access to a pool of sound professionals
e. Overcoming resistance of the status quo is critical to the long-term sustainability
of improvements and reforms. A strong conviction on the part of the highest political
authorities is required to sustain momentum during the implementation of reforms.
However, the ultimate test is their final acceptance by in-house government personnel
and the incorporation of technological solutions in day-to-day operations.
f. Strong leadership within government agencies is required too. A Government
agency has to provide a well-defined vision of its future and clear specification of how to
realize this vision. Consultants can add technical or managerial expertise, but they cannot
instill the vision.



17
g. There is often a weak culture of consultant supervision in government. This
causes undue reliance on consultants for problem identification and project definition,
with the consequent weakening of ownership and lack of adequate accountability for
consultant performance.
h. Target agencies' lack of ownership and responsibility result in excessive reliance
on information technology for solutions.
i. It is important to identify key iin-house personnel receptive to change and to
bring them on board in the reformi process.
j. Non-technical aspects are cruciial in terms of the impact they can have on the
successful incorporation of reformns..
k. Training components are key toD project sustainability.
1. Technical assistance loans should not be expected to be short-term, one-time
interventions. TALs should be conceived as programs with medium and long time
frames, possibly followed by subsequent loans to support reforms as a continuum.
m. A detailed activity matrix and atnnual work plans are effective tools in ensuring
the continued focus of TALs.



18
Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives
Achievement of Objectives       Substantial    Partial      Negligible      Not
l__________________________ ___________ ___________ ___________ Applicable
Macro Policies                   D-
Sector Policies
Financial Objectives                         _
Institutional Development
Physical Objectives            _                        -               _
Poverty Reduction                                                            /
Gender Issues
Other Social Objectives                                 _
Environmental Objectives                                _
Public Sector Management             I .                 _
Private Sector Development                                              .    /
Other                                                   =  _
B. Project Sustainability
Project Sustainability              Likely           Unlikely          Uncertain
C. Bank Performance
Bank Performance                    Highly          Satisfactory       Deficient
Satisfactory                                      l
Identification                       If
Preparation Assistance                             _
Appraisal                                                                           I _____
Supervision
Except for the Customs Administration component, in which sustainability is uncertain.



19
D. Borrower Performance
Borrower Performance             Highly Satisfactory           Satisfactory               Deficient
Preparation                                 f                                                               l
Implementation                   _                                                            .             l
Covenant Compliance                        11
Operation (if applicable)                      .__
E. Assessment of Outcome
Assessment of Outcome              Highly           Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory                ghly
Satisfactory                                              Unsatisfactory
Table 2
Relaited Bank Loans/Credits
Loan           Purpose                     Amount   Year of
I  (US$ M)    Approval          Status
Preceding Operations                          ___                                                      l
Loan 2712-AR          Public Sector Management              18.5        1986     Disbursed
Loan 3015-AR          Tax Administration Technical           6.5       1989      Disbursed
Assistance                                                                     I
Loan 3292-AR          Public Enterprise Reform Execution    23.0        1991     Disbursed
(PEREL)
Loan 3394-AR          Public Sector Reform                  325.0      1991      Disbursed
Subsequent
Operations                                                                                             l
Loan 3460-AR          Second Tax Administration TA          20.0       1992      US$2.1 nillion
undisbursed (as of
p                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~7/27/97)  



20
Table 3
Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle     Date Planned           Actual Datelor
Duration
Identification (Initial Executive                October 1990
Project Summary 
Preparation                                      Six months
Appraisal                                        March 1991
Negotiations                                     May 1991
Board Presentation                               June 1991
Signing                                          August 1991
Effectiveness                                    December 1991
Loan closing                 June 30, 1995       March 31, 1998
Table 4
Cumulative Loan Disbursements:
Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
Cumulative               FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96
Disbursements               _                                         l
Appraisal Estimate           3.0      13.0     21.0     23.0        0
Actual                       3.0       3.7      7.5     18.2      23.0
Actual as % of             100%      28%      36%       79%
Estimate                         I        I        I
Date of final Disbursement: May 17, 1996.



21
T'able 5 A
Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate              Actual
Bank    GOA    Total       Bank      GOA   Total
Consultant Services and Training
I.  Customs Modernization Program           3,800      800    4,600       1,200      0   1,200
II.  Administrative Reform & Modernization  3,600      580    4,180       4,550    400   4,950
of t6e Central Government
Ill. Public Sector Financial                3,700    1,200    4,900       6,230     95   6,325
Management & Performance Control
IV. Central Bank and Financial Entities (*)  2,500    1,690    4,190      4,700   5,100   9,800
V.  Project Implementation Unit               600      400    1,000       1,375    100   1,475
VI. Adrninistrative Costs                                                 1,010    205   1,215
VII. Auditing                                                              160       0     160
Subtotal                               14,200    4,670   18,870     19,225   5,900  25,125
Equipment                                      _____
I.   Customs Modernization Program           3,000    2,000    5,000      2,680   1,500   4,160
II.  Administrative Reform & Modernization   2,000      80    2,080        100    300    400
of the Central Government
III. Public Sector Comprehensive Financial   1,400    1,500    2,900       990    300   1,290
Management & Performance Control
IV. Central Bank and Financial Entities (*)  2,400       0    2,400          0       0       0
V.  Project Implementation Unit                 0      250      250         25    500    525
VI. Administrative                                                           0       0       0
VII. Auditing                                                                0       0       0
Subtotal                                8,800    3,830   12,630      3,775   2,600   6,375
Total Project Costs                        2.t,000    8,500   31,500     23,000   8,500  31,500
(*) Originally conceived as two separate components, the Reorganization and Modernization of the Central Bank and Financial
Entities were merged into a single component.
Table 5B
Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$NI)       Actual estimate (US$M)
Source        Local    Foreign      lotal     Local     Foreign     Total
costs     costs                costs      costs
IBRD                6.5       16.5       ,!3.0     19.3        3.7        23.0
Government          8.5        0.0        B.5       8.5         0         8.5
Total              15.0       16.5       31.5      27.8        3.7        31.5



22
Table 6
Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement      Section   Type of   Present               Descdption of Covenant                 Comments
l____  Covenant   status
Loan Agreement  3.01(a)       10         C      The Borrower shall carry out the objectives of the  Complied.
project as set forth in Schedule 2, and provide
funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the project.
3.01(b)     10         C       The Borrower shall maintain in MEC, a Project  Conplied.
Coordinating Unit with functions and
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, including,
inter alia, the following (1) coordinate the execution
of all parts of the project; Cii) approve the
procurement of goods and the selection of, and the
terms of reference for, the consultants proposed by
the Executing Entities; (dii) review of all
l____________                        _______  consultants' reports.
3.01(c)     10         C       The Borrower shall ensure that the Project     Complied. The
Coordinating Unit is at all times headed by MEC's   responsibility for
Subsecretary of Technical and Administrative   the National
Coordination as National Project Director, assisted    Directorate of the
by a full-time Deputy Director with qualifications,    Project is held by
experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the  the Secretary of
Bank, and by qualified staff in adequate numbers.    Finance at
MEOSP
(previously
MEC).
3.01(d)     10         CP      The Borrower shall carry out the Project       Substantially
substantially in accordance with the Implementation   complied.
Program set forth in Schedule 5.                                l
3.02(a)     10         C       The Borrower shall enter into contractual      Complied.
agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, with an agent
or agents acceptable to the Bank, for handling
contracting of consultants, the procurement of goods
and for arranging training activities under the
project.                                                        l
3.02(b)     10         C       The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the  Complied.
contractual arrangements referred to in paragraph
(a) of this Section in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan and, except as
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive such
arrangements or any provisions thereof.
3.03(a)     10         C       The Borrower shal canry out all studies and    Complied.
(i)                            activities included in the Project under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank, which, when
applicable and unless the Borrower and the Bank
shall otherwise agree, shall include specific
programs or plans of actions to meet the objectives
I__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ___ of the Project.
3.03(a)      9         C       The Borrower shall promptly after the completion of  Complied.
(ii)                          each study, furnish to the Bank copy of its findings
and recommendations including such programs or
plans of action.
3.03(a)      9         C       The Borrower shall afford the Bank a reasonable  Complied.
OHii)                          opportunity to comment on such findings,
recommendations, and programs or plans of action.
3.03(a)      9                 The Borrower shall, where appropriate, and taking
(IV)                           into account the Bank's comments thereon, prepare
programs or pans of action to carry out the
-_________ _  recommendations of such studies.



23
Table 6 (cont.)
Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement    Section   Type of   Present                   Description of Covenant                  Comments
Covenant   Status
3.03(b)     10         C       The Borrower undertakes to carry out such programs  Complied.
and plans of action as required to meet the objectives of
the rioject as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
l______              ________    and the Program.
3.04(b)      9          C      Not later than 15 days prior to each such exchange of  Complied.
views., the Borrower shall, through the Project
Coordinating Unit, furnish to the Bank for its review
and comment a report on the progress achieved by each
Execuating Entity in carrying out their respective parts of
the piroject, in such details as the Bank shall reasonably
________    request.
3.05(a)     10          C      ProcuLrement of the goods and consultant's services  Complied.
requbied for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
X______             ________  provisions of Schedule 4 to Loan Agreement.                           I
3.05(b)     10          C      Public servants employed by the Borrower under any  Complied.
kind of administrative arrangements (including leave
withoaxt pay) shall not be eligible for providing
consulting services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the loan.
3.05(c)     10          C      The Borrower shall maintain in the Executing Entities  Complied.
qualified staff in adequate numbers as counterparts of
the consultants employed under the PFoject.
3.06         9          C      The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank  Conplied.
lthrough the Project Coordination Unit not later than
Septetaber 1 of each year. for its review and approval,
an Anmual Work program containing a detailed
description of the Activities included in, and the
objectives, institutional arrangements, counterpart
resources for, and anticipated results, of the execution
I__ _  _of each part of the Project.
3.07(a)      9          C      Furniih to the Bank for approval the content of such  Complied.
proprams as well as the schedule for its implementation.
3.07(b)     10          C      Select ihe beneficiaries of such training programs in  Complied.
accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Bank.
3.07(c)      9         C       Not later than September 30 of each year exchange  Complied.
views with the bank on the training programs to be
carried out in the following calendar year.
3.07(d)      9         CP      FurnsiL to the Bank a re port of such scope and detail as  Substantially
the Barik shall reasonably request, on the results of each   complied.
of such training programs and the benefits to be derived
therefrom.
4.01(a)      I         C       Mainteiance of records and separate accounts to reflect   Complied.
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the
________________             _________  proiect.
4.01(b)      1         C       Have the records and accounts for each fiscal year  Complied.
audited and furnish to the Bank the audit reports not
later than six months after the end of the fiscal year.



24
Table 6 (cont.)
Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement    Section   Type of   Prent                    Desription of Coveant                   Comments
l_________                Covenant   Stats
4.01(c)      1         C      For all expenditures made on the basis of SOEs,   Complied.
maintain records and accounts, reuain aU records
evidencing such expenditures, enable the Bank's
Kprepsentatives to examine such records and ensure that
such records and accounts are included in annual audits.
Covenant Types:
1 = Accounts/Audits                                   8 = Indigenous people
2 = Fmancial performance/generate revenue from        9 = Monitoring, review and reporting
beneficiaries                                      10 = Project implementation not
3 = Flow and utilization of Project funds                  covered by categories 1-9
4 = Counterpart funding                               11 = Sectoral or cross sectoral
5 = Management aspects of the project                      budgetary or other resource
or executing agency                                    allocation
6 = Environmental covenants                           12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
7 = Involuntary resettlement                               regulatory/institutional action
13 = Other
Present Status:
C = covenant complied
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC = Not complied with



25
Table 7
Bank Resources: Staff Inputs i
Stage of                                   Actual
project cycle
Weeks                US$
Through appraisal                        20.8                47.0
Appraisal-Board                         13.4                 30.3
Board-effectiveness                       5.7                 16.3
Supervision                          97.8                255.2
Completion                           10.9                 23.0
T|OTAL                            148.6               372.0
/1 Includes Bank-financed and trust fund consultants. Dollars are direct costs only.
Table 8
Bank Resources: Missions
_~~                                 -                                ...
Stage of Project cycle   Monty          Number                SpDtiffzdl                                            Types of
year           Of      Days in     staff skills                                         problems
persons   field /1   represented 2/                                        problems
Implementation    Developmnent
Status          objectives
Through apprisal     November 1990         4         14        A,C,E,G
February 1991        1          7
Appraisal through    March 1991            8         14       A,B,C,D,E,F
Board approval                                             _
Board approval       July 1991             1         5            A
through effectiveness
Supervision          March 1992            4         7           A,E 
October 1992         5          7         A,D,E,G             2
April 1994           3         10          A,E,G              2
November 1994        1          7            H                S                HS
June 1995            2         14           E,H              HS                HS
Completion           June 1997             _1        15 _E
1/ Mission leader.
2/ Key to specialization:
A Sr. Public Enterprise Specialist
B. Igal Counsel
C. Sr. Countby Economist
D. Principal Financial Management Specialist
E. Consultant
F Sr. Country Officer
Q Tax Administration Specialist
H. Task Manager



26
Table 9
Matrix of Project Activities
Activity                         Output             m mpact         Sustainability
A. Custom Modernization Program
1.1.1-2 Design of             Own sources            N.A    In operation.
Network
I.1.3 Primary Network         Own sources            N.A    In operation.
1. 1.4 Secondary Network                             N.A    Activity has been canceled after
merge with General Tax
Directorate (DGI).
I.2 Electronic Mail    *  Purchase of equipment.     N.A    Has not been made operational.
*  Training still pending,
1.3 Laboratory         *  Purchase of equipment.      +     In operation as planned.
II. Training           *  Almost 100 courses for     N.A    In operation, now with own
1500 people.                     sources.
*  Purchase of equipment
for Customs School.
m. Internal Procedures   *  Four applications had    N.A    Activity has been canceled as
been developed,                  part of PSRTAL. It was
including accounting,            continued with Customs' own
payroll, human                   resources.
resources management,
and registry.
IV. Revised Customs    *  Revised Customs            N.A    It is difficult to assess given the
Regulations                Operation Manual                  recent merger with DGI.
*  Proposed changes to
current Customs
regulations.
B. Administrative Reform and Modernization of the Central Government
1. 1 Strengthening of  *  National System for
Administrative             Professionals in           +      It has been adopted and is in
Functions                  Government                        operation, with approximately
Administration                   90% of the personnel in the
(SINAPA).                        central administration having
*  Development of                    been re-assigned to categories
systematic employment            within the new system.
categories, with critical
posts filled through
concursos pubIlicos.
I.2. Reform Information   *  Database was utilized    +     It is operational under CECRA
System (SIPRA)             for monitoring the               (Executive Commnittee for the
reform in general and            Monitoring of the
PSRL's conditions in             Administrative Reform).
particular.
* For the first time, actual
government posts were
matched with approved
public posts.



27
Table 9
Matrix of Project Activities (cont.)
Activity              I          Output           I Impact I         Sustainabilit
B. Administrative Reform and Modernizatiorn of the Central Govermnent (cont.)
I.3. Reorganization of    *  Studies to suppoirt the  +      Approximately 220,000 sq.
Physical Spaces            development of a                  meters released, with savings of
._______________        rationalizationprogratn.          US$63 millions.
1. 4 Administrative     *  Normative framework        + -    In operation in the Ministry of
Procedures                 for the systematic                Economy (MEyOSP), but there
follow-up of                     are problems replicating the
government documents.            system in other ministries.
I. 5.1 Management of    *  Design of the central             It is being continued under the
Human Resources            database.                  NA    BID loan. Lack of definition in
(SIRHU)                 *  Although it has been              bidding documents was closely
installed in pilot               related to the partial success of
entities, only Health is         this activity.
using it for its payroll as
planned.
1.5.2 Integrated        *  Although with some      + -       The replication of the local
Financial Management       problems, it is already           SIDIFs was more complex than
System for the Central     operational in the                anticipated. Based on the three
Administration (local      MEyOSP.                           local SIDIFs developed under
SID-IF in all ministries)   *  Basic module ha-s been        the PRSTAL, the BID loan is
also developed fcir the          financing local SIDIFs in the
Ministries of Interior           remaining ministries.
and Health.
I.5.3 Pilot Inventory of   *  Only the inventory was  NA     Being continued under the BID
Public Real Estate         finalized.                        loan. Lack of definition in
(SA1BEN)                                                     bidding documents was also
closely related to the partial
success of this activity.
I.5.4 Normative         Legislation was drafted but   NA     It is being continued under the
Frarnework for Public   was not approved by                  BID loan, which finances the
Procurement (Purchases  Congress.                            establishment of a Procurement
and Contracts)                                               Bureau that operates within the
normative framework proposed
______________      ____________________                 under the  PSRL.
1.6 Installation of                                          This activity was canceled.
software and hardware
1.7 Center of Image     *  Met as planned, with      NA      It is operational, and its
Processing (Electronic      15,000 forms having              demonstration effect is
Registry)                  been processed, End staff         considered to be very strong.
trained.              I



28
Table 9
Matrix of Project Activities (cont.)
Activity                       Output            I Impact         Sustainability
B. Administrative Reform and Modernization of the Central Government (cont.)
1.8 Training;         *  Postgraduate courses for    NA    In operation, with 38 graduates,
Postgraduate Institute    government economists,          90 students currently enrolled,
for Government            implemented through             and with approximately 600
Economists (ISEG)         agreements with four            applications for only 45
universities.                   vacancies.
II. Deregulation
.I.1 Deregulation of  *  Development of the         -    Unlikely to be reversed. High
Economic Activities       normative framework to          impact as the result of
deregulate numerous             macroeconomic effects,
economic activities and         estimated at approximately
the corresponding laws.         US$322 million between 1992
__ __ __ _ ___ _  and 1994.
III. Transfer of Public Services to the Provinces
I1. 1. Transfer of Public  *  Development of the   NA    Between 1992 and 1993, the
Services to the Provinces  conceptual and                 responsibility for the provision
operational scheme for          of health and secondary
the transfer of public          education was transferred to the
services --mainly health        provinces, with savings of in the
and secondary                   1992 federal budget. Increased
education.                      provincial expenditures were
compensated by increased
transfers. This strengthens the
linkage with final beneficiaries,
thus potentially fostering
efficiency and accountability.
C. Public Sector Comprehensive Financial Management and Performance Control
I. Financial          *  Manuals and procedures    NA    The new Public Financial
Management System         corresponding to the            Management Law was
financial administrative        implemented under this
reform.                         component, including the
development of the supporting
communication and computing
systems.
1.1 Budget            *  Methods and procedures     +     In 1992, the national budget was
for budget rogramming,          presented to Congress in time
executing, evaluation           for the first time since 1965.
and control were                The budget has been effectively
implemented for all            recovered as a management tool
Administrative Units           to improve the allocation and
(SAFs) within the               control of public funds.
central government and
decentralized entities.



29
Table 9
Matrix of Project Activities (cont.)
Activity                          Output             im pact           Sustainability
C. Public Sector Comprehensive Financial IManaaement and Performance Control (cont.)
1.2 Treasury            *  Electronic connection        +      More than 5,000 public bank
between the Treasury              accounts were consolidated
and banks' networks for           under the Consolidated Treasury
the transfer of data and          Account (CUT). All payments
electronic payrnents.             to SAFs are now being done
through this CUT, with the total
number of checks decreasing
__________________                                 ________ from 2000 to 200 checks/month.
1.3 Public Credit       *  Inventory of bilateral,      +      UNCTAD 's debt management
(SIGADE)                    multilateral, private and          system was adapted to register
public commercial debt.           and manage Argentina's public
*  Development cf the                 and private sector debt. It has
Debt Management and               allowed for the optimization of
Analysis Systemn                  Argentina's debt portfolio
______________            (SIGADE)
I.4 Accounting          *  Integration of main          +      SAFs' main accounting output
information outputs               are connected to the central
from the SAFs to the              SIDIF and the CUT.
general accounting
______________________    system.
1.5 Internal Control                                           This activity was canceled
(SIGEN)
1.6 External Control    *  Diagnostic stucly by        + -    Not other actions taken under
consulting firmv.                 PRSTAL. However, a set of
structural reforms are being
financed out under the BID
__________________ _  __________________________   ________   loan.
1.7 SIDlF (Integrated Financial Management System; orinaly ed SIPRECO)
1.7.1-3 Communications  *  Development and              +      On-line, real-time information
System                      implementation of a                on all financial transactions
communication and                 within the central
computer system to                administration with access open
support the Financial             to multiple users.
Management Reform,                Increased transparency and
including both hardware           efficiency in the management of
and systems                       public resources.
__________________        development.
1.7.4 Optimization of    *  Improvements on the         +      It is important to think of the
the SIDIF                   system described above.            SIDIF as an evolving tool; thus,
its permanent, on-going
optimization is not only to be
expected but also to be
considered necessary. The BID
loan continues to finance it.



30
Table 9
Matrix of Project Activities (cont.)
Activity                        Ou ut            Impact I         Sustainability
C. Public Sector Comprehensive Financial Management and Performance Control (cont.)
1.7.5 SIDIF for       *  Development and            + -    The replication of the local
Decentralized             implementation of local          SIDIFs was more complex than
Organisms                 Financial Management             anticipated. Based on the three
Systems in three                local SIDIFs developed under
decentralized organisms         the PRSTAL, the BID loan is
(CONEA, AGN, and                financing local SIDIFs in
ENREN).                         another 14 decentralized
entities, to be eventually
reproduced in the remaining
______ ___ _ _  ones.
II. Training           *  On-going training         +      More than 2,800 professionals
supporting the                  in the national and provincial
implementation of the           administrations have been
SIDIF.                          trained.
D. Reorganization and Modernization of the Central Bank (CBRA) and the Superintendency of
Financial Entities (SEF)                             _
I. Development of the  *  Development and           +      The restructuring of the CBRA
CBRA's and SEF's          implementation of                as delineated under the PSRL
Information Systems       communications and               was complemented with a
Network                   computing systems for            communications and computer
CBRA and SEF, serving           system that provides adequate
over 4,000 workstations.        information storage, transmittal,
*  Set-up of an electronic          and processing capacity.
mail.                           The new system also supports
*  Development and                  the SEF's role as regulator and
implementation of a             controller of the banking system
decentralized                   by providing timely information
accounting system.              on alarm indicators, current
*  Training of CBRA and             accounts, principal debtors, etc.
SEF on the operation of
new systems.           _



31
Appendix A
Borrower's Contribution to ICR
Tae como se desprende de la documentacio6n basica que sustenta la formulacion de este
Programa de Asistencia Tecnica, existi6 previamente un excelente diagn6stico sobre las
areas criticas que hacen al funcionamiento de la administraci6n de Gobiemo por parte de
los analistas del Banco Mundial.
Dicho diagn6stico coma las orientaciones sugeridas por el Banco, permitieron delinear un
proyecto complejo y ambicioso pero factible de ejecutar.
Cabe destacar, por otra parte, que el gobierno nacional estaba totalmente comprometido
en llevar adelante este ambicioso Prograina de Reforma, decisi6n que obliga a los distintos
grados de decisi6n del aparato puiblico a apoyar y compartir cada uno de las objetivos
originalmente planteados.
Un punto clave de este Programa, donde se verific6 la decisi6n inquebrantable de las
autoridades de alcanzar rapidamente los resultados previstos fue el hecho de convocar a
entidades y personalidades nacionales para colaborar en estas tareas.
Debido a esta acci6n se iniciaron una variedad de actividades consideradas criticas antes
de concretarse el financiamiento del programa.
De esta manera se encar6 todo el proceso de reestructuraci6n organizativa del Estado que
permiti6 eliminar mas del 50% de las Subsecretarias de Estado y reordenarse las
estructuras eliminandose alrededor de 120.000 cargos.
Al mismo tiempo se llevaron adelante las negociaciones para transferir los servicios
educacionales y de salud a las provincias y el diseflo de las normas y procedimientos para
garantizar el financiamiento de estos servicios.
Otra tarea en la que el Gobiemo puso su mayor participaci6n fue la reubicacion de los
espacios fisicos en concordancia con la rLueva estructura organizativa del Estado.
Debido a que todo el trabajo previo para encarar estos resultados surge del documento
basica del Programa, estos objetivos aparecen con una ejecuci6n financiera insignificante
en la ejecuci6n global del mismo.
La. baja ejecuci6n del Programa durante los primeras afnos obedece en primer lugar a que
el personal de la unidad ejecutora particip6 activamente en las tareas descriptas,
postergando la iniciacion de las otras actividades sustantivas.



32
Posteriormente y en raz6n del cambio de autoridades, el Programa que dependia de la
Secretaria de Coordinaci6n Administrativa, pasa a depender de la Secretaria de Hacienda,
oportunidad en que se decide dar un fuerte impulso a las actividades cuyos objetivos
sustentan las reformas macroecon6micas realizadas en una segunda etapa -. La Reforma
de la Administraci6n Financiera y la Reestructuraci6n del Banco Central.
En el caso particular de la Reforma de Administraci6n Financiera - Componente C,
coincidieron los aspectos quo permiten garantizar el exito de un proyecto (politico y
ejecutivo), en razon que el nuevo Director Nacional del Proyecto, el Secretario de
Hacienda, Dr. Ricardo Gutierrez era al mismo tiempo el lider sustantivo de esta reforma y
autor del proyecto de ley que puso en funcionamiento las normativas para la
Administracion Financiera.
En tal sentido puede decirse que esta componente fue bien formulado, tenia un fuerte
liderazgo y el poder politico necesario para su implantaci6n, conjugado con la capacidad
de una buena selecci6n de profesionales que garantizaron su ejecuci6n.
Dado este ejemplo -que permiti6 desde el inicio comprobar los avances y resultados-la
Unidad de Coordinaci6n se fija como meta reunir estas mismas condiciones en el resto de
los componentes que eran parte del Programa de Reforma.
Visto el fracaso de la licitaci6n para la reestructuraci6n del Banco Central - Componente
D- y con el total apoyo del oficial de proyectos del Banco Mundial, se iniciaron
conversaciones con las autoridades de esa entidad para redefinir objetivos, actividades y
resultadas, asi como reemplazar la coordinaci6n de ese componente.
Debido al cumplimiento de las condicionalidades fijadas por las entidades financieras
mediante el PSRL, PERAL y PEREL, el Gobiemo habia avanzado en la reestructuraci6n
y leyes que daban autonomia al Banco Central y se creaba la Superintendencia de
Entidades Financieras. Por tal motiva se decidi6 apoyar a esto componente con un
ambicioso proyecto de reinformatizaci6n.
En este sentido la Unidad de Coordinaci6n colabor6 en esta reprogramacion de
actividades. Se nombr6 un nuevo coordinador del componente que se transform6 en un
lider indiscutible de este proyecto, permitiendo generar un procedimiento de licitaci6n
novedoso para el para como fue el de empresa integradora. el que debido a su complejidad
necesit6 atenci6n de los especialistas en compras del Banco Mundial y de la OSP-UNOPS.
No caben dudas que el exito de este proyecto se debe al hecho de reunir las condiciones
basicas comentadas anteriormente.
En el caso del Componente Reforma Aduanera -Componente A- se intent6 realizar la
misma experiencia con resultados fallidos, en raz6n que este proyecto era tan salo de



33
apoyo y no sustantivo y las actividades fueron marginales. Si bien la Reforma Aduanera
tenia un fuerte liderazgo por parte del Aidministrador de la Aduana, Lic. Gustavo Parino,
los objetivos principales estaban faera del proyecto financiado por el Banco Mundial a
saber la implantaci6n del Sistema Maria. y una Red de Comunicaciones,
Esta situacion impidi6 delinear actividades concretas y el esfuerzo se resumi6 a atender
compras de equipamiento y asistir al Centro de Capacitacion.
En el caso del proyecto de Modernizaci6n el Gobiemo Central -Componente B- cabe
aclarar que el mismo estaba compuesto por una variedad de objetivos entre los cuales uno
de los de mayor impacto eran el SIRHUF (Sistema lntegrado de Recursos Humanos), cuyo
objetivo fue el desarrollo de una base de datos con toda la planta de personal del estado, la
que comunicaria con un sistema de administraci6n de recursos humanos.
El finico resultado alcanzado fue crear un sistema de interfases para transferir a dicha base
de datos la informaci6n de liquidaci6n de haberes mensual de todo el area dependiente del
Poder Ejecutivo, Esta actividad tuvo que ser suspendida por el bajo resultado de la firma
adjudicataria y en la actualidad ese objetivo esta siendo terminado par la Secretaria de
Hacienda.
El otro objetivo importante fue el SABEN quo consistia en obtener un sistema de
administraci6n de bienes, una metodologia de valuacion y un inventario de bienes
inmuebles. Esta actividad tambien tuvo que ser suspendida por el bajo nivel de respuesta
obtenido por la firma adjudicataria.
El fracaso de ambas actividades podrian adjudicarse al hecho que los t6rminos de
referencia no especificaban con claridad el alcance de los resultados y si incorporaban
muchas exigencias para la selecci6n de firmas.
Producto de ello las firmas adjudicatarias aran importantes pero no especialistas en estos
ternas, raz6n por la cual subcontrataron iirmas menores para el desarrollo del producto.
Esta combinaci6n evidentemente no result6, con la consiguiente perdida de tiempo y
esfijerzo. Esta experiencia deberia orientar a buscar mas el perfil de la firma que el tamafio
de la misma.
Otra actividad que concluy6 exitosamente pero cuya ejecuci6n se llev6 fuera de este
programa, fue la instalaci6n del SIGADE (Sisteme Integrado de Gesti6n de la Deuda
Extema) provisto por la UNCTAD.
Cabe resaltar que esta actividad fte iniciada por la Unidad de Coordinaci6n por
recomendaci6n del Banco Mundial.



34
Una vez iniciada las conversaciones con la UNCTAD no hubo acuerdo con el especialista
del Banco Mundial en el tema Deuda Extema, 16 que deriv6 en la decisi6n del Gobierno
de encarado via PNUD.
Ademas dentro de este componente se licitaron y desarrollaron los sistemas locales de
administraci6n financiera para la Administraci6n Central y para Organismos
Descentralizados, los cuales han sido instalados en diferentes Servicios Administrativos
Financieros en caracter de unidades piloto.
Si bien puede considerarse en ambos un resultado exitoso, en el caso del Sistema de
Administraci6n Central se generaron demoras excesivas que obligaron a cerrar el proyecto
adeudandose el pago final a la firma adjudicataria, pago quo asume el Gobierno una vez
que apruebe la totalidad y calidad del producto.
Por ultimo cabe resaltar que la demora de mas de un anlo en el Componente de Reforma
Aduanera con la licitaci6n de una Red Satelital, fue producto de la indecisi6n de las
autoridades de adjudicar a la firma que hizo la mejor oferta.
Asimismo, las demoras en aprobar los avances del Sistema Local de Administraci6n
Financiera para Administraci6n Central fue producto de la subestimacion de alcances y
tiempos por parte de la firma adjudicataria. Este proyecto prolong6 un afio su plazo de
ejecuci6n.
Si bien la unidad decidi6 no incrementar sus costos transfiriendo su personal a otros
proyectos, esta experiencia nos indicaria que todo desarrollo u obra que preve un plazo de
ejecuci6n de un anlo deberia ser licitado a mediados de la vida ujtil del proyecto, dejando
para lo ultimo tareas menores.
CONCLUSIONES
El proyecto debe considerarse exitoso debido a que los principales objetivos fueron
alcanzados de acuerdo a lo previsto.
Por otra parte debe resaltarse la permanente comunicaci6n a involucramiento entre el
proyecto y la contraparte.
La gesti6n, ejecuci6n y seguimiento de este proyecto permiti6 experimentar la importancia
que tiene el gerenciamiento y salidas de una Unidad de Coordinaci6n, que no solo
administre sino quo apoyoe, negocie y gestione cada acci6n comprometida.
Asimismo, este programa permiti6 apreciar las fortalezas de una buena formulaci6n y buen
seguimiento de los resultados por parte del Banco Mundial, donde es importante resaltar
no solo la experiencia y capacidad sino ademis la exigencia quo tuvo el oficial del
proyecto, Sr. Martin del Carnpo durante el periodo mas critico de la ejecucion.



35
Otro aspecto que si bien es permanentemente discutido es la colaboracion de la UNPS
para aquellos procesos de cierto volumen y complejidad que necesitan garantizar
transparencia en la adjudicaci6n.
Un aspecto clave para futuros proyectos es garantizar el liderazgo e involucramiento de
las autoridades Nacionales. Esta caracteristica no solo garantiza el exito sino que elimina
incertidumbre y la prolongaci6n de plazos de ejecucion, los cuales en la mayoria de los
casos derivan del cambio de autoridades que plantean objetivos o caminos diferentes a los
previstos originalmente.
Por uiltimo, se cree que debera hacerse mas hincapie en el alcance de cada actividad,
situaci6n que permitira mejorar los terminos de referencia. La experiencia de esta
Coordinaci6n indica que. si bien las autoridades son muy conscientes de sus necesidades,
no son tan precisos en establecer la demaida. De esta manera, para un solo tema existen
una variedad de alternativas y/o propuestas que imposibilitan elegir la mejor.



IBRD 29348
70'                                                       60' 10I
BOLIVIA  6                                                                                       50'
- 0  r    \   r~I--                        > N
- J  '(                                 \ ~P'ARAGUAY,
4@San Salvador            PAAUYB                                                    ZI
de JSujuy                                                           B  R  A    Z    I L
. @: . -                                                j  Salta  N
Formosaf
'Tucum6n                  - .                           , 
Re.;istencia   *    Posadas 
.  ; E   . . f /         0Santiago del Estero            Corrientes          r
LL    t/             -     Catamarca                                      /7
La RioIa0                                                 /
*  U                                   C6~~~~~~~~~orcloba   Santa30
|  .     00 f S an Juan         d                0dParan6
A,,_   \   s    Mendoza          San                                                             ;
;;ndoza   Luis                                            URUGUAY  (
-)Buenos Aires
- ~ j   \Santa Rosa0
- Neuqu6n0
. . 0   ~~~~~~~~VemaO0-'
40'                             j-    -     :-1 - : ARGENTINA
>  0  0  PROVINCE CAPITALS
- -5>_NATIONAL CAPITAL
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
-  - \--   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
50' ~~~~~~~~C019S50'
- ~ ) /1oG                        s -    b 5    ;        *;  - .- -                      0  100 200 300 400 500 600 KILOMETERS
-~ ':                                                 : -      , Z)       ' . , ' I,gSS F"-v>.   ......0 t00  200  300  400 Miles
This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
Ushuakr~~~~~~~~-~~~                  The bounidaries, colors, denami,atoiios ond anyofher information shown
f   -- - . :-: .-    . -:    s   , ,U,,  J f   R ,A t  on this map do not imply, on the port of The Wand Barnk Group, ony
~~~  iiu ~~~~~~~judgment on the fegal status ofaony territ ory,or any endorsement or
acceptance of such boundaries.
7 .                                                      ;rit  . - .. . - - 0  ....... 60                           50'
APRIL 1998



