Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3362-AR
(Public Sector Reform Technical Assistance Project)
between
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated August 13, 1991
LOAN NUMBER 3362-AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 13, 1991, between THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) by agreement of even date herewith, the Bank has agreed to make a 
loan (the Public Sector Reform Loan) to the Borrower to assist in the financing of a 
program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve a structural 
adjustment of key sectors of the Borrower's economy through, inter alia, a program of 
reforms to the Borrower's public sector administration and Central Bank;
(B)
the Borrower has started the execution of a program of actions, 
objectives and policies designed to achieve a structural adjustment of key sectors of 
the Borrower's economy including, inter alia, the reform of the Borrower's public 
sector administration and Central Bank (the Program);
(C)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which will support the 
execution of the Program, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the 
Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
 
(b)
in Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph (l) and 
a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions 
of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Action Plans" means the Borrower's plans of action for the 
implementation of each Part of the Project, satisfactory to the Bank, including the 
main activities to be carried out under such Part of the Project, their expected 
results or outputs, cost estimates and budgets, evaluation criteria and performance 
indicators, the institutional arrangements and responsibilities, and key dates and 
timetables for implementation, set forth in a letter of even date herewith from the 
Borrower to the Bank, as such Action Plans may be revised from time to time by 
agreement between the Borrower and the Bank;
(b)
"Activity" means a specific study or training program or the procurement 
of goods or services carried out under the Project, and "Eligible Activity" means an 
Activity, as so defined, which is included in an Annual Work Program approved by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 3.06 of this Agreement;
(c)
"Administrative Reform Plan" means the Administrative Reform Program 
described in the Borrower's report "Hacia un Estado Moderno" dated December 26, 1990, 
furnished to the Bank on May 2, 1991, as such program is being implemented pursuant to 
the Borrower's Decree No. 2476, dated November 26, 1990; 
(d)
"ANA" means Administracion Nacional de Aduanas, the Borrower's National 
Customs Administration;
(e)
"Annual Work Program" means any of the annual Project execution programs 
referred to in Section 3.06 of this Agreement;
(f)
"Austral" and "A" means the currency of the Borrower;
 
(g)
"Central Bank" means the Borrower's Central Bank;
(h)
"Executing Entity" means any of the following: ANA, Central Bank, SSCAT, 
SFP, SSH and SEF, and "Executing Entities" means two or more Executing Entities 
referred to collectively;
(i)
"Management Service Contract" means the contract referred to in Section 
3.02 of this Agreement;
(j)
"MEC" means Ministerio de Economia, the Borrower's Ministry of Economy;
 
(k)
"National Project Director" means the head of the Project Coordinating 
Unit referred to in Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement;
(l)
"Project Coordinating Unit" means the Coordinating Unit to be maintained 
by the Borrower for purposes of the Project, pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this 
Agreement;
(m)
"SEF" means Superintendencia de Entidades Financieras, the Borrower's 
Superintendency of Financial Entities; 
Page  3
(n)
"SFP" means Secretaria de la Funcion Publica, the Borrower's Public 
Management Secretariat;
(o)
"SSCAT" means Subsecretaria de Coordinacion Administrativa y Tecnica, the 
Borrower's Undersecretariat of Technical and Administrative Coordination; and
(p)
"SSH" means Subsecretaria de Hacienda, the Borrower's Undersecretariat of 
Finance.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of twenty three million dollars 
($23,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1995 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed;
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
this Section; and
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the 
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
Page  4
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest 
Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c)
(iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 
15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through the Executing Entities, as described in the Annex to Schedule 
2 to this Agreement, and in conformity with the Action Plans and Annual Work Program 
and appropriate administrative, financial, control and management practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall maintain in MEC, a Project Coordinating Unit with functions and 
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter alia, the following:
(i)
coordinate the execution of all parts of the Project;
 
(ii)
approve the procurement of goods and the selection of, and the 
terms of reference for, the consultants proposed by the Executing 
Entities;
(iii)
review of all consultants' reports and provide feedback to the 
National Project Director, the Executing Entities and the Bank on 
their content and on the soundness of the consultants' 
recommendations; and
(iv)
prepare semiannual reports on the progress of the Project.
 
(c)
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Coordinating Unit is at all 
times headed by MEC's Subsecretary of Technical and Administrative Coordination as 
National Project Director, assisted by a full-time Deputy Director with 
qualifications, experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and by 
qualified staff in adequate numbers.
(d)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project substantially in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall enter into contractual arrangements, 
satisfactory to the Bank, with an agent or agents acceptable to the Bank, for handling 
contracting of consultants, the procurement of goods and for arranging training 
activities under the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the contractual arrangements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section in such a manner as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan and, 
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive such arrangements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall:
(i)
carry out all studies and activities included in the Project under 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank which, when applicable 
Page  5
and unless the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall 
include specific programs or plans of action to meet the 
objectives of the Project;
(ii)
promptly after the completion of each study, furnish to the Bank 
copy of its findings and recommendations including such programs 
or plans of action;
(iii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on such 
findings, recommendations and programs or plans of action; and
(iv)
where appropriate, and taking into account the Bank's comments 
thereon, prepare programs or plans of action to carry out the 
recommendations of such studies.
(b)
The Borrower undertakes to carry out such programs and plans of action as 
required to meet the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and the Program.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall semi-annually, starting not 
later than March 31, 1992 and on each March 31 and September 30, thereafter, and when 
requested by either party, exchange views on the progress achieved by each Executing 
Entity in carrying out their respective parts of the Project.
(b)
Not later than 15 days prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower 
shall, through the Project Coordinating Unit, furnish to the Bank for its review and 
comment a report on the progress achieved by each Executing Entity in carrying out 
their respective parts of the Project, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request.
Section 3.05. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(b)
Public servants employed by the Borrower under any kind of administrative 
arrangements (including leave without pay) shall not be eligible for providing 
consulting services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(c)
The Borrower shall maintain in the Executing Entities qualified staff in 
adequate number as counterparts of the consultants employed under the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank through the 
Project Coordinating Unit not later than September 1 of each year, for its review and 
approval, an Annual Work Program containing a detailed description of the Activities 
included in, and the objectives, institutional arrangements, counterpart resources 
for, and anticipated results of, the execution of each part of the Project in the 
immediately following fiscal year.
Section 3.07. With respect to the training programs to be carried out under the 
Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
furnish to the Bank for approval the content of such programs as well as 
the schedule for its implementation; 
(b)
select the beneficiaries of such training programs in accordance with 
criteria satisfactory to the Bank;
(c)
not later than September 30 of each year exchange views with the Bank on 
the training programs to be carried out in the following calendar year; and
(d)
furnish to the Bank a report of such scope and detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, on the results of each of such training programs and the benefits 
to be derived therefrom.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
Page  6
departments or agencies of the Borrower (including the Executing Entities) responsible 
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals. 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the Administrative Reform Plan 
shall have been repealed or amended to an extent which, in the opinion of the Bank, is 
no longer consistent with the objectives of the Project or the Program.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph 
(a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
that the Borrower shall have entered into the Management Service 
Contract;
(b)
that the Project Coordinating Unit shall have been established and 
staffed in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, including the appointment of the 
National Project Director and a Deputy Director;
(c)
that all action has been taken by the Borrower in order to permit the 
procurement of goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in 
Page  7
accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to in this Agreement; and
(d)
that the Borrower has formally established arrangements satisfactory to 
the Bank for the role and coordination among the Project Coordinating Unit and the 
Executing Agencies in the carrying out of the Project.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Management Service Contract has been duly executed and 
authorized or ratified by, and is legally binding upon, the parties thereto; and
(b)
that the action referred to in paragraph (c) of Section 6.01 of this 
Agreement has been taken and no other action on behalf of the Borrower is required for 
the procurement of goods and services in accordance with the provisions of this 
Agreement.
Section 6.03. The date November 12, 1991 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministro de Economia of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economia
Hipolito Yrigoyen 250
Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINISTERIO ECONOMIA 
121952 AR
Baires
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD 197688 
(TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Buenos Aires, Argentina, as of the day and year first above written.
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Domingo Cavallo
Authorized Representative
Page  8
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Consultants'              14,200,000        100%
    services and
    training
(2) Goods                      8,800,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                85% of local
                                                expenditures
         TOTAL                23,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$1,500,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures under the Project 
before that date but after May 1, 1991; and
(b)
any Activity unless it is an Eligible Activity included in an Annual Work 
Program approved by the Bank pursuant to Section 3.06 of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist in the implementation of the Program 
by supporting: (a) the reform and modernization of ANA; (b) the administrative reform 
and modernization of the Borrower's National Administration; (c) the establishment of 
a new framework and systems for the comprehensive financial management of the public 
sector, including integrated budgetary processes and effective control for improved 
allocation of public resources; (d) the reorganization and modernization of the 
Central Bank; and (e) the restructuring of SEF.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Page  9
Part A:
A program aimed at the institutional strengthening and rationalization of ANA's 
services, including: (i) design and implementation of an automation plan, involving 
system development and acquisition and utilization of computer and communication 
equipment; (ii) revision of customs norms and procedures; and (iii) staff training.
Part B:
A program to support the administrative reform and modernization of the 
Borrower's National Administration, including: (i) design and establishment of 
standard internal administrative procedures, and implementation of related 
computerized system for personnel, financial, procurement and facility management, 
involving system development, acquisition and utilization of software packages and 
computer equipment, and staff training; (ii) review of existing legislation to support 
the rationalization of norms and regulations governing economic activities and 
implementation of a system for the handling of the streamlined procedures and 
regulations; and (iii) design of the decentralization plans to transfer public 
services to the Provinces.
Part C:
A program to strengthen financial management, budgetary process and control of 
the public sector, including: (i) design and establishment of new criteria and methods 
to improve allocation and utilization of public resources; (ii) preparation of norms, 
procedures, guidelines and manuals required as a result of the enactment of 
legislation of public financial management and performance control; (iii) development 
and establishment of an integrated information system for comprehensive public sector 
financial management and control; and (iv) training of staff of key government 
financial and control agencies and entities.
Part D:
A program to support the reorganization and modernization of the Central Bank 
including: (i) an automation plan involving system development and acquisition and 
utilization of equipment; (ii) improving and modernizing the external debt monitoring 
and reporting systems; (iii) design and establishment of new procedures and 
regulations; and (iv) staff training.
Part E:
A program to support the reorganization and modernization of SEF, including: (i) 
revision and updating of existing norms and regulations, (ii) an automation plan 
involving acquisition and utilization of computer equipment and system development, 
and (ii) staff training.
*     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Arrangements for the Execution of the
different Parts of the Project
Part of the Project                       Executing Entity
Part A                                    ANA
Part B (i)                                SSCAT/SFP
Parts B (ii) and (iii)                    SSCAT
Part C                                    SSH
Part D                                    Central Bank
Part E                                    Central Bank/SEF
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each March 15 and September 15
Page  10
beginning March 15, 1997
through   March 15, 2008
960,000
 
On September 15, 2008
920,000
 
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as
a percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on the
day of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years 
0.18
before maturity
More than three years but
0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.65
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not
0.88
more than fifteen years
before maturity
More than fifteen years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Page  11
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more each.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Argentina may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $25,000 per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $100,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list 
of at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
2.
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more but not exceeding the 
equivalent of $250,000 per contract, up to an aggregate not exceeding the equivalent 
of $500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive 
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to all contracts to be procured pursuant to Part A of this 
Schedule and the first two contracts to be procured pursuant to Part C.2 of this 
Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals on the basis of 
statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower 
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
                              Start not           Completion
Part of the Project          later than         not later than
Part A (i)                      *               March 31, 1994
Part A (ii)                     *               March 31, 1993
Part A (iii)               January 30, 1992     June 30, 1994
Page  12
Part B (i)                 September 30, 1991   June 30, 1994
Part B (ii)                October 31, 1991     September 30, 1993
Part B (iii)               October 31, 1991     March 31, 1993
Part C (i)                 August 15, 1991      July 31, 1993
Part C (ii)                August 15, 1991      March 30, 1992
Part C (iii)                    *               March 30, 1994
Part C (iv)                October 31, 1991     June 30, 1994
Part D (i)                      *               December 31, 1994
Part D (ii)                     *               June 30, 1993
Part D (iii)               August 15, 1991      June 30, 1992
Part D (iv)                September 30, 1991   December 31, 1993
Part E (i)                 August 15, 1991      July 31, 1993
Part E (ii)                     *               October 31, 1993
Part E (iii)               September 30, 1991   December 31, 1992
________________________________
*
Already in execution.
