Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13206-PE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PERU
LIMA WATER REHABILITATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
NOVEMBER 1, 1994
LA3 Department
Environment and Urban Development Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



Currency Equivalents
Currency unit = sol
US$1 = 2.16 soles (March 31, 1994)
1 figures in U.S. dollars unless otherwise noted
Weights and Measures
Metric
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Abbreviations and Acronyms
CEPRI-SEDAPAL    SEDAPAL's privatization committee
COPRI               Interministerial committee for privatization
CORTAPA             Former tariff-setting board
FONAVI              National Housing Fund
SEDAPAL             Servicio de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado de Lima (Lima Water and
Sewerage Service Company)
SENAPA              Superintendencia Nacional de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado (former urban
water agency)
SLA                 Subsidiary loan agreement



Peru
Lima Water Rehabilitation and Management Project
Staff Appraisal Report
Contents
Loan and Project Summary ........................................                                            . v
I. Water and Sanitation Sector Overview ................................... 1
A. Economic background ....................................... 1
B. Institutional and legal framework .1............................... . I
C. Current sector issues ...................................                                          2
D. SEDAPAL ...................................                                                       3
E. Lessons from  Bank experience ................................. . 4
II. The Project                                                  .5
A. Objectives and rationale                                      .5
B. Water demand                                             .5
C. Description .6
D. Cost                                               ..7
E. Economic evaluation  ........................................8
F. Poverty alleviation and affordability .9
G. Financial analysis .10
H. Environmental impact .14
1.  Risks    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..   ..  .  ..   ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  ...    .  . 14
III. Project Implementation .14
A. Arrangements .14
B. Subproject selection criteria .16
C. Project supervision .17
D.   Procurement   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 17
E. Disbursement .18
F. Advance contracting and retroactive financing .18
G. Auditing arrangements .18
H. Reporting and monitoring .19
IV.    Agreements Reached and Recommendation ........................... . 19
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited Peru from April 26 to May 13, 1994. The
mission was comprised of Messrs./Mmes. Abel Mejia, Yoko Katakura, Caroline Van Den Berg, Eid Nouhra
(LA1IN), Alex Bakalian, Thelma Triche (TWUWS), Robert Taylor (LAIIE), Rudy Van Puymbroeck (LEGLA),
Orville Grimes (LA1DR), Luz Maria Gonzales (consultant), and Makoto Nakao (OECF). Rita Cestti, Manuel
Mariffo (TWUWS), Carlos Velez (LA1IN), Jerson Kelman, Dominique Berthon, Jean Louis Olivier, Roberto
Chama, Eduardo Baso, and Eduardo Buroz (consultants) also participated in project missions. Carlos Olle from
SEDAPAL coordinated project preparation. Juan Barandiaran, Ana Mendoza, Carlos Oyafuso, Alfredo Garcia, R.
Rojas, E. Rojas, M. Sheen, and Carlos Paredes comprised the Project Preparation Team in Peru. Thelma Triche
(TWUWS) and Walter Stottmann (EMTIN) are peer reviewers. Mr. Asif Faiz was the responsible Division Chief
during project preparation and appraisal. The sector Division Chief, Projects Advisor, and Department Director are
Messrs. Eugene D. McCarthy, Robert Crown, and Yoshiaki Abe.



- 1i -
Tables
1.        Project costs ............................................... . 8
2.        Financing plan, 1994-2000 ..................................... . 11
3.        Financial data, SEDAPAL, 1987-93   ..............  ..  ...  ...  ..  ...  ..  ..                                              .  12
4.        Sensitivity analysis for two tariff rate structures   .........  .                         ..  .  .  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  .     . 13
5.        Project costs by procurement method  ..............  ..  ...  ...  ..  ...  ..  ..                                            .  18
Annexes .21
1.        Bank Loans to Peru for Water and Sanitation Sector and Related Loans   .....  .                                    .  .  .   . 23
2.        Experience and Lessons Learned from  Previous Projects ......  .                                .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . 24
3.        Peru's Privatization Program   ............  ...  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ...  ..                                     . 26
4.        SEDAPAL  Management Plan   ...........  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  .                                    ..  .    . 28
5.        SEDAPAL  Investment Plan   ............  ...  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ...  ..                                         . 30
6.        Detailed Project Cost ........................................ . 38
7.        Technical Assistance  .................  ....  ...  ....  ...  ...  ....  ...                                                 . 43
8.        Water Demand in Metropolitan Lima    .........  .                             ..  .  .  ..  .  .  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  .  ..     . 47
9.        Cost Benefit Analysis: Methodology and Results ....................... . 55
10.       Marginal Cost Pricing Analysis:  Methodology and Results  ......  .                                 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . 66
11        Financial Projections   ................  ...  ...  ....  ...  ...  ...  ...  ..                                              . 74
12.       Notes and Assumptions for Financial Forecasts   .......  .                            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . 77
13.       Procurement Plan and Implementation Schedule   .......  .                             .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . 84
14.       Implementation Plan    ................  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  ..  .                                            . 90
15.    Project Flows: Legal, Financial and Technical ......................... . 95
16.       Project Review   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 96
17.       Guidelines for Evaluation of Subprojects   ............................. 98
18.  Supervision Plan.                         .               ........................... 103
19.  Monitoring Indicators. .  .                                    .........................  104
20.       Loan Disbursement Schedule    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 108
21.    Selected Documents Available in Project File ........................ . 109
Maps .112
IBRD 26211
IBRD 26212
IBRD 26213



- iii -
Peru
Lima Water Rehabilitation and Management Project
Staff Appraisal Report
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:   Republic of Peru.
Beneficiary:  Lima Water and Sewerage Service Company (SEDAPAL).
Amount:      US$150 million equivalent.
Terms:       Repayment in 17 years, including a grace period of five years, at the Bank's
standard variable rate, with level repayment of principal. The Government will
extend the loan to SEDAPAL under the same terms and conditions. SEDAPAL will
bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project
objectives:   The project's goal is to improve the efficiency of water and sanitation delivery in the
Lima-Callao metropolitan area. The project will promote water conservation, support
SEDAPAL's privatization, rehabilitate damaged water supply and sewerage systems,
expand services to the urban poor in the pueblos jovenes, and support reforms in the
legal and institutional framework of the water and sanitation sector.
Project
description:  The project has four components. The water conservation component includes
preparing a customer cadastre, reconstructing water meter boxes, and installing
406,000 water meters. This component will also initiate conjunctive use of surface
and groundwater in three districts where groundwater is depleted and the risk of
saline contamination is serious. The rehabilitation component will improve water
supply and sewerage in the twelve districts that comprise 40 percent of SEDAPAL's
water sales and 75 percent of total revenue. Wells will also be rehabilitated under
this component. The pueblos jovenes component will expand and improve water and
sanitation services for 600,000 of Lima's poor. The institutional strengthening
component involves studies and technical assistance programs for SEDAPAL and the
Superintendency of Sanitary Services.
Poverty
aspects:     The pueblos jovenes component is targeted toward the poor. At project's end,
600,000 beneficiaries-about 26 percent of the total number of beneficiaries-will be
the urban poor living in the outskirts of Lima. In addition, the water conservation
component will install water meters in high-income households. Water savings
obtained from this component will be directed to the pueblos jovenes.
Environmental
aspects:     A detailed environmental assessment was prepared for the project. The project is
classified as Category B under the Bank's rating system. Although construction
impacts are expected from the rehabilitation, their effects on land use and ecological
systems are expected to be minimal.



- iv -
Project
benefits:     The project will provide 834,000 people with improved water supply and 788,000
people with improved sewerage. The pueblos jovenes component will provide an
additional 600,000 low-income residents with both new and improved services.
Other project benefits include savings from reducing unaccounted-for water and
water consumption in high-income areas, health benefits from the pueblos jovenes
component, increased reliability of water supply services, reduced water costs in
low-income areas, and preservation of water resources.
Project
risks:        The project's main risks include political opposition to the sectoral reform-
including privatization-that may slow the reform process, ineffective execution of
the project during the transition from public to private sector operation, insufficient
counterpart funding, and non-acceptance of Bank funds by the concessionaire. The
risk of political opposition is minimized by three factors. First, the new regulatory
and institutional framework is the result of two years of consensus-building by the
Government of Peru to advance reform. Second, the timing and social environment
for privatization is favorable-the current administration wants to advance
SEDAPAL's privatization before the April 1995 elections. Finally, successful
privatization in other sectors and public utilities has created social support for
privatization. The risk of ineffective execution of the project during the transition
period is minimized by a management agreement to be signed between SEDAPAL
and the government. This agreement defines key operational and investment
performance objectives and will be evaluated every three months until the private
operator assumes responsibility. If privatization is unsuccessful, terms for a second
management agreement will be discussed with SEDAPAL and the government
during the Project Review. Annual management agreements should be signed
thereafter. If privatization is successful, a performance plan-as part of the
concession contract-will be signed between the private operator and SEDAPAL.
The risk of insufficient counterpart funding is minimized through the new tariff
regulations, which allow for adequate levels of revenue and automatic adjustments
based on five-year tariff formulas, and through the monitoring of investment
decisions and operational efficiency through the management agreement (before
privatization) and the performance plan (after privatization). The risk that the
concessionaire may not enter into a subsidiary loan agreement with SEDAPAL for
the use of the Bank funds, and hence the possibility of an early partial cancellation
of the Bank's loan, is minimized by the fact that prequalified private operators have
already shown considerable interest in the Bank loan which would finance urgent
rehabilitation work.
Table 1 Project costs
(millions of U.S. dollars)
Project component               Foreign            Local             Total
Rehabilitation                     53.4             95.5             148.9
Water Conservation                 22.2             22.0              44.2
Network Expansion                  25.6             14.5              40.1
Institutional Development           3.4             15.4              18.8
Total Base Cost                   104.6            147.4             252.0
Physical Contingencies             10.5             14.7              25.2
Price Contingencies                12.1             17.0              29.0
Total Project Cost                127.1            179.1             306.2



v -
Table 2 Financing plan, 1994-2000
(millions of U.S. dollars)
Bank-financed projecta             SEDAPAL totad investnent plan
Source of funds                       Amount          Percent                Amount          Percent
World Bank                             150.0           49.0                   150.0           22.6
Cofinancier                             76.2           24.8                    76.2           11.5
SEDAPAL                                 80.1           26.2                   317.0           47.8
Other loansb                                                                  120.3           18.1
Total                                  306.2          100.0                   663.6          100.0
a. Does not include US$40.5 million interest accrued during constnuction, to be financed by SEDAPAL's internal resources.
b. A majority of these loans are provided by FONAVI and other domestic institutions for primnary and secondary works
(US$66 million).
Table 3 Estimated Bank project disbursements, 1995-2001
(millions of U.S. dollars)
Bank fiscal year    1995       1996       1997       1998        1999       2000        2001
Annual              26.5       38.2        40.4       26.1       10.2        6.0          2.6
Cumulative          26.5       64.7       105.1      131.2      141.4       147.4       150.0
Rates of
return:          The internal economic rate of return of the project is estimated at 22 percent, and
the financial rate of return at 17 percent.






I. Water and Sanitation Sector Overview
1.    Water and sanitation services in Peru have deteriorated because of poor management. A
widespread, deadly cholera epidemic began in January 1991-reflecting the state of water and
sanitation infrastructure, particularly in urban areas. Although structural reform has improved the
sector's operation, the system requires considerable physical and institutional rehabilitation.
Investment needs and weak institutional capacity led the Government of Peru to encourage private
sector participation in the management of Lima's SEDAPAL-the country's largest water and
sanitation services company.
A. Economic background
2.    Peru has long suffered from political and macroeconomic instability. Until recently, the
government followed a state-led development strategy containing extensive legal controls.
Government intervention in economic activities led to misallocated resources, fostered inefficient
public enterprises, and hindered the development of social, economic, and physical infrastructure.
Utility tariffs were politically influenced with little regard for costs. During 1985-90 the Garcia
administration implemented expansionary fiscal policies, including targeted credits, subsidies, and
reductions in taxes and public sector prices. These policies initially induced economic growth but
eventually increased deficits, created hyperinflation, and aggravated resource misallocation. By mid-
1990 annual inflation peaked at nearly 36,000 percent. GDP had dropped to the 1960 level. Scarce
resources were used inefficiently, and few were allocated to public utility systems.
3.    The Fujimori administration introduced a macroeconomic stabilization and structural reform
program in mid-1990. The stabilization program included a tight monetary policy, instituted
temporary taxes, and increased public utility rates. Structural reforms promoted competition and
private investment. An extensive privatization program seeks to privatize all major public holdings
by mid-1995 (Annex 3).
4.    Water and sanitation reform includes enactment of the Water and Sanitation Services Law in
July 1994 and preparation of accompanying regulations, a draft Water Resources Law currently
before Congress, a supervisory agency (the Superintendency of Sanitary Services) was created in
January 1994, increased water and sewerage tariffs, restructured municipal water companies, and a
privatization committee for SEDAPAL (CEPRI-SEDAPAL).
5.    By mid-1991, water and sanitation infrastructure had deteriorated such that considerable
rehabilitation was needed to guarantee its operation. Water resource management was also urgent,
particularly in urban centers with limited water resources. The government requested the Bank's
assistance in rehabilitating and privatizing the system, strengthening supervisory capacity, and
supporting the creation of a Water Resource Management Authority in Lima.
B. Institutional and legalframework
6.    The institutional environment of the water and sanitation sector has changed considerably in
the past five years. Until 1989 the Servicio Nacional de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado (SENAPA)
provided service in urban areas. The Rural Sanitation Program of the Ministry of Health provided
service in rural areas. Water sector operations were decentralized in 1989, and responsibilities were
transferred to local governments. Except for the water utilities in Lima and Trujillo, all subsidiary
companies and operational units were decentralized.
7.    SENAPA was abolished in 1992, when the Ministry of the Presidency assumed
responsibility for the water and sanitation sector. Policies favoring viable and autonomous water



- 2 -
companies were developed, and CEPRI-SEDAPAL was established to promote private participation.
The Superintendency of Sanitary Services was created to regulate the sector and to help develop
efficient water companies at the municipal level. This agency reports to the Vice Minister of
Infrastructure in the Ministry of the Presidency and is financed with water and sewerage revenues.
A staff of 20 is formulating regulations and a strategy for sector development. There are currently
about 30 local companies and more than 100 direct management municipal services.
8.    Other supervisory institutions include the Ministries of Agriculture and Health. The Ministry
of Agriculture has recently drafted a Water Resources Law emphasizing private water-use rights.
The Ministry of Health oversees water quality standards; its responsibilities will be better defined
once pollution control arrangements are developed through the Water Resources Law.
9.    The Water Resources Law, presently in draft, introduces changes that facilitate water market
development, promote private sector investment, and encourage water conservation. Water-use
rights will be granted to private users, development and management decisions will be made at the
lowest appropriate level, and resource coordination and management will be determined by river
basin authorities. The concept of private water-use rights is different from the existing system,
which grants substantial discretionary power to the public sector.
10.   The Constitution adopted in 1993 affirmed that water and sanitation services are the
responsibility of local government. The Water and Sanitation Services Law (Ley General de
Servicios de Saneamiento) , defines institutional responsibilities for service provision and regulation.
It also establishes a framework for private sector participation. It also uses transparency, financial
viability, and social equity as basic principles for tariff setting. This is a departure from the
previous tariff regime, in which water and sewerage tariffs were set by the Comision Reguladora de
Tarifas de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado (CORTAPA) with little concern for transparency or
financial viability. Regulations that specify the functions of the Superintendency of Sanitary Services
have also been drafted. Tariffs are currently set on interim arrangements. In Lima, SEDAPAL
proposes a tariff increase to the Ministry of the Presidency, which makes a decision after consulting
with the Ministry of Economy and Finance.
C. Current sector issues
11.   Peru's water resources are geographically unbalanced. The sparsely inhabited East Andes
have abundant and untapped water sources, while the western slopes, including Lima, have less than
15 millimeters of annual precipitation. Most of the country's population is concentrated in coastal
urban centers. Water supply and sanitation services do not meet the demand in these areas-water
rationing is a daily occurrence in Lima. Poor resource management has worsened the problem. The
Rimac river-the main source of water for Lima-is polluted with untreated mining, industrial, and
domestic waste. Lima's sewage is discharged into the sea or diverted for irrigation. In addition,
underground water develops an alarming degree of contamination and salinity when the water table
near the ocean drops. These factors-along with the network's poor condition-are responsible for
the persistent cholera.
12.   Service coverage. Peru's 1993 population was 22 million, with average annual growth of 2.2
percent. Urban areas (defined as population centers with more than 2,000 inhabitants) account for
about 70 percent of the total population. Urban population is growing at an annual rate of 2.9
percent, while the rural population is growing at less than 1 percent. About 6.4 million people-29
percent of the country's population-live in the Lima-Callao metropolitan area. Urban migration
accelerated in recent years as terrorism drove rural populations to the outskirts of Lima. Here they
formed low-income communities called pueblos jovenes, and now account for 58 percent of Lima's
population. By 2000 Lima's population is expected to reach 7.7 million.
13.   Water and sanitation services have not kept up with population growth. In 1991 national
service coverage was estimated at 58 percent for water and 42 percent for sewerage. In urban
centers, the figures were 74 percent for water and 62 percent for sewerage. In Lima, the coverage



was 79 percent for water and 75 percent for sewerage at end-1993. These figures represent the
population physically connected to the water supply and sewerage systems-not service quality.
According to the Living Standards Measurement Survey conducted in 1991, 48 percent of Peru's
population received water for less than 12 hours each day. Twenty-eight percent received less than
six hours of service each day. Sewerage is also inadequate, with most domestic, industrial, and
mining wastes discharged untreated into rivers and the ocean.
14.   Sector investment. During 1985-89 investments in water and sanitation infrastructure
represented just 0.15 percent of GDP. This is one of the lowest figures in Latin America. Countries
with better service invested about 1.0 percent of GDP. For decades, policies ignored the economics
of water supply and sewerage. Tariffs were set below cost and driven by political and social
interests, making it impossible for revenues to cover investment.
15.   Increasing coverage has taken priority over maintenance needs. In Lima maintenance of
existing assets has been negligible. About 3 kilometers of water pipe were replaced during 1987 and
1989-in a system with more than 6,700 piped kilometers. Few investments were made in
sewerage. National rehabilitation needs are estimated at US$400 million in the next five years.
16.   Health impacts. Water availability has declined substantially, particularly in low-income
areas. The true cost of inadequate supply was evident after the 1991 cholera outbreak. In the first
ten weeks of the epidemic, Peru lost US$1 billion in exports, tourism, and emergency health
expenditures. Poor hygiene conditions have also increased the incidence of diarrhea-in the pueblos
jovenes, eight episodes of diarrhea per person are reported annually. Medical expenditures and lost
wages put a heavy burden on the poor's household income. Improved water supply could contribute
significantly to poverty alleviation.
D. SEDAPAL
17.   SEDAPAL provides service to the Lima-Callao metropolitan area. For more than a decade,
it has suffered from low tariffs, high inefficiency, and increasing operating costs. The company did
not generate positive net income between 1982 and 1992. Government intervention deprived the
company of the ability to make its own investment and financial decisions. SEDAPAL has suffered
a drastic decline in real revenue as a result of government policy keeping public utility prices low.
Average tariffs were a mere US$0.10 per cubic meter in 1989, much lower than the unit operating
cost. The company was unable to pay its suppliers, cover debt service, or maintain and expand
service. It depended on user donations, government concessionairy loans (through FONAVI), and
transfers to cover operating and investment costs. Government investments in SEDAPAL were
minimal, since the government itself was on the verge of bankruptcy.
18.   As part of the 1991 sectoral reform, SEDAPAL went through a drastic restructuring. The
number of employees was reduced from 3,769 in 1988 to 1,965 in 1993 through a voluntary
retirement plan. Management was streamlined to five operational divisions. A Chairman of the
Board, also a member of the CEPRI-SEDAPAL privatization committee, was appointed in
November 1992. The Government has increased the water and sewerage tariff-to an average of
US$0.28 per cubic meter in May 1994. Increased tariffs and decreased costs generated positive net
income in 1993 for the first time in more than a decade.
19.   SEDAPAL's operational efficiency has room for improvement. The company's reported
unaccounted-for water (the difference between water produced and billed) was 38 percent of
production in 1992. This figure, however, is underestimated. Only 4 percent of connections are
billed on the basis of metered consumption, and actual consumption and billed volumes are often
different. The remaining 96 percent of connections are billed at notional consumption levels in most
cases that are higher than actual consumption. A district-by-district study revealed that unaccounted-
for water at end-1993 was about 46 percent-30 percent from physical losses (leakage) and 16
percent from commercial losses (consumed but not billed). This level of loss is unacceptable in a
water-scarce environment.



- 4 -
20.   Privatization. The Government's strategy for SEDAPAL is consistent with its overall
approach to privatization. CEPRI-SEDAPAL, the committee for SEDAPAL's privatization, hired
advisors in June 1993 to examine options for increasing private sector participation. A team of
technical and financial advisers was hired in late 1993 to assist CEPRI-SEDAPAL in preparing and
implementing privatization. The first task was the assessment of the various options for privatizing.
Several options were analyzed: sale of shares, sale of assets, management contract, lease
arrangement, concession contract, and build-operate-own and build-operate-transfer arrangements.
The consultants recommended the concession approach, in which a private operator makes a long-
term commitment to invest and operate water and sanitation services. This option for private
management of public services is widely used in France and Spain, and it was the option adopted in
the privatization of Buenos Aires' water utility in 1993. The operator assumes all financial risks,
and is responsible for capital expenditures (such as rehabilitation and expansion). Pricing and
service obligations are also specified. A price cap is used to adjust tariffs. Ownership of SEDAPAL
assets remains with the Government. The concession would be awarded through public bidding.
21.   The interministerial committee for privatization (COPRI) approved a 30-year concession
strategy in March 1994. Three international operators were prequalified prior to loan negotiations.
During loan negotiations CEPRI-SEDAPAL provided the Bank with draft bidding documents for the
privatization, including terms of the subsidiary loan to the concessionaire, draft concession contract,
and performance plan. Interested bidders will require about three months to prepare their
proposals. The public tender process, selection of the private operator, and finalization of the
contract will take another nine to twelve months. A timetable for the privatization is in Annex 3.
22.   Privatization has several benefits. A private operator would improve service quality and
operational efficiency. This would reduce production requirements, delay the need for investment in
new water supplies, and facilitate lower water rates. A private operator would also bring the capital
needed to rehabilitate and expand the Lima water and sanitation network.
23.   Public sector management. Private sector participation is not guaranteed. If it fails,
SEDAPAL will continue under public sector management-in a policy environment that has clear
performance incentives. The new regulatory framework for water and sanitation introduced marginal
cost pricing, managerial autonomy, and accountability. These are essential for efficient utility
management, public or private. SEDAPAL's institutional capacity should be strengthened by clearly
defining its responsibilities and relationships with other public sector entities. Management
agreements should be used to clarify objectives and define responsibilities among the different
entities overseeing SEDAPAL management. A summary of SEDAPAL's management plan and
specific targets for management agreements are in Annex 4.
E. Lessonsfrom Bank experience
24.   Most water and sewerage projects in Latin America have fulfilled their physical objectives,
but not their institutional ones. Regional experience indicates that water and sanitation projects are
subject to poor macroeconomic performance and frequent management changes and lengthy
implementation compromise objectives. In addition, physical and institutional objectives should be
linked, project scope and design should be simple, better demand and productivity forecasting is
needed, and projects should emphasize cost recovery, operational efficiency, and internal
contribution to investment.
25.   Since 1976 the Bank has made three loans for water and sanitation projects in Peru, all in
Lima. These loans amounted to US$55.9 million. Earlier projects had objectives similar to this
project: expanding service, particularly in low-income areas, improving resource management, and
strengthening SEDAPAL's managerial, technical, and financial capabilities. The projects failed to
achieve their objectives because of political and economic constraints, macroeconomic instability,
and the lack of institutional reform.



- 5 -
26.   This project, the Bank's first in ten years in Peru's water and sanitation sector, takes these
lessons into account. The Bank's assistance with regulatory and institutional reform has helped
ensure sustainability-both the Government and SEDAPAL are committed to reform. The
macroeconomic environment is now considered stable. Institutional reform is underway-and will
be advanced with private sector participation, also supported by the project.
27.   The proposed project is needed whether SEDAPAL is privatized or remains publicly
managed. The Bank-financed project is a small portion-less than 20 percent-of the capital
expenditure required for the Lima water and sanitation system in the next decade, but contributes to
establishing direction for further system improvement. The bulk of investment will be undertaken by
the private operator under the concession contract.
II. The Project
28.   The project was conceived and designed by the Vice-Ministry of Infrastructure and by
SEDAPAL. The Bank helped design and implement a new institutional framework and improve
SEDAPAL's efficiency. Achievements during project preparation include:
*  Creating and strengthening CEPRI-SEDAPAL.
*  Creating the Superintendency of Sanitary Services and eliminating SENAPA and
CORTAPA.
*  Preparing the Water and Sanitation Services Law.
*  Increasing tariffs by more than 100 percent and gaining consensus on long-term marginal
costs as a basis for tariff setting.
*  Hiring international consultants to assist with SEDAPAL's privatization.
*  Preparing a management plan for SEDAPAL that will guide management during the
transition to privatization.
3  Training Peruvian officials through seminars and study tours.
-  Administering a Japanese Policy and Human Resources Development (PHRD) grant that
evaluated rehabilitation requirements of the water and sewerage network, appraised
alternatives for disposal and reuse of domestic sewage, and assessed hydrological data from
the Rimac river basin and the environmental impacts of the entire investment.
A. Objectives and rationale
29.   After Peru resumed its debt service payments to the Bank in 1990, the Bank's lending
strategy included an adjustment program supporting macroeconomic stabilization and structural and
sectoral reform. During 1992-93, four loans were approved: the Structural Adjustment Loan (3452-
PE), the Trade Reform Loan (3437-PE), the Financial Sector Reform Loan (3489-PE), and the
Privatization Adjustment Loan (3595-PE). The Bank has also supported reforms with technical
assistance-principally through the Privatization Technical Assistance Loan (3540-PE) and a series
of PHRD (Japanese) grants. Now that economic stability and initial sectoral reforms have been
achieved, the Bank is promoting economic development and poverty alleviation. As stated in the
Country Assistance Strategy, discussed by the Board on April 20, 1993, and in the May 2, 1994
draft version, the Bank's objectives are sustaining macroeconomic stability, developing institutional
capacity, improving income distribution, alleviating poverty, rehabilitating critically damaged
infrastructure, and supporting privatization.
30.   This project pursues these goals. It will expand water and sanitation services in the pueblos
jovenes, rehabilitate Lima's damaged water supply and sewerage system, and support SEDAPAL's
privatization. Privatization will be facilitated by onlending of the Bank's loan for emergency
investments that will be made soon after the concession is granted. If privatization does not succeed,
the project will assist further in the modernization and reform of SEDAPAL, a process initiated
during project preparation.



-6 -
B. Water demand
31.   Water demand projections are based on estimated population growth, SEDAPAL's planned
increase in coverage, and trends in per capita consumption. The population of the Lima-Callao
metropolitan area will increase from 6.4 million in 1993 to 8.7 million in 2005. By 2005, 90
percent of the population should have direct access to piped water because of system expansion in
the pueblos jovenes.
32.   Per capita water consumption is the key variable in demand projection. Despite rationing,
domestic water consumption in the Lima-Callao metropolitan area is high. Average consumption in
September 1993 was 169 liters per day, compared with 236 liters per day in June 1987. These data
are not directly comparable because of the impact of seasonality on consumption-1993 data were
collected during the dry season, when rationing is more stringent. Still, although average household
incomes had dropped and water rates had increased since 1989, it is mainly rationing that is
responsible for lowered demand. Without rationing and excluding seasonality, the demand forecast
assumes that consumers would have consumed 236 liters per capita per day.
33.   Water consumption levels differ substantially within the Lima metropolitan area. This is
mainly caused by the degree of rationing, which differs among districts. Income level also plays a
role. Water consumption forecasts are based on district averages rather than systemwide
consumption estimates. Demand forecasts for the districts are presented in Annex 8.
34.   A major goal of this project is reducing water use and water losses. The project uses two
tools to achieve water conservation (demand management). It will manage demand through the
installation of water meters. And it will reduce physical losses through rehabilitation of the supply
network. These two measures will be supplemented with a conjunctive use program that will
optimize surface and groundwater use to increase water supplies. Rehabilitation has two major
impacts. Reducing unaccounted-for water will increase the available supply. Since the current water
supply system is characterized by rationing, this will result in higher consumption. But the
introduction of water meters will offset this increase. The use of reliable water meters has an impact
similar to a real rate increase. Instead of paying a minimum consumption level, households pay for
actual consumption-resulting in higher water bills. The impact of higher rates was estimated using
an average price elasticity of demand -0.30-a value comparable to that used in recent studies by the
Superintendency of Sanitary Services. Based on this value, per capita domestic water demand will
decline from 236 liters per day in 1994 (without rationing) to 188 liters per day in 2005. Because
service coverage will increase by 2005, total domestic water consumption will rise to about 17 cubic
meters per second.
35.   Non-domestic water demand is expected to increase in line with population growth-about
2.5 percent a year. Total non-domestic water consumption will increase to about 5 cubic meters per
second by 2005. Physical losses currently account for about 31 percent of total water production.
Because of the limited scope of the rehabilitation program, these losses will decline only to about 29
percent in 2005. Total production capacity in 2005 will therefore increase to nearly 32 cubic meters
per second. Population projections and water demand methodologies are explained in Annex 8.
C. Description
36.   Until this project was prepared, SEDAPAL's investments were based on annual reviews of
the public expenditure budget in conjunction with other government institutions. With Bank
assistance, SEDAPAL developed an investment plan for 1994-2000. This plan follows SEDAPAL's
water and sewerage master plan from the early 1980s, financed by a previous Bank loan. This plan
is still valid because of low investment in the past decade. Neglected maintenance during this period
increased investment requirements. The Bank-financed project-totalling US$306.2 million-is part
of the US$663.6 million investment plan for 1994-2000.



37.   Investment priorities. Improving infrastructure and SEDAPAL's commercial base are the top
priorities. Operational assets have priority for reducing water losses and improving service quality.
The commercial base will be improved by updating the customer cadastre and installing water
meters. The conjunctive use of surface and groundwater will optimize the use of existing water
resources. Investment in a major trans-basin scheme could be postponed, since major water source
expansion will not be required before 2003 (according to the demand forecast). Studies should be
completed in the next five years to determine the least-cost solution for long-term water supply. A
means of sewage disposal should be implemented after studies determine the best wastewater
management scheme for Lima. Engineering for sewage disposal could be financed through the Bank
project. Studies to evaluate wastewater management will be financed through a Japanese Policy and
Human Resources Development (PHRD) grant, already approved by the Peruvian Government.
38.   Project components. The project consists of a water conservation program, rehabilitation of
existing water and sewerage infrastructure, expansion of water supply and sewerage networks to
low-income areas (pueblos jovenes), and technical assistance for institutional development. These
components are described in detail in Annex 5.
39.   The water conservation component (18 percent of total project cost) has two subcomponents.
The first is a program for reducing unaccounted-for water, including the preparation of a customer
cadastre, reconstructing substandard water boxes, and installing 406,000 new water meters for 56
percent of SEDAPAL's customers. The second develops conjunctive use of surface and groundwater
in three areas of Lima where groundwater is depleted and saline contamination is a threat. This
subcomponent provides secondary network pipes, nine reservoirs, rehabilitation of wells, and
reinforcement of 35 kilometers of primary network pipe to accommodate additional flow from the
treatment plant.
40.   The rehabilitation component (59 percent of total project cost) has three subcomponents. The
first will rehabilitate water supply networks in twelve districts. This involves replacing or repairing
42 kilometers of primary pipes and 622 kilometers of secondary pipes, reconstruction of 117,000
house connections, rehabilitating 129 unused reservoirs and repairing 156 defective ones, and
supplying basic maintenance equipment. The second subcomponent will rehabilitate sewer networks
in these same districts, replacing 77 kilometers of concrete pipes and 616 kilometers of secondary
lines. This subcomponent will also repair 123,000 house connections and 12,300 manholes. The
final subcomponent will rehabilitate 39 wells with diminished yields and provide equipment for 85
new wells.
41.   The service expansion component (16 percent of total project cost) will provide works to
serve up to 600,000 low-income people in the pueblos jovenes. Works include transmission lines,
pumping stations, reservoirs, interceptors, and wastewater treatment plants. Engineering for these
projects does not involve complex technical solutions. Cost estimates are based on recently executed
projects of similar complexity. Priorities will be set through a participatory process that mobilizes
potential beneficiaries.
42.   The institutional strengthening component (7 percent of total project cost) includes about
1,500 staff-months for consultant services, training, equipment, and logistical support in six
subcomponents: management assistance, modernization of financial management, assistance with
SEDAPAL's transformation from direct service provider to contract administrator, capacity-building
for the Superintendency for Sanitary Services, baseline studies to support a water basin authority in
the region, and feasibility studies for wastewater disposal and the Chillon water treatment plant.
D. Cost
43.   The total cost of the project is estimated to be US$306.2 million. Project costs are
summarized in Table 1 and detailed in Annexes 5 and 6. The foreign exchange requirement is
estimated to be US$127.1 million (41.5 percent of total project cost). Costs are based on end-1993



- 8 -
prices, and include physical contingency allowances of US$25.2 million-10 percent of equipment,
works, and services. Price contingencies of US$29.0 million-10 percent of the December 1993
project costs-are based on estimated international inflation of 2.5 percent per year during project
implementation. Cost estimates are expressed in U.S. dollars because of high local inflation.
Table 1 Project costs
(millions of U.S. dollars)
Project component                  Local        Foreign             Toal
Rehabilitation                      95.5           53.4             148.9
Water conservation                  22.0           22.2             44.2
Network expansion                   14.5           25.6             40.1
Institutional development           15.4            3.4             18.8
Total base cost                    147.4          104.6            252.0
Physical contingencies              14.7           10.5             25.2
Price contingencies                 17.0           12.1             29.0
Total project cost                 179.1          127.1             306.2
44.    Cost estimates for equipment, materials, and works for the rehabilitation and conservation
components are based on engineering designs and unit prices of similar recent works. The
rehabilitation component is based on a least-cost solution. Its engineering has been evaluated and
found satisfactory. The network expansion component does not yet have detailed engineering-
appraisal was based on engineering and cost estimates from similar recent works. Engineering for
this component will also be financed based on a least-cost solution, and will require intense
coordination with beneficiary communities. Conditions for individual subprojects in the pueblos
jovenes are presented in Annex 17. Institutional development estimated are based on the terms of
reference for each subcomponent and on current consultant fees.
E. Economic evaluation
45.    Each project component generates different benefits. Water conservation and rehabilitation
will increase the available water supply. Rehabilitation will also reduce production costs, provide
834,000 people with improved water supply and 788,000 people with improved sewerage, and
extend the lifetime of the network-postponing the need for new investment. Service expansion will
either provide or improve access to water supply and sewerage for 600,000 low-income residents-
improving hygiene and generating health benefits. And institutional strengthening will improve the
management and efficiency of Lima's water resources.
46.    Data limited the benefits that could be quantified. Project benefits have been limited to
direct-use benefits and exclude those from capacity-building, reduced pollution, and postponed new
investment. Project benefits also include an estimate of the consumer surplus. Calculating the
consumer surplus is difficult because of the lack of data on water consumption behavior in Lima
(see Annex 9). Based on investment costs, projected operating and maintenance costs, and economic
benefits, the internal economic rate of return is 22 percent. The net present value is US$209 million
and the benefit-cost ratio is 1.85.
47.    Subproject analysis. A separate cost-benefit analysis was prepared for the water meter
program, water supply network rehabilitation, and expansion of the water supply and sewerage
network in the pueblos jovenes. The water meter program will install 406,000 water meters in
districts with excessive consumption. Assuming an average price elasticity of -0.30, per capita water
consumption in these districts will decline from 292 liters per day in 1993 to 200 liters per day
when the project is implemented. Billing efficiency should also improve with the use of reliable
meters. Commercial water losses should decline from nearly 16 percent of total production in 1993



- 9 -
to 10 percent in 2005. The internal economic rate of return of this component is 119 percent. The
net present value is US$213 million and the benefit-cost ratio is 6.06.
48.   Savings generated from rehabilitation of the water supply network will amount to 1.3 cubic
meters a second when this component is complete. Rehabilitation will cost US$47 million (adjusted
for taxes and subsidies and excluding price contingencies). Based on these costs, the internal
economic rate of return of this component is 13 percent. The net present value is US$9 million and
the benefit-cost ratio is 1.19.
49.   The number of beneficiaries from water supply and sanitation network expansion is 600,000.
Of these, 276,000 will receive improved service. The rest will receive direct access to the system.
This component has direct-use benefits in the form of reduced rationing. Households that currently
depend on indirect water supply (such as vendors and standpipes) consume about 30 liters a day per
capita-and pay high prices for water. Once households are connected to the piped water system, it
is likely that the decline in prices will be accompanied by an increase in consumption. Analysis
indicates the internal economic rate of return of this component is 43 percent. The net present value
is US$143 million and the benefit-cost ratio is 2.88.
50.   Tariff analysis. SEDAPAL's current water and sewerage rates do not reflect actual costs.
Long-run marginal costs of water and sewage are estimated at US$0.45 per cubic meter-the current
average is US$0.28 per cubic meter. An analysis of SEDAPAL's marginal cost structure is in
Annex 10.
51.   SEDAPAL's water rate schedule is complex, with different rates for residential,
commercial, industrial, public, and social customers. Since meter reading is rare, the rate structure
has been effectively replaced by a flat rate equal to a notional monthly consumption. The rate
schedule has a high level of cross-subsidization-commercial and industrial customers pay rates that
subsidize social and residential consumers (Annex 10, Table 5). Cross-subsidies seriously impair
efficient resource allocation-industries and commercial enterprises often use their own groundwater
sources to avoid paying high rates. A lower level of cross-subsidization could increase the number
of commercial and industrial users in the system, reducing the strain on groundwater sources. The
current tariff structure makes no distinction between water and sewerage costs.
52.   The Water and Sanitation Service Law-enactment of which was a condition for loan
negotiations-should make the tariff structure meet basic financial requirements and satisfy social
equity concerns. New tariff regulations should be approved by executive decree prior to loan
effectiveness. The following criteria are expected:
*  Marginal costs will be used as a reference value in rate structure and levels.
*  A distinction will be made between water and sewerage rates to improve the transparency of
tariff-setting procedures.
*  The rate structure will be simplified by reducing the number of consumption blocks from
seven to three. The range of these consumption blocks will be set according to current
consumption levels. The first block will cover the minimum volume of water needed by a
typical household. The second block will cover the volume that is still not considered
excessive--25 to 30 cubic meters a month. Consumers that go beyond this upper limit will
be considered excessive users. Such users should pay at least the marginal cost of water
supply and sewerage to induce more rational water use.
*  Cross-subsidization will be limited to the lowest residential consumption block.
*  Tariffs will be set so that SEDAPAL can finance operating expenses, debt service, and
investment.
*  The tariff schedule will include an adjustment formula to avoid real tariff declines, while
promoting efficiency and the financial sustainability of SEDAPAL.



- 10 -
F. Poverty alleviation and affordability
53.    In Lima 79 percent of the population has access to piped water, and 75 percent has access to
sewerage. The remainder relies on standpipes, group taps, or vendors. Improving service and access
for low-income households will increase water consumption and sewage collection. This will be
offset by lower water consumption in districts with high-volume use-where meters will be
installed.
54.    It is difficult to determine the capacity to pay for water and sewerage. SEDAPAL is
preparing a study to determine willingness to pay. Since these studies are not yet available, the
affordability of water and sewerage services was determined using ability-to-pay indicators.
55.    SEDAPAL applies a minimum water consumption level of 22 cubic meters a month to low-
income households connected to the network.' This level is high compared with minimum standards
in other countries. The minimum consumption level should provide enough water to satisfy basic
needs and maintain minimal hygienic conditions. The minimum monthly consumption rate is equal
to 1.0 percent of monthly household income for poor households and 1.9 percent for extremely poor
households.2 Water vendor costs range from 2 percent to 13 percent of monthly household income
(depending on season and distance) for a daily per capita use of 30 liters.3 Households that
purchase water from vendors pay 12 to 24 times more per unit of water than households connected
to the piped water network.
56.    Total charges for water supply and sewerage also include connection costs. Connection
charges are high in Lima because they include the investment costs of secondary works. The
average connection cost in the pueblos jovenes is estimated to be US$850. Residents can apply for
short-term loans at FONAVI. FONAVI loans have a repayment period of five years and a monthly
interest rate of 1.5 percent. Based on these rates, total charges for water supply and sewerage
(including monthly installments for the payment of the connections) amount to 8.3 percent of
monthly household income for the poor and 16.2 percent for the extremely poor. For households
without a connection, such high entry costs mean piped water is not a viable option.
57.    The rate structure could be further adjusted to favor low-income households. The monthly
minimum consumption level should be reduced from 22 cubic meters to 10 cubic meters-a level
sufficient for maintaining minimal hygienic conditions. To reduce the impact of connection costs, a
more liberal credit system should be introduced. A loan with a repayment period of ten years and a
monthly interest rate of 1.5 percent would reduce connection costs to 6.2 percent of monthly
household income for the poor and 12.1 percent for the extremely poor. Another option is
incorporating connection costs in the water rate. If the marginal cost of water was applied, the cost
of water would be 3.1 percent of monthly household income for the poor and 6 percent for the
extremely poor. This would lower dramatically the barriers to piped water access. The Ministry of
the Presidency will submit to the Bank a proposal that incorporates these changes prior to loan
effectiveness. In the second phase of project implementation, SEDAPAL will start to finance the
secondary network, and these costs will be incorporated into water and sewerage tariffs.
1. SEDAPAL's rate structure has six rate categories, but only five are used. District income level determines which rate is
applied. The rate categories range from 22 to 65 cubic meter a month.
2. Poverty thresholds at the end of 1993 were S/ 1,549 (about US$707) per capita per year for the poor and S/ 791 (about
US$361) per capita per year for the extremely poor. These data are based on the October 1991 poverty threshold in Lima (World
Bank data) and adjusted for GDP and exchange rate trends.
3. According to a survey of water vendors in December 1993, water costs range from SV. 0.80 to S/. 1.50 for a cylinder of
200 liters. Average monthly household use is 5 cubic meters, which corresponds to daily per capita use of 30 liters.



- 11 -
G. Financial analysis
58.    A Bank loan equivalent to US$150 million will help finance foreign and local costs
amounting to about 49 percent of total project cost (Table 2). A cofinancier--the Overseas
Economic Cooperation Fund--is expected to provide a loan of about US$76 million for specific
project subcomponents. The remaining US$80 million will be provided by SEDAPAL.
Table 2 Financing plan, 1994-2000
(millions of U.S. dollars)
Bank-financed projecta       SEDAPAL total investment plan
Source offunds                  Amount      Percent             Amount       Percent
World Bank                      150.0        49.0                150.0        22.6
Cofinancier                      76.2        24.8                 76.2        11.5
SEDAPAL                          80.1        26.2                317.0        47.8
Other loansb                                                     120.3        18.1
Total                            306.2       100.0               663.6       100.0
a. Does not include US$40.5 million interest accrued during construction, to be financed by SEDAPAL's intemal resources.
b. A majority of these loans are provided by FONAVI and other domestic institutions for primary and secondary works
(US$66 million).
59.    SEDAPAL's financial perfonnance, 1987-93. SEDAPAL's financial performance has been
affected by Peru's unstable macroeconomic environment. During 1986-92, Peru experienced
hyperinflation-reaching 7,650 percent annually in 1990. Financial performance has also
deteriorated because of poor financial management and inefficient operations. As a result,
SEDAPAL has not been able to maintain its physical assets, leading to rapid deterioration of service
quality. Financial statements with notes and assumptions are in Annexes 11 and 12.
60.      SEDAPAL's net internal cash generation turned negative in 1988. As liquidity worsened,
the company stopped paying its debts and delayed payments to suppliers. By end-1993 SEDAPAL
had US$45 million of external debt in arrears. This debt was assumed by the Government according
to agreements reached at the Paris Club and other bilateral meetings. But SEDAPAL still carries
this debt as an obligation to the Government. The company has depended increasingly on state
transfers and user contributions to cover minimal investment and working capital needs. With scarce
financial resources, SEDAPAL's investment stagnated between US$15 and US$26 million in the
past several years-much lower than the level required to maintain service quality.
61.    Restructuring SEDAPAL. Financial performance started to improve in 1991 as inflation
abated and restructuring began. Tariffs increased from a low of US$0.10 per cubic meter in 1989 to
US$0.28 per cubic meter in May 1994-still lower than the estimated marginal cost of US$0.45 per
cubic meter. A voluntary retirement plan reduced the number of employees by 33 percent between
1987-93, and personnel costs dropped from 75 percent of operating costs in 1987 to 40 percent in
1993. The number of employees per 1,000 water connections improved from 6.38 in 1987 to 2.74
in December 1993 (Table 3). This figure compares favorably with water companies of similar size
elsewhere in Latin America. Because of increased tariffs and decreased operating costs, SEDAPAL
generated positive net income in 1993 for the first time in more than a decade.
62.    SEDAPAL's financial management systems have considerable room for improvement.
Medium- and long-term investment and financial planning has not been done until recently. Monthly
financial statements take three or four months to process. And the commercial system needs
improvement. In late 1993 SEDAPAL launched a billing and collection program that seeks to
reduce by 40 percent the amount of bills uncollected after three months past due. If successful,
accounts receivable would be reduced to 75 days of revenue by 1995. The program has not been as



- 12 -
effective as expected because of a recent tariff increase. In addition, SEDAPAL's fixed assets
(US$432 million at end-1993) have not been revalued sufficiently in the last several years, and are
thought to be significantly undervalued.
Table 3 Financial data, SEDAPAL, 1987-93
1987    1988    1989      1990    1991    1992    1993
Financial indicators
Water and sewerage tariff (per cubic meter)  0.21    0.13  0.10    0.15    0.21    0.20     0.21
Operating revenue (millions of U.S. dollars)    82.4    53.0    41.3  60.1    85.6   91.0   101.8
Operating expenses (millions of U.S. dollars)   66.3    64.7  62.5  59.2    77.4   74.0    69.4
Net income (millions of U.S. dollars)  -27.7  -128.5    -98.6  -115.1   -23.4   -14.9    20.2
Working ratio (percentage)              80.5   122.1    151.3    98.6    90.4   81.2    68.2
Operating ratio (percentage)           119.4  261.3    291.6   209.7   120.5   99.5    79.0
Investment (millions of U.S. dollars)   15.0    17.8    20.2      18.9    26.4   18.1    39.5
Operational indicators
Accounts receivable comparator (days)   78     116      100      116       90    100      119
Employees per 1,000 water connections    6.38    6.35     5.79     5.44     4.81    3.49    2.74
63.    Projected financial perfonnance, 1994-2000. The financial projections presented in Annex
11 assume operational efficiency and investment that could be attained by a reasonably well-
managed public utility in Latin America. These conservative projections assume that: SEDAPAL
will increase water service coverage to 88 percent by 2000 (from 79 percent in 1993), there will be
no Government transfers, the average water and sewerage tariff will increase to US$0.37 per cubic
meter, and SEDAPAL will refinance its external debt in arrears and repay its obligations to the
Government.
64.    Under this base-case scenario, operating and financial performance will improve gradually.
By 2000, SEDAPAL will reduce its unaccounted-for water level to about 41 percent (from 46
percent in 1993). Employee productivity will improve further, to 1.96 employees per 1,000
connections, through a gradual reduction of SEDAPAL's staff. With decreased personnel costs,
SEDAPAL will maintain a working ratio of less than 60 percent and an operating ratio of 75
percent, while increasing needed maintenance costs. Commercial efficiency should reduce the
accounts receivable to about 75 days of revenue by 1995, thereby increasing funds for investment.
SEDAPAL will generate sufficient cashflow to pay its debts and cover a substantial portion of
projected total investment (US$664 million, not including capitalized interests). By 2000,
SEDAPAL's internal cash will cover more than 50 percent of investment, including 26 percent of
the Bank project.
65.    Sensitivity analysis. A sensitivity analysis was conducted on key variables to determine their
impact on SEDAPAL's internal cash generation and the level of investment that could be executed
between 1994 and 2000. This analysis highlighted the importance of operational efficiency and tariff
increases to SEDAPAL's financial performance and to timely execution of the investment program.
Three efficiency scenarios and two tariff structures were used to determine possible impacts on
SEDAPAL's investment capacity. The "private sector" scenario estimates efficiency under private
management. The "improved public sector" scenario, which includes the base case scenario
described above, assumes that SEDAPAL's operational efficiency will improve to the level of a
reasonably well-managed public utility elsewhere in Latin America. The "business-as-usual"
scenario assumes no improvement. Each scenario is analyzed under two tariff structures-a gradual
increase to US$0.37 per cubic meter and the May 1994 level of US$0.28 per cubic meter. Internal
investment sources were calculated for each combination to determine the level of investment
afforded under each scenario (Table 4).



- 13 -
Table 4 Sensitivity analysis for two tariff rate structures
Gradual increase to
Efficiency scenario                                        US$0.37 per cubic   US50.28 per cubic
meter              meter
Private sector (lowers unaccounted-for water to 30 percent)
Investnent level (millions of U.S. dollars)                    752                541
Maximum working ratio (percent)                                57                  65
hnproved public sector (lowers unaccounted-for water to 41
percent)
Investment level (millions of U.S. dollars)                    664                474
Maximum working ratio (percent)                                 60                 73
Business as usual (unaccounted-for water remains at 46 percent)
Investment level (millions of U.S. dollars)                    633                450
Maximum working ratio (percent)                                 64                 78
66.    Under the private sector scenario, at tariffs of US$0.37 per cubic meter, investment would
be US$752 million-10 percent more than planned. The financial performance of the company could
improve even further under this scenario, since the Government will likely assume all or part of
SEDAPAL's debt obligation once a concession is awarded. Under the improved public sector
scenario, with increased tariffs, the total investment program (US$663.6 million) will be completed
in seven years. With no tariff increase, investment would be limited to about US$541 million-83
percent of what is planned. Under the business-as-usual scenario, with a tariff increase, internal
cash generation and investment will fall short of what is planned. Without a tariff increase,
SEDAPAL would be able to execute only about 68 percent of total investment. The investment
program in this case would be delayed by more than four years, which defers the net incremental
benefit of the investments. Under the business-as-usual scenario, the internal financial rate of return
of the project is reduced to 10 percent, compared with 17 percent under the base-case scenario.
Details of the assumptions and results are presented in Annex 12.
67.    To strengthen SEDAPAL's financial standing, assurances were obtained during loan
negotiations that SEDAPAL will:
*   Generate sufficient cashflow to cover 30 percent of the total investment program.
*   Revalue its fixed assets and incorporate the study's recommendations into 1995 end-year
financial statements in a form acceptable to the Bank.
*   Improve employee productivity-the number of employees per 1,000 water connections-to
less than 2.5 by end-1995, and less than 2.0 by end-2000.
*   Maintain a debt service coverage ratio no lower than 1.5.
*   Sign annual management agreements to contain physical, operational, and financial
performance targets.
In addition, the Government and SEDAPAL should agree on a timetable for settling SEDAPAL's
external debt in terms acceptable to the Bank, before the closing of the concession contract. If
privatization is successful, the Government should cancel at least the overdue portion of
SEDAPAL's external debt (US$45.8 million at end-1993). SEDAPAL could then pay on the current
portion of the debt. If privatization is unsuccessful, the Government and SEDAPAL should agree on
a debt refinancing plan, and possibly a debt cancellation scheme tied to the second management
agreement.
H. Environmental Aspects
68.    The project is classified as Category B under the Bank's environmental guidelines. An
Environmental Impact Assessment has been carried out for the project and is available in the project



- 14 -
files. Temporary adverse impacts are the disruption of road traffic during construction and increased
wastewater from connections in the pueblos jovenes. The first impact will be mitigated by careful
scheduling of construction. The second will be addressed by the comprehensive wastewater
management project whose preparation is partly financed by this project. Since the project
emphasizes rehabilitating existing infrastructure, conserving water, and expanding service to low-
income areas, it will deliver significant environmental benefits. These benefits include improved
health, quality of life, and supply reliability and reduced flooding, odor, and groundwater depletion
and contamination.
L. Risks
69.   The project's main risks are political opposition to the sectoral reform-including
privatization-that may slow the reform process, ineffective execution of the project during the
transition from public to private sector operation, insufficient counterpart funding, and non-
acceptance of Bank funds by the concessionaire. The risk of political opposition is minimized by
three factors. First, the new regulatory and institutional framework is the result of two years of
consensus-building by the Government of Peru to advance reform. Second, the timing and social
environment for privatization is favorable-the current administration wants to advance SEDAPAL's
privatization before the April 1995 elections. Finally, successful privatization in other sectors and
public utilities has created social support for privatization. The risk of ineffective execution of the
project during the transition period is minimized by a management agreement to be signed between
SEDAPAL and the Government. This agreement defines key operational and investment
performance objectives and will be evaluated every three months until the private operator assumes
responsibility. If privatization is unsuccessful, terms for a second management agreement will be
discussed with SEDAPAL and the Government during the Project Review. Annual management
agreements should be signed thereafter. If privatization is successful, a performance plan-as part of
the concession contract-will be signed between the private operator and SEDAPAL. The risk of
insufficient counterpart funding is minimized through the new tariff regulations, which allow for
adequate levels of revenue and automatic adjustments based on five-year tariff formulas, and
through the monitoring of investment decisions and operational efficiency through the management
agreement (before privatization) and the performance plan (after privatization). The risk that the
concessionaire may not enter into a subsidiary loan agreement with SEDAPAL for the use of the
Bank funds, and hence the possibility of an early partial cancellation of the Bank loan, is minimized
by the fact that prequalified private operators have already shown considerable interest on the Bank
to finance urgent rehabilitation work.
III. Project Implementation
70.   The borrower is the Republic of Peru. The executing agency is SEDAPAL. The project will
be managed by a project management unit within SEDAPAL. The project management unit will be
responsible for overall management of the project, and will ensure consistency in the application of
Bank guidelines and compliance with the loan agreement, the subsidiary loan agreements, and
project agreement conditions.
A. Arrangements
71.   Although the project is a conventional Bank project-with an investment component and an
institutional component-project implementation is linked to SEDAPAL's privatization process. The
Loan Agreement will be signed by the Republic of Peru (represented by the Ministry of Economy
and Finance) and the Bank. A Project Agreement will be signed by SEDAPAL and the Bank to
directly execute the project during the transitional period before privatization, and through the
private contractor after privatization. SEDAPAL, representing the Government of Peru, will sign a
concession contract with the private operator.



- 15 -
72.   First phase. Project implementation will have two phases. The first phase, expected to last
up to 12 months, corresponds to the project execution period while privatization takes places, and
ends with a comprehensive project review. During this phase, up to 20 percent of the project-about
US$56 million-would be committed by SEDAPAL. Operational indicators and investment goals
will be monitored and managed by a management agreement to be made between SEDAPAL and
the Government of Peru, in a form satisfactory to the Bank. As condition of effectiveness, the
Government and SEDAPAL will sign the management agreement for 1995.
73.   Second phase. The second phase will be initiated after the project review. Two scenarios are
possible. If privatization is successful, SEDAPAL, representing the Government of Peru, will sign a
concession contract with the private operator. SEDAPAL will continue to exist as the owner and
administrator of the concession contract. Its project management unit will be responsible for
institutional development and the investment component of the project accepted by the private
concessionaire. Once privatization occurs, however, SEDAPAL's statutes will have to be adjusted
to allow for such arrangements. Bank staff provided comments on the draft revised statutes during
loan negotiations. SEDAPAL's project management unit would continue to manage the institutional
development component of the Project, handle all disbursement requests, and if so agreed with the
concessionaire, it would carry out the procurement for the investment component of the Project
accepted by the concessionaire. This would facilitate the application of the Bank's requirements with
respect to procurement as stipulated in the Project Agreement. The concessionaire may elect to
carry out all procurement itself. If it elects to receive the benefit of the terms of the Bank loan by
entering into a subsidiary loan agreement with SEDAPAL, it will have to agree to assume all
obligations of SEDAPAL for the execution of the investment component of the Project under its
Project Agreement with the Bank--including the Bank procurement rules. A draft of the subsidiary
loan agreement will be included in the bidding documents of the concession. Because it is possible
that the plans of the concessionaire may call for a somewhat different execution or a different timing
of the urgently needed rehabilitation measures described in the Project Description in the Loan
Agreement, a comprehensive project review would be carried out jointly by the Bank, the
Government, SEDAPAL, and the concessionaire prior to the closing of the concession transaction to
determine to what extent the Loan Agreement, the Project Agreement, and the first Subsidiary Loan
Agreement (SLA-1) would have to be changed, if at all, including possibly the cancellation of a
portion of the Bank loan. The second Subsidiary Loan Agreement between SEDAPAL and the
concessionaire (SLA-2) would incorporate, by reference, all the relevant obligations of SEDAPAL
under the revised Loan and Project Agreements. The performance obligations of the operator will
then be monitored by the Bank until the project is completed. If privatization is unsuccessful, the
project will still be modified at Project Review, with institutional strengthening expanded as needed.
Annual management agreements between the Government and SEDAPAL, approved by the Bank,
would ensure monitoring of project implementation during the second phase. In both scenarios, the
Bank loan would be fully recovered through tariffs.
74.   Project management. The project management unit will report to a project committee at
SEDAPAL chaired by the general manager. This unit is responsible for overall project execution,
including all bidding processes, preparation of disbursement requests, management of project
accounts, and preparation of progress reports. It will be composed of at least a project manager, a
financial analyst, a sanitary engineer, and a procurement officer. The project manager was
appointed prior to loan negotiations. The project management unit will be assisted by management
consultants to be firnanced through the project. The project management unit will carry out the
project directly during the first phase of implementation, investing up to 20 percent of the Project.
The remaining 80 percent of the proceeds of the Bank Loan, or the amount accepted by the
concessionaire, will be used for the procurement of works, goods and services through the
concessionaire applying Bank rules on procurement. The institutional component will also be
assessed at Project Review to reflect the outcome of the privatization process. Terms of reference
for the project management unit were agreed on during loan negotiations, with staffing concluded by
loan effectiveness. The main functions of the project management unit, the project committee, and
the management consultant are outlined in Annex 14. As condition of effectiveness, SEDAPAL will
have formally established the project management unit and the project consultative committee and



- 16 -
will have staffed the PMU as agreed at negotiations. Agreement was reached with SEDAPAL to
operate and maintain the unit and the committee during project implementation with functions and
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank.
75.   Legal documents and conditionality. Project legal documents include a loan agreement
between the Republic of Peru (represented by the Ministry of Economy and Finance) and the Bank,
a subsidiary loan agreement (SLA-1) between the Ministry of Economy and Finance and
SEDAPAL, and a project agreement between SEDAPAL and the Bank to execute the project.
Financing terms and conditions are the same in the subsidiary loan as in the Bank loan, with foreign
exchange risk borne by SEDAPAL. There is a second subsidiary loan agreement (SLA-2) between
SEDAPAL and the concessionaire for any parts of the project carried out by the concessionaire
using the proceeds of the Bank loan. Terms and conditions of the SLA-2 must be satisfactory to the
Bank, and will be stipulated in bidding documents for the concession. The concessionaire could
decline to take the subsidiary loan, and any part of the Bank funds not accepted by the
concessionaire will be canceled. The Government of Peru will countersign the SLA-2 to confirm its
agreement. Agreement was reached during loan negotiations that the project will be carried out in
accordance with the management agreement prior to Project Review. After the Project Review, the
project must be in accordance with the concession contract and SLA-2 or, if privatization fails, the
project will be carried out in accordance with the second management agreement and subsequent
annual agreements (as approved by the Bank). A summary of the legal documents and institutions
involved is in Annex 15.
76.   Special account. A Special Account will be established in U.S. dollars in a commercial bank
acceptable to the Bank. The authorized allocation-sufficient for about four months of
expenditures-will be US$8.0 million. It was agreed during loan negotiations that the authorized
allocation will be limited to US$4.0 million until the aggregate amount of withdrawals exceed
US$20.0 million. The threshold under which use of this account is obligatory is US$800,000. The
Bank will replenish the special account upon receipt of disbursement requests from the Government.
SEDAPAL's project management unit will control the special account and be responsible for
disbursement requests. Requests will be submitted monthly, or when the account balance is 67
percent of its initial deposit, whichever comes first. SEDAPAL will also establish a separate
account in local currency. Counterpart funds will be deposited at regular intervals to match
requirements for each component under execution, according to a schedule to be presented every
three months. Both accounts will be managed in accordance with international accounting standards.
77.   Project review. Once the results of the privatization process have been published by the
Government of Peru, a Project Review involving the Government, the Bank, and the private
operator will occur prior to the second phase of the project. This review is essential to project
implementation. A draft terms of reference for the review was discussed during appraisal and
agreed to during loan negotiations (Annex 16). Prior to Project Review, SEDAPAL should have
reached a final agreement with the Government on settling its external debt and submitted proposals
to the Bank for modification of the loan agreement, project agreement, and subsidiary loan
agreement, if necessary. If privatization is successful, the Project Review will accommodate, to the
extent possible, the proposed investment and financing plan proposed by the concessionaire and
determine any amendments to the legal documents--including any cancellation of a portion of the
loan--as necessary. If privatization is unsuccessful, and SEDAPAL remains as the service provider,
the Project Review will adjust the institutional support component to strengthen SEDAPAL's
institutional and management capacity, particularly in financial and commercial areas. The Project
Review will take place either ninety days within the award of the concession, or not later than
December 31, 1995, or when aggregated loan disbursements amount to US$40 million, whichever
comes first, in the event that the concession has not been previously awarded. In addition to the
Project Review, two workshops will be held to explain Bank procedures. The first will be held at
the beginning of the first phase of project implementation, and no later than two months after loan
signature. The second will be held after Project Review to initiate the second phase of project
implementation.



- 17 -
B. Subproject selection criteria
78.   There are two types of subprojects related to water supply and sanitation service in
Lima-rehabilitation and expansion. Rehabilitation subprojects will be selected based on technical
criteria agreed on during project preparation relating to maintenance urgency, district location, and
pipe material. Expansion subprojects in the pueblos jovenes will be chosen based on two principles.
First, districts are prioritized based on service demand-the community is responsible for preparing
and submitting subproject proposals. Second, project management should be limited to defining and
disseminating the "rules of the game" (technical and financial criteria for feasibility) and quality
control. A more detailed description of the selection criteria for subprojects is in Annex 17.
C. Project supervision
79.   SEDAPAL's project management unit will supervise all project components, including
SEDAPAL's compliance with the Project Agreement. A project implementation manual prepared by
SEDAPAL contains basic project management procedures. An acceptable version of this manual
was agreed to during loan negotiations, and the final version will be formally adopted prior to loan
effectiveness. Project reviews and supervision will be based on well-defined and measurable
institutional, physical, operational, and financial indicators developed during appraisal. Monitoring
indicators were agreed with the Government during loan negotiations (Annex 19).
80.   The project will require considerable Bank supervision-20 staff-weeks have been allocated
for the first phase of implementation (Annex 18). The Project Review will be a key instrument of
Bank supervision. Supervision will be based on SEDAPAL's 1994-2000 investment and financial
plan, performance indicators and targets in the concession contract, the set of project monitoring
indicators indicated above, and the targets in the management agreement between SEDAPAL and
the Government. During loan negotiations, agreement was reached that SEDAPAL and the Bank
will conduct annual reviews of the progress in the implementation of the project based on an annual
operating plan presented by SEDAPAL, including a review of the implementation schedule,
monitoring indicators and budget for the incoming year. These reviews will take place not later than
October 31 of each year. Progress in the implementation of the Project will be based on the
indicators in Annex 19.
D. Procurement
81.   Civil works represent about 83 percent of total project cost. Equipment and materials used
in civil work contracts account for 25 percent of this percentage. Consultant services (studies,
supervision, management, technical assistance, and engineering designs) account for 9 percent of
total project cost, and equipment and materials, 8 percent. All equipment and materials contracts
estimated to cost less than US$250,000 up to an aggregate amount of US$2.0 million, and civil
works estimated to cost less than US$3 million up to an aggregate amount of US$42.9 million,
could be procured under local competitive bidding. Above these limits, procurement will be carried
out through international competitive bidding, using Bank's standard bidding documents for goods
and works. Seventy percent of works will be procured under international competitive bidding
(Table 5). Draft standard bidding documents for local competitive bidding are being prepared
taking into consideration the most recent Country Procurement Assessment Report, which concludes
that regulations for local competitive bidding procedures in Peru are not entirely consistent with
Bank procedures. Consultant services, including engineering, supervision and technical studies will
be procured according to Bank Guidelines. Supervision and engineering designs amounting to more
than US$50,000 for firms and US$20,000 for individuals will require prior Bank review. The
Procurement Plan and Implementation Schedule is in Annex 13, including a preliminary bidding
package.



- 18 -
Table 5 Project costs by procurement method
(millions of U.S. dollars)
Internatonal  Local compedtve
Project ekment            competitive bidding  bidding         Other             Total
Civil works                    210.0            42.9                              252.9
(69.8)         (30.6)                            (100.4)
Equipment and materials         22.4             2.0                               24.4
(22.4)          (1.4)                             (23.8)
Consulting services                                              28.9              28.9
(25.8)           (25.8)
Total                          232.4            44.9             28.9             306.2
(92.2)         (32.0)            (25.8)          (150.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are amounts financed by the Bank loan.
82.   International bidding will be subject to Bank review of advertising, bidding documents, bid
evaluation, and contract awards. To expedite project execution, only local bidding for works
exceeding US$500,000 and US$100,000 for goods will be subject to ex ante review. These prior
review arrangements would result in a coverage of above 85 percent of Bank finance of contracts
for goods and works. If the Bank determines that procurement is inconsistent with agreed
procedures, said expenditures cannot be financed by the loan and the Bank may cancel an equivalent
amount of the loan.
E. Disbursement
83.    The loan will cover 100 percent of foreign expenditures for consultants, works and goods,
85 percent of local expenditures for consultants, and 66 percent of local expenditures for civil
works, equipment, and materials. Funding will be disbursed through the special account to expedite
project implementation. Disbursements for civil works contracts of less than US$500,000 and goods
of less than US$100,000, and also for consulting contracts with firms and individuals costing
US$100,000 and US$20,000 respectively, will be made under the statements of expenditure
procedure prepared and certified by SEDAPAL's project management unit. Documentation will be
retained by the management unit for inspection during supervision missions and for auditing. No
force account works are envisaged. The estimated schedule of disbursement (Annex 20) lasts six
years, ending on December 31, 2000. The closing date will be June 30, 2001.
F. Advance contracting and retroactive financing
84.    The loan will finance works between 1994 and 2000. Some emergency rehabilitation and
consultant services have already been funded to allow full implementation by mid-1995. Advance
contracting-about US$20 million-began on May 15, 1994, and retroactive financing-about
US$10 million-will be provided for eligible expenditures incurred since that day. Advance
contracting and retroactive financing must follow Bank procurement guidelines. To ensure a prompt
project start and loan disbursement, SEDAPAL provided the Bank with bidding documents for
subprojects expected to be eligible for retroactive financing and terms of reference for selected
studies and technical assistance.
G. Auditing arrangements
85.    During loan negotiations the Bank and SEDAPAL agreed that external auditors will perform
an annual audit of SEDAPAL's project accounts, statements of expenditure, the special account, and
financial statements. Each year's audit report will be submitted to the Bank by June 30 of the
following year.



- 19 -
H. Reporting and monitoring
86.   Quarterly progress reports, as described in the project implementation manual, will describe
and compare project progress with the progress envisaged at appraisal, review compliance with the
monitoring indicators in Annex 19, and assess problems and issues arising during project execution.
The reports will also propose adjustments and remedial action in case of unsatisfactory progress.
Agreement was reached during loan negotiations that progress reports will be submitted to the Bank
by March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 31 of each year. A final report analyzing key
issues and containing the borrower's assessment of the project will be submitted to the Bank within
six months of the loan closing date.
IV. Agreements Reached and Recommendation
87.   During loan negotiations, SEDAPAL agreed:
a. To generate sufficient internal funds to cover at least 30 percent of the total investment
program throughout the project execution period (para. 67).
b. To revalue its fixed assets and incorporate the study's recommendations into 1995 end-year
financial statements in a form acceptable to the Bank (para. 67). The asset revaluation study,
satisfactory to the Bank, would be completed by no later than December 31, 1995.
c. To improve employee productivity-the number of permanent employees per 1,000 water
connections-to less than 2.5 by end-1995, and to less than 2.0 by end-2000 (para. 67).
d. To maintain a debt service coverage ratio no lower than 1.5 (para. 67).
e. On the contents of the terms of reference for the project management unit (para. 74).
f. To carry out the project in accordance with the first management agreement prior to project
review. After the Project Review, the project must be in accordance with either the
concession contract and second subsidiary loan agreement or, if privatization fails, the
second management agreement and subsequent annual management agreements (para. 75).
All agreements are subject to Bank approval.
g. On the selected indicators and targets to be monitored during project implementation (para.
79).
h. To hold with the Bank annual reviews on the implementation of the Project. These reviews
will take place not later than October 31. Progress in the implementation will be based on
the indicators in Annex 19.
i. That external independent auditors, satisfactory to the Bank, will perform an annual audit of
project accounts, statements of expenditures, the special account, and SEDAPAL's financial
statements. Each fiscal year's audit report should be submitted to the Bank by June 30 of the
following year (para. 85).
j. That quarterly progress reports will be submitted to the Bank by March 31, June 30,
September 30, and December 31 of each year (para. 86).
k. To hold a Project Review in accordance with the timing and terms of reference as
described in annex 19 (para. 77).
1. To establish and maintain a project account for purposes of depositing the necessary
counterpart funds in accordance with schedules to be presented to the Bank on
March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31.
m. To prepare and present to the Bank, not later than November 30 each year, an
annual operating plan with a review of the implementation schedule, monitoring
indicators and budget for the incoming year (para.80).
88.   During loan negotiations, the Government of Peru and SEDAPAL agreed:
a. To submit proposals for modification of the loan agreement, project agreement, and
subsidiary loan agreement to the Bank before Project Review (para. 77).
b. On the terms of reference for the Project Review (para. 77).



- 20 -
c. To amend SEDAPAL's Bylaws, in a form satisfactory to the Bank, to adapt such
Bylaws to the Water and Sanitation Services Law (para. 73).
89.   Prior to loan effectiveness:
a. New tariff regulations should be approved by an executive decree as part of the regulations
of the Water and Sanitation Services Law (para. 52).
b. The Ministry of the Presidency should submit to the Bank a proposal satisfactory to the
Bank for financing secondary works in accordance with the Water and Sanitation Services
Law (para. 57).
c. SEDAPAL has formally established the project management unit and the project consultative
committee and has staffed the project management unit according to the terms of reference
agreed at negotiations.
d. SEDAPAL should formally adopt the project implementation manual (para. 79).
e. The Government of Peru and SEDAPAL have executed the subsidiary loan
agreement.
f. The Government and SEDAPAL have executed the management agreement for
1995.
g. SEDAPAL has opened the project account.
90.   An agreement between the Superintendency of Sanitary Services and SEDAPAL,
satisfactory to the Bank, will be a condition to disburse the institutional straightening subcomponent
of the Superintendency.
91.   Recommendation. Subject to the above conditions, the project is suitable for the Bank loan
of US$150 million equivalent, to be repaid over 17 years, including a grace period of five years, at
the Bank's standard variable rate.



- 21 -
PERU
LIMA WATER REHABILITATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ANNEXES



- 22 -



PERU                                                               ANNEX 1
LIMA WATER REHABIUTATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
BANK LOANS TO PERU WITH WATER AND SANITATION COMPONENTS
Status as of April 30, 1994
.,,,,-  --     ... .moi,rn .      Bo1wer: ..,....  ,  ,. ' ""''               .      , ' ' '             ' 'C
1976    1283-PE       21.6       Banco de la   Urban Sites and Services        100%       The project did not achieve its cost recovery objectives.
Vivienda    Development
1979    S-1 1-PE       8.8         Republic    Water Supply and                93%        7% of the loan was cancelled. There were initial delays
of Peru    Power Engineering                          due to non-compliance with legal and financial conditions
of the Loan Agreement.
.... ....                         tSA      -               Up_ niPply-........ .: . :f                 pt o   e :Iui          c   l w          :
.   . . . . . . . . . .'.                                                                            . . . . . . . . ... . ...
1983    2204-PE        10.2        Republic    Public Sector                   99%        1 % of the approved loan amount was cancelled. The
of Peru    Management                                 project was designed to improve overall performance
of Government.
1985    2451-PE       60.1         Republic    Lima Metropolitan               40%        60 % of the approved loan amount was cancelled. The
of Peru    Development                                erosion of sectoral institutions and policies led to the
suspension of loan disbursements in May 1987.
1993    3540-PE        30          Republic    Privatization                   10%        Various options have been assessed for privatizing
of Peru    Technical Assist                           SEDAPAL. The recommendation by the consultants is to
pursue the concession approach.
1993    3595-PE        250         Republic    Privatization                   30%        The successful privatization of the government's telecom
of Peru    Adjustment                                 holdings has given an enormous boost of confidence
I___ __ ____ _ ____ __ _____   I __________ I___  to  the  privatization  strategy  of the  country.
1 Only one project sector specific has been approved in Peru.



- 24 -
Annex 2
Bank Experience and Lessons Learned
1.    Most water and sanitation projects provide substantial economic and health benefits. Since
the 1960s-when Bank lending in this sector began-projects have become larger, with many
involving assistance to multiple entities under one operation. Some operations relied on
intermediaries to control implementation and to provide assistance. Many operations aimed to
consolidate water entities. The main lessons from this experience are:
*  Achieving institutional and cost recovery objectives is slow and difficult.
*  Adequate project preparation, early land acquisition, and manageable procurement
procedures are essential to avoid project implementation delays.
*  The quality of Bank supervision during project implementation is a key factor in achieving
objectives.
*  Sound management and adequate maintenance are important to avoid endangering the
sustainability and benefits of new facilities.
*  Attention should be paid to wastewater disposal in densely populated areas.
*  More attention should be given to the high levels of unaccounted-for water that are
commonly observed in water companies throughout Latin America.
Experience in Latin America
2.    Most water and sewerage projects in Latin America have met their physical objectives-and
in some cases surpassed them-but have suffered from implementation delays (averaging about two
years longer than estimated during appraisal) and failure to meet their institutional objectives. The
main lessons from the regional experience are:
  Water and sanitation projects are affected by macroeconomic performance.
*  Frequent management changes and delayed implementation compromise project objectives.
*  Physical and institutional components should be linked.
*  Project scope and design should be simple.
*  Projects should emphasize cost recovery, lower operational costs through higher operational
efficiency, and a larger internal contribution to investment.
*  Better demand and productivity forecasting are needed.
Experience in Peru
3.    Since 1976 the Bank has made three loans for water supply and sewerage projects in Peru.
These loans amounted to US$55.9 million. Assistance has focused on helping Lima's water supply
and sewerage company expand coverage-particularly in low-income areas-and on strengthening
managerial, technical, and financial capacity. Overall, these projects failed to achieve their
objectives.
4.    Urban Sites and Services Development Project. This 1976 project (Loan 1283-PE), the first
urban development project in Peru, financed an extension of water supply and sewerage to low-
income areas in southern Lima. Although the project exceeded targets for water and sewerage
connections, it fell short of its cost recovery objective.



- 25 -
Annex 2
5.    Water Supply and Power Engineering Project. This 1978 project (Loan S-1 1-PE) attempted
long-term solutions to problems in Lima's water supply and power sectors. It also supported
organizational and financial improvements in Lima's water utility. Most of the engineering studies
included in the project were completed, but the utility's managerial and organizational procedures
did not improve. The operation closed two-and-a-half years behind schedule. It failed to have a
strong institutional development impact because of:
*  Frequent changes in the utility's Board of Directors;
*  Lack of executive capacity-the Board of Directors was hesitant to set policies or action
plans that conflicted with the government or the utility's political strategies;
*  Slow contracting procedures;
*  Conflicts between the utility and its consultants; and
*  Insufficient counterpart funds-created by the utility's low tariffs and poor billing.
6.    Lima Water Supply and Sewerage Project. This 1981 project (Loan 2139-PE) tried to
improve health and living conditions in Lima by improving water and sewerage services,
management of surface and groundwater resources, and the company's managerial, technical, and
financial capacity. The project failed to achieve the coverage proposed during appraisal and did not
strengthen technical and managerial capacity. The loan and project scope were reduced to 67
percent of the original amount at the request of the government and the utility. In November 1986,
with 46 percent of the new loan amount disbursed (31 percent of the original amount), the Bank
suspended disbursements. The loan was suspended because of the lack of government commitment
to institutional reform, adverse macroeconomic conditions (particularly the accelerating inflation
rate), and government pricing policies. Another reason was inadequate government direction and
control of the utility. The entity was burdened with regulations and restrictions that hindered its
operating efficiency. Procurement procedures, tariff rates, budgets, personnel policies, and salary
structures were regulated by external agencies-reducing managerial accountability. Other reasons
for the loan suspension included the lack of qualified personnel, frequent changes in the utility's
Board of Directors, protracted procurement procedures, and delays in the production of final
designs.
7.    Main lessons. The main lessons from Bank experience in the water and sanitation sector in
Peru are:
*  Previous experience with the proposed borrower or executing agency should be evaluated.
*  Evidence of government and utility commitment to reform should be requested before
committing to a new project. The Bank should not overestimate the extent to which its
supervision efforts can influence government strategy and policies.
*  Institutional development is a long-term process that requires careful planning. The Bank
should be aware of the complexities of institutional reform, and the need to have precise
objectives and a strategy for meeting these objectives.
*  The Bank should be more rigorous in enforcing compliance with loan agreements. Delays in
applying remedies result in inefficient use of the borrower's and the Bank's financial and
human resources.
*  Project design suffered from lack of a long-term strategy for institutional improvement,
overestimation of the utility's absorptive capacity, and underestimation of the political
constraints to reform. The Bank did not grasp the implications of institutional development
as a long-term strategy, particularly given the utility's low level of technical, administrative,
and financial performance.



- 26 -
Annex 3
Peru's Privatization Program
1.    The collapse of the state sector led the Fujimori administration beginning in 1990 to adopt
an extensive privatization program. The objective is to privatize all state-owned enterprises by mid-
1995. In September 1991, a privatization law (Law for the Promotion of Private Investment)
established the legal and institutional framework for the privatization program. An interministerial
commission (COPRI) oversees the program. Individual privatizations are carried out by special
privatization committees (CEPRIs). These committees have been established to carry out more than
60 privatizations.
2.    Privatization has been preceded or accompanied by legal and regulatory reform in every
sector. New laws have been enacted in mining, hydrocarbons, telecommunications, electricity and
water. All are designed to promote competition and private participation. New regulatory agencies
have been created for telecommunications, electricity, and water. And in hydrocarbons, policy and
regulatory functions (such as contracting with foreign oil companies for exploration or production)
have been transferred from Petroperu (which is being privatized) to a new arms-length agency. As a
result of these reforms, foreign investment increased from US$41 million in 1990 to US$150 million
in the first nine months of 1993. Major new foreign investments have been announced in mining
and petroleum.
3.    By end-March 1994, the government had successfully privatized about 30 companies (or
units) for about US$2.5 billion. Completed privatizations include: a 35 percent control in the
telecommunications companies (CPT, Entel), sold to Telefonica de Espatsa in February 1994 for
US$2 billion (US$1.4 billion to the Treasury, with the remaining US$600 million to be invested in
CPT), the national airline (Aeroperu), sold to Aeromexico in January 1993 for US$54 million, seven
mining holdings, including the iron ore company (sold to the Chinese Shougang Corporation for
US$120 million) and the Cerro Verde copper mine, four subsidiaries of Petroperu, three urban
transport companies (buses were auctioned to employees), two banks, and six manufacturing
companies. Sixty percent of Electrolima was sold in two units in July 1994 for US$388 million to
two consortia of Chilean, Spanish, Canadian and Peruvian companies.
4.    Technical preparations are well-advanced in other major privatizations, including the
national electricity generation company (Electroperu, to be sold in several units to promote
competition in generation), the national oil company (Petroperu), the remaining mining holdings
(Centromin, Tintaya, and the remaining units of Minero Peru), and two state-owned banks.
5.    The Bank has supported privatization through policy advice, technical assistance
(Privatization Technical Assistance Loan 3540-PE and Japanese grants), and a US$250 million,
three-tranche adjustment operation (Privatization Adjustment Loan 3595-PE) that supports legal and
regulatory reform and privatization, particularly in mining, hydrocarbons, telecommunications,
fisheries, and water. In the water and sanitation sector, release of the second tranche of the
Privatization Adjustment Loan is contingent on the submission of the Water and Sanitation Services
Law to Congress and the preparation of draft regulations for the law. Release of the third tranche is
contingent on enactment of the law and issuance of the regulation.



PERU                                                                                  ANNEX 3
LIMA WATER REHABILITATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
SEDAPAL
PRIVATIZATION TIMETABLE
(May 31, 1994)
__m                     J*     19                            Octabe  l_w  Dw A D*r 2I1nL5 9             S       2br5
D Elt-|1 1 i ]ag                                        "                                  tl                                       2     1                  31 4, t2i34it  |4  1 L13.4 sI Z|M  21 93, 4  11 2| 14
pro h~Keada                          MaVy 23'94 Jan 16'95
1  Copn Appr     Stategy and             Ma 23 '94 pm 30 '94
PrmQuiCon Conrde
2  Amnm  PraOudflcan                     Ji3y 1 '94  July 1 '94
P~h
3  Rleceiv PreQudfication Cradential     Jy 18 '94  kuy 19 '94
(L%o  0okabr
4  Evekntion PraQuNicationand            Aug 8 '94   Auig 12 '94
5  Bidn Doamwt (FRat Draft)              Sept 27 '94 Sapt 27 '94
6  ConcionCo.wict (FI aDt)               Oct 12'94  Oct 12'94
7   1dRt Piew Bid Documnnts              Sept27 '94 Nov 18 '94
and Dat Roarm
8  Cpd DhtzhA. And Bid Doaw     and    Dec 5 '94  Doec 5 '94
Conmo Cot
9   kides Pruat Pi                       Dec22 '94 Dec22 '94
10Clebi  Cral  Caitact                   Fab 29 '95  Feb 28 '95



- 28 -
Annex 4
SEDAPAL Management Plan
1.    SEDAPAL has been drastically restructured as a result of the sectoral reform initiated in 1991.
The management strategy chosen for SEDAPAL is privatization by means of a concession contract.
Successful privatization is not guaranteed, even given the favorable economic and political environment
and the interest shown by foreign water utility operators. If privatization fails, SEDAPAL will continue
under public management. Management agreements-based on experience with contract plans in
francophone countries-will be used to clarify objectives, supervise performance, and delineate
responsibilities among the entities overseeing SEDAPAL. The first management agreement (Acuerdo
de Gestion) will guide SEDAPAL toward privatization and improve operational performance during the
transition period. It will be signed before loan negotiations. If SEDAPAL remains under public
management, annual management agreements will be signed with the Government in a form satisfactory
to the Bank.
2.    Objectives and rationale. Ambiguity of goals and shifting objectives have long been obstacles
to SEDAPAL's efficient performance. Insufficient managerial autonomy and constraining government
supervision have further undermined SEDAPAL's institutional capacity. The proposed management
strategy for SEDAPAL will use management agreements to clarify SEDAPAL's objectives, expand
managerial autonomy, improve performance supervision, and develop a formal negotiation procedure
with government supervisory institutions.
3.    Basic assumptions. The success of the management agreement is related to four basic
assumptions. First, it must be stable and capable of adjusting to changes in the macroeconomic
environment. Second, the Water and Sanitation Services Law must be enacted. Third, the
Superintendency of Sanitary Services must have the institutional capacity to regulate sector entities.
Finally, the Ministry of the Presidency must approve detailed tariff regulations.
4.    Institutions. SEDAPAL and the Ministry of the Presidency, as government supervising agency,
will sign the management agreement. SEDAPAL is responsible for meeting the following quarterly
indicators: operational efficiency and physical targets, commercial efficiency, financial management,
productivity, and service quality. The Ministry of the Presidency will be responsible for effective and
timely application of regulations-particularly in relation to tariffs. The Ministry of Economy and
Finance, CONADE, and CEPRI-SEDAPAL should participate in the preparation and supervision of the
management agreement.
5.    Supervision. Because of the asymmetry of negotiating power between the Government and
SEDAPAL, and the conflicts between short-term interests and long-term economic and management
gains, a special committee will supervise the implementation of the management agreement. The
committee will be comprised of two members from SEDAPAL representing the board and the
management, one member from the Vice Ministry of Infrastructure representing the Ministry of the
Presidency, one member from the Superintendency of Sanitary Services, one member from CONADE,
one member from the Ministry of Economy and Finance, and one member from CEPRI-SEDAPAL.
The committee will evaluate the management agreement on a quarterly basis and will propose changes
and remedies as needed. The committee will also be responsible for the transparency of the evaluation
and will publish the results of the analysis and recommendations. The committee should be nominated
for the duration of the management agreement and have the independence to define its own rules and
procedures.



- 29 -
Annex 4
6.    Action plan. A first management agreement lasting six months will be signed prior to loan
negotiations. It is designed to verify the usefulness and enforceability of this management tool within
the public sector in Peru, and to test the validity of indicators and supervisory arrangements. Upon
evaluation of the first agreement, a second management agreement will be designed (in a form
satisfactory to the Bank) and signed for one year or until the project review, whichever comes first.
After the project review, if privatization is successful, key indicators for monitoring the utility and
supervising the project will be incorporated into the performance plan of the concession contract. If
privatization fails, annual management agreements will be used to manage SEDAPAL, with
improvements and adaptations introduced through the supervisory process described above.
7.    Key targets for the first management agreement include:
* Increasing average water and sewerage tariff from $0.28 per cubic meter (June 1994) to $0.32
per cubic meter by December 1994 (Ministry of the Presidency).
*  Target indicators (SEDAPAL management):
Operatonal efficiency: 4,000 unpluggings a month during June-December 1994.
Physical targets: rehabilitation of 25 kilometers of water pipes and 39 kilometers of sewerage
pipes in 1994.
Commercial targets: increase metered connections from 23,000 in June 1994 to 33,000
by December 31, 1994.
Financial management: reduce overdue accounts receivable from 114 to 96 days by
December 31, 1994.
Productvity index: ratio of personnel cost to operating cost of 31 percent by December
31, 1994.
c  Long-term debt: if privatization is successful, secure approval for cancellation of long-term debt
negotiated under Paris Club and under separate bilateral negotiations (CEPRI-SEDAPAL).
* Incentive plan: study incentive and fines system associated with achievement of
management agreement (SEDAPAL Board).
8.    Annexes to the management agreement:
* Quarterly monitoring indicators, including a clear definition of the indicator and the way
it will be measured and evaluated.
* SEDAPAL investment and financing plan for the period 1994-2000.



- 30 -
Annex 5
SEDAPAL Investment Plan
1.    During project preparation SEDAPAL developed, with Bank assistance, a multiyear
investment plan for 1994-2000. This plan totals US$663.0 million and includes US$306.2 million
for the Bank-fnanced project.
2.    Multiple criteria were used to select investments in SEDAPAL's investment plan. To reduce
water losses and improve service quality in the shortest time, rehabilitation of existing operational
assets has the highest priority. A decision regarding a major transbasin scheme may be postponed
since, according to the water demand forecast, no new major water source is required until after
2003. To increase revenues and reduce waste, the company's commercial base will be rehabilitated
by updating the customer cadastre and installing water meters. Conjunctive use of surface and
groundwater will optimize water resource utilization. Finally, a solution for final sewage disposal
will be implemented after studies are completed to select the best wastewater management
alternative. The Bank-financed project includes those components from SEDAPAL's multiyear
investment plan with the highest economic return. Engineering for final sewage disposal could be
fmanced through the project once the best alternative for wastewater management is selected. Basic
studies to evaluate wastewater management alternatives will be financed through a Japanese Policy
and Human Resources Development (PHRD) grant, already approved by the Peruvian Government.
Table 1
Summary of investment program
(thousands of U.S. dollars)
Subproject                     Total                          Year
Amount percent 1994   195  1996  1997  1998   1999   2000
Bank-financed project     306,247 46    5,087 44,346 74,416 72,307 46,014 40,426  23,651
Investments outside Bank  357,327 54    66,265 76,248 45,194 39,226 32,142 56,358  41,893
Total investment plan, 1994-2000  663,574 100   71,352 120,594 119,610 111,534 78,156 96,784  65,544
I. Investments under the Bank-fmanced project
3.           The water supply and sewerage network in Lima has deteriorated because of
inadequate maintenance resulting mainly from a shortage of funds for spare parts and replacement of
old pipes and appurtenances. Lack of financing has also limited the development of new capital
works and expansion of existing networks, widening the gap between supply and demand-
particularly in periurban areas. A large investment program is needed to restore the system to an
acceptable level of reliability, minimize unaccounted-for water, increase SEDAPAL's revenues, and
prevent water-related diseases, particularly for vulnerable segments of the population.
A. 1 Rehabilitation of the water distribution network (US$52,671,C000)
4.    The water supply system consists of a primary network with a total length of 286 kilometers
and a secondary network of 6,340 kilometers. The system includes 35 pressure reducing stations,
122 pumping stations, 304 reservoirs, and 302 operating wells. The current water supply system has



- 31 -
Annex 5
many problems. Because of the system's age and the lack of maintenance, there are high levels of
leakage in the network and in house connections. Pipes have reduced carrying capacity because of
incrustations. System expansion has not kept pace with the rapid population growth in Lima and the
consequent increase in water demand. This has resulted in undersized distribution mains and low
storage capacity-leading to low pressure and service shortages. These problems are critical in the
districts of Miraflores, Barranco, Chorrillos, Lima Cercado, La Victoria, Brena, Pueblo Libre, and
Callao.
5.    Rehabilitation of the primary network. Rehabilitation of the primary network consists of
cleaning and lining 26 kilometers of cast-iron pipe (11 to 15 inches in diameter) and replacing 13
kilometers of reinforced concrete (Hume) pipe (12 to 24 inches in diameter), including appropriate
appurtenances.
6.    Rehabilitation of the secondary network. This subcomponent includes replacing 39.5
kilometers of thin-wall, cast-iron pipe (4 to 6 inches in diameter), cleaning and lining 524.2
kilometers of cast-iron pipe (4 to 10 inches in diameter), replacing 40.1 kilometers of cast-iron pipe
(4 to 10 inches in diameter), replacing 17.7 kilometers of reinforced concrete (Hume) pipe (4 to 10
inches in diameter), replacing 632 gate valves (4 to 10 in diameter), installing 806 fire hydrants,
and replacing 117,500 house connections.
7.    Rehabilitation of the water storage reservoirs. This subcomponent involves rehabilitating
129 unused storage reservoirs and repairing 156 damaged reservoirs. A complete survey of the
condition of the reservoirs was carried out during project preparation.
8.    Equipment for operation and maintenance. There is an urgent need for equipment for the
operation and maintenance of the existing system. This subcomponent includes equipment such as
tanker trucks, pneumatic compressors, generators, backhoes, and portable leak detectors.
A.2 Rehabilitation of the sewage collection network (US$84,215, 000)
9.    The Lima sewerage network consists of primary collectors with a total length of 400
kilometers and secondary collectors of about 5,900 kilometers. Most sewer pipes in Lima are made
of simple or reinforced concrete. The system is in poor condition. Hydraulic capacity is
inadequate, particularly in older sections of the city. During project preparation, a field survey
indicated that large portions of the network need to be replaced-ranging from 27 percent of the
system in the city center to 85 percent of the system in the Brena district. System problems include
nonfunctional pumping stations, corrosion of pipes caused by industrial waste and hydrogen sulfide,
a large number of blockages because of small pipes, and sedimentation caused by inadequate slopes,
lack of preventive maintenance, and introduction of solid wastes.
10.   RehaiNlitaton of the primary collectors. This subcomponent includes replacing 46.8
kilometers of concrete pipes (14 to 18 inches in diameter), 30.6 kilometers of reinforced concrete
pipes (21 to 42 inches in diameter), and about 770 manholes.
11.   Rehailitation of the secondary network. This subcomponent includes replacing 615.8
kilometers of concrete pipes (8 to 12 inches in diameter), 123,000 house connections, and 12,300
manholes.



-32 -
Annex 5
&,~~~~~~ I Mbesgos-cimeirt sF1"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......... .....
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... .::-i    .,, *  ..i .i , :,,...i 
.00 -00  H -  - .."..._ S.k.k..  ~~                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....... ......
.) -W....f ..,...--^.+. -S..S 4~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~............
S)APALh           g p tA p.                              .w... -
::A:::::AC'::::  .... fli:0.
: 0 C,,0t,,...0..,,                       : i    <: ....t0
ofthe pip Tse aS EPAd cudIi ai -il illbemd w  tlegi2         ye-u Swuu. wabltatio cou
X-j-)-|4--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~      . ............
,nldeA  pipe-4f I rqtest ,. ks,,alwaiv,. Aseso ,.. bee',s- re.-.ze byf,:"' the-mn
* j. 0 :      X      t        :. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....  ....
.  i  . :   X 3 . i  i       .     .:::.   ....   .  j  ... - t-...  jj ........
i'- "'-'ilo.- _f ' ".'t.',in B"'...s,latedi' prc.jecs ( ,E '' .'   .ses-   , -.Esa..t Sowi,k.' ." 99).
Th1a2.s Eqip enth efor c operationatInd metenonce.  qimn to abs    iberov  the opeatio n t wl  aountd.
faintennce ofte seatig ote oallhectinsyse o i inclutde asewerti    cliedandn  equaipmet, sml ruls
.3hehablitti.  of wreeta Psteo Aresouces (U.S$12A Is~e,032,b000)al aotin
prdu. inlanydistrct ACe pipe.d The well was dverclined in Ocetoyear 1   s. Ther basre thre imiatin
healtns frs. dhelnn pipels. wFirstde,i the reuctioan of agiutura arias haseb elosured the airoune o
infiltrtion furomg iprgaed  areas   Secnd, iutheao oveexploitatino grounhdweaterhat  resaiulted inr arpi
decipesougrounductirtales arnd sralinoe intrqusionially,rs many elscreeqiped with tpi anfcumpsA
taaregu s be ondterirg dsestgn  li e ai an  d  nt efunctionWW eficinaly ,Jl  92. The installe  no inalcapaiti
provcuisin mtor prevr secndwhatileo asbestoageproductioni 7.1 uicmtrsprseod
12.   ESurpventfwU.Sres  ilb odce for operatronnad maintenane.lEquipmen  to imrvgeeoeai nerand
dmaintsenaceo theldsewg coletiniyse will deemn heainludeio swrclaigequipmensTeent sresmailltrcs
A.o3pRemaeintationuve of groundwater resources (Us$12i032 une( tetehiclasitac
resos.o declinn yeaieldsi. First,o the reductio of agricultural aurveas thas lumoweedheaont ofl ite
inilraione welom irar eigatednswihlmtditrn areasSeodth oexpition ofepgrandwae hlas rexsuteding aels rapi
9.ocbiecti meters per sncecodahleaeae production      is 7.3t1.  cubic meters   pe second.
14.    Suramey ofo weUs. SUrveys whi sbeconductednfo  850pretoth wells        knownav  tohe  genquaerate
oediminishoe rsligfo eued yields. Thismen will deterivn the rhbltiorequirements. Theeesquystil
complement the suaveyu o2 ecn of gonwtersource desecrAibed under. The technicaln assisaneoprtnad
omardiensinced (hroesutwing fromvrdued yield equipmenta willdn recivenew tequipmeont cadequate
equimen ca  sav  upto  0 prcen oftotl eectrcit cots.To mintin  deqate  pertio  an
maneac,thOrjcOil  rvd   uc   qimn a     edn  mcie  eevso   aea



- 33 -
Annex 5
mobile workshop, and lift-truck. Emphasis will be placed on providing essential operational
equipment, including spare parts.
17.   Groundwater evaluation. This evaluation involved field work testing well conditions and
deep well pumping. These tests were required to refine the rehabilitation work that has been
proposed. In addition, all relevant information on groundwater was analyzed to plan the
development of the Rimac, Lurin, and Chillon basin-including areas in the highlands around Lima
where water resources appear to be underutilized.
B. Water conservation (US$44,221,000)
B. 1 Water metering program (US$24,996,000)
18.   In Lima only 51 percent of water connections are metered, while only 4 percent of the
meters are in working condition. Most of these meters are beyond their design life, and the use of
minimum consumption levels for purposes of billing has resulted in poor maintenance of the water
meters. Using water meters to measure consumption will increase water bills-creating a proper
incentive for efficient water use. To promote effective metering the project will provide for a
cadastre update, the rehabilitation of water meter boxes, and micrometering (to be targeted mainly
at districts characterized as having high consumption levels). The project is designed to install new
meters in 46 percent of the connections by the year 2000. This subcomponent will also finance a
pilot program in the Pueblo Libre district to determine the extent of water wastage in the
distribution network and identify appropriate solutions. To increase the reliability of metering, a
program will be implemented that prevents the total emptying of pipes connected to the main
distribution (La Atarjea-Centro). This program consists of flow-limiting and pressure-reducing
valves that automatically adjust flows and pressures.
B.2 Conjunctive use (US$19,225,000)
19.   Conjunctive use of surface and groundwater will take advantage of the availability of surface
water during the rainy season while allowing the wells to rest (and the aquifer to recharge) during
this period. The areas selected for conjunctive use are San Miguel, Los Olivos, and Callao-areas
where saline intrusion is quickly becoming irreversible or groundwater levels are dropping rapidly.
These three areas are served largely by groundwater. This project component foresees connecting
the distribution network of these areas to the La Atarjea treatment plant, so they will be
alternatively supplied by surface water and groundwater. The project will provide for pipes
(150-800 millimeters), nine reservoirs (2,000 and 16,000 cubic meters), valves, and well
rehabilitation. In addition, the project will reinforce sections of the primary network (35.7
kilometers of pipes with diameters ranging from 800 to 1200 millimeters) to accommodate the flow
from the treatment plant to these areas.
C. Network expansion in the Pueblos Jovenes (US$40,087,000)
20.   This component will install primary networks that extend water supply and wastewater
services to the low-income areas (pueblos jovenes) of Lima. About 800,000 people living in the
pueblos jovenes do not have direct access to water and sanitation services. They have to rely on



- 34 -
Annex S
water supplied by tanker trucks or standpipes connected to SEDAPAL's system. This component
supports network expansion to unserviced areas (302,000 beneficiaries) and system improvement
(276,000 beneficiaries). A detailed description of this component is contained in the project files.
D. Institutional support (US$18, 780,0000)
21.   The institutional strengthening component includes management assistance, detailed
engineering, and construction supervision of the Bank-financed project, modernization of SEDAPAL
to improve its marketing and financial management, assistance to SEDAPAL for effective
implementation of its transformation from a direct provider of services to an administrator of the
concession contract with a private operator, capacity-building for the Superintendency for Sanitary
Services, baseline studies to support the creation of a water basin authority in Lima, and feasibility
studies for the final disposal of wastewater and the Chillon water treatment plant.
II. Investments Outside the Bank-financed Project
22.   Total investment outside the Bank-financed project amounts to US$357 million (including
price and physical contingencies) for 1994-2000. These investments relate mainly to system
expansion.
A. Fixed assets (US$11,964,000)
23.   This component includes office equipment, operation and maintenance equipment, and an
update of the information system. The component also includes funds for constructing new
headquarters and an operational center for SEDAPAL in La Atarjea.
B. Rehabilitation (US$57,329,000).
24.   Water treatment investments include the renovation of ten presettling tanks and six settling
tanks in the La Atarjea plant, the rehabilitation of infiltration galleries to increase their yield from
0.2 to 0.3 cubic meters per second, and a series of works that includes a chemical treatment
building for the regulating tank, roofs for two reservoirs, rehabilitation of the chlorination building
at the La Menacho reservoir, implementation of gauging and telemetry systems, and the
rehabilitation of filter floors. The water supply and wastewater collection network under the
administration of the zonal groups will be expanded and improved. Reinforcement of the Costanero
discharge in the San Miguel district will be completed. Groundwater supplies will be rehabilitated
with pumping equipment and electrical supplies to replace obsolete or failing equipment. Some
wells will be rehabilitated through cleaning or increasing their depth; new wells will also be drilled
near poorly performing wells. This component will also finance the construction of concrete
screens to retard flow and induce infiltration in the Rimac river. Screens will be placed at a depth
of 2 meters at 200-meter intervals.



- 35 -
Annex 5
C. Water conservation (S$10,339,C000)
25.   This component will purchase and install water meters for high-volume consumers and 200
private wells, construct 61 stations for pitometry and macrometers, and build a small plant to
recover about 0.25 cubic meters a second of filter backwash water.
D. Systems expansion (US$271,399,000)
26.    Water treatment (plan 2) will expand design capacity from 15 to 20 cubic meters per
second. Ongoing work for the new regulating tank will be completed, increasing available volume
from 400,000 to 1,200,000 cubic meters. In addition, a new treatment plant of 5 cubic meters per
second will be added to the existing plant-bringing La Atarjea total capacity to 25 cubic meters per
second. A number of works will be undertaken to provide water and sewerage networks to selected
pueblos jovenes (funded through FONAVI). These works include drilling of wells, a pumping
station, a reservoir, water mains, and the secondary network. The demand-based selection of
secondary works will determine the prioritization of the corresponding primary works to be
constructed by SEDAPAL. Under this subcomponent-with cofinancing from Italy-16 wells will be
constructed on the Rimac to supply up to I cubic meter per second of water to the Cono Norte and
Canto Grande districts; four reservoirs will be built and about 10 kilometers of piping will be laid.
The necessary works will be provided for wastewater treatment and disposal of the retained solids at
the preliminary treatment plant in La Chira. In addition, works will be completed for the disposal of
Lima's wastewater through marine outfalls. (Selected alternatives will have to be developed and
designed based on ongoing work at the Ministry of the Presidency.)
E. Studies (US$6,296,000)
27.   SEDAPAL will finae two major studies. The first will be a thorough review of all
available water resources for Lima, including a least-cost ranking of alternatives. The second study
will explore the possibilities of conjunctive use of the aquifers and irrigation channels in Huachipa,
Surco, Ate-Vitarte, and Carapongo to avoid using the Rimac river during the dry season.
Im. Emergency Investments and Institutional Support Prior to Privatization
28.   Up to 20 percent of total project costs can be committed prior to SEDAPAL's privatization,
which is expected to occur in the first half of 1995.
A. Investment program
29.   In the period before privatization, investment in water and sewerage systems will focus
mainly on the rehabilitation of the primary and secondary networks in the districts of Brena, La
Victoria, and Pueblo Libre. Work on the survey of the first set of wells will be carried out and
urgently needed maintenance equipment will be procured. Work on the groundwater modeling
study will be initiated.



- 36 -
Annex S
30.   In the water conservation component, water meters for the first phase of the program will be
purchased and installed at the same time as the meter boxes are rehabilitated. Work on conjunctive
use in the critical areas should be underway; the reinforcement of the main distribution pipes to
supply these critical areas will also be initiated.
31.   It is expected that a number of the pueblos jovenes will solicit financing immediately for
secondary works. This will lead to the identification of a relatively small number of primary works
that can be committed prior to privatization.
B. Institutional support
32.   The institutional support component would concentrate on three main tasks. First,
management consultants should be financed to assist SEDAPAL's project management unit through
project review. Second, individual consultants would assist SEDAPAL during the privatization
process with asset valuation and management, debt management, SEDAPAL's new role and its
relationship with the rest of the water and sanitation sector, and management and administrative
procedures for SEDAPAL after privatization, including personnel and financing policies. Finally,
individual consultants would assist the Superintendency of Sanitary Services in establishing and
formalizing specific regulation mechanisms for the concession model for Lima.



- 37 -
ANNEX 5
PERU
LIMA WATER REHABILITATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
SEDAPAL INVESTMENT PLAN
sumi rttboject                                          Total                                                             - 
US 000      %       1994      1995      1969      1897      1888      1698      2000
I   INVUTMENTS WIT1N THE SANK P0QJ8CT
A   SYSTEbMISMWH UTATION                           14S.016    s9         1.444    16.416    30.038    32A418     .01    38. -1003    14.00
Al  PRd*"elion otf O Wow  ei0bulo. HNtwe*           82.S71    21           432     5.031    10.440    11.714    10.143 -     .02  , .018
A2  R*eIebflwonof *wSwo8a CoiioaNow**A             84.215    33           683     8.727    17.113    17.114    14.78 na0-t4  B.30$
AS  Ouwwt                             -                              l032  11 18  38         1.994        *17     1,.60  --J7         1.017
8   WATX  COtlS  fATIQN                             44.221    16         2.7S7   16.037    18.367      7.138       46*       400
311  Wow 111,01111o tt"qv.n                         24.998    1 0        2.787     8.378   14           3.832A4    43X0
82  Qolrmgstll Ut. In  1ptod D1I1Itk   0            19.22E     3                   0.480     *.8S2     4.205
C   NETWORK EXPANSION IN UR11S JOVIES         -     40.0S7    10     ,             4.18S     6872   :17. 72                  78        7
0   INS1TT1ONAL SUPPORT                             18.780     7           300     3.732     4.712     2.772     2.42?      ,A3       2.422
8RD PFIOJECT BASE COST                        262.00S    100        4.E11    08.372  r2.821    l9.681   3S.72    3t. I.1    1I.098
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES (10%)                   2E.201                4I 3l.837          8.202     6.966     3.887     4.188 -       -0lA
PRICE cwO Nil04c3su (2.4% ANNUAU               28.040                 124     2.137  E.313        6.80      144       1.881117  ,.7--
TOTAL COST                                    308.247               5.0a7    44.340    74.418    72.307    4S.014    4,,-A"     23.61
1  INVESTMENTS OUTSIDE THE BANK PROJECT
A    FIXED ASSETS                                   11,904     3         2,301     4,653     1,022     1.022     1,022     1,022     1.022
B   REHABILITATION                                  67,329    18        16,091     9,384     6,363    10,696     8,934     3,063     3,816
aB   Water Treatment                                 2,997     1         1,297     1.700
B2  Water Network                                   38,162    11         8,777     4,961     4.961     7,632     4,961     3,063     3,916
B3  Sewage Collection Network                          398     0          398
84  Groundwater                                     16,772     4         4,819     2,723     1,392     3,084     3.973
C   WATER CONSERVATION                              10,339     3         2,044     8,296
D   SYSTEMS EXPANSION                              271,399    76        46,430    62,641    36.281    26.623    22,186    52,283    37,065
DI  WaterTreatment                                  36,898    10         S,811    18,987     8.000
D2  Network Expaneron: Water and Sewaeo            168,040    44        36.812    33,665    27,281    20.023    17,186    13,973     3,610
D3  Waetewater Treatment and Dispoae(               77,481    22          706                                    6,000    33,310    33,446
E   STUDIES                                          a,298     2         1.399     1,475     2,37      S85
TOTAL COSTt"                                  357,327    100       86,265    76.248    45,194    39,226    32,142   56,358    41,393
III  TO TAL INVESTM ENT PLAN (19 94- 2 00n0) pric                       71,362     737 1133   1017    4,713    93.260    6l928
1. Include all engirnering and supervision coets, price and techtnical contingencies



- 38 -
PERU                                                ANNEX
LIMA WATER REHABILITATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
DETAILED PROJECT COST
ANNUAL INVESTMENT PLAN
M_                     i4rjc                         Total              ___Y
us$ '00          1994    1996s   1996    1991   IBose   1999    2000o
A   SYSTEMS REHABILITATION                        148,918   59      1,444  15,415  30,039  32,415  26,601  28,103  14,900
Al  WATER NETWORK                                  52,671   21       432   5,031  10,460  11,784  10,143   9,802   5,019
Primary networks                               3,243    1                973   1,94a     324
Secondary Networks
* Miraflores                                   4,042    2                       606   1,011   1,213      808    404
* Barornco                                     1,207    0                        362     845
* Chorilbs                                      676    0                                 676
* Uma Cercedo                                  8,199    3                      1,230   2,050   2,460   1,640    820
* La Victoria                                  3,835    2               384      767   1,151     767     767
* Brana                                        2.882    1       432     865   1,297      288
*Pueblo Ubre                                   1,055    0               317      739
Callao                                       2,418    1                        725   1,209    484
Rlmac                                        2,850    1                                570     713    998    570
Unce                                         2.755    1                                413     827   1.240     276
* Jesus Maria                                  1,140    0                                                570    570
San Isidro                                   4,750    2                               1,188   1,426   1,425    713
Reservoirs                                     1,965    1                        295     393    589      688
Equipment for O&M                              1,653    1                827     827
Other Rehabilitation                          10,000    4              1,667   1,667   1,667   1,667   1,667   1,667
A2  SEWAGE COLLECTION NETWORK                      84,215   33       853   6,727  17,593  19,114  14,778  16,784   8,365
Primary Collectors                             8,681    3              2,170   5,209   1,302
Secondery Networks
* Mlreflores                                   8,929    4                      1,339   2,232   2,679   1,786     893
* Baranco                                      1,965    1                        589   1,375
Chorillos                                    1,412    1                              1,412
* Umr Cercedo                                 10,879    4                      1,632   2,720   3,264   2.176   1,088
* La Victoria                                  8,515    3               851   1,703   2.554   1,703   1,703
* Brens                                        5,689    2       853   1,707   2,560      569
* Pueblo Llbre                                 2,386    1               716   1,670
* Caillo                                       2,509    1                       753   1,254      502
* Rimac                                        5,890    2                              1,178   1,473   2,062   1,178
* Unce                                         6,365    3                                955   1,910   2,864     637
* Jesus Maria                                  5,890    2                                              2,945   2,945
* Sen Isidro                                  10,830    4                              2,708   3,249   3,249   1,825
Equipment for O&M                              4,275    2              1,283   2,138    856
A3  GROUNDWATER                                    12,032    5       158   3,658   1,986   1,517   1,680   1,517   1,517
Survey of Wels                                  480    0         158             158             183
Rehabilitation of wells                        6,322    3              1,012   1,012   1,075   1,076   1,075   1,075
Equipment for wells                            2,600    1               416    416    442    442         442    442
Equipment for O&M                               630    0                630
Groundwater modelling                          2,000    1              1.600    400
B   WATER CONSERVATION                             44,221   18      2,767  15,037  18,397   7,139     480    400
81   WATER METERING PROGRAM                        24,996   10      2,767   6,579  11,835   2,934     480    400
Cadaster                                        840    0        210    630
Rehabilitation of meter boxes                 10,777    4              3,233   4,850   2,694
Mcrometoering                                 11,579    5      2,547   2,316   6,716
Sectoriztlon of the central main               1,600    1               240      240     240    480    400
Pilot Progrom for UFW in P. Libre               200    0          10    160       30
82  CONJUNCTIVE USE IN SELECTED DISTRICTS          19,225    8              8,458   6,562   4,205
Sen Miguel DistrIt                             3,045    1              3.045
Los Olivos District                            5,770    2              1,731   4,039
Caleo District                                 8,410    3              1,682   2,523   4,206
Reinforcement of mains                         2,000    1              2,000



- 39 -
PERU                                                 ANNEX 6
LIMA WATER REHABILITATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
DETAILED PROJECT COST
ANNUAL INVESTMENT PLAN
Item  --bP c -      8       t  -         -     I        Toal -                                                       ':- -
USe '00    %     1994    1995    1960| 1997   t98 | 9    2000
C   NETWORK EXPANSION IN PUEBLOS JOVENES           40,087   1 8              4,188   9,672  17,225   7,469     766      766
NORTH
Puente Pledra IZapallall I - sewerage           2,780    1                              2,780
Puente Pledra 11 - sewerage                     8,953    4                              5,819   3,133
El Carmen iComasl - water                        517    0                 517
El Empleado IS. Martin) - water                  796    0                                 796
Elnaranjal (Los Olivos) - water                 8,218    3                              5,342   2,876
Carabsyllo - water                              1,169    0              1,169
Palso IS. Martin) - water and sewerage           694    0                                         694
EAST
Maria Tegul ISJ Lurigancho)-water                714    0                 714
Viarte - sewage collector                       1,078    0                      1,078
27 de Abril (Vitartnl - water                    531    0                         631
La Merced (Vktarte) - water                      152    0                         152
H. Zevallos (Vltartes - sewerage                1,207    0                      1,207
Tayacaja - water                                1,021    0              1,021
Cerro Candela (Vltarte) - water and sewerage   4,921    2                       3,199   1,722
SOUTH
Vila El Salvador- water                         1,644    1                      1.644
F. Tablada IVM del Triunfol - water             1,095    0                      1,096
Other Expansion                                4,596    2                766     766     766      766     766     766
D    INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT                          18,780    7        300   3,732   4,712   2,772   2.422   2,422   2,422
Project Management Unit                         6,000    2        300   1,200     900     900     900     900      900
Engineering & Supervision                       7,130    3                438     438     438     438     438    438
Strengthening of the Regulatory Body             500    0                 100     200     200
Water Rasources Management                       450    0                 260     200
Financial and Commercial Systems                2,000    1                333     333     333     333      333     333
Studies:
* Feasibility Study for the Chillon Plant      1,200    0                 360     840
* Feasibility study for wagtewater disposal    1,500    1                 300   1,050     16O
IBRD PROJECT BASE COST                       252,006   100      4.511  38.372  62,821  69,551  36,972  31,691  18,086
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                        25,201             451   3,837   6,282   5,955   3,697   3,169   1,809
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                           29,040             124   2,137   6,313   6,800   5,344   5,567   3,754
TOTAL PROJECT COST                            306,247           5,087  44,346  74,416  72,307  46,014  40,426  23,661



- 40 -
PERU                                                  ANNEX 6
LIMA WATER REHABILITATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
DETAILED PROJECT COST
PROCUREMENT CATEGORY
Item                    i                                 Total                             Inwneatme         1_ __F
US$ '000    %      Works    9%        Goods      '    Cons      ___im
A    SYSTEMS REHABILITATION                          148,918   59      137,280    92        9,158    6         2,480    2
Al  WATER NETWORK                                     52,671   21       51,018    34        1,653     1
Primary networks                                  3,243    1        3,243    2
Secondary Networks
Mirafiores                                       4,042    2       4.042    3
Barrnco                                          1,207    0       1,207    1
Chorios                                           676    0          676    0
Urna Cercado                                     8,199    3       8,199    6
La Victoria                                      3,835    2       3,835    3
Br ns                                            2,882    1       2,882    2
Pueblo Ubre                                      1,055    0        1,055     1
* CaIao                                           2,418    1        2,418    2
Rimac                                            2,850    1       2,850    2
Unce                                             2,755    1       2,755    2
Jesus Maria                                      1,140    0       1,140     1
* Son sidro                                       4,750    2        4,750    3
Reservoirs                                        1,965    1        1,965     1
Equipment for O&M                                 1,653    1                           1,653    1
Other Rehabilitation                             10,000    4       10,000    7
A2  SEWAGE COLLECTION NETWORK                         84,215   33      79,940     54       4,275      3
Prlmnry Colectors                                 8,681    3        8,681    10
Secondary Networks
*Mirattoras                                       8,929    4        8,929    11
Brarranco                                         1,965    1        1,965    2
Chorillor                                        1,412    1       1.412    2
Lrma Cercado                                    10,879    4      10,879    13
* La Victoris                                     8,516    3        8,515    10
Bmna                                             5,689    2       5.689    7
Pueblo Libre                                    2,386    1       2,386    3
Callao                                           2,509    1       2,509    3
* Rimac                                           5,890    2        5,890    7
Unce                                            6,365    3        6,365    8
Jesus Maria                                      5,890    2       5,890    7
* San Isidro                                     10,830    4       10,830    13
Equlpment for O&M                                 4,275    2                           4,275    3
A3  GROUNDWATER                                       12,032    5       8,322      4       3,230      2       2,480     2
Survey of Wells                                     480    0                                               480    0
Rehabillation of wails                            6,322    3        6.322    4
Equipment for wells                               2,600    1                           2,600    2
Equipment for O&M                                   630    0                            630    0
Groundwater modelling                             2,000    1                                              2,000    1
B    WATER CONSERVATION                               4,221    18      30,002     68      11,579     26       2,840     a
Bi  WATER METERING PROGRAM                            24,996   10      10,777     24      11,579     26       2,640     a
Cadawtor                                            840    0                                               840    2
Rehabilitaton of metr boxes                      10,777    4       10.777    24
Micromteritng                                    11,579    5                          11,679    26
Soctorizatlon of the central main                 1,600    1                                              1.600    4
Pilot Program for UFW In P. Libre                   200    0                                               200    0
82  CONJUNCTIVE USE IN SELECTED DISTRICTS             19,225    8      19,225    43
San Migual District                               3,045    1        3,045    7
Los Olivor District                               5,770    2        5,770    13
Callo District                                    8,410    3        8,410    19
Reinforcement of mains                            2,000    1        2,000    5



- 41 -
PERU                                                    ANNEX
LIMA WATER REHABILITATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
DETAILED PROJECT COST
PROCUREMENT CATEGORY
Item                   8ub-Project                         Total               |               Investniment   _         -_|
US* '000    96     Wotk %ks           Goods       %    Cona   -___
C    NETWORK EXPANSION IN PUEBLOS JOVENES               40.087    16      3549 1     89
NORTH
Puente Pledra IZapallel) I - sewerage               2.780    1        2.780    7
Puente Piedra II - sewerage                         8.953    4        8,953    22
El Carman (Comar) - water                             517    0          617     1
El Emplado (S. Martin) - water                        796    0          796     2
Elnaranjal lLoas Oliva) - water                     8.218    3        8.218    21
Carabayllo - water                                  1.169    0        1.169     3
Palso IS. Martini - water and sewerage                694    0          694     2
EAST
Maria Tegui ISJ Lurigancho)-water                     714    0          714     2
Vitarte - sewage collector                          1.078    0        1.078     3
27 do Abril lVitarte) - water                        531    0           531     1
La Morced Viterte) - water                            152    0          152    0
H. Zovallo. (Vitarte) - sewerage                    1.207    0        1.207     3
Tayacaja - water                                    1.021    0        1,021     3
Cerro Candela (Vitarte) - water and sewerage        4.921    2        4.921    12
Vila El Salvador - water                            1,644    1        1.644     4
F. Tablada (VM del Triunfol - water                 1,095    0        1.095     3
Other Expansion                                     4.596    2       4.596      11
D    INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT                              18.780    7                                              18.780    100
Project Management Unit                             6.000    2                                               8,000    32
Engineering & Supervision                           7.130    3                                               7.130    38
Strengthening of the Regulatory Body                  500    0                                                 500     3
Water Resources Management                            450    0                                                 450     2
Financial and Commercial Systems                    2.000    1                                               2.000    11
Studies:
Feasibility Study for the Chillon Plant           1.200    0                                               1.200     6
Feasibility study for wastewater disposal         1.500    1                                               1.S00     8
IBRD PROJECT BASE COST                            252.006   100    202.773    80        20.737      8       23.900    9
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                             25 201
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                                29,040
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                306. 247



- 42 -
ANNEX 6
PERU
UMA WATER REHABIUTATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
DETAILED PROJECT COST
SOURCES OF FINANCING
__                   :a ME-  #u.A*.      E...t .0ni4tM' : '1"-'" ""-0":
A   WYSTEMS REHA3ILUTATION                       148,918    59    S ,126    53,039    49,754
Al WATER NETWORK                                 52,071    21       18,918    10,343    17,410
A2 SEWAGE COLLECTION NETWORK                     84,215    33       23,598    30,696    23,921
A3 GROUNDWATER                                   12,032    5         3,610               8,422
8   WATER CONSERVATION                           4,22       18       11,771     0,308    26,142
81 WATER METERING PROGRAM                       24,990    10         0,749              18,247
82 CONJUNCTIVE USE IN SELECTED DISTRICTS         19,225    8         6,023     0,308     7,895
C   NETWORK EXPANSION IN PUEBLOS JOVENES         40.037    16        13.761              26.320
_
D   INTITUTIONAL SUPPORT                          19,730    7           645     1.930    16,199
IB1D PROJECT BASE COST                      252,006   100       72.304    61.292   118,421
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                       26,201              3,590     6,834    14,527
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                          29,040              4,215     8,022    17,053
TOTAL PROJECT COST                          306,247             80,109    76,139   150,000



- 43 -
Annex 7
Technical Assistance
The project contains various technical assistance components that will improve SEDAPAL's ability
to effectively manage the water and sanitation sector. Funding will cover management issues,
institutional capacity, and sector knowledge.
A. Project management unit (US$6,000,000)
1.    For details about technical assistance regarding the project management unit, refer to Annex
14.
B. Engineering and supervision (US$7,130,000)
2.    This subcomponent covers all consultant expenses relating to the development of detailed
engineering designs, preparation of tender documents, and field supervision of contractors. Water
supply and sewerage rehabilitation in selected aistricts will be bid in packages for the entire district
to minimize disruptions by the larger rehabilitation program (Annex 13). This packaging of bidding
will permit more efficient use of resources and economies of scale-minimizing construction costs-
and simplify coordination with municipal authorities and other public utilities. There are many
qualified local consultants that could conduct field engineering, supervise physical execution, and
assess quality control in each district.
C. Strengthening the regulatory body (US$500,000)
3.    The Superintendency of Sanitary Services will be assisted through the project with financing
for the design and initial implementation of a system of basic sector indicators. The restructured
SEDAPAL will have primary responsibility for monitoring the concession contract and ensuring
compliance with its terms. The Superintendency of Sanitary Services will help resolve any disputes
and convey lessons of the concession to the rest of the country. This technical assistance component
will be aimed at the Superintendency's wider sector responsibilities. The Superintendency will be
encouraged to limit its information collection to a small number of easily produced and analyzed
indicators-enabling it to track sector performance and provide feedback to operators and consumers
on a timely basis. This component includes short-term consultancies, computers, and training. It
will enable the Bank to maintain close working relations with the Superintendency while a broader
sector operation is prepared.
D. Water resources management authority (US$450,000)
4.    The Government of Peru is considering legislation that would establish a water-use rights
system recognizing historical use and the availability of water within a hydrological basin. This
legislation incorporates well-defined water rights that are tradable in a market-based system and will
improve the efficiency of water use and distribution in the longer term. The equity of the initial
allocation process for water-use rights will be as important as the establishment of a strong
regulatory system to ensure the long-term integrity and registration of these rights. The government
has also introduced legislation to strengthen water user organizations, giving them legal rights and
responsibilities. Water user organizations are entitled to collect tariffs, implement operation and



- 44 -
Annex 7
maintenance plans, administer organization funds, incur indebtedness, and contract services and
construction.
5.    This subcomponent will finance consultants, equipment, and training in three key activities:
supporting the water user organization for the Rimac river basin (including the Lurin and Chillon
rivers), assisting the Ministry of Agriculture, INRENA, and the water user organization of the
Rimac basin in the initial allocation of water-use rights, and partial support for preparation of the
proposed Wastewater Management and Coastal Pollution Control project. This project's preparation
will be financed mainly by a Japanese Policy and Human Resources Development (PHRD) grant of
US$1.2 million, under Bank administration. A project preparation unit has been appointed by the
Ministry of the Presidency, and the French government and the World Meteorological Organization
have offered to finance consultants to prepare this project. Donations should formalize once the
project preparation unit is fully operational.
E. Modernizing SEDAPAL: Commercialization and financial management (US$2,000,000)
6.    Since 1992 SEDAPAL has undergone a drastic restructuring. The privatization strategy
requires SEDAPAL to be further transformed from a public provider of services to the administrator
of a concession contract and other complimentary functions. If privatization is unsuccessful,
SEDAPAL will continue as a public sector-operated utility. In this scenario, SEDAPAL should
continue its restructuring within the framework provided by the new sector law. The project will
support improvement of financial management and modernization of commercial operations.
Developing a solid financial management function is essential to performing with the independence
allowed for in the new sector law. Improvements in commercial practices, the customer cadastre,
billing, and consumer relations should be improved to fully exploit the potential for increased
revenue.
F. Studies
7.    Sectorization of the central main (US$1,600,000). The continued physical deterioration of
the water supply network combined with diminishing flows and increased consumption has resulted
in intermittent water supply in Lima. Managing this intermittent supply according to a
predetermined schedule is complicated because of the difficulties of isolating service areas with
appropriate appurtenances and derivations.
8.    This study will determine which districts should be supplied by the main distribution line of
La Atarjea-Centro with flow-limiting and pressure-reducing valves. This effort will automatically
adjust the flows and pressures in the various districts and prevent the total emptying of the pipes.
9.    To meet the objective of simplified, equitable, and automated water distribution, this study
will:
*  Conduct the necessary testing and suggest a constant production regime in La Atarjea based
on available seasonal flows. This will guarantee a stable supply of water in the network at a
predetermined schedule.
*  Define distribution sectors in the network, preferably with one derivation line from the main
network and eliminating the crossing of pressure zones.



- 45 -
Annex 7
* Purchase and install pressure reducing valves operated by telemetry in the above derivation
points.
* Propose a program of rationing with minimum or normal pressures to avoid the complete
emptying of networks during off-hours.
10.          Groundwater modeling (US$2,000,000). The overexploitation of groundwater and
the deterioration of groundwater quality require a review and update of available information on
groundwater resources. The need for future water resources brought about by an increasing
population requires investigation of possible resources and an optimization of water resource
management for the basins.
11.          This study will review all relevant information on groundwater to plan the
development and exploitation of groundwater in the Rimac, Lurin, and Chillon basins-including
areas in the highlands where water resources seem to be underutilized.
12.          During 1969-72 the Ministry of Agriculture carried out an extensive study of
groundwater resources in the Lima metropolitan area that covered the area from Cordillera Andina
to the sea. The study included a review of existing data, a compilation of functioning wells,
observation of water table movements, geophysical tests, and mathematical modeling that resulted in
a program for groundwater exploitation. In the years since no study of comparable magnitude has
been conducted, except for a recent limited modeling by Binnie & Partners.
13.   The proposed study includes:
e  Analysis and revision of the existing information, including all studies completed or under
completion.
*  Hydrogeological studies using field information, satellite images, and other sources.
*  A complete inventory of all available resources, including sampling for chemical and isotope
analyses. This inventory will be used to prepare maps that indicate the sources, productivity,
potential, quality, vulnerability, and typology of groundwater resources.
*  Preparation of a complete map of soil use in the area.
*  Hydrological and hydroclimatological studies to determine the hydraulic balance of the
basins.
*  An estimation of the water demand for irrigation, domestic use, and other uses.
*  An inventory of all pollution sources.
*  Models to project the safe yield of the aquifers.
14.   Pilot program for unaccounted-for water in Pueblo Libre (US$200,000). The water shortage
in Lima in recent years has necessitated rationing in almost all parts of the city. The rationing
program includes progressive restrictions that create a total emptying of the pipes, making it
impossible to develop an unaccounted-for-water reduction program. Although it is widely known
that the levels of unaccounted-for-water in the water supply network are high, no systematic
evaluation has been carried out because of the intermittent supply.
15.   This study will seek understanding of the extent of wasted water in the distribution network
and house connections and identify the required solutions. To achieve these objectives, the following
activities need to be undertaken in an isolated area of the Pueblo Libre district:



- 46 -
Annex 7
*  Identification and isolation of a well-defined sector in Pueblo Libre;
*  Purchase and installation of two electrically operated pressure reducing valves at main
derivations from primary networks;
*  Purchase and installation of two macrometers;
*  Purchase and installation of 1,062 water meters; and
*  Monitoring of water flows and determination of water balance.
On the basis of the metering, solutions should be proposed to control unaccounted-for water.
16.   Feasibility study for the Chillon plant (US$1,200,000). To provide an additional source of
water supply for Lima, many studies have suggested constructing a treatment plant using the Chillon
river to supply the northern part of Lima. A number of technical and economic aspects need to be
studied for this proposal, particularly in regard to other alternatives (SEDAPAL is evaluating other
options for additional water supply). This study would determine the feasibility of a treatment plant
and associated works for the safe exploitation of the Chillon river.
17.    Feasibility study for wastewater disposal (US$1,500,000). With the exception of a few small
treatment plants, Lima's wastewater is discharged into the sea with almost no treatment. An
initiative is underway in the Ministry of the Presidency to prepare a prefeasibility study for the safe
final disposal of all wastewater. This subcomponent will finance the preparation of the terms of
reference and the execution of a feasibility study for the solutions that will be proposed in the
prefeasibility study.



- 47 -
Annex 8
Water Demand in Metropolitan Lima
1.    Despite rationing, water consumption is high in the Lima metropolitan area. In September
1993, SEDAPAL customers used on average 169 liters per capita per day, compared with 236 liters
per capita per day in 1987'. Increased rationing is the major reason for this sharp decline in
consumption. Water demand projections are based on the estimated population growth in the
service area, SEDAPAL's planned increase in coverage, and the trend in per capita domestic
consumption.2 Consumption depends on many variables, including the evolution of real water
rates and household income, the impact of rationing, and the effect of widespread installation of
water meters.
A. Population forecasts
2.     According to census data from 1993, the population of the Lima metropolitan area is 6.4
million. Except for some districts in outlying areas, SEDAPAL's service area covers the entire
metropolitan area. The population growth rate is expected to decline to 2.5 percent a year until
2005-mainly because of an expected decline in immigration. The population in the metropolitan
area will therefore be 8.7 million in 2005. About 79 percent of the population in Lima has direct
access to piped water. The remainder use either water supplied through standpipes or group taps
(6.8 percent), vendor water (7.1 percent) or other sources (7.1 percent). The project assumes that
expansion of the water supply network in the pueblos jovenes will increase direct access to the piped
water system to 90 percent of the population by 2005.
B. Water demand forecasts
3.    Domestic water consumption. Domestic water consumption declined rapidly between 1987
and 1993. In September 1993 the average daily consumption per residential connection was 169
liters per capita per day. In 1987 the average per capita domestic water consumption was 236 liters
per day. This period was characterized by a sharp drop in household incomes and production
capacity shortages. Since 1989 real water rates have been rising, though the impact of increasing
rates on water consumption appears rather small. Only 4 percent of connections are currently
effectively metered and billed. The majority of households are charged a flat rate instead of
progressive block rates. The flat rate structure does not offer users any incentive to use water
efficiently-there is no relationship between price and consumption.
4.     Within Lima there are large differences in per capita domestic water consumption. These
differences are partly due to the impact of rationing levels, which differ for each district. Income
differentials also explain the differences. Water demand forecasts are based on a district-by-district
analysis of water consumption patterns. In the attachment to this annex, daily per capita domestic
water consumption, population coverage, and total water demand forecasts are presented for
1993-2005.
1. These data are not entirely comparable because of the impact of seasonality on water consumption. Data from 1993 capture
the full impact of the dry season, when rationing is important. The 1987 data are from June, when the impact of the dry eaon
is less important.
2. In this section, water demand is equal to water consumption combined with physical losses.



- 48 -
Annex 8
5.     The main variable in forecasting water demand is the change in per capita domestic water
consumption. Consumption depends on, among other things, changes in real water rates and
household income, the impact of the installation of water meters, and the effect of rationing. Most
SEDAPAL customers have problems with water supply either because of the lack of pressure in the
system or because of insufficient hours of service delivery. According to recent studies from Black
and Veatch e.o., adjusting water consumption for the impact of rationing could increase per capita
consumption by 36 percent.3 Thus, without rationing and excluding seasonability in the demand
forecast, it is assumed that customers would have used 236 liters per capita per day.
6.     Water rates are an important factor in forecasting water demand. Since 1989 real water rates
have increased rapidly-to US$0.28 per cubic meter in May 1994. To guarantee financial viability
in the near future, the real average water tariff should be increased gradually-to $0.37 per cubic
meter by 19974. No real rate increases are foreseen after 1997 in this base-case scenario. The
Water and Sanitation Services Law specifies a tariff-setting methodology using full cost recovery
based on the economic costs of water supply and sewerage. The consequences of the use of cost
recovery principles on water demand is discussed in detail in the sensitivity analysis.
7.     The impact of real rate increases depends on the value of the price elasticity of demand. No
price elasticity studies have been conducted in Lima. Based on the results of recent studies in other
parts of Peru and Latin America, it has been assumed that the average price elasticity is -0.30.
Price elasticity varies among different income groups. For districts dominated by high-income
groups, a price elasticity averaging -0.15 has been assumed. For middle- and low-income districts,
the price elasticity averaged about -0.30 and -0.40, respectively. The value of the price elasticity
usually can be applied only for a specific interval. Nonetheless, this elasticity will be used for the
total period since there is insufficient information to predict changes in the demand function. Also,
no real price increases are foreseen after 1997, so the price elasticity will lose its importance
thereafter. The price elasticity for households with an unmetered connection is assumed to be zero,
since these households cannot react to price increases by decreasing their consumption.
8.     One of the major goals of the proposed project is inducing water conservation. The
installation of water meters will encourage water conservation, particularly since the program is
targeted at districts characterized by high water use. The use of water meters has an impact similar
to that of a real rate increase. Instead of paying the minimum consumption level, users pay for
actual consumption. Based on assumptions on the rate category to be applied, water rates will
increase substantially. This increase results in a significant decline of demand when an average
price elasticity of -0.30 is assumed.
9.     Domestic water consumption forecasts take 1987 water consumption levels as a starting
point for calculations (section 5 of this Annex). Per capita domestic water consumption will decline
from 236 liters a day in 1994 to 188 liters a day in 2005 (graph 1). In view of the expected
increase in coverage, domestic water consumption will increase to 17 cubic meters per second by 2005.
3. Black and Veatch International, Binnie and Partners, and Inforrnation for Investment Decisions Inc. March 1994. i?fornm
sobre la Estirnacion de la Demanda Futura de Agua Potable para Limna Metropolitana. Lima.
4. In the base-case scenario, no real rate increases are foreseen after 1997. But it is assumed that nominal rates will be adjusted
annually for the impact of inflation throughout the project.



- 49 -
Annex 8
GRAPH  1:  DOMESTIC  WATER  CONSUMPTION
In lIt rs tor cwDlta per day
240
230
220 -
210
200
190
180  1993 |        1997 I 1999 I 2001  | 2003 | 2005
1994   1998   199-   2000   2002   2004
10.   Non-domestic consumption. In Lima non-domestic water consumers use both piped water
and groundwater. Private groundwater resources amounted to 2.9 cubic meters per second in 1993.
Most private wells are thought to be used by non-domestic users. Together with the non-domestic
use supplied by SEDAPAL, total non-domestic consumption was 7.1 cubic meters per second in
1993. Future non-domestic piped water consumption will be determined by, among other things,
industrial production, the type of industries located in Lima and their water needs, quality of supply,
and the price of piped water and its alternatives. Most large industries use groundwater. These
industries can afford the investments required to use groundwater since they encounter economies of
scale. For small-scale industries, piped water is the most viable alternative. Their water use depends
on production levels, which are supposed to increase with population growth. It is assumed that
large industries will continue to use groundwater sources, so the costs of groundwater pollution and
the decline of groundwater tables will not change the relative price of groundwater in favor of piped
water. On the basis of these assumptions, non-domestic water consumption supplied by SEDAPAL
will increase to 5.4 cubic meters per second in 2005.
11.    Total water demand. Total water demand is presented in graph 2. Assuming that only a
small real rate increase occurs, total demand will increase to nearly 32 cubic meters per second in
2005. Water demand accounts for about 23 cubic meter per second of this total-the rest is caused
by physical losses. Although the rehabilitation component will aim at reducing these losses, its
scope is too small to cause a significant decline in physical losses. In the project scenario, water
losses will decrease from almost 31 percent of total production in 1993 to 29 percent in 2005.
Thus, production capacity will have to be expanded substantially to satisfy demand.



- 50 -
Annex 8
12.    Production capacity will increase from 20.5 cubic meters per second in 1993 to nearly 32
cubic meters per second in 2005. However, this capacity will not always be sufficient to satisfy
water demand. The actual demand that can be satisfied will be lower because of production
capacity shortages that will be addressed only in 1997 (graph 2). Because of the rapid network
expansion, SEDAPAL will be confronted with production constraints again after 2003. Further
price increases after 1997 would result in lower water demand-reducing the need for rationing
afterwards.
GRAPH  2:  WATER  DEMAND  IN  LIMA
In lItwrs owr second
33
32-
31 
30-
29-
rN29
27
2 20
25
24
23-
22-
21-
201993 j 1995 119b7 I19,99   2001 2  I 2003 J200D5
19     1996   11e    200    20102   2004
a wIthout rationing  + with rationing
13.    Sensitivity anatysis. In the sensitivity analysis the impact of a number of key variables has
been tested. These variables concern the effect of the installation of water meters, the impact of
changes in the price elasticity value, and the impact of real rate increases according to the full cost
recovery principles detailed in the sector law.
14.    One of the most important variables affecting demand is the real water rate. It has been
proposed to use the long-run average incremental cost as a reference for tariffs. The marginal cost
pricing analysis shows that the proposed investment schedule will result in a long-run average
incremental cost of US$0.45 per cubic meter consumed (Annex 10). Long-run average incremental
costs are thus considerably higher than the current average water rate of US$0.28 per cubic meter.
A real rate increase to US$0.37 per cubic meter has been assumed in the base-case scenario-full
cost recovery will require a further increase of real water rates of about 20 percent. It is assumed
this increase will be implemented between 1997 and 2005. It is also presumed that tariff increases
will be equal for all user groups. If SEDAPAL charged according to cost recovery principles,
water demand would be about 3 percent lower than in the proposed investment scenario. The



- 51 -
Annex 8
impact of a further real rate increase is limited, since water meters will be installed only in about
half the households with a connection.
15.   The value of the price elasticity affects the impact of both the installation of water meters
and real rate increases. In the base-case scenario, price elasticity was set at -0.30. If the average
price elasticity is equal to zero, production requirements are about 14 percent higher than in the
base-case scenario. The impact of the installation of water meters is substantial. The proposed water
meter program will cover about 50 percent of the total number of domestic connections. Based on
these assumptions, production requirements will be 32 cubic meters per second in 2005. If no water
meters are installed, production requirements would be 16 percent higher than in the proposed
project. If all domestic connections were metered by 2000, water production requirements would be
12 percent lower. The change in production requirements results from the project's installation of
water meters in districts characterized by high-volume use. A second phase in which the remaining
customers receive water meters will include the majority of lower-volume users.
C. Sewerage projections
16.   The projected amount of sewage collected each year depends on the number of sewerage
connections and the annual volume of sewage produced per connection. The coverage of sewerage
collection and treatment is expected to increase from 75 percent in 1993 to 90 percent in 2005. The
annual volume of sewage produced per connection is estimated at 85 percent of the total volume of
water consumed. This increases the amount of sewage collected to about 19 cubic meters per
second in 2005 (graph 3).
GRAPH 3: SEWAGE DEMAND IN LIMA
In I Iter per mcoold
19
1 99    tSS    tS9       2000   213
O without rattoning 4. with r ttoning



ANNEX 8
PERU
LIMA WATER REHABILITATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PER CAPITA DOMESTIC WATER CONSUMPTION (IN LITERS PER CAPITA PER DAY)
WITH PROJECT SCENARIO
1993 - 2005
DSrICTS                   IIETERJG01I  Epric621 REHAB 3             1093            1994          1905          196            1907          1              19o9           2000           2001          2002           2003           2004           2005
Ccls                                                                 147            147            147           147            147          147             147            147            147           147            147            147            147
S.M.P                         YES           -040                      172            172            172           172            123          119             116            116            116           116            116            116            116
Los Ovos                                                              172            172            172          172            172           172            172             172            172           172           172             172            172
Rimoc                        YES            -040    YES              229            229            229           229            177           172            167             167            167           167           167             167            167
6Idepwideiian                                                         172            172           172           172            172           172            172             172            172           172           172             172            172
Cara~oynIo                                                            174            174            174          174             174          174             174            174            174           174           174             174            174
Pueft Poedr                                                           187            187            187          187             187          187             187            187            187           187            187            167            187
NRH
SanJunLuisg.                                                          195            195            195           196            195          196             195            195            195           196            195            196            195
Abele                                                                 244            24            244           244            24            244            24              244            244           24            24              244            24
B AAnoIm                                                              167            167           167           167             167          167             167            167            167           167           167             167            167
Swrt Arjb                                                             168            168            168           168            168          168             168            168            168           168            168            168            168
Liz1xd,                                                              211             211           211           211            211           211            211             211            211           211           211             211            211
La M*                         YES           -013                      560            560           560           560            443           439            435             435            435           435           435             435            435
Son Lis                       YES           -0 33                     239            239           239            187            182          178             174            174            174           174            174            174            174
SLn iht   InoS_                                                       158            158            158           158            158           158            158            158            158           158            158            158            168
V aim Ltms                                                       121            121            130           140            150           180            150            150             150          150            150             150            150
U S6vodor                                                             108            108            120           130            150          150             150            150            150           150            150            150            150
LLrin                                                                 105            105            106           105            10S           105            105            105            105           105            105            105            105
P      KCmc                                                           159            159            159          159             159          159             159            159            159           159            159            159            159
YES           -0.30    YES              243            243            243          243             189          18              18             181            181           l18            181            181            181
SXode  oO                     YES           -0.19                    405             405           405           320            315           311            306             306            306           306           306             306            306
Son Bo                        YES           -0.20                    369             369           369           365            359           353            348             348            348           348           348             348            348
Su"Ao                         YES           -0.30                     234            234            192           189            184          180             176            176            176           176            176            176            176
ofahre                       YES            -0.15    YES             567             567           344           341            337           333            330             330            330          330            330             330            330
Lice                         YES            -0.30    YES             324            324            324            148            142          139             136            136            136           136            136            136            136
SW dh                         YES           -0.12    YES              465            465           369           367            363           360            357             357            357           357           357             357            357
Bwu~c                        YES            -0.19    YES             307            307            303           210            207           204            201            201            201           201            201            201             201
thuCAIrcado                  YES            -0.25    YES             372             372           372           140             137          136             132            132            132           133            132            132            132
La Mckrim                    YES            -0.30    YES              231            231           231           231             192          167             163            183            183           183            183            183            183
son                           YES           -0.30                     235            235           235            193           188           184             180            180            1so           180            180            180            180
elm                          YES            -0.37    YES             261            261            261            179            173          169             164            164            164           164            164            164            164
PU"  LbU                     YES            -0.28    YES             272            272            272           201             196          192             188            188            188           188            188            188            188
mae                     YES           -0.37    YES              264            264           264            181            175           170            166            166            156           166            166            166            166
YES           -0.25                     325            325            325           176            172           169            166            166            166           166            166            166            166
YES           -0.40  YES                243            243            243           243            175           170            165            16s            165           16s            165            165            165
B    db~4n~                  YES            -0.30                     231            231            231          231             192          187             1u3            183            183           183            183            183            183
La Par                       YES            -0.41                     254            254           254           254             172          167             162            162            162           162            162            162            162
.de sLA                     YES            -025                     252            252            252           252            124           122            120            120            120           120            120            120             120
LPuts                        YES            -0.19                    312            312            312           312            215           211            209            209             209          209            209            209             209
1/ Dk*tdt in oodi   m_ts   ow  be h
21 Prce odty of dsld bond on Ihcme Wv
31 lld    ds pid cvAI       in to rehdItdon o waw sniaw sMwo ap noorka          .
Sauce:
W4sbrlo do I PraordalSED3APAL, EcApo de Propwadon Pryoclo BIRF. Proyncdoros de Poobdon y Dewnmo. LhUr, Mwrh 1994.



ANNEX 8
PERU
LIMA WATER REHABILITATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
POPULATION COVERED BY DIRECT PIPED WATER SUPPLY
WITH PROJECT SCENARIO
1993 -2005
DISTRICTS           METING  It REHM 21        19S6 94                1           199         1997        199         1s9         2000         2001        2002        2003        2004         2005
Comas                                      345,113    354,884     3738655      397,556    427.059      447,186    458.507      479,713     482,014      493.613    505,490      517,654      530,110
S.M P                   YES                367,059    379.288     393,986      409,244    425,080      439,805    455,028      470,765     487,034      503,736    520,996      538,835      554.498
Los Olivos                                 192,907    204,024     220,513      237,875    250,975      266,320    274,125      282,159     290,248      298.871    307,558      316,498     325,698
Rimac                   YES       YES      175,241    179,519     184,924      190,486    196,208      202,097    208,156      214,391     220,807      227,407    234,198      241,186     247,074
Independencia                              159,748    165,070     171,573      178,325    185,649      191,872    198,830      205,820     212,849      220,273    227,950      235,883     242,744
Carabrayallo                                87,228     90,071      93,828       97,320    101,153      104,739    108,449      112.285      116,251     120,308     124,499     128,833      132,483
PuentePiedra                                28,849     35,772      49,285       63,858     78,935       96,854    100,355      104,731     109,277      113,973    117.287      120,695      124,204
1H                ________  _______  1.350.144  1,408,608    1,487,563    1,574,454   1,885,058    1,748,874  11,803,250    1,869,663    1,918,481    1,978,180   2,037,978    2,099,584    2,156,811
San Juan Lung.                             408,668    434,043     473,087      501,360    530,973      546,230    575,973      606,975     639,283      672,682    707,460      727,503      748,114
Ata-Vitarte                                162,310    181,694     216,631      253,694    277,565      288,874    297,341      306,056     318,487      318,545     313,038     350,848      364,930
ElAugustino                                 95368     98,438     104,990      111,863    119,070      126,158    133,552      141,263     149,305      155,549     159,892     164,357      168,946
SantaAnita                                 101,247    104,504     110,404      116,576    123,030      129,300    135,827      139,679     143,841      147,652     151,775     156,013      160,369
Lungancho                                    5,239      5,414      11,186       23,122     35.838       49,184     62,782       78,164      87160        96593      99,401      102,290      105,263
La Molina               YES                 78,443     79,896      81,375       82,882     84,416       85,860     87,329       88,823      90342        91,587     92,850       94.129       95,427
San Luis                YES                 49,085     50,475      51,904       53,373     54,884       56,438     58,036       59,679      61,369       63,107      64,893      66,731       68,620
EASr                                       90D,361    9s4482    1,049,578    1,142,869   1,225,775    1,282,043   1,350,839    1,420,640    1,489,587    1,545,714   1,589,309    1,661,870    1,711,666
San Juan Miraftores                         200,320    206.994    220,000      233,645    247,954      261,937     276,526     291,747      307,621     324,100     341,278     359,179      369,6Q0
Villa Mana                                  188,293    200,046    212,367      228,227    235,831      242,742     256,263     263,774      271,504     282.888     291,112     303,272      312.088
Villa Salvador                             233,525    244,153     257,728      275,175    284,343      292,675    301,253      310,082     319,170      328,105     337,995     347,820      357,931
Lurin                                       12,136     12,541      12,958       15,822     18,448       21,362     24,431       27,662      31,061       34,827     38,375       42,312       43,542
Pachacamac                                   4,645      4,800       4,960        5,125      6,60         8,177      9,820       11,551      13,376       15,294      17,312      19,435       21.666
8D _i1                                     6389t9    88,533       708,014      757,794    793,195      826,894    868,293      904,815     942,732      985,01t   1,t26,072    1,072,018    1,104,847
Chorrilbs               YES        YES      121,222    125,260     136,246     145,477    155,072      164,712     174,877     185,084      195,952     207,250     219,038     231,336      244,166
Santiagode Surco        YES                202,426    210,364     218,612      227,184    238,000      245,200    254,850      264,760     275,200      286,050     297,277     308.900      321.156
San Boa                 YES                 98,791    101,633     1D4,559      107,566    110,661      113,845    117,120      120,490     123,957      127,524     131,193     134,967      138,851            Lii
Sunquillo               YES                 90,054     92,806      98,842       98,565    101.578      104,682    107,881      111,178     114,576      118,078     121,686     125,405      129,238
Miraflores              YES       YES       86,778     86.761      86.744       86,727     86,710       86,693     86,676       86,659      86,642       86,625     86,608       86,591       86,574
Unce                    YES       YES       63,119     62,599      62,082       61,570     61,063       60,559     60,060       59,565      59,073       58,586     58,103       57,624       57,149
San Isidro              YES       YES       61,785     81,276      60,770       60,269     59,773       59,280     58,791       58,306      57,826       57,349      56,876      56,407       55,942
Bananco                 YES       YES       40,688     40,688      40,680       40,672     40,664       40,564     40,844       40,634      40,624       40,616     40,609       40,601       40,593
WEST                                       7U4883    781,357      808,335      828,D30    851,521      875,535    900,69M      926.676     953,850      982,078   1,011,390    1,041,831   1,073,.W
Lima Cercado            YES       YES      332,181    332,116     342,321      342.254    342,187      342,120    342,053      341,986     341,920      341,853    341,786      341,719     341,652
La Victoria             YES       YES      227,113    229,888     232,696      235,539    238,417      241,329    244,278      247,262     250,283      253,341    256,436      259,569     262,740
San Miguel              YES                118,598    122,241     125,996      129,866    133,584      137,966    142,204      146,572     151,074      155,714     160,497     165,427      170,508
Brena                   YES       YES       90,593     90,575      90.558       90,540     90,522       90,505     90,487       90,489      90,462       90,434     90,417       90,399       90,381
Puebb Libre             YES       YES       73,443     72,837      72,237       71,641     71,050       70,464     69,883       69,307      68.736       68.169     67,607       67,049       66,496
Jesus Marna             YES       YES       64,713     64,700      64.688       64,675     84,662       64,650     64.637       84,626      64,612       64,599     64,587       64,574       64,562
Magdalena               YES                 49.088     48,880      48,634       48,408     48,183       47,960     47,737       47,518      47,295       47.076     46,857       46,640       48,424
C   956,729   961,217    977,130     982923      988,80      994,994   1,001,279    1,007,737    1,014,382    1,021.18a   1,028,187    1,035.377    1,042,703
CallaoCercado           YES       YES      282,124    291,523     309,267      327,871    347,370      366,379    386,119      406,876     428,428      450,789    474,089      498,361      512,848
Bellavista              YES                 76,863     79,254      81,719       84,260     88,881       89,271     91,727       94,250      96,843       99,437    102,101      104,836      107,644
La Perba                YES                 58,919     60.827      62,796       84,289     66,928       68,841     70,808       72,831      74,912       77,019     79,185       81,411      83,701
C de la Legua           YES                 34,423     35,570      37,572       39.668     41,862       43,986     48,199       47,553      48,947       50,370     51,834       53.341      54,891
La Punta                YES                  5,788      5,795       5,801        5,808      5,815        5,821      5,827        5,832       5,838        5,844      5,825        5,799       5,774
C:ALLAO                                    458,117    472,9       497,155      521,89     548,58       574,299    60D,0        627,342     654,988      683,459     713,034     743,748      764,858
TOTAL                              =       074,133  5,24t,178    5,526,775    S.807,976   8,073,010    5,302.,8    8,525,040    6,758,874    6,974,00f    7,t15.633   7,4bs,970    7,654,429    7,854.618
11 Distrit in which water mets will be installed.
2t Distict which will participate in the rehablitation of water supply and sewerage networks.
Source:
Minmsteno de Is Presidencia/SEDAPAL, Equipo de Preparacion Proyecto BIRF, Proyecciones de Poblacion y Demands Lima, March 1994



ANNEX8
PERU
UMA WATER REHABIUTATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
TOTAL WATER DEMAND IN UMA ON UTERS PER SECOND)
WITH PROJECT SCENARIO
1993 -2005
___________                  11401 R1I'3"2t        1U         $9364         $66           $366        196           1366         111          2006          2001          2002        2003          2004          2000
comas                                               994       1,022         1073          135         1.212         126          1.297        1,357         1,364         1,397       1,430         1,465         1,500
S.M.P.                     YES                    1,263       1,305         1354         1,405        1,154         1,192       1,231         1272          1,314         1,357       1402          1448          1,490
LosOlivos                                           784        825           882           942         989          1,042       1,073         1,104         1,136         1,170       1,204         1.239         1,275
Rimac                      YES        YES           961        984         1,013         1.042         904           930          956          920           940           972        1,000         1,028         1,053
Independncia                                        567        586           808           631         658           878          701          725           749           775          801          828           852
Carab-yaio                                          321        331           344           357         370           383          396           409          423           437          452           467          480
Puente Piedra                                       192        217           263           311         362           422          435           452          470           489          503          517           532
NORTH ______                                      508         5,271        -5,53         5,623        5,847        5,911        6,066         85,239        6,402        8,508        6.701         6,991         7,182
San Juan Lung.                                    1,489       1,551         1,672        1,763        1,3858        1,912       2.007         2,105         2,208         2,314       2,425         2,493         2,564
Ala-anrte                                           832        912          1,050        1,197        1.294         1,344        1,383        1,424         1,478         1,478       1,450         1,625         1,687
El Augusino                                         303        313           332           353         374           395          417           439          4S3           481          495           509          523
Sanba Anila                                         390        402           423           443         465           488          508           522           537          552          567           583          600
Lungancho                                           143        148           179           238         301           367          433           509          555           603          620           638          657
La Mdina                   YES                      789        803           818           833         688           699          711           724           736          746          756           767           777
San Luis                   YES                      264        272           279           242          247          254          261           268           276          284          292           300           309
SAnf Juan Miribies4,19D                                       4,401        4,753         5,069        5,227         5,450       5,7217        5,991        e625           8,4*        6,eo5         8,915         7,116
San Juan Mirafiores                                 966        996          1,050         1,105       1,161         1,216        1,273        1,332         1,394         1,457       1,524         1,592         1,639
Villa Mara                                          478        505           585           640         701           721          758           780           803          835          680           894           920
Villa Sakvador                                      666        694           796           904        1,055         1,086        1,118        1,150         1,184         1,217       1.254         1.290         1.328
Lunn                                                 55          57           59            85           71           77           84            91            98          105          113           121           125
Pachacwnac                                           32          33           34            35          40            45           50            55            60           66           72            78            85
... :__                                       ..                                        . ._ .. 2,  2,78:  3,504  248     3,4 39 3                                       3,821          _           3,           4098
Chomiibs                  YES        YES           575        594           641          681           593          827          619           653           688          725          763           803          84
SanbagodeSurno             YES                    1,491       1,550         1,611        1,347        1,392         1,446       1,503         1.562         1,623         1,687       1,753         1,822         1,894                1
San Boija                  YES                      710        731           752           766         784           807          830           854          879           904          930           957          984                LA
Surquillo                  YES                      474        488           436           439         449           4B3          477           492          507           522          538           555          572
Miraorsa                   YES        YES         1,102       1.101          739           734         731           632          632          632           632           631          631           631          631
Lince                      YES        YES           352        349           348           181         178           177          175           163           162          160          159           158           158
San lairo                  YES        YES           591        58B           491           485         480           476          472           436          433           429          426           422           419
Bananoo                    YES        YES           234        234           232           169         188           168          156           157          157           157          157           157          157
_W______                      7                               5:A*4        5,20          4.801        4776          4,795       4,#1S         4p49          5,081         5,217       5:358         5,505         6,666
Linia Cardo                YES        YES         3,046       3,045        3,108         1,821        1,815         1,815       1,698         1.898         1,697         1,S97       1,897         1,696         1,696
LaVVicbna                  YES        YES         1,320       1,336        1,352         1,389        1,051         1,063       1,076         1,090         1,103         1,116       1,130         1,144         1,158
San Miguel                 YES                      571        588           6W6           532         544           562          579           597          615           634          653           673          694
Brwn                       YES        YES           468        488           468           348         345           323          323          323           323           322          322           322          322
Pueblo Uibre               YES        YES           337        335           332           241         238           236          234          232           230           228          226           224          223
Jean Maue                  YES        YES           319        319           319           240         238           238          238           226          226           226          228           226          226
M                          YES                      277        275           274           162         160           15S          158           158          157           158          155           155          154
CEWMAL       ____8,337                                       6,3806          0456        4,712       4,390         4,396        4,808        4.32$         4,351         4,380        4,410        4,441         4,473
CallaoCercado              YES        YES         1,948       2013         2,114         2,219        1,948         1,774       1,860         1930          2,013         2,096       2,187         2,279         2,345
Bevajta                    YES                      397        409           422           435         397           408          419           430          442           454          486           479          492
La Parts                   YES                      280        289           296           305         232           238          245           252          259           266          274           282          290
C.dela Lgua                YES                      170        176           185           195          118          123          128           132           136          140          144           148          153
La Punta                   YES                       38         36            36            36          28            28           28            28            28           28           28            28           28
CALLAO                             :              2,81        2,Z9         3.055         3,1S0        2,720         2,570       2,70         2.772         2,a78         2,987       3,W9          3,215         3,3t7
SOCIAL CONNECTIONS                                  253        260           208           184          159          140          124           109            95           81           69            60            59
IOTOtAJ.                ___ _  _          _      2B,419=  27,141          27,759        26             95,46     26,412       27       ,       05 2 7,792  26,59  2S,401            50154         31,104        31,P
1/ DOaict in which water meers will be inaltlled.
2/ District which will pasripate in Me rehabilibtion o water supply and sewerage netwoilca
Source:
Based upon data Irorn MiniterioSEDAPAL, Equipo de Preparacion Proyacto BIRF, Proyecciones de Poblacion y Demanda Lima, March 1994.



- 55 -
Annex 9
Cost-benefit Analysis: Methodology and Results
A. Methodology
1.    The economic rate of return was calculated by comparing the costs and benefits of piped
water and sewerage services in two scenarios: one in which the project is implemented and one In
which the project is not implemented. All costs and benefits are expressed in constant prices. The
prices used in the analysis are adjusted for the impact of taxes and subsidies. Shadow exchange rates
and prices were not estimated. Due to ongoing macroeconomic reform, these shadow prices are
difficult to estimate.
2.    The project scenario includes investments aimed at water conservation through demand and
supply management. Demand management includes the installation of water meters and
rehabilitation of the network to reduce unaccounted-for water. The conjunctive use component will
lead to more efficient use of supply. The water conservation component will be supplemented by an
expansion of water supply and sewerage services in the pueblos jovenes. The project will also
finance technical assistance to strengthen the institutional capacity for water resource management.
Without the project, these investments will not take place-resulting in higher water demand and an
increased need to ration consumption.
B. Calculation of project benefits
3.    The economic justification for the project is based on the benefits it would generate in the
form of higher water sales and cost savings from investments that promote efficiency in water
supply and sewerage. This component involves rehabilitating the water supply and sewerage
network and installing water meters to reduce unaccounted-for water, and the conjunctive use of
water resources. The expansion of the water supply and sewerage network on Lima's outskirts will
also generate health benefits. In addition, the incremental consumer surplus could be substantial
because of an increase in aggregated water consumption and improved service quality-increasing
users' willingness to pay. The project will improve the reliability of the water supply network.
Increased reliability will reduce the impact of rationing on the consumer. The benefits of reliable
supply in the project are calculated as the reduction in rationed volume and associated costs
compared with the scenario in which the project is not implemented.
4.    The project would also foster a number of non-quantifiable benefits. Data limitations have
precluded an estimation of these benefits. These benefits include environmental benefits, cost
savings from postponed investment, increased property values, and benefits associated with the
institutional strengthening of the capacity to plan and manage water resources. The conjunctive-use
program and the rehabilitation of the network will induce several environmental benefits. The
program will optimize the use of water resources in Lima by improving control of surface and
groundwater flows. High water production levels currently deplete the aquifer because production
levels exceed natural recharge flows. Optimizing surface and groundwater flows could arrest this
process. In addition, rehabilitating the sewerage system could reduce groundwater pollution.
Rehabilitation will extend the lifetime of the water supply and sewerage network-postponing the
need for new investment. An indirect benefit of the pueblos jovenes component will be increased
property values for households that get access to the piped water system. A survey carried out by
SEDAPAL in December 1993 found that this increase can be substantial-property values can



- 56 -
Annex 9
quadruple when a house gets a water connection. The benefits associated with institutional
strengthening involve improved efficiency of the other project investments.
5.    The project components aimed at water conservation will result in significant cost savings
that will enable SEDAPAL to reduce rationing and increase coverage. The water conservation
component consists of network rehabilitation, water meter installation, and conjunctive use of water
resources. The rehabilitation component will result in a reduction of unaccounted-for water that
could translate into lower production costs. It will benefit 834,000 people with improved access to
water supply and 788,000 people with better sewerage services. Total savings from the
rehabilitation of the water supply network amount to 1.3 cubic meters per second. The water meter
program aims to reduce excessive consumption through metering and better administrative control.
The total available water supply will increase by 5.2 cubic meters per second as a result of
metering.
6.    The project component involving expansion of the water supply and sewerage network will
ensure direct access to the water supply and sewerage system in poorly served low-income
communities in the outskirts of Lima. The number of beneficiaries is estimated at 578,000, with
276,000 receiving improved services and the remainder gaining direct access to the water supply
and sewerage network. A large part of this population pays high prices for water since most depend
on water sold by vendors. The project will reduce their financial burden substantially. Moreover,
because of the high prices these consumers pay for vendor water, they reduce their consumption to
levels that jeopardize public health. This contributed to a cholera outbreak in 1991 and is the main
cause of the high incidence of diarrhea in the pueblos jovenes.
7.    The incremental revenues from the sale of future water and sewerage services have been
used as a proxy for direct-use benefits. The average water and sewerage rate is currently US$0.28
per cubic meter. To ensure financial viability, the average water tariff has to be gradually increased
to US$0.37 per cubic meter by 1997. This higher rate has been used as a proxy to calculate project
benefits. This tariff is higher than the tariff domestic consumers will actually pay, since cross-
subsidies in the water rate have been neglected in the calculation of project benefits.
8.    Calculating the value of the consumer surplus requires estimating the water demand function
in the relevant range. For this analysis, a demand curve has been estimated based on a price
elasticity of -0.30. After the demand curve and the quantities consumed have been estimated both
with and without the project, the consumer surplus can be calculated. Some methodological
problems occur that are caused by the lack of information available about the water consumption
patterns of different water users. A survey carried out in December 1993 found that the average
daily water consumption of a person supplied by vendors is about 30 liters. The average price of
vendor water fluctuates substantially depending on the distance to the household and the season. The
survey indicates the average price of vendor water is about US$2.50 per cubic meter. It has been
assumed that the consumption of 30 liters per capita per day observed in the survey represents the
total water use of people dependent on vendor water.
9.    According to an earlier Bank study, it is not lack of hygiene that causes waterborne
diseases, but lack of water. It has been assumed that households currently using indirect forms of
piped water supply are victims of waterborne disease. But it is likely that households with access to
piped water but experiencing intermittent supply are also susceptible to waterborne diseases, so the



- 57 -
Annex 9
Water vending survey in the Lima metropolitan area
In December 1993, SEDAPAL's project preparation unit interviewed water vendors :o obtain
iformation about water vending practices in the pueblos jovenes. Twelv, watWe vWors.vwer'e
interviewed about water costs, the households they served, and the profitability of their OWterr*  Te.
study indicated that households use an average of 150 liters a day, for which they pay anaveae$.50.
to $2.75 a cubic meter (at the end of the dry season). The actual price varies according to season.nd"'
distance. In December 1993 households purchasing from water vendors paid up to 20 times moe pe."
unit of water than households connected to the piped water system. If households using vendor water
are connected to the piped water system, they benefit from improved service and health conditons. The
survey also indicated that household property value increases sharply once a connection to pipe d water
is in place. The average property value quadrupled from $1,542 to $6,375.
Water vending is big business in Lima. At end-1993, about 7 percent of the population m i the,
metropolitan area relied on vendors for their water supply. These households purchased an average. of
30 liter per capita per day. Annual gross revenue for water vendors in 1993 was about $12.5wmiflioc.
This compares with the $85,4 million that SEDAPAL collected from domestic and, ion-dm .s.....
consumers in the same period.
The high prices paid for vendor water may generate substantial surpluses that could be absored as.
economic rents. Vendors charge substantially higher prices than necessary to earn their wage. On
average, a vendor sells about 23 cubic meters of water a day. Assuming a five-day worweek, daily
revenues are almost $59. The survey showed large variations in the costs of supplying water. among t'.
twelve vendors. Costs include the cost of water, fuel, vehicle maintenance, and salaies W orthedr.ver'
and his assistant. Vehicle costs are high-about 74 percent of total daily costs of $44. Monthly aerage
net revenues are about $320. The average wage in December 1993 was $159, sggestin    , the
implicit wage of water vendors is twice that of other workers. Free entry in the .    Ve    m ark.t
would limit the vendor's implicit wage rate to that of the average wage rate. The water v"ending xat:.
in Lima has high entry barriers-mostly because of the cost of acquiring or renting a tank.  .
current calculation underestimates health benefits. Health benefits reflect the avoidance of medical
costs and lost wages. In this study, annual medical costs and lost wages brought about by
waterborne diseases were estimated at US$12.92 per capita in the pueblos jovenes in 1991.1 To
calculate health benefits, it is assumed that these costs have remained constant in real terms.
C. Internal economic rate of return
10.    Evaluating the economic viability of the project includes the benefits described in the
preceding sections, the investment costs, and operation and maintenance costs projected for the
period under review. A discount rate of 10 percent is used to calculate the net present value
resulting from the project. To reflect true costs and benefits, financial prices have been transformed
into economic prices. The major difference between financial and economic prices involves the
impact of taxes and subsidies. In addition, price contingencies are not included in the total
1. Data for the costs of medication and lost working days are taken from Sheila Webb and Associates. 1992. 'Waterborne
Diseascs in Peru." Working Paper 959. World Bank, Washington, D.C.



- 58 -
Annex 9
investment costs since it is assumed that the prices of goods and services acquired under the project
will rise in line with general inflation. Investment and operation and maintenance costs are adjusted
for the value-added tax of 18 percent. The base-case scenario is defined as the scenario in which
only the direct-use benefits and the consumer surplus are included. The net present value of the
project is US$209 million, the internal economic rate of return is 23 percent, and the benefit-cost
ratio is 1.85.
D. Sensitivity analysis
11.   In the sensitivity analysis the impact of a number of variables has been tested. These
variables concern the impact of consumer surplus, health benefits, reliable supply, cost overruns,
and cost recovery.
12.   Impact of consumer surplus. The consumer surplus is an important benefit of the project. In
the unlikely event of the absence of a consumer surplus, the project's feasibility is still ensured. The
net present value is US$29 million, the internal economic rate of return is 12 percent, and the
benefit-cost ratio is 1.12.
13.   Impact of health benefits. Health benefits increase the total benefits of the project. But since
the health impact is restricted to 302,000 people in the pueblos jovenes, the impact is not as large as
may have been expected.
14.   Impact of reliable suppty. The water supply system in Lima is unreliable. Customers have
tried to cope with rationing by building reservoirs. Lower-income households have constructed
reservoirs, while higher-income households have added pumps to the reservoir. The savings from
reduced rationing are based on costs that the poor pay to cope with rationing. In this case, the net
present value increases to US$363 million, the internal economic rate of return is 32 percent, and
the benefit-cost ratio is 2.48. Since it can be assumed that savings from reduced rationing are
spread over the population, affecting both low and high-income households, the actual benefit is
likely to be larger.
15.   Impact of cost overruns. The project's sensitivity to cost overruns has also been tested. The
switch value for cost overruns of total investment is about 95 percent. If investment (and the fixed
operation and maintenance cost) increases by more than 95 percent, the project will become
economically unfeasible.
16.   Impact of cost recovery. Cost recovery is a guiding principle in tariff setting in the new
Water and Sanitation Sector Law. In Annex 10, the economic costs of water supply and sanitation
services are estimated to be US$0.45 per cubic meter consumed. It has been assumed that cost
recovery will be introduced gradually in the project, so that by 1999 water rates will have increased
to the level of the long-run average incremental cost. No water rate increases are foreseen without
the project. The overall impact of cost recovery is positive (Table 1).
E. Cost-benefit analysis for separate project components



- 59 -
Ann 9
17.    Water meter program. The average domestic water consumption in Lima is high. There are
several reasons for high water consumption. In the past, water rates did not keep pace with
inflation because of political interventions in tariff-setting-resulting in low real water tariffs. And
only 4 percent
Table 1
Results of the sensitivity analysis
Net present        Internal
value       economic rate of
Impact                                       (US$ million)    return (percent)   Benefit-cost ratio
Base-case scenario                               209                22                1.85
Without consumer surplus                          29                12                1.12
With health benefits                             233                24                1.95
With reliable supply                             363                32               2.48
With cost recovery                               460                36               2.89
of the water connections in Lima are actually metered and billed according to the meter reading.
T-he absence of metering has changed the water rate structure from an increasing block rate
structure to a flat rate structure. There is no price incentive for high-volume users to control
consumption. Instead of reading actual consumption from the water meter, consumption is
estimated using the minimum consumption assignment of the user rate category. Billing the
minimum consumption level results in significant underestimation of consumed water, particularly in
a non-rationed water supply system.
18.    The water metering program aims to install water meters in 24 districts in central Lima and
Callao with excessive water consumption levels.2 This program will have two main benefits. First,
the installation of water meters has an impact similar to a real rate increase-customers have to pay
for the water they actually consume, resulting in increased water bills. On the basis of price
elasticity studies elsewhere, the average value of the price elasticity is assumed to be -0.30. This
elasticity implies that water consumption will decline from 292 liters per capita per day in 1993 to
200 liters per capita per day in 1997 (when the program is implemented in these districts). Total
water savings from the metering program are estimated to be 5.2 cubic meters per second. These
savings can be used to either expand the number of customers or improve the service level to
rationed consumers-generating additional income for SEDAPAL. Second, the installation of water
meters is expected to coincide with an improvement in billing efficiency. It is assumed that
administrative losses estimated at almost 16 percent of total water production in 1993 will decline to
10 percent in 2005.
19.    Investment costs of the project involve the installation of 406,269 water meters and the
rehabilitation of water meter boxes in selected districts in central Lima. Operation and maintenance
costs include the metering and reading of these connections. On the basis of these costs and the
2. These districts are Miraflores, San Isidro, San Borja, Santiago de Surco, Surquillo, Barranco, Lince, Jesus Maria, Magdalen
de la Mar, San Miguel, Pueblo Libre, Brena, San Luis, Lirna Cercado, La Victoria, Chorillos, La Molina, Rimac, San Martin
de Porras, Callao, Bellavista, La Perla, Carmen de la Legua, and La Punta.



- 60 -
Annex 9
above-mentioned benefits, the internal economic rate of return for this project component is 119
percent. This return is far above the cutoff point of 10 percent used in the calculation. The net
present value of the project is US$213 million, and the benefit-cost ratio is 6.06. These indicators
show that this project component is economically quite viable.
20.    Domestic consumption in the districts targeted for the water meter program makes up 68
percent of total domestic consumption; unmetered consumption comprises 32 percent of total
domestic consumption. By 2005, unmetered consumption will increase to 49 percent of total
domestic consumption; metered consumption will decline to 51 percent. Since unmetered
households do not have any incentive to conserve water, the consumption of an unmetered
connection will remain high (about 178 liters per capita per day), even though these are lower-
income districts. A more rational consumption pattern for unmetered consumption requires a full-
scale expansion of water meters in a follow-up program.
21.    Water supply rehabilitation program. Unaccounted-for water losses are high in Lima.
Physical losses amount to 31 percent of total water production. Administrative losses amount to
almost 16 percent of total water production. Only 53 percent of total water production is paid for
-burdening the financial sustainability of SEDAPAL. Reducing administrative losses is part of the
water conservation component; reducing physical losses is the objective of the rehabilitation
component.
22.   The rehabilitation component will be carried out in twelve districts.3 These districts are
mainly concentrated in the central part of Lima and Callao (part of the metropolitan area). Districts
were selected because they had high consumption. Because of the age of the water supply system in
these areas, physical water losses are also high. These twelve districts are responsible for 56
percent of the total physical losses that occur in the Lima metropolitan area. Physical water losses
range from 28 percent of total consumption in Pueblo Libre to 63 percent in La Victoria. The
average physical water losses in these districts amount to 31 percent of total production and will
decline to less than 25 percent once rehabilitation is complete.
23.    The rehabilitation of pipelines and reservoirs and the replacement of connections will reduce
physical water losses, adding an additional 1.3 cubic meters per second to the water supply system.
These savings can be used to reduce rationing in SEDAPAL's service area. The rehabilitation
component will be implemented over a period of seven years. It is assumed that savings will
become available gradually, depending on the level of investment taking place. Rehabilitation will
extend the lifetime of the water supply network and postpone the need for new investment.
Rehabilitation will also lead to pressure gains, reducing the impact of unreliable supply. Because of
data limitations, these last two impacts have not been taken into account in these calculations.
24.    Rehabilitation investment consists mainly of capacity costs, including operation and
maintenance costs. Total investment cost for the water supply rehabilitation program is US$47
million (adjusted for taxes and subsidies, and excluding price contingencies). Based on these costs
and benefits, the internal economic rate of return of this project component is 13.1 percent. This
3. These districts are Lima Cercado, La Victoria, Brena, Pueblo Libre, Miraflores, Barranco, Chorillos and Callao Cercado,
Rimac, Lince, Jesus Maria, and San Isidro.



- 61 -
Annex 9
rate of return is higher than the 10 percent opportunity cost of capital. The net present value of the
project is US$9 million and the benefit-cost ratio is 1. 19. All indicators show the project to be
economically viable.
25.   Expansion program for pueblos jovenes. The pueblos jovenes are located on the outskirts of
Lima. Currently, 2.7 million people live in these areas. About two-thirds of this population has
access to a piped water connection. But these customers face low service levels-supply usually
lasts only a few hours a day. The 800,000 people without a connection depend on water supplied
by standpipes, group taps, or vendors. SEDAPAL currently applies a reduced tariff of US$0.09 for
standpipes and group taps. However, about half of the households with no direct access to the
piped water system must use water supplied by water vendors, which is expensive.
26.   The pueblos jovenes component will improve water supply and sewerage services for
customers already connected to the piped water system. It will also expand the water supply and
sewerage system to households currently using standpipes, group taps, or vendor water. The
number of beneficiaries is estimated at 578,000 people, with 276,000 receiving improved service
and 302,000 being enabled to switch to direct system access. The benefits of the pueblos jovenes
project component consist of direct-use benefits. An increase in service levels is likely to result in
higher per capita consumption. Households currently using indirect forms of water supply use only
about 30 liters per capita per day. Per capita consumption of these households will increase to 178
liters per day (current water consumption in the pueblos jovenes adjusted for rationing impact and
with no water meter attached) once they have access to piped water. Because physical losses will
amount to 25 percent, the total required production capacity will have to be expanded by 1.6 cubic
meters per second.
27.   Consumers that currently depend on water from standpipes and group taps will have to pay
higher water rates as the service level increases. But these households will save the costs associated
with the time required to obtain water from standpipes and group taps. Customers using vendor
water pay high prices for water. Water rates will decline substantially for these customers once
they are connected to the SEDAPAL system. This decline in water rates will cause an increase in
consumption-generating important health benefits. Improved access to water supply and sewerage
collection will substantially reduce the risk of waterborne diseases. Health benefits are estimated
separately from the base-case scenario.
28.   The costs of the pueblos jovenes component consist of investment costs in water supply and
sewerage and operation and maintenance costs. Because the project is not financing any secondary
works in the pueblos jovenes, additional connection costs should be added. The methodology used to
estimate the consumer surplus was described earlier in para. 8. The base-case scenario includes
direct-use benefits. The consumer surplus generates a net present value of US$143 million, the
internal economic rate of return is 43 percent, and the benefit-cost ratio is 2.88. These indicators
show the project is viable. Introducing health benefits has a positive impact on the profitability of
the project (Table 2).
29.   A sensitivity analysis has been conducted for the pueblos jovenes component. Because of
high connection costs, the sensitivity of the results to changes in both the cost of connections and
the coverage rate has been tested.



- 62 -
Annex 9
30.   Impact of connection costs. The results of the cost-benefit analysis rely on a number of
assumptions; those relating to connection costs are critical. Connection costs in the pueblos jovenes
include the construction of a secondary network. These costs are about US$850 per connection. If
the current FONAVI credit system is maintained, the cost of water supply and sewerage (including
connection costs) would be a substantial part of the average monthly income of the poor. These
costs could be a significant barrier for the population in the pueblos jovenes-affecting both
affordability and willingness to pay. A sensitivity analysis has been carried out to investigate the
impact of lower connection rates. The US$850 charge is rather high because of the tendency to
overdimension the network. A more efficient design-using simpler standards and low-cost
technologies, as in Brazil-could reduce connection costs by US$350 to US$500. The positive
impact of lower connection costs on the pueblos jovenes component is substantial (Table 2).
Table 2
Results of the sensitivity analysis
Net present       Internal
value       economic rate of
Impact                                      (millions)     return (percent)   Benefit-cost ratio
Base-case scenario                             143              43               2.88
With health benefits                           168              49               3.19
With reliable supply                           154              46               3.01
With lower connection costsa                   163              57               3.89
a. Connection costs are assumed to decline to US$350.
31.   Impact of coverage. High connection costs could be a serious impediment to system access,
resulting in much lower coverage rates than anticipated. In the base-case scenario, it is assumed
that 276,000 people will get access to improved service and 302,000 people currently using water
from standpipes, group taps, or vendors will acquire connections. Changes in connection coverage
will alter significantly the economic viability of the project. The break-even point (switching value)
lies at 27 percent of new customers. If less than 27 percent of the households that currently depend
on vendor or standpipe water in the pueblos jovenes connect to the system, the investment is no
longer economically viable.



ANNEX 9
PERU
LIMA WATER REHABILITATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
COST-BENEFIT FLOWS WITH PROJECT SITUATION
BASE CASE SCENARIO
(in thousands of US$ as of December 1993)
WAR                                            .        WITH PROJECT SITUA'flOtd                         NE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......I....E.........
........                                    ,   -                      ....'.. .   , '   ,     T,     '--
~~~~~~~~.  . . . . .  . . . . . .                                                      .   .. . .. .             . .. .. . . ..' "'''
. -.-. --.........-.  .....^::.                                                                   ...........   .y..:..:.:5-.
________  T*e*tf  .Ue~~~~~~~mfIt* .~~~u*vft~~~e..    ~~ wttt...  .  .  RedI~~~~~~g .0  ............ .. ..........
1994   421.152     0.32    134,769       (632)             134,137     66,938       3,347       151          382    70.817           63.320
1995   435,556     0.34    148.089      (1.886)       0    146,203     99,175       8,306       488          263    108,231          37,972
1996   445.268     0.36    160,297       1,933        0    162.230     89.118      12.762       936           151    102.967         59,263
1997   470,834     0.37    174.209       3,435        0    177.644     80,372      1 6,780     1,267           0     98.419          79,225
1998   486,878      0.37    180.145     13.704        0    193.849     58,589       1 9.710    1,267          229    79,794         114,055
199    510.459     0.37    188.870      25,551        0    214.421     77,269      23,573      1,267         680    102,789         111,632
2000   526.319      0.37    194.738     27,062        0    221.800      52,313      26,189     1,267         1,227    80.995        140,804
2001    541.129     0.37   200,218      28,547        0    228,764      10,421      26,710     1,267        1.803    40.201         188.563
2002   555,744      0.37    205.625     30,110        0    235.736      10,640      27,242     1,267        2.299    41,448         194.288
2003   579,094      0.37   214.265      30,990        0    245,255      9,705       27.727     1.267        2,790    41.489         203,766
2004   581,906      0.37    215,305     31,457        0    246,762      11,386      28,296     1.267        2,830    43.779         202,983
2005   581,144      0.37    215,023     31.737        0    246.760      9,209       28.757     1,267        2.763    41.996         204.764
2006   581,144      0.37    215,023     31,737        0    246.760          0       28.757     1.267        2.763     32.786        213.974
2007   581.144     0.37    215.023      31.737        0    246,760         0       28.757      1,267        2.763    32,786         213.97
2008   581.144      0.37   215.023      31.737        0    246.760          0       28,757     1.267        2.763     32.786        21 3.974 
2009   581,144     0.37    215,023      31.737        0    246.760          0       28,757     1.267        2.763     32.786        213.974
2010   581,1 44    0.37    215.023      31,737        0    246.760          0       28.757     1.267        2,763     32.786        213.974
2011    581.144     0.37   215.023      31.737        0    246.760          0       28.757     1.267        2,763     32.786        213,974
2012    581,144     0.37   215.023      31.737        0    246.760          0       28.757     1.267        2.763    32.786         21 3.974
2013   581.1 44     0.37   215.023      31.737        0    246.760          0       28.757     1.267        2.763     32.786        213,974
2014    581.144     0.37    215.023     31.737        0    246.760          0       28.757     1.267        2.763     32.786        213.974
2015    581,144     0.37   215.023      31,737        0    246,760          0       28.757     1,267        2.763     32.786        213.974
2016   581.144      0.37   215,023      31.737        0    246.760          0       28,757     1.267        2.763    32.786         21 3,974
2017    581.144     0.37   215.023      31.737        0    246.760          0       28.757     1,267        2.763     32.786        213.974
2018    581.144     0.37   215.023      31.737        0    246,760          0       28,757     1.267        2,763     32.786        213.974
2019    581.144     0.37    215.023     31.737        0    246,760          0       28.757     1,267        2,763     32,786        21 3.974
2020   581.144      0.37   215,023      31.737        0    246.760          0       28.757     1,267        2,763     32.786        213.974
2021    581.144     0.37   215,023      31.737        0    246.760          0       28.757     1.267        2,763    32,786         213.974
2022   581.144      0.37   215.023      31,737        0    246,760          0       28.757     1.267        2,763    32.786         21 3.974
2023   581,144      0.37   215.023      31.737        0    246.760)         0       28,757     1,267        2,763     32.786        213.974
NPV  _____   ____1,771.821             180.592        0  1,952,412    391.547      198.871    10.035       13.817    614,270       1.338,142



ANNEX9
PERU
LIMA WATER REHABIUTATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
COST-BENEFIT FLOWS WITHOUT PROJECT SITUATION
BASE CASE SCENARIO
(in thousands of US$ as of December 1993)
YEAR                                            WITHOUT PROJECT SITUATION             NET BENEFITS
TOTAL BENEFITS                           TOTAL COSTS                    WITHOUT
Billing     Average      Totkal    Investment   Fixed O&M       Total         PROJECT
Volume        Tariff    Benefits     Costs         costs         costs       SITUATION
1994       411,531        0.32    131,690        62,235         3,112       65,347           66,343
1995       424,798        0.34    144,431        66,130         6,418       72,549           71,883
1996       430,957        0.36    155,144        34,319         8,134       42,454          112,691
1997       442,280        0.37    163,643        32,298         9,749       42,047          121,597
1998       445,546        0.37    164,852        22,374        10,868       33,242          131,610
1999       444,747        0.37    164,556        53,034        13,520       66,554           98,002
2000        443,161       0.37    163,969        42,858        15,662       58,520           105,449
2001        442,188       0.37    163,610         9,974        16,161       26,135           137,475
2002        443,084       0.37    163,941        10,172        16,670       26,842           137,099
2003        443,381       0.37    164,051         9,720        17,156       26,876           137,175
2004        445,036       0.37    164,663        11,453        17,728       29,182           135,481
2005        446,165       0.37    165,081         9,045        18,181       27,225           137,856
2006        446,165       0.37    165,081             0        18,181       18,181          146,900
2007        446,165       0.37    165,081             0        18,181        18,181          146,900
2008        446,165       0.37    165,081             0        18,181       18,181           146,900
2009        446,165       0.37    165,081             0        18,181        18,181          146,900
2010        446,165       0.37    165,081             0        18,181        18,181          146,900
2011        446,165       0.37    165,081             0        18,181       18,181           146,900
2012        446,165       0.37    165,081             0        18,181        18,181          146,900
2013        446,165       0.37    165,081             0        18,181        18,181          146,900
2014        446,165       0.37    165,081             0        18,181       18,181           146,900
2015        446,165       0.37    165,081             0        18,181        18,181          146,900
2016        446,165       0.37    165,081             0        18,181        18,181          146,900
2017        446,165       0.37    165,081             0        18,181        18,181          146,900
2018        446,165       0.37    165,081             0        18,181        18,181          146,900
2019        446,165       0.37    165,081             0        18,181        18,181          146,900
2020        446,165       0.37    165,081             0        18,181        18,181          146,900
2021        446,165       0.37    165,081             0        18,181        18,181          146,900
2022        446,165       0.37    165,081             0        18,181        18,181          146,900
2023        446,165       0.37    165,081             0        18,181        18,181          146,900
NPV        4,135,378              1,497,614      244,508       124,060      368,568         1,129,046



- 65 -
ANNEX 9
PERU
LIMA WATER REHABILITATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY COST-BENEFIT ANALYSIS
BASE CASE SCENARIO
(in thousands of US$ as of December 1993)
.YEAR   NE BEF ITS    NE BEEFT  'INCRENLj
... PROJECT~~~~~~~~~....  ...JCT.ENE..
i . 0 0 X -   g ~ ~ o  a:   
____    STUATIN . SITUATIO...
1994         63,320         66,343        (3,023)
1995         37,972         71,883       (33,911)
1996         59,263        112,691       (53,428)
1997         79,225        121,597       (42,372)
1998        114,055        131,610       (17,555)
1999        111,632         98,002        13,630
2000         140,804       105,449        35,355
2001         188,563       137,475        51,088
2002         194,288       137,099        57,188
2003        203,766        137,175        66,591
2004        202,983        135,481        67,501
2005        204,764        137,856        66,909
2006        213,974        146,900        67,073
2007        213,974        146,900        67,073
2008        213,974        146,900        67,073
2009        213,974        146,900        67,073
2010        213,974        146,900        67,073
2011        213,974        146,900        67,073
2012        213,974        146,900        67,073
2013        213,974        146,900        67,073
2014        213,974        146,900        67,073
2015        213,974        146,900        67,073
2016        213,974        146,900        67,073
2017        213,974        146,900        67,073
2018        213,974        146,900        67,073
2019        213,974        146,900        67,073
2020        213,974        146,900        67,073
2021        213,974        146,900        67,073
2022        213,974        146,900        67,073
2023        213,974        146,900        67,073
NPV        1,338,142     1,129,046       209,096
Net Present Value (r = 10%)                209,096
Internal Rate of Return                    22.47%
Benefit-Cost Ratio                            1.85



- 66 -
Annex 10
Marginal Cost Pricing Analysis: Methodology and Results
1.     Marginal cost pricing has been used to evaluate SEDAPAL's current rate schedule. Long-
run average incremental costs were calculated separately for SEDAPAL's water supply and
sewerage system. The planning horizon covers 30 years and the opportunity cost of capital is set at
10 percent. In the marginal cost calculations, all cost components have been transformed from
market prices into economic prices by excluding the impact of taxes and subsidies.
A. Capacity expansion costs
2.     Incremental costs in water supply and sewerage systems result from new investment and the
operation and maintenance of this additional capacity. Investment or capacity costs for water supply
consist of investments for institutional development, water intake, water treatment, transmission,
distribution, and connections. They also include rehabilitation investments to reduce water losses.
Rehabilitation investments are considered equivalent to investments in water intake since they result
in increased water supply. For sewerage, capacity costs include investments for project
management, sewerage connections, collectors, pumping stations, interceptors, and final disposal
and treatment. Incremental fixed operation and maintenance costs are estimated at 5 percent of the
accumulated capacity investment. Total capacity costs are equal to the sum of capacity investment
costs and incremental fixed operation and maintenance costs. The net present value of these costs is
calculated using the assumed opportunity cost of 10 percent.
B. Incremental operating costs
3.     Marginal operating costs are calculated for each season as the cost of the last water source
used to satisfy demand in that season. The last water source (marginal source) can be calculated
when the water supply and sewerage system is optimized (the least-cost solution). When the
marginal source is known, the unit costs of all inputs (mainly energy and chemicals) needed to
produce an additional cubic meter of water must be determined. In Lima, where water supply
capacity is insufficient to satisfy demand, marginal operating costs have been estimated assuming
that customers would construct reservoirs to cope with unreliable supply. The average cost of
rationing is estimated at US$0.27 per cubic meter produced.' The net present value of this flow of
operating costs is calculated using a discount rate of 10 percent.
4.     The main type of variable operation costs in a sewerage system are energy costs. Because
the sewerage system in Lima is gravity-based, variable operation costs are assumed to be zero.
C. Long-run average incremental costs
5.     Long-run average incremental costs have been calculated at each stage of the project as the
ratio of the sum of the present value of capacity expansion costs, and incremental operating costs to
1. Thes costs have been calculated using the following assumptions: investment costs for the construction and installation of
a reservoir (including pumps and connections)-S$1O00; costs of operation and maintenance-S percent of investment costs;
economic lifetime of investment-1S years with a discount rate of 10 percent. Required consumption is 45 cubic meters a month,
while rationed consumption applies to 40 cubic meter a month. Total costs are $0.38 per cubic meter consumed. With physical
losses at 30 percent, rationing costs are $0.27 per cubic meter produced.



- 67 -
Annex 10
the sum of present values of the incremental volume of water. In this project, the incremental
volume of water results from a reduction of unaccounted-for-water, demand management,
optimization of water resources, and an expansion of the supply network. The long-run average
incremental cost has not been adjusted seasonally-expansion capacity costs have been allocated
evenly over the dry and wet season. The long-run average incremental cost is computed based on
incremental water production (Annex 8). It is thus necessary to adjust for water losses to calculate
the marginal cost per consumed cubic meter. Based on the current distribution of water losses and
the expected change in these losses once the project is implemented, a loss adjustment factor has
been calculated (Figure 1). The chart on the bottom of page 72 presents long-run average
incremental costs for different stages of the water production process. The total long-run average
incremental cost is US$0.40 per cubic meter consumed.
6.     Since the sewerage network does not face variable operating costs, long-run average
incremental costs are equal to the ratio of the present value of expansion capacity cost to the present
value of the incremental volume of water sold. The volume of sewerage produced per connection is
estimated at 85 percent of the volume of water consumed. Based on these assumptions, the long-
run average incremental cost for sewerage is US$0.05 per cubic meter consumed.
D. Marginal cost pricing and the tariff schedule
7.    The long-run average incremental cost for water supply and sewerage is US$0.45 per cubic
meter consumed-significantly higher than the average current tariff of US$0.28. If draft
regulations for the water sector use economic costs as the basis for proposed water and sewerage
rates, this significantly increases water and sewage rates. Apart from physical losses, SEDAPAL
also incurs substantial administrative losses. In 1993 these losses were estimated to be nearly 16
percent of total production. These costs are not included in the calculation of the marginal cost of
water and sewerage since it is assumed these losses can be avoided.
8.    SEDAPAL's current water rate schedule is rather complicated. It consists of an increasing
block rate schedule that applies different rates to residential, commercial, industrial, public, and
social customers. But since meter reading rarely occurs, the increasing block rate structure has
been replaced by a flat rate equal to the minimum monthly consumption level. The rate schedule
also includes a high level of cross-subsidization. Commercial and industrial customers pay high
rates that are used to subsidize social and residential consumers. Although some cross-subsidization
may be justified on the grounds of social equity, current subsidies impair efficient resource
allocation. Another characteristic of the current tariff structure is that SEDAPAL uses a combined
rate-no distinction is made between costs for water supply and sewage collection and treatment-
that obstructs the transparency of the tariff structure.
9.    To enable SEDAPAL to meet the basic requirements of financial sustainability and social
equity, SEDAPAL needs to rationalize its rate structure according to the new sector law. The
following criteria should be applied under the new law:
* Marginal costs should be used as a reference value in defining the rate structure and levels-
draft regulations use economic costs. SEDAPAL should also make a distinction between
water and sewerage rates to improve the transparency of tariff-setting procedures.



- 68 -
Annex 10
*  The rate structure should reduce the number of consumption blocks to three. The range of
these blocks will be set according to current consumption levels. The first block will cover
the minimum volume of water needed by a typical household to meet basic requirements.
The upper limit of the second block will be the volume of water used by a household that is
still not considered excessive. Customers who use more than this limit will be considered
excessive users. Customers with excessive consumption levels should pay at least the
marginal cost of water supply and sewage to induce more rational water consumption.
*  Cross-subsidization will be limited-only the basic residential consumption block deserves a
subsidy.
*  Tariff levels should be set to allow SEDAPAL to generate sufficient cash to finance
operating expenses, debt service, and investment.
*  The tariff schedule should include an inflation adjustment formula to avoid deterioration of
the tariff in real terms. This would promote SEDAPAL's efficiency and financial
sustainability.
10.   The current rate structure results in large economic subsidies for residential, social, and
public customers. Industrial and commercial customers are heavily charged (See chart on page 73).
Residential customers receive an economic subsidy of 45 to 250 percent, while industrial and
commercial customers are overcharged by 59 percent. Financial subsidies are also substantial. With
the current average rate of US$0.28, residential customers receive subsidies. But high-income users
in the two highest rate categories pay slightly more than the average water rate. Customers in other
rate categories receive financial subsidies ranging from 4 to 115 percent. Industrial and commercial
water users are substantially overcharged and pay 157 percent more than the average rate.



- 69 -
ANNEX 1 0
PERU
LIMA WATER REHABILITATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
WATER BALANCE IN LIMA METROPOLITAN AREA AS OF APRIL 1994
FIGURE 1
SURFACE WATER
_  _   _    ~~~~~~~~~~GROUND WATER_
1.5 %    Treatmewnt    WATER TR EATMENT
Losses              R'ANT
Transmission Losses     _ 1 0 %
|  RESERVOIRS   |  Reservoir Losses         1.7 %
Distribution Network      27 3 %
Losses                 0
|DISTRIB UTION 
| NETWORK      |
(68(5 5 %
l  I               |  ~~~~~~Wster Effllad to Residences,
| omrcbl Lsees ||Commerce, Industry, and P'ubik
t       ~~~Entities
( 68.5%)
FINAL DISF'OSAL|
SEWERAGE|



ANNE)t 10
PERU
UMA WATER REHADIUTATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
TOTAL CAPACITY INVESTMENT COSTS 11
fI thouaando of US$ - of May 19941
YEAR   '  bw1ituUmnd       wowm      TmransmisIo   Tiatmeat    OlutQmdonl   Cowfls              TOTAL         Olotglbe~Ee.    OneUat       TOT'AL        OL
~~~          h~~btsk                  _  _ __  _                  _ __ _ _  _   W &WU"   t mely
1994          3,938        6,593         1.115        4.377        37.020          9.272         62,315              0          4,623        4,623       66,938
1996          9843          5,027           0        16.181        34,761         25,920         91,732              0          7,443        7,443       99,175
1996          8,486        4,142            0         7,429        28,146         31,296          79,501             0          9,618        9,618       89,118
1997          4,777         6,829           0            0         37.263         22,516          71,386             0          8,987        8,987       80.372
1998          3.667            0            0            0         19,812         19,564         42,944          4,419         11,226       156,46       58,689
1999          3,54             0            0            0          9.924         19,280         32.749         33,036         11.486       44.519       77,269
2000           3.524           0            0             0         4.053         10,104          17,681         28,1 36        6,496       34,632       52.313
2001              0            0             0            0             0          4,311           4,311             0          a,611        6,111       10,421
2002              0            0            0            0              0          4,401           4,401             0          6,239        6,239       10.640
2003              0            0             0            0             0          4,016           4,016             0          5,690        5,690        9.706
2004              0            0            0             0             0          4,711           4,711             0          6,675        6,675       11,386
2006              0            0            0             0             0          3,811           3,811             0          5,399        5,399        9.209
2006              0            0            0             0             0              0              0              0             0            0             0
2007              0            0            0             0             0              0              0              0             0            0             0
2008              0            0             0            0             0              0              0              0             0            0             0
2009              0            0            0             0             0              0              0              0             0            0             0
2010              0            0             0            0             0              0              0              0             0            0             0
2011              0            0             0            0             0              0              0              0             0            0             0
2012              0            0            0             0             0              0              0              0             0            0             0        O
2013              0            0            0             0             0              0              0              0             0            0             0        -
2014              0            0            0             0             0              0              0              0             0            0             0
2015              0            0            0             0             0              0              0              0             0            0             0
2016              0            0            0             0             0              0              0              0             0            0             0
2017              0            0            0             0             0              0              0              0             0            0             0
2018              0            0            0            0              0              0              0              0             0            0            0
2019              0            0            0            0              0              0              0              0             0            0             0
2020              0            0            0            0              0              0              0              0             0            0            0
2021              0            0            0             0             0              0              0              0             0            0             0
2022              0            0            0             0             0              0              0              0             0            0            0
2023              00                        0             0                    0                      0              0             0            0            0
NPV           27,380       17,925        1,014        22,933       128,963        105,248        303,463         35,829        52,254       88,083      391,647
1/ Thasa cosu include the inveswent cost outside of the Bank project.
2V  The hnvestment costs associated with the Watr Meter Program are ditbuted among the Connection Costs of the systm.
The conection costs for watr are estimated at US$ 120 in an existing network and US$ 350 when a new network has to be created (including the coats of the seconday
network cumntly fitncd by consune through FONAVI banal.
3/ The conn ction cost foir sewrage ae estimated at US$ 170 in an existig network and US$ 500 when a new network has to be cmeted ncluding the cost of the scondery
network cuirndy finnced by consumrs thxugh FONAVI loane.



ANNEX 10
PERU
LIMA WATER REHABILITATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
TOTAL OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS 1/
(in thousands of USS as of May 1994)
YEAR       Watr       Transmission   Treatment   Disi1buton   Connection      TOTAL        Distrlbut4n    Connecton       TOTAL        TOTAL
Intke                                                         WATER SUPPLY                                  SEWERAGE    PROJECT
1994           330           56          219        1,851          464           2,919             0            231           231        3,150
1995           581           56        1,028        3,589         1,760          7,013             0            603           603        7,617
1996           788           56        1,399        4,996         3,324         10,564             0           1,084         1,084      11,648
1997          1,130          56        1,399        6,859         4,450         13,894             0           1,533         1,533      15,428
1998          1,130          56        1,399        7,850         5,428         15,863           221           2,095        2,316       18,179
1999          1,130          56        1,399        8,346         6,392         17,323          1,873          2,669        4,542       21,865
2000          1,130          56         1,399       8,549         6,898         18,031          3,279          2,994         6,273      24,304
2001          1,130          56         1,399       8,549         7,113         18,247          3,279          3,299         6,579      24,826
2002          1,130          56         1,399       8,549         7,333         18,467          3,279          3,611         6,891      25,358
2003          1,130          56         1,399       8,549         7,534         18,668          3,279          3,896         7,175      25,843
2004          1,130          56         1,399       8,549         7,769         18,903          3,279          4,230         7,509      26,412
2005          1,130          56         1,399       8,549         7,960         19,094          3,279          4,499         7,779      26,873
2006          1,130          56         1,399       8,549         7,960         19,094          3,279          4,499         7,779      26,873
2007          1,130          56         1,399       8,549         7,960         19,094          3,279          4,499         7,779      26,873
2008          1,130          56        1,399        8,549         7,960         19,094          3,279          4,499         7,779      26,873
2009          1,130          56         1,399       8,549         7,960         19,094          3,279          4,499         7,779      26,873
2010          1,130          56        1,399        8,549         7,960         19,094          3,279          4,499        7,779       26,873
2011          1,130          56        1,399        8,549         7,960         19,094          3,279          4,499        7,779       26,873
2012          1,130          56        1,399        8,549         7,960         19,094          3,279          4,499        7,779       26,873
2013          1,130          56        1,399        8,549         7,960         19,094          3,279          4,499        7,779       26,873
2014          1,130          56        1,399        8,549         7,960         19,094          3,279          4,499        7,779       26,873
2015          1,130          56        1,399        8,549         7,960         19,094          3,279          4,499        7,779       26,873
2016          1,130          56        1,399        8,549         7,960         19,094          3,279          4,499        7,779       26,873
2017          1,130          56        1,399        8,549         7,960         19,094          3,279          4,499        7,779       26,873
2018          1,130          56        1,399        8,549         7,960         19,094          3,279          4,499        7,779       26,873
2019          1,130          56        1,399        8,549         7,960         19,094          3,279          4,499        7,779       26,873
2020          1,130          56        1,399        8,549         7,960         19,094          3,279          4,499        7,779       26,873
2021          1,130          56        1,399        8,549         7,960         19,094          3,279          4,499        7,779       26,873
2022          1,130          56        1,399        8,549         7,960         19,094          3,279          4,499        7,779       26,873
2023          1,130          56        1,399        8,549         7,960         19,094          3,279          4,499        7,779       26,873
NP/          9,212         526       11,811       66,031        53,325        140,904         17,827         26,161       43,988      184,892
1/ Inremental fied O&M costs are assumed at 5% of capacity invesTuent costs. There are no fixed O&M costs assoced with lnstitonal Devebpment.



- 72 -
ANNEX 12
PERU
LIMA WATER REHABILITATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
MARGINAL WATER SOURCE AND MARGINAL OPERATING COST
(in US$ a of May 19941
YEAR              CRY  EASO...........                    SON:
)  .). ........... .-E,- ... ,-i                                    .:-.............................         N ,,     
l --0j-.-..   .-. '..  .-'.'-.'.,          .. j.   .  ..  .  .t... 4-4 .......  ..   . .... '; "'4 ''-
1994          Rationing         0.27          Rationing         0.27
1995          Rationing         0.27          Rationing         0.27
1998          Rationing         0.27          Rationing         0.27
1997             Wells          0.03             Wellb          0.01
1998             Wells          0.03             Wells          0.01
1999             Wells          0.03             Wells          0.01
2000             Wells          0.03             Wells          0.01
2001             Wells          0.03             Wells          0.01
2002             Wells          0.03             Wells          0.01
2003             Wells          0.03             Wells          0.01
Annual Equivalent Cost at 10%
(1994 - 2003)                          0.13                            0.11
1/ Differences in marginal operational costs of wells in seasons due to changes
in water tables.
PERU
LIMA WATER REHABILITATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
AVERAGE INCREMENTAL COSTS OF WATER AND SEWERAGE
(in US$ as of May 1994j
tAttid.f-'',' -..' '-. '   .'"i'"' ' ........" .                .   =.     ' ' t'"' . ,.     .......  . ........i..
WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM
Water Intake                           0.024          1.000             0.02           0.13           0.15
Transmission                           0.001          1.005             0.03           0.13           0.15
Treatment                              0.01e          1.015             0.04           0.13           0.17
Distribution                           0.087          1.120             0.14           0.15           0.29
Connections                            0.071          1.135             0.23           0.17           0.40
TOTAL                                                                   0.23           0.17           0.40
SEWERAGE SYSTEM
Connections                            0.035          0.850             0.03           0.00           0.03
Disposal of Untreated Sewage           0.024          1 .000            0.02           0.00           0.02
TOTAL                                                                   0.05           0.00           0.05
AVR INCREMENTAL COSTS
WATER AND SEWERAGE          I      _I                       I                 I                       0.45
1/ The Loss Adjustment Factor of 0.85 is applied for the sewerage system, at the connection stage,
to allow charging sewerage users based on their consumption of water.



ANNEX 10
PERU
LIMA WATER SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
SEDAPAL'S MARGINAL COST AND TARIFF STRUCTURES
(in US$ as of May 1994)
TARIFF CATEGORY            MARGINAL COST       AVERAGE TARIFF         RATIO TARIFFI
(US$ 1m3)          (US$ /m3)           MARGINAL COST
Water    Water &    Water    Water &    Water      Water &
._______________________________  Sewage,          Sewage                Sewage
RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMERS
based on minimum consumption
Category    A                         0.40     0.45      0.13      0.13       0.32         0.28
Category    B                         0.40     0.45      0.14      0.14       0.36         0.32
Category    C                         0.40     0.45      0.17      0.17       0.41         0.37
Category    D                         0.40     0.45      0.21      0.21       0.52         0.47
Category    E                         0.40     0.45      0.27      0.27       0.68         0.60
Category    F                         0.40     0.45      0.31      0.31       0.77         0.69
NON-RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMERS
Industries                            0.40     0.45      0.72      0.72       1.79         1.59
Commerce                              0.40     0.45      0.72      0.72        1.79        1.59
Public                                0.40     0.45      0.37      0.37       0.93         0.82
Social                                0.40     0.45      0.09      0.09       0.23         0.20



ANNEX I 1
PERU
LUMA WATER AND SANITATION MANAGEaENT PROJECT
SEDAPAL: ICONE STATEMENT
Current US Inilon
_____________________  HISTORIC  v smtkm                           PROJECTED
19:      1991     1:2      199      194       1999     199       99      1s9      1999 -2000
Water and Sewerage Billed (m3 million)         348.1    370.1    383.0    405.2    430.0    435.0    445.0    467.0    483.0    507.0    522.0
Average Water and Sewerage Tariff (US$/m3)      0.15     0.21     0.20     0.21     0.32      0.34     0.36     0.37     0.37     0.37      0.37
Average Revenue (US$/m3)                        0.17     0.23     0.24     0.25     0.36     0.40      0.41     0.41     0.41     0.41      0.40
Water and Sewerage Revenues                     52.5     76.0     75.1     85.4    136.9    150.1    162.1    171.1    177.0    185.8    191.3
Sewerage Revenues                                0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
Connection Fees & Others                         0.5      0.0      6.4      6.9      4.4       7.8      3.8      4.2      4.0      4.1       4.0
Industrial Discharges                           4.4       5.5      5.1      5.2      8.3       9.0      9.5      9.5      9.5      9.5       9.5
Own Sources                                      2.7      4.2      4.4      4.3      5.4       5.9      6.2      6.2      6.2      6.2       6.2
Operating Revenues                              60.1     85.6     91.0    101.8    155.0    172.7    181.6    191.1    196.7    205.7    211.1
Personnel Costs                                34.7      38.3     33.5     27.5     31.0     31.7      32.4     33.1     33.8     34.5      35.2
Chemical Costs                                   1.2      2.6      2.1      2.4      3.2       3.3      3.3      3.4      3.5      3.6       3.6
Power Costs                                     7.3       7.7      7.6      9.5     13.6      13.9     14.1     14.4     14.8     15.1      15.5
Operation and Maintenance                        1.7      2.8      4.7      3.5      5.7       9.2     15.1     21.2     27.3     32.1      37.8
Third Party Service Costs                        0.9      1.1      3.2      8.4     13.4      17.9     17.9     17.9     17.9     17.9      17.9
Administration Costs                            12.2     22.7     20.2     17.1     17.6      16.8     15.9     15.1     14.4     13.7      13.0
SNSS Contribution                                1.3      2.2      2.6      1.0      3.1       3.5      3.6      3.8      3.9      4.1       4.2
Total Operating Costs                           59.2     77.4     74.0     69.4     87.6     96.2    102.4    109.0    115.5    120.9    127.4
Income Before Depreciation                      0.9      8.3      17.1     32.4     67.4     76.5      79.2     82.1     81.2     84.7     83.7
Depreciation                                   66.8      25.8     16.7     11.1     13.3      15.9     18.7     21.5     24.0     26.4     28.7
Operating Income                               (65.9)   (17.5)     0.4     21.3     54.1     60.7      60.5     60.6     57.2     58.3      55.0
Interest Expenses                              32.3      10.9     14.8      8.1      2.7      5.2       4.8      5.3      5.5      5.4       5.5
Change Adjustments                             24.6       5.8     (3.3)     1.7      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
Other Non-Operating Income                       7.7     10.8     (3.2)     8.7      8.5       7.9      8.3      8.8      9.0      9.4       9.4
Taxes                                           0.0       0.0      0.6      0.0      3.1       3.5     19.2     19.2     18.2     18.7      17.7
Net Income                                    (115.1)   (23.4)   (14.9)    20.2     56.8     60.0      44.9     44.9     42.5     43.6     41.3
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
WORKING RATIO                                 98.6%    90.4%    81.2%    68.2%    56.5%    55.7%    56.4%    57.0%    58.7%    58.8%    60.3%
OPERATING RATIO                              209.7%   120.5%    99.5%    79.0%    65.1%    64.9%    66.7%    68.3%    70.9%    71.6%    73.9%
RATEOFRETURN                                  .11.1%    -3.7%     0.1%     7.6%    17.9%    16.3%    13.4%    11.4%      9.5%     8.8%     7.6%



ANNEX 11
PERU
UMA WATER AND SANITATION MANAGEMENT PROJECT
SEDAPAL: FLOW OF FUNDS
Current US$ million
HISTORIC         ESnMAME                         PROJECTED
1990     1991     1992     1993     1994      1995     1996     1997     1998     1999      2000
SOURCES OF FUNDS
INTERNAL SOURCES:                             170.8     86.5      64.0     84.1    109.9    138.1    139.7    137.7    117.1    119.1    101.6
Net Income (Loss) After Tax                  (115.1)   (23.4)   (14.9)    20.2      56.8     60.0      44.9     44.9     42.5     43.6     41.3
Add back:
Depreciation                               66.8      25.8     16.7     11.1     13.3      15.9     18.7     21.5     24.0     26.4      28.7
Net Financial Expenses                     32.3      10.9     14.8      8.1      2.7       5.2      4.8      5.3      5.5      5.4       5.5
Monetary Correction                         23 6      4. 2     (6.8)    (02)      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Internal Cash Generation                        7.6     17.4       9.7     39.2     72.8     81.0      68.3     71.6     72.0     75.5     75.5
EXTERNAL SOURCES:
IBRD Loan                                     0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0     33.4     46.8      34.2     17.9     10.1      7.5
Co-Financier Loan (OECF)                      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      2.9      7.9      19.2     16.2     19.9     10.0
Other Loan (Internal)                         8.4     12.9      10.0     30.2     26.5     20.3      16.7     11.6      9.0      7.0      3.6
Other Loan (External)                         1.8      2.4       1.7     13.7      4.3      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      6.5      5.0
--- Gain (Loss)                             143.4    30 7      27.1       0.0      6.4      0. 0     0 0       0.0      0.0      0.       0.0
Total Loans                                   153.6    46.1       38.9     43.9     37.1     56.6      71.4     65.0     43.1     43.6      26.2
Equi-ty                                         9 5     22.9      15.4      1 0      0 0      0.5       0 0      1.0      2.0      0.0     -0.0
Total Cash from Financing Activities          163.2     69.1      54.3     44.9     37.1      57.1     71.4     66.0     45.1     43.6      26.2
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS                         171.3     81.1      62.0     85.2     91.6    139.2    146.6    143.0    109.1    128.9       96.4
Investments
Proposed Project                               0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      5.1     44.3     74.4      72.3     46.0     40.4     23.7
Other Projects                                11.1     17.6      17.1     39.5     66.3     76.2     45.2      39.2     32.1     56.4     41.9
Donated Investments                            7.8      8.8       1.0      0.0      0.0      0 0      0 0       0 0      0.0      0 0      0 0
Subtotal - Investments                         18.9     26.4      18.1     39.5     71.4    120.6    119.6    111.5      78.2     96.8     65.5
Interest During Construction                    5.0      4.0       1.3      2.7      2.2      4.8       7.2      8.       9.6.               .
Total Investment Costs                         23.9     30.4      19.4     42.2     73.6    125.4    126.8    120.1      87.3    106.1      75.2
Inflation Adjustment                          113.8     24.5      22.5      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Debt Service
Amortization                                    0.6      0.4       1.5      2.0      5.2      8.6      13.3     16.1     17.0     14.4      15.5
Of which IBRD and OECF                         0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      5.8
Of which other debt already contracted         0.6      0.4       1.5      2.0      5.2      6.8      8.6       9.4     10.3      8.1      3.2
Of which other debt to be contracted                                                0.0      1.8      4.7       6.7      6.7      6.3      6.4
Interest                            - -------- 56. 9    16 7      11.5      9 8      2.7      5 2       48       5.3      5.5      5.4       5.5
Total Debt Service                             57.5      17.1     13.0     11.8      7.9      13.7     18.1     21.4     22.5     19.8      21.0
Working Capital Needs                          (15.7)    18.4      1.0     24.8     10.1      0.0       1.8      1.5     (0.7)     2.9      (0.7)
Other Assets and Liabilities Increases         (8.2)    (9.3)      6.0      6.4      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       1.0
CHANGE IN CASH                                 (0.5)     5.4       2.0     (1.1)    18.4     (1.1)    (6.9)    (5.3)      8.0     (9.8)      5.2
CASH AT BEGINNING OF YEAR                       0.7      0.2       5.6      7.6      6.5     24.9      23.8     16.9     11.6     19.6       9.8
CASH AT END OF YEAR                             0.2      5.6       7.6      6.5     24.9     23.8      16.9     11.6     19.6      9.8      15.0
DEBT SERVICE RATIO                              0.12     0.83     0.68     2.71      7.18     4.37     2.71     2.39      2.27     2.59     2.47
INTERNAL SOURCES OF FUNDS (ISF)                (25.9)    (8.8)   (10.3)    (3.8)    54.8     67.2     48.5      48.8     50.2     52.7      54.2
ISF / INVESTMENT                                 0%       0%       0%       0%       77%      56%      41%      44%       64%      54%      83%



ANNEX 11
PERU
UMA WATER AND SANITATION MANAGEMENT PROJECT
SEDAPAL: BALANCE SHEET
Current US rnmilon
ISTOW AORIC:                                          PROJECTED
19       1991     19:2     1993     194       1995     19"6     1997     1898     19 i      2000
ASSETS
Cash                                            0.2       5.6      7.6      6.5     24.9     23.8      16.9     11.6     19.6      9.8      15.0
Accounts Receivable                             7.0      16.7     19.3     31.0     38.7     36.0      37.8     39.8     41.0     42.9     44.0
Inventory                                       1.2       6.0      2.8      1.7      4.1       6.9      6.8      6.4      4.5      5.5      3.7
Other Current Assets                            3.7      14.4     18.3     29.5     29.5     29.5      29.5     29.5     29.5     29.5     30.5
Total Current Assets                           12.1      42.7     48.0     68.7     97.2     96.2      91.0     87.2     94.5     87.6     93.2
Fixed Assets                                  657.5    831.6    522.8    432.0    476.7    550.2    643.4    746.6    844.7    945.3   1037.2
Less: Accumulated Depreciation               (232.4)  (308.1)  (199.5)  (162.6)  (175.9)  (191.8)  (210.5)  (232.0)  (255.9)  (282.4)  (311.1)
Net Fixed Assets                              425.1    523.5    323.3    269.4    300.7    358.4    432.9    514.7    588.7    663.0    726.1
Work in Progress                               21.7      40.8     38.0     51.1     80.0    131.9    165.5    182.3    171.6    177.1    160.4
Intangible Assets                               3.2       6.6      9.4     12.1     12.1      12.1     12.1     12.1     12.1     12.1      12.1
Total Long-term Assets                        450.0    570.8    370.7    332.6    392.9    502.4    610.5    709.1    772.5    852.2    898.6
Total Assets                                  462.0    613.5    418.7    401.3    490.0    598.6    701.6    796.4    867.0    939.8    991.8
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Accounts Payable                                3.5       8.1      7.9      7.4      7.4       7.4      7.4      7.4      7.4      7.4       7.4
Long-tern Debt, Current Portion                25.2      26.5     25.8     27.9     31.2     35.9      38.7     39.7     37.0     38.1     37.3
Other Current Liabilities                      14.2      17.6     24.9     26.1     26.1     26.1      26.1     26.1     26.1     26.1     26.1
Total Current Uabilities                       42.8      52.2     58.5     61.4     64.7      69.5     72.2     73.2     70.5     71.7      70.8
Long-term Debt                                 31.0      38.2     42.0     62.4     91.0    134.3    189.7    237.7    266.5    294.5    306.0
Social Benefit Provision                        6.3      15.5     10.1      6.8      6.8       6.8      6.8      6.8      6.8      6.8      6.8
Total Long Term Uabilities                     37.3      53.6     52.1     69.3     97.8    141.2    196.5    244.5    273.3    301.4    312.9
Total Uabilities                               80.1    105.8    110.6    130.7    162.6    210.6    268.7    317.7    343.8    373.0    383.7
Equity                                        382.0    507.7    308.1    270.7    327.5    388.0    432.8    478.7    523.2    566.8    608.1
Total Equity and Liabilities                  462.0    613.5    418.7    401.3    490.0    598.6    701.6    796.4    867.0    939.8    991.8
DEBT/(DEBT+EQUITY) RATIO (%(                  12.8%    11.3%    18.0%    25.0%    27.2%    30.5%    34.5%    36.7%    36.7%    37.0%    36.1%
CURRENT RATIO                                   0.28     0.82     0.82      1.12     1.50     1.38     1.26      1.19     1.34     1.22     1.31



- 77 -
Annex 12
Notes and Assumptions for Financial Forecasts
1.    Financial projections are based on SEDAPAL's audited financial statements for 1987-92,
the 1993 budget, and SEDAPAL's financial projections and explanatory notes for 1994-2000.
2.     Because of high inflation during the several few years, financial statements have been
translated into current U.S. dollars (using year-end exchange rates for balance sheets and average
exchange rates for income statements). Projections are also prepared in current U.S. dollars, using
1993 as the base year. Domestic inflation is assumed to stabilize at about 16 percent a year in
1996, with domestic currency depreciating against the dollar accordingly. The projected
international inflation is 2.5 percent. Historic domestic inflation and exchange rates are shown in
Table 1.
Table 1
Domestic inflation and exchange rates
= = d-ya              Average                         1nEs aaMxsa
exchange - rate     exchnge rate    ome cinfai    aon         
-Yea                       L$ItS$               L$1US             (pret   ;        9=1
1987                        33.00                7.00                115             81.3
1988                       500.00               129.00             1,722             87.1
1989                      5,261.00            2,666.00             2,775             86.5
1990                    516,989.30          187,885.64             7,650             91.5
1991'                        0.96                0.77                139             93.6
1992                         1.63                 1.25                56             97.6
1993                         2.31                2.01                 35            100.0
a. The nuevo sol (NS), equivalent to I million intir, was introduced on July 1, 1991
I. Income statement
Revenues
3.     Operating revenue. These revenues consist of water and sewerage tariffs, service and
maintenance fees (including repairs and connection fees), treatment and sewerage service fees for
industrial discharges, and sewerage revenue from consumers with own water sources. The
underlying assumption for the volume of water sold is that both commercial and physical losses will
decrease as the water meter and rehabilitation programs advance. Increased metering will decrease
the amount of water consumed per customer. Overall volume of water sold, however, will increase
as service coverage and commercial efficiency increases. The projected volume of water sold is
based on the demand projections presented in Annex 8.
4.    Retail prices (taniff). The average water and sewerage tariff is expected to increase
gradually to US$0.37 per cubic meter by the end of projection period to better reflect economic
cost. The average revenue (including non-tariff revenue) will increase accordingly-to US$0.41 per
cubic meter by the end of project execution.



- 78 -
Annex 12
5.     Unaccounted-for water. This is measured by the difference between water produced and
water billed, and includes physical and commercial losses caused by meter errors, illegal
connections, differences between actual consumption and billed volume caused by theft, and other
items. Unaccounted-for water averages about 46 percent of total production. The base-case
projection assumes that SEDAPAL will meet the targeted unaccounted-for water level of 41 percent
by the end of the project.
6.            Metering. Although 49 percent of connections reportedly had meters, only 7 percent
of these meters are functioning well, about 50 percent need adjustment, and more than 40 percent
are totally nonfunctional because of neglected maintenance in the past several years. SEDAPAL will
increase the percentage of metered billing from 3.8 percent of total connections in 1993 to 46
percent by 2000.
apenses
7.     Operating expenses. These include expenses for personnel, chemicals, electricity, operation
and maintenance, third-party labor, administration costs, and contributions to the Superintendency of
Sanitary Services. The number of employees is expected to stay at the 1993 level (1,965 permanent
employees) throughout the forecast period, while the salary per employee is expected to increase by
2 percent a year. Projected electricity consumption is based on the production volume of water at
the pumping stations. The estimated electricity cost is estimated to be US$0.0174 per cubic meter,
while chemical costs are estimated to be US$0.0041 per cubic meter throughout the project period.
8.     One of the main reasons for deterioration in SEDAPAL's service quality was neglect of
maintenance. Operation and maintenance costs are estimated to be 5 percent of total investment, and
increase with the number of water connections. This translates into an increase in maintenance
costs from 5 percent of operating costs in 1993 to about 30 percent of operating costs in 2000
(Table 2). This increase in maintenance demonstrates SEDAPAL's commitment to sustaining service
quality. Contributions to the Superintendency of Sanitary Services are estimated to be 2 percent of
operating revenue.
Table 2
Change in structure of operating costs
(percent)
Ebgxpeditr categoryS  ;: tt0    1988A L :: 1993       1995        19 
Personnel                         73.7       39.6       32.9        29.3        27.7
Chemical                           2.6       3.4         3.4         3.0         2.9
Electricity                        4.3       13.6       14.5        12.8        12.2
Operation and maintenance          2.5       5.0         9.6        23.6        29.7
Third-party service                2.6       12.1       18.6        15.5        14.1
Administration                    11.5      24.7        17.4        12.4        10.2
SNSS contribution                  2.6        1.5        3.6         3.4         3.3
Total                            100.0      100.0      100.0       100.0       100.0
Working ratio (percent)          151.3      68.2        55.7        58.7        60.3
Operating ratio (percent)        291.6      79.0        64.9        70.9        73.9



- 79 -
Annex 12
9.    Deprecianon is calculated on a straight-line basis, assuming an expected useful life for
different types of assets. Depreciation is estimated to be 2.8 percent of average gross assets-the
historical average-assuming an average asset life of 36 years.
10.   Interest expenses are estimated to be 35 percent of total annual financial charges. About 65
percent of financial charges are directly related to investments and thus are capitalized.
11.   Other non-operaing income is net of provisions for bad debt and income from customers'
delayed payment charges.
12.   Income tax is estimated to be 30 percent of net income after financial costs. For 1994 and
1995, SEDAPAL is paying only about 2 percent of net income after financial costs since it still
carries accumulated losses from previous years.
II. Balance Sheet
Assets
13.   Accowus receivable are expected to decrease to 90 days of annual operational revenue by
end-1994, and will decrease to 75 days by end-1995. The net of accounts receivable is accounts
billed and unpaid and provisions for bad debts. As of March 31, 1994, SEDAPAL had about
US$21 million worth of bills that were more than six months overdue. The company launched a
bill collection program offering customers favorable payment terms (payments in monthly
installments with no interest charges), and cutting off services for customers who did not respond
after a certain period of time. The results of the program have so far been disappointing.
14.   Inventory consists of materials (such as chemicals), estimated to be 5.7 percent of total
investment, while work in progress is assumed to be the sum of 65 percent of total investment and
the previous year's work in progress, less 37 percent of previous years' work in progress, which is
transferred to fixed assets.
15.   Other current assets include other receivables such as delayed payment charges and IGV
(sales tax of 18 percent) charged to customers on their bills. The amount is forecast to be constant
throughout the forecast period.
16.   Fixed assets are revalued with inflation every year. They increase annually with
investments for the forecast period. SEDAPAL's current book value of net fixed assets is
undervalued because of insufficient revaluation in the years of hyperinflation, as well as insufficient
valuing of surface and underground assets. SEDAPAL is undertaking studies to determine the real
value of its assets. The first, completed recently, reviewed the application of the inflation index (re-
expression index) to fixed assets. The results of the study are incorporated in the 1993 financial
statements. The second study involves the revaluation of visible fixed assets, and should be
completed within a few months. The results of this second study will be incorporated in the 1994
financial statements. The third study will revalue invisible assets, including underground pipes and
connections, that account for about 70 percent of SEDAPAL's total assets. This study has not



- 80 -
Annex 12
started. A terms of reference for the invisible asset revaluation study will be discussed during loan
negotiations.
Liabilities and equity
17.   Long-tern debt consists of local and external debt with the Bank, FONAVI, and other
financial institutions. At the end of 1993, SEDAPAL had external debts in arrears of US$45 million
(including principal, interest, and late charges). These debts were discussed at the Paris Club (May
1993) and other bilateral meetings. They were refinanced and subsequently assumed by the
Government of Peru. SEDAPAL's obligation to the Government regarding these debts is not clear,
and SEDAPAL still carries these debts on its balance sheet. The projection assumes that these debts
will be refinanced by the government with a repayment period of ten years without grace, at an
annual interest rate of 8 percent. SEDAPAL, with the help of CEPRI-SEDAPAL and COPRI, is
negotiating with the Government to cancel its obligation regarding these debts.
18.   Share capital has increased with equity participation of the Govermnent through transfers,
user contributions through transfer of user financed assets to SEDAPAL (mainly secondary works
financed by users through FONAVI loans), inflation adjustments for user contributed assets, and
SEDAPAL's retained earnings.
III. Borrowing and Investments
Project financing
19.   Proposed Bank loan. The Bank will finance US$150 million equivalent, with 17 years to
maturity, including a 5-year grace period, at the Bank's variable lending rate (currently 7.27
percent). The first disbursement is expected during the first quarter of 1995, and the first repayment
will start in early 2000 (Table 3). The commitment fee is assumed at 0.75 percent of the
undisbursed balance. There will be retroactive financing of about US$10 million for the portion of
investment commenced before the first disbursement. A Special Account of US$8 million will be
established to ensure the necessary liquidity.
20.   Cofinancing. The Peruvian Government has requested OECF of Japan to finance about
US$76 million at its standard fixed lending rate (currently about 3 percent). The loan, once
confirmed by the Japanese Government after approval by the Bank, would finance specific
subcomponents of the project not financed by the Bank (parallel financing). The first disbursement
is expected during the first quarter of 1995. There is no commitment fee.
21.   Internal cash generation. SEDAPAL will finance 26 percent of the projected Bank
investment program-not including interest during construction-with internally generated resources.
SEDAPAL will pay the full amount of interest during construction from its internal cash generation.



- 81 -
Annex 12
Non-project financing
22.    During the forecast period, SEDAPAL is estimated to borrow about US$120 million from
FONAVI and other financial institutions.
Table 3
Financing of the investment project
(millions of U.S. dollars)
TOtWl
Sources                          1994  1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000  Amount :trcrut
Financing plan for Bank project
Bank loan                      0.0   33.4   46.8   34.2   17.9   10.1    7.5   150.0    49.0
Cofinancier                    0.0    2.9    7.9   19.2  16.2  20.0   10.0    76.2    24.9
SEDAPAL's internal cash        5.1    8.1   19.7   18.9   11.9   10.3   6.1    80.0    26.1
Total                          5.1  44.3   74.4  72.3   46.0   40.4  23.7   306.2   100.0
Financing for total investment plan
Bank loan                      0.0   33.4   46.8   34.2   17.9  10.1    7.5   150.0    22.6
Cofinancier                    0.0    2.9    7.9   19.2  16.2  20.0   10.0    76.2    11.5
SEDAPAL's internal cash       34.2  63.5   48.2   45.5  33.0   53.2  39.4   317.0    47.8
FONAVI and other internal sources 26.5  20.3   16.7   11.6   9.0    7.0    3.6    94.7    14.3
Other external financing      10.6   0.5    0.0    1.0   2.0   6.5    5.0    25.6          3.8
Total                         71.4  121.6  119.6  111.5  78.2  96.8   65.5   663.6   100.0
Total investment costs
23.    SEDAPAL's total investment during 1994-2000 is estimated to be US$663 million
(US$714.3 million including capitalized interests), of which US$306 million represents the Bank
project (US$338.2 million including capitalized interests).
IV. Sensitivity Analysis
24.    Three basic scenarios were analyzed to determine the impact of operational efficiency
(represented by the unaccounted-for water level) and tariff levels on SEDAPAL's investment
capacity. SEDAPAL's investment capacity was determined by its internal cash generation under
each scenario, keeping the level of financing constant. The "improved public sector" scenario
assumes that SEDAPAL's operational efficiency will improve gradually to the level of a reasonably
well-managed public water and sanitation company elsewhere in Latin America. The "private
sector" scenario assumes what SEDAPAL could achieve if a private concessionaire takes over and
introduces private sector efficiency. The "business-as-usual" scenario assumes no efficiency
improvement. Each of these scenarios is analyzed under two tariff scenarios: a gradual tariff
increase to US$0.37 a cubic meter and tariff remaining at the May 1994 level of US$0.28 a cubic
meter. SEDAPAL's internal investment sources were calculated under each scenario (Table 4).



- 82 -
Annex 12
25.    The sensitivity analysis highlights the importance of operational efficiency and tariff increases
to the timely execution of the planned investment program. Internal cash generation is particularly
sensitive to changes in the tariff level. Under the public sector scenario, with tariff increases, the total
investment program of US$663.6 million will be complete in seven years. With no tariff increase,
Table 4
Sensitivity analysis summary
'''X'.'.'''.~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~. ..f'  ........'S"    d'  '"""'',',' '.......'  ........ . , w
Taidff: $adoall    TrIffsa.a
Private sector
(Gradual decrease of unaccounted-for water to 30 percent)
Internal sources of fundsa (millions of U.S. dollars)                      460               250
Investment levelb (millions of U.S. dollars)                               752               541
Maximum working ratio (percent)                                             57               65
Estimated years to project completion'                                 Les than ffiL     7.  More than 9
Improved public sector                                                   (Baa .Ecase)
(Gradual decrease of unaccounted-for water to 41 percent)
Internal sources of funds (millions of U.S. dollars)                       376               183
Investment level (millions of U.S. dollars)                                 664              474
Maximum working ratio (percent)                                          60                  73
Estimated years to project completion                                X      7           More than 10
Business as usual
(Unaccounted-for water stays at 46 percent)
Internal sources of funds (millions of U.S. dollars)                       342               15$
Investment level (millions of U.S. dollars)                                633            A450
Maximum working ratio (percent)                                             64                      ......
Estimated years to project completion                                  More than 8    0-More than 11
Note: Shaded areas represent the most likely outcome under each scenario.
a. SEDAPAL's internaly generated cash net of debt ervice between 1994-2000.
b. The maximum amount of investment possible between 1994-2000, from a financial point of view. For all scenarios, SEDAPAL will
keep cash balance of about one month of operating cost, and keep debt service coverage ratio of more than 1.2.
c. 'he minimum years needed to complete the project, determined by an average annual intermal cash generation calculated for each
scenario.
SEDAPAL's investment would be limited to about US$541 million between 1994-2000-83 percent
of the planned level-without hurting the financial health of the company (measured by debt service
coverage, cash balance, and so on). The working ratio will reach more than 70 percent under such
a scenario. Under the private sector scenario, with tariff increases, SEDAPAL would be able to
invest up to US$752 million. With no tariff increase, it can invest only about US$541 million, but
can keep the working ratio at less than 65 percent. The financial performance of the company could
improve further, since the government will likely assume all or part of SEDAPAL's debt obligation
once a private concession occurs. Under the business-as-usual scenario, even with tariff increases,
SEDAPAL's investment will fall short of what is planned. Without tariff increases, SEDAPAL
would be able to execute only about 68 percent of the total investment program, and the working
ratio would reach 78 percent.



- 83 -
Annex 12
26.    Under the worst-case scenario presented here (business as usual with no tariff increases), the
planned investment program could take more than 11 years to complete-a four-year delay in
implementation. The delay in investment execution will defer the net incremental benefit from the
investments. Under this scenario, the internal financial rate of return for the project will be reduced
to 10 percent, compared with 17 percent under the base-case scenario.
V. Ratio Analysis
27.   The definition and explanation of the financial ratios presented with the financial statements
(Annex 11) are:
28.   The operating ratio is the ratio of operating expenses plus depreciation to operating revenue.
This ratio improved dramatically in the past four years because real water rates increased and
personnel costs were reduced through successful reorganization. The operating ratio will rise
slightly toward the end of the project as depreciation expenses increase with investment.
29.   The working ratio is the ratio of operating expenses to operating revenues. This ratio will
not exceed 60 percent throughout the projected period.
30.   The rate of return on average net fixed assets is the percentage of net operating income after
depreciation in relation to average net fixed assets. Rates of returns have been erratic in the past
several years because of the fluctuation of real tariffs and thus of tariff revenues. The rates
presented here, however, do not assume a revaluation of assets. Once the fixed assets are revalued,
the rate of return is expected to be much lower.
31.   The current ratio is defined as the ratio of current assets to current liabilities.
32.   The debt-to-equity ratio is the ratio of long-term debt to equity. SEDAPAL's total long-term
debt does not include the current portion of long-term debt.
33.   The accounts receivable comparator is calculated by multiplying the accounts receivable
plus the provision for bad debt by 360 days, then dividing this product by SEDAPAL's operating
revenue.
34.   The debt service coverage ratio is defined as the ratio of the sum of net income after tax,
depreciation, interest on long-term debt, and monetary correction to the sum of amortization and
interest.
35.   The percentage of SEDAPAL's internal sources ofjfnds to investments is calculated as the
sum of interest during construction, increases in working capital, and debt service subtracted from
the sum of income after tax, depreciation, and financial expenses. This difference is then divided by
SEDAPAL's total investments (project and non-project), not including interest during construction.



ANNEX 13
PERU
LIMA WATER REHABILITATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PROCUREMENT PLAN AND IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
&-ibProject                            cowt     Metowd    Category.       1904         1905         isee         1907         199*         1900         2000
US$ 1000                     0I01 02 03 04 Qi 02 Q3 04 Qi Q2 03 04 01 02 Q3 04 01 Q2 03 04 Ql 02 03 04 01  2 03 04
A. YSYTEiS REHILITATION
WATE & aWt NE1WORKS
Cnral & Emt Zones                                                6,368      CB        Works   .       . 
South Zoe                                                          302    LCB         Works                                    ..........
Callao                                                          12013    LCB          Works             *._
Weot Zroe                                                         1,999    LCB        Works
Cd o m W Ntorks  _ _ 
Ckm     I & Unir04                                                 939    LCB         Works
Sv_ta    M  f   Po                                                 168    Cctn         td BS::.+
Replacemen ofo  Pipes                                            2,304                Works
Seconswy Netwrorks In fseleced DltIctem
SUrafloree d W_                                                    168Works
BEn_4 co                                                         3W172    ICB         Works
Chorillc                                                         2.088    LCB         Works
UrE Crecado                                                     19e078    ICB         Works
La Victoria *                                                                         Work s0 CS
Bren.                                                            8.57 1    ICB        Works0
Pueblo Libre                                                     3.44 2    Ice        Wors                               ~
Casllo                                                                                Wok
Rimsc                                                                                 Works
Lins                                                                                  Works
jemst Ms"i                                                                            Works
S. Iawo                                                                               Worksi
Roeewvhk                                                         1.965    LCB         Work
Equ*mnwt for 0&M                                                 6.928    Ice         Goods
Otiw   eletaon10.000    ICB                                                           Works
GrOINMDATB
Survey of Wae160  Conrtittnt   Studie
Rel~~~~delIltOdon ~~~~~~~2.023    LCS                                 Works
Equipmain  for Webl                                                932    ICB         Goode
Survey of Web                                                      159  Coneuittart   Studme
Rehllton                                        ~~~~~~ ~~~~         ~~~2,149    LCR  Works
Equinent for Wiebs                                                 084     ICB        Goods
Stavey of Web                                                      163  Cormuutant   Studies
RelideWtMlon                                    ~~~~~~ ~~~~~2,160  LC9  Works
Equilirment for N we884    Ice                                                        Goode
Equipmnot for 0&Ml                                                 630    Ice         Goods
Grounidwater modebi                                              2.000  Coriuitwit   Studim



ANNEX 13
PERU
LIMA WATER REHABILITATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PROCUREMENT PLAN AND IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Sub      tCoa                                  M....d    CetO"          le0          10"           le"         19j117    I l*"          190*         2000
.        .  ~~~US$ VW I                        1 Q2 03 Q4101 02 03 041Q1 02 004S Q-1Q (2 Q3 0401 Q.2 03 041Q1 :Q2 03 04 IQj Q2 03 041
S. WATY CONSEVATION
WATM METNO POaRAM
Cadtr                                                             040  Coneuttan. Studies
Phabieitaton of mete boxes                                      1,616    LCB        Worke
A.qiton of Mirometrer                                           2,647    ICe        Goode
Pikt Program for UPW in P. Libre                                  200 Coraumtrt   Studies
phoe S
Pehabiltation of meter boxe                                     1,616    LCB        Worke
Aqtielton of Mir    r                                           2,317    ICB         Goode
Phase U
RehebIltetor of mee boxes                                       7.644    ICB        Work,
AqiMtionof Micronee                                             6.716    lCS         Goode
CONJIN4CTrVE USE IN SELECTW DISTUCTS
00
Sen Miguel                                                      3.046    Ice        Work.                                                                                                                    L
Loe Olivee                                                      6.370    ICe        Work0
Los Olivo, Wells                                                  400    LCB        Works
Celieo                                                                              Work,
Reiforceente of mein.                                           2,000    LC8        Works
C. NETWOR  EXPANSON IN PUBLOS JOVBES
North
Pusris Piedre (Zepfll I - Sewerg                                2,780    LCB        Work,
Puerte Piedre 11                       8963    Ice                                  Works
El Camen (Come) - wetr                                            617    LCe        Works
El Empleedo 1S. Martin - wtr                                      796    LCe        Works
El Nerajel Lo  Olbosl - wetr                                    8,218    Ice        Works
Carebayll - water                                               1 1B9    LOS        Works
Peo IS. Martini - war end ew g                                            LC8       Works
Merie Tega ISJ Lugen cho-watr                                     714    LCe        Workse
Vitklw  - ewge coewtor                                          1.078    LCe        Works
27 de Abri Mtwite) -waer                                         '631     LCe       Works
LaMercedMt tel- wstw                                              162    LCe         Week,
H. Zovelhee Mtfflel -  r                                        1.207    LCe        Work_
Toyacals - water                                                1021    LCe         Works
Cerro C_nde Mierte - we  ael inverage                           4,921    ICe        Worx_
VMl a Svador                                                    1.844    LCB        Work,
F. Tabiede (VM de Trkivol - w_a                                 1,096    LCB        Works
Other Expanion                                                  4,696    Ice        Wor"-



ANNEX 13
PERU
LIMA WATER REHABILITATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PROCUREMENT PLAN AND IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
*       gtPt4ict                           ~~~~    ~~~~~~~COW  1111ii1  CUVstv~  Ifl I    WU 11                 M7          5W         t*           0
. ... ... ...                    ____0___:0_U0S*tOC                                   0      1 03  010203"G01003  00: 0  03 001 02    001  0 3    00200 _ 1:
0. Ss1TITUtIONAL sUwOwT
Project Moinw Usnit 6m000rnt  Ctaitns a-
Enirgins.q & Supervision Bor*t.4    ors                                        Ud
F                                                                        s ind w                        Cd2,0C    dis.5:iJs-------   - - -
StrmihwIe* of the Regulatory Body                             0 Coftw         Sbd
We'tsr RMatson- mangeme.rw                                   450 ConaitoLta   Studi.
Rneid a id Cormmera Systwems00Caota                                           SLdo
FoastilityStudy for t  ClionP                              1,200 C
FesbIt study for wtwater dposal                            1600 Cen           Stud           ---- :                           -.-_-__
TOTAL                                                     170,297
* To be finscd by OECF
00
0%



- 87 -
PERU                                              ANNEX 13
LIMA WATER REHABILITATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
BIDDING PACKAGE
WORKS/ICB
Sub-Project                                        ;;i
______ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____  u s '  iooo
Primwy Collectors
Central & East Zones                                   5,368
Secondary Networks In Selected Districts
Miraflores
Barranco                                               3,172
Lima Cercado                                          19,078
La Victoria
Brena                                                  8,571
Pueblo Libre                                           3,442
Callao -
Rimac '
Lince '
Jesus Maria
S. Isidro '
Other Rehabilitation                                  10,000
Water Metering Program
Rehabilitation of meter boxes, Phase III               7,544
Conjunctive Use In Selected Districts
San Miguel                                             3,045
Los Olivos                                             5,370
Callao c
Network Expansion In Pueblos Jovenes
Puente Piedra II                                       8,953
El Naranjal (Los Olivos) - water                       8,218
Cerro Candela IVitarte) - water and sewerage           4,921
Other Expansion                                        4,596
Sub-Total                                             92,277
* Co-Financed Project
GOODS/ICB
Sub-Projoct                     -                       .:
Secondwy Networks
Equipment for O&M                                      5,928
Groundwater
Equipment for Wells, Phase I                             832
Equipment for Wells, Phase II                            884
Equipment for wells, Phase III                           884
Equipment for O&M                                        630
Watsr Metering Progran
Aquisition of Micrometers, Phase I                     2,547
Aquisition of Micrometers, Phase II                    2,317
Aquisition of Micrometers, Phase III                   6,716
Sub-Total                                             20,738



- 88 -
PERU                                             ANNEX 13
LIMA WATER REHABILITATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
BIDDING PACKAGE
WORKS/LCB
Sub-Project                                         Coat
___  USt.'000
Primary Collectors
South Zone                                             302
Callao                                                1,013
West Zone                                             1,999
Primary Networks
Cleaning & Lining                                      939
Replacement of Pipes                                  2,304
Secondary Networks In Selected Districts
Chorillos                                            2,088
Reservoirs                                            1,965
Groundwater
Rehabilitation, Phase I                               2,023
Rehabilitation, Phase II                              2,149
Rehabilitation, Phase III                             2,150
Water Metering Program
Rehabilitation of meter boxes, Phase I                1,616
Rehabilitation of meter boxes, Phase II               1,61 6
Conjunctive Use In Selected Districts
Los Olivos Wells                                       400
Reinforcement of mains                               2,000
Network Expansion In Pueblos Jovenes
Puente Piedra (Zapallal) I - Sewerage                2,780
El Carmen (Comas) - water                              51 7
El Empleado (S. Martin) - water                        796
Carabayllo - water                                    1,169
Palao (S. Martin) - water and sewerage                 694
Maria Tegui (SJ Lurigancho)-water                      714
Vitarte - sewage collector                            1,078
27 de Abril (Vitarte) - water                          531
La Merced (Vitarte) - water                            152
H. Zevallos (Vitarte) - sewerage                      1,207
Tayacaja - water                                      1,021
Vila El Salvador                                      1,644
F. Tablada (VM del Triunfo) - water                   1,095
Sub-Total                                           35,963



- 89 -
PERU                                            ANNEX 13
LIMA WATER REHABILITATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
BIDDING PACKAGE
CONSULTANT/LOCAL
Sub-Project                                        Cost  |
:_________________________________ US. '000
Groundwater
Survey of Wells, Phase I                               158
Survey of Wells, Phase II                              158
Survey of Wells, Phase III                             163
Water Metering Program
Pilot Program for UFW in P. Libre                      200
Sub-Total                                              680
CONSULTANT/INTERNATIONAL
Sub-Project                                        Coil
US$ '000
Groundwater
Groundwater modelling                                2,000
Water Metering Program
Cadaster                                               840
Sectorization of the central main                    1,600
Institutional Support
Project Management Unit                              6,000
Engineering & Supervision                            4,549
Engineering & Supervision
Strenghtening of the Regulatory Body                   500
Water Resources management                             450
Financial and Commercial System                      2,000
Studies
Feasibility Study for the Chillon Plant              1,200
Feasibility study for wastewater disposal            1,500
Sub-Total                                           20,639
Project Base Cost                                  170,297
* Cofinanced Project
Contingencies are not included in Project Base Cost.
Cofinanced project not included in Project Base Cost.



- 90 -
Annex 14
Implementation Plan
I. Management Structure
1.    As the executing agency, SEDAPAL, through its project management unit, will be
responsible for the implementation of the proposed project. To provide guidance to the project
management unit and to ensure proper coordination between the Bank-financed project and the rest
of SEDAPAL's investments, a project consultative committee comprised of top SEDAPAL's
managers will be established. The manager of the project management unit will act as the executive
secretary of the consultative committee. To avoid creating a large management unit made up entirely
of SEDAPAL's own staff, a team of external management consultants will be recruited to work
under the supervision of the project management unit (see Attachment 1 for overall structure). In
designing this management structure, a number of objectives have been considered at each level:
*  At the project consultative committee level, the responsibilities of the group are intended to
strengthen the ownership element within top management while minimizing their undue
involvement in day-to-day project management.
* At the project management unit level, the well-defined responsibilities of the unit should
enhance the accountability of the project management unit to the consultative committee.
e  At the management consultant level, the structure provides efficient implementation by the
private sector and flexibility in the type and number of specialists needed at the various
stages.
Tasks for the project consultative committee
2.    The project consultative committee includes high-level SEDAPAL managers under the
chairmanship of the general manager; the manager of the project management unit (and the
management consultants, when required) will also participate in the meetings of the project
consultative committee. The agendas of these meetings will be determined by the manager of the
project management unit. Since SEDAPAL is the executing agency, its management is responsible
for implementing the project. The project consultative committee will provide management support
to project execution and follow-up by the managers within their own areas of influence. The minutes
of the meetings will be transmitted to the chairman of the board. The main tasks and responsibilities
of the consultative committee will be:
* Overseeing the agreement between the Bank and SEDAPAL;
*  Providing opinions on project programming;
*  Identifying (administrative) implementation bottlenecks, and suggesting adequate solutions;
*  Coordinating the progress and phase-in of project components with other SEDAPAL
investments;
*  Nominating an independent bidding evaluation committee to be approved by SEDAPAL's
board of directors. This committee will evaluate and present recommendations to the project
management unit, which will later be presented to the project consultative committee;
* Approving bidding schedules and winning bidders. The general manager, also head of the
project consultative committee, will sign all contracts;



- 91 -
Annex 14
* Managing relationships with other agencies regarding project subcomponents (such as
regulation and water resources management);
*  Approving progress reports prior to submission to the Bank; and
* Reviewing compliance with covenants (such as financial and audit requirements of project
accounts).
Tasks for the project management unit
3.    The project management unit will be responsible for the day-to-day management of project
implementation. To minimize the disruption of SEDAPAL's work caused by transferring permanent
staff to the project management unit, it has been decided that external consultants will be hired to
work as a team under the project management unit. The project management unit will consist of a
small number of SEDAPAL staff-a manager, three specialists (a technical specialist, a procurement
specialist, and an accountant), and support staff. The main responsibilities of the project
management unit will be:
*  Organizing a project launch workshop to review coordination and project implementation
procedures;
X  Preparing an agenda for the meetings of the project consultative committee;
*  Managing the management consultant contracts;
*  Establishing and maintaining guidelines and procedures for project implementation;
* Reviewing and approving bidding documents prepared by the management consultants,
approving short lists, signing contracts on behalf of SEDAPAL;
*  Approving payments to suppliers and contractors on receipt of appropriate documentation
from the management consultants, approving disbursement of the loans (Bank, OECF)
obtained to finance the project, and managing SEDAPAL's counterpart funding and the
special accounts;
*  Overall project monitoring, including maintaining a project implementation schedule,
expenditure forecast, and control system;
*  Preparing quarterly reports to the Bank to be approved by the project consultative
committee, showing agreed program targets and actual performance.
Tasks for the management consulants
4.    The magnitude of the project-coupled with the desire to avoid creating a large internal
project management unit-have suggested the need for an external consultant group to carry out day-
to-day implementation of tasks. The team leader of the consultant group will be responsible for
managing the team and will report directly to the project management unit manager. Management
consultants will be contracted initially for the first phase until the project review. Specific tasks for
the management consultants include:
*  Overall programming responsibility for the various subcomponents under the direction of the
project management unit;
* Setting appropriate methods, work organization, and management procedures for project
implementation;
*  Preparing bidding documents (to be approved by the project management unit and the Bank);



- 92 -
Annex 14
*  Preparing terms of reference for hiring engineering and supervision consultants (to be
approved by the project management unit and the Bank);
*  Assisting the project management unit in the bidding process (advertisement, answering
question from interested potential bidders, and so on);
*  Assisting the Bidding Evaluation Committee as required;
*  Monitoring the progress of works through the supervision consultant;
*  Maintaining all project files (reports, drawings, correspondence, invoices from contractors,
payments by SEDAPAL to services, and so on);
*  Preparing progress reports for the project management unit;
*  Reviewing payment invoices submitted through the supervision consultant and forwarding
them to the project management unit.
II. Project Manual
5.    As in any large-scale project, a project manual will be prepared before the initiation of
implementation. The manual will define clearly the responsibilities, procedures, and tools required
for proper execution of the project. This manual will be updated by the project management unit as
new information or procedures are made available. The management consultants will assist the
project management unit in updating and maintaining this manual. Efforts have been initiated to
compile the content of the manual to include, but not be limited to, the following sections:
e  Procurement: procurement plan, bidding packages, standard bidding documents
(international and local competitive bidding), bidding procedures, distribution of
responsibilities, and standard forms.
*  Disbursement: procedures for approval, standard forms, replenishment process, maintenance
of records, payments, money flows, and responsibilities.
* Project supervision: Terms of reference for the management consultants, monitoring of the
contracts, quality control, record keeping, and progress reports.
*  Engineering: specifications, standards, approval responsibilities, preparation of drawings,
technical cadastre, and record keeping.
* Communication: correspondence (internal and external), filing code system (project
documents and other correspondence).
*  Reporting: type, frequency, responsibility for preparation, circulation route, and approval
process.
*  Administrative issues: directives for internal procedures and job descriptions for project
management unit and management consultant positions.
*  Subproject selection criteria: Subproject evaluation methods as summarized in Annex 17.
III. Cost Estimates for Implementation Arrangements
6.    The inputs contained in Table 1 will be required to manage project implementation. All
calculations are based on a project implementation of six years and average base salaries including
benefits.



- 93 -
PERU                                        ANNEX 14
LIMA WATER REHABILITATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
MANAGEMENT RESESOURCES
Table 1.
6e"ipto                 ube        - Ork hs ':":T:OW Cast:
Project Managers Unit
Project Manager                                 1           72
Specialist                                     3           216
Assistant                                      2            96
Sub-Total                                                  384
Management Consultants
Team Leader                                     1           72
Technical Specialist                           7           324
Accounting and Financial Specialist            3           204
Assistant                                       4          216
Sub-Total                                                  816
Total Direct Costs                                                 3,500,000
Total Indirect Costs                                               2,500,000
Total Cost                                                         6,000,000



PERU                                        ANNEX 14
LIMA WATER REHABILITATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT               Attachment 1
IMPLEMENTATION STRUCTURE
PROJECT COMMITTEE
MANAGEMENT             PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT
CONSULTANT                    CONTRACTOR



PERU                                                ANNEX 15
LIMA WATER REHABILITATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN PROJECT ENTITIES AND FLOW OF FUNDS
MEF          | (1 )   |             IBRD         I.
l                             [~~~~~~~~2
SEDAPAL                        COMMERCIAL BANK 
(5)         (4)
CONTRACT
CONCESSIONAIRE                          SUPPLIER
CONSULTANT
Legal Document
Accountability of Expenses
Financial Resources
(1) Loan Agreement
(2) Project Agreement
(3) Subsidiary Loan Agreement 1
(4) Subsidiary Loan Agreement 2
(5) Concession Contract



- 96 -
Annex 16
Terms of Reference for the Project Review
Since the project considers two possible outcomes of SEDAPAL's privatization efforts, the
project review plays a key role in the early stages of project implementation. If privatization
succeeds, the project could be adjusted to reflect the concessionaire's investment plan. The
concessionaire will have the option of taking all, part, or none of the undisbursed portion of the
Bank loan. If the concessionaire accepts some or all of the loan, the subsidiary loan agreement
between SEDAPAL and the concessionaire (SLA-2) must be confirmed during the project review.
SLA-2 contains all the terms and conditions specified in the loan agreement, project agreement, and
sub-loan agreement between SEDAPAL and the Government of Peru (SLA-1). If privatization fails,
the project needs to be adjusted to focus on SEDAPAL's institutional development. Prior to the
project review, CEPRI-SEDAPAL's report regarding the results of the privatization will be
submitted to the Bank.
Project Review
Objective:    To discuss modification of the project design, if necessary, based on the results of
SEDAPAL's privatization efforts.
lIming:      Within ninety days of the award of the concession, or not later than December 31,
1995, or when aggregate loan disbursements amount to $40 million, whichever
comes first, in the event that the concession has not been previously awarded.
Duration:    One week.
Location:    World Bank headquarters.
Participants:  SEDAPAL, the Ministry of Economy and Finance, the Bank, the Cofinancier,
Peruvian government institutions related to the project, and the concessionaire (if
privatization succeeds).
Contents of the project review
* Physical progress of the project, procurement, disbursement, auditing, legal covenants, and
project monitoring indicators, as agreed at loan negotiations. A report prepared by the
project management unit on these topics must be submitted to the Bank prior to project
review.
If privatization is successful, participants in the project review will:
*  Discuss and review investment and financing plans proposed by the concessionaire.
*  Decide on the amount and structure of Bank-financed project to be executed by the
concessionaire.
*  Discuss loan cancellation procedures (if applicable) and amendments to legal documents, if
necessary.



- 97 -
Annex 16
*  Confirm the terms and conditions of a subsidiary loan agreement (SLA-2) between
SEDAPAL and the concessionaire.
* Review SEDAPAL's functions and responsibilities under the new statutory conditions,
including adjustments to the project management unit organization.
*  Review project procedures such as procurement, disbursement, auditing, and reporting.
*  Agree on the overall monitoring of the project by the Bank.
*  Agree on a new set of monitoring indicators reflecting the concessionaire's performance
plan.
* Discuss the need for the government's counterpart fund to be ensured for the execution of
the institutional development component.
If privatization is not successful, participants in the project review will:
*  Discuss and review future investment plans and modification of the project structure.
*  Modify the project structure to focus on improving the institutional capacity of SEDAPAL-
strengthening its commercial systems, financial operations, and overall management
efficiency.
*  Review the new management plan to be signed between SEDAPAL and the Ministry of the
Presidency. Prior to the project review, SEDAPAL must submit a revised management plan
to the Bank.
*  Discuss the second-best options for private sector participation in achieving operational
efficiency.



- 98 -
Annex 17
Guidelines for Evaluation of Subprojects
1.    This annex describes the basis for the selection of subprojects (districts) included in the
rehabilitation component and the selection and prioritization of subprojects in the pueblos javenes.
It is expected that the same guidelines would be followed for the selection of additional subprojects
when using the unallocated funds.
I. Subprojects for Rehabilitation
2. As a result of the lack of preventive maintenance and rehabilitation, SEDAPAL's service quality
has steadily deteriorated. Consultants were hired to evaluate the condition of the primary and
secondary networks. For this assessment, five districts representative of larger areas were
selected. I The selection of these districts was based on the historic and urban pattern of
development and the number of breakages and repairs in the districts. The assessment consisted of
a study to analyze existing information on maintenance and a field investigation to examine the
physical condition of pipes and other appurtenances. Survey results indicate that the major
problems in the water distribution network are caused by cast-iron pipes-the oldest type in the
network. Pipes made of other materials (concrete, asbestos cement, and galvanized iron) that are
older than 40 years also exhibit frequent breakages and severe corrosion. The main problems
affecting the sewage collection network are also related to the age of the pipes. Pipes older than 50
years exhibit serious corrosion and frequent collapse. Survey results are shown in the attachment to
this Annex.
3. In the second step of the selection procedure, the length of cast-iron pipe in each district was
estimated. The districts with the highest percentage of cast-iron pipe were selected for replacement
and rehabilitation. It was assumed that the sewers in these districts would be in similarly poor
condition given the age of the pipes, so the same districts were chosen for rehabilitation of sewerage
networks. Based on the two-staged selection procedure, the following districts are eligible for
rehabilitation under the project: Barranco, Brena, Callao, Chorrillos, Jesus Maria, La Victoria,
Lima Cercado, Lince, Miraflores, Pueblo Libre, Rimac, and San Isidro. The use of asbestos-cement
pipes should be approved by the Bank for each individual contract to ensure least-cost engineering
design. Contracts including asbestos-cement pipes should enforce specific safety provisions to
prevent inhalation of asbestos fibers during installation.
II. Subprojects for Expansion in the Pueblos Jovenes
4. It is estimated that 49 percent of Lima's population has an income below the poverty line and
that the poor generally live in the pueblos jovenes. To minimize selection costs, all pueblos jovenes
will be eligible for financing under this program. However, given the number of pueblos jovenes
without direct service, selection will be based on two guiding principles.
1. These districts were Brona, Callao, La Victoria, Lima Cercado, and Miraflores.



- 99 -
Annex 17
5. The first principle is demand-based prioritization. The responsibility for subproject proposals
will be vested in the communities. Experience from earlier projects indicates that when service users
participate in the decisionmaking process (based on perceived needs about service priorities,
standards, methods of delivery, and cost recovery), they tend to choose cost-effective solutions. The
second principle relates to a confined role for government agencies. Project management will be
limited to defining and disseminating the "rules of the game" (technical and financial criteria) and
quality control. Empirical evidence indicates that when project management is shifted to service
users or their agents, sustainability is vastly improved.
6. Although only primary networks will be financed under this loan, the design and construction of
these networks will depend on the demand for secondary networks. To coordinate these linked
components (with two different funding sources), a subunit will be set up within the management
consultant group. The subunit will manage the Bank-assisted component for the extension of
primary networks and the corresponding line of credit from FONAVI for secondary networks. To
ensure this component is successful, FONAVI and SEDAPAL should seek agreement on these lines
of credit before loan effectiveness.
7. Since this is the first project of this scale, project adjustments will likely be made, based on
information collected and evaluated during implementation. The steps involved in the
implementation process for the initial phases of the component are as follows:
*  The subunit of the management consultant group will disseminate information about the
funds and methods of securing access to all pueblos jovenes (through media, documents, and
distribution of guidelines for subproject preparation and criteria for selection). It will
provide information about potential facilitators (nongovernmental organizations, consulting
firms, contractors, and so on) who could assist the community in the preparation of a
subproject. Based on cost information from past subprojects, the per household budget
ceilings of the proposed schemes for secondary networks will be set below US$200 for
water and U$300 for sewerage services.
*  Any of the pueblos jovenes will be eligible to submit proposals. The pueblos jovenes will
form a water and sanitation committee to organize initial assemblies of residents, to
disseminate information about the project, and to assess the interests of the community.
*  The committee can contract a facilitator or work through its members. The principal
responsibilities of the committee or facilitator include mobilization of the community,
preparation of alternative technical solutions, discussion of solutions and their implications
on costs and community participation, preparation of a detailed design of the selected
solution (including cost estimates), specification of cost recovery procedures, and
presentation of the project to the subunit of the management consultant group for technical
and financial approval. The community will have to negotiate the cost of preparing the
subproject in advance and will pay for the services of the facilitator.
*  At the same time, the subunit will prepare designs for expansion of the primary scheme and
the cost implications for each household based on the number of pueblos jovenes connected
to each primary scheme. The per household cost ceilings for the primary schemes will be



- 100-
Annex 17
US$150 for water and US$200 for sewerage.2 Cost recovery of extension of the primary
networks will occur through the tariff system.
* Once the subproject is presented, the subunit will carry out its technical and financial
evaluation. It will review the basic criteria used in the technical design and the soundness of
the design. The financial evaluation will check adherence to cost ceilings and a survey of the
capacity of potential beneficiaries to pay back the loan for secondary systems. After the
evaluation the subunit will inform the pueblos jovenes about the loan terms (which would
carry the ongoing FONAVI rate but could provide flexibility in the amortization period).
*  When the subunit of the management consultant group approves the subproject, the
community will ratify the terms of the agreement. When ratified, at least 80 percent of the
beneficiaries of the subproject will have to sign an agreement for the repayment of their
share of the loan-using their land as collateral.
3  Once the subproject is approved and the loan terms are accepted by the community, the
community (either by itself or with the assistance of the facilitator) will select a contractor
through competitive bidding. The subunit of the management consultant group will provide,
if requested, information about contractors. However, the community will make the
selection and bear all risks.
3  The subunit will initiate procurement of services for the construction of primary networks
following Bank procedures and with project management unit approval.
3  The facilitator and the water committee will provide supervision of the contractor's work.
3  At completion of works, the project management unit, on behalf of SEDAPAL, will inspect
and receive the works; the community will have the option of assuming the responsibility of
maintaining the systems to negotiate a reduced tariff.
*  Residents will pay the water bill, which will include the FONAVI loan (amortized over
60-84 months) and the water and sewerage tariff. Including the FONAVI loan repayment in
the water bill is expected to cut down on the delinquency rate since potential delinquents
will try to avoid disconnection of water service.
2. Current connection costs are $850. Higher costs ar caused by the tendency to overdimension capacity. A more realistic
design of the primary and econdary network reauks in lower connection costs, ranging from $350 to $500.



- 101 -
ANNEX 17
PERU
LIMA WATER REHABILITATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
WATER SUPPLY NETWORK
RESULTS OF FIELD SURVEY
DESCRIPTION        AGE     CONDITIONS                     SOLUTIONS
PIPES
Cast iron (fierro  70-95   High level of incrustation,    Replacement
dulce)                     breaks and corrosion
Cast iron          50-70   High level of incrustation,    Cleaning and lining
breaks and corrosion
Reinforced         50-60   Frequent breaks                Replacement
concrete (Hume)
Asbestos cement   40-50   Longitudinal break (10 percent   Replacement and additional
(Magnani)                  of length)                     study
Galvanized iron    40-50   Localized external corrosion   Replacement
and internal incrustation
Asbestos cement    <35     Good conditions
(Mazza)
Prestressed steel    25-30   Good conditions
Prestressed        <30     Corrosion and high level of    Replacement of deteriorated
concrete                   breaks                         segments and further study
PVC                <25    Good conditions                                            l
Ductile iron       <10    Good conditions                                            l
VALVES               =                                                               l
Cast iron; Gate    <95     Old ones in disrepair; newer   Replacement of old valves
ones in good conditions       and corrective maintenance
Cast iron: butterfly   <25  Good conditions               Corrective maintenance
FIRE HYDRANTS                                                                        l
Cast iron          <95    Old ones in disrepair; newer    Replacement of old hydrants
ones in good conditions       and corrective maintenance
CONNECTIONS
Lead               50-95   High level of breaks and       Replacement
openings
Galvanized iron    25-50   Corrosion, breaks and          Replacement
incrustation
PVC                <25    Good conditions



- 102 -
ANNEX 17
PERU
LIMA WATER REHABILITATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
SEWERAGE NETWORK
RESULTS OF FIELD SURVEY
DESCRIPTION      AGE       CONDITION              SOLUTIONS
PIPES                                                                             l
Brick             > 95    70 percent in poor      Replacement of those in poor
condition              condition and further study
Ceramic           60       30 percent in poor     Replacement of those in poor
condition              condition and of 6 in; further study
of the rest
Concrete          < 60    50 percent in poor      Replacement of those in poor
condition              condition and of 6 in; further study
of the rest
Reinforced        50-60    50 percent in poor     Replacement of those in poor
concrete (Hume)            condition              condition and of 6 in; further study
of the rest
Reinforced        < 50     10 percent in poor     Replacement of pipes in poor
concrete (rigid            condition              condition
connection)
Asbestos cement   < 30    good condition
Concrete          < 30    Older segments in poor   Replacement of those in poor
(Normalized)               condition              condition and of 6 in;
Reinforced        <25      Small proportion in poor   Replacement of pipes in poor
concrete (flexible         condition              condition
connections)
PVC               <25      Good condition
MANHOLES
Concrete          < 95    Condition similar to pipe   Change or repair
condition
CONNECTIONS
Ceramic           60-80    Condition similar to pipe   Change or repair
condition
Concrete          < 50    Condition similar to pipe   Change or repair
condition
Concrete          < 30    Condition similar to pipe   Change or repair
(normalized)               condition



PERU                                                                      ANNEX 18
LIMA WATER REHABILITATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
Apjwbe ''   "''::'" -                                      :e -:.--: "   --.t
11-12/94      SupevisIon Mission:                               Procurent                          61
Project Launch Workshop                           Disbursement
Enginrtng
Final Analysis
Wat   ity Regulation          ___
3-4/95       Supervision Mission:                               rocureme                          4
Emphasis on overal understanding                  Enghoerng
of Bank procedures                                Privatization
5-9/96       Project Review: (To be hld in Washiton)           Econonics/Finncial Analysis       15
1) Assess accomplishment of privatization         Engineerig
objectives                                        Environment
2) Ams completion of studies nd implementtion     Disbursnemnt
of recommendations, progress made in inprovig     Procurement
commercial performance, effectiwness of           Lawyer 
institutiond strengthening, and compiance with
covenwats
3) Approve oniending agreements
11-12/95      Second Workshop on project                        Procureent 
Implementation                                    Disbursement
Engineerg
__________ ___   ______ __________ __________ _________ Privatization
1996        Three Supervsion Missions:                        Ficial Analysis                   15
Review overall progress                           Enaginer/Procurment
1997        Three Supervision Missons:                        Fancial Analysis                  1 
Review overal proe                                Enginer/Procureoret
1998        Two Supervision Missions:                          RnFincial Anadysis                8
Review ovrwal progr"s                             Engirr/Proc t
1999        Two Supervision Missions:                         Economics/Financial Analys         8
Including one to prepare ICR (implmenttion        Enginering/Procurement
_Compltion Report)                               Environment



ANNEX 19
PERU
LIMA WATER REHABILITATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
MONITORING INDICATORS
......       -        -~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. . .. . .. . .
PHYSICAL
Water Connections as a % of Total                        NA          14        38       49        63       75        88       100
Execution of Investment (%)                              NA          11        29       47        64       76        90       100
Execution of Investment (US$ million)                    NA          71       121      120       112       77        96        65
Rehabilitation of Water Network (Km)                     NA           7        28       96       157      129       125        54
Rehabilitation of Sewerage Network (Km)                  NA           7        29       91       150      126       142        70
Number of Connections Rehabilitated ('000)               NA           1         5       19        31       26        25        11
OPERATIONAL
Water Service Coverage (%)                                  79       80        82       84        85       86        87        88          o
Sewerage Service Coverage (%)                               75       76        79       82        84       85        85        86          1
Volume of Water Produced (million m3)                      640      780       800      807       825      847       867       890
Volume of Water Billed (million m3)                       405       430       435      445       467      483       507       522
Unaccounted-for Water (%)                                   37       45        46       45        43       43        42        41
Connections Billed by Metering/Total Connections (%)       3.8       4.4     14.2      22.4     46.2      46.2     46.2      46.2
Number of Connections (000)                               732       771       840      874       912      947       984     1020
# of Permanent Employees/1 000 Connections                2.74     2.61      2.44     2.29      2.20      2.11     2.04      1.96
# of Permanent and Temporal Employees/1 000 Connections   3.58     3.75      3.82      3.56     3.39      3.23     3.09      2.96
Personnel Cost/Operating Cost (%)                           40       35        33       32        30       29        29        28
FINANCIAL
Average Operating Revenue (US$/m3)                        0.25     0.36      0.40     0.41      0.41      0.41     0.40      0.40
Average Water and Sewerage Tariff (US$/m3)                0.21     0.32      0.34      0.36     0.37      0.37     0.37      0.37
Average Operating Cost (US$/m3)                           0.17      0.20     0.22      0.23     0.23      0.24     0.24      0.24
Working Ratio (%)                                           68       57        56       57        57       59        59        60
Operating Ratio (%)                                         79       65        65       67        68       71        72        74
Accounts Receivable Comparator (days)                      119       90        75       75        75       75        75        75
Debt Service Coverage (times)                              3.5      14.3      7.2       4.7      3.9       3.5      4.2       3.8
Internal Cash Generation /Investment (%)                     0       77        56       41        44       64        54        83



- 105 -
Annex 19
Glossary of Monitoring Indicators
Physical indicators
Water connections as a percentage of total connections is equal, in year t, to the sum of all water
connections actually installed from year 0 (1994) to year t, divided by the total number of water
connections to be installed under the project.
Execution of investment in percentage of total investment is equal, in year t, to the total
investment actually disbursed from year 0 (1994) to year t, divided by total investment. The total
investment program includes the proposed project financed by IBRD, OECF, and SEDAPAL, and
SEDAPAL's regular investment program
Execution of investment in U.S. dollars is equal, in year t, to the total investment disbursed in
year t.
Rehabilitation of water network is equal, in year t, to the length in kilometers of the water supply
network rehabilitated in year t.
Rehabilitation or sewerage network is equal, in year t, to the length in kilometers of the sewerage
network rehabilitated in year t.
Number of connections rehabilitated is equal, in year t, to the number of connections rehabilitated
in year t.
Operational indicators
Water service coverage is the estimated number of people in the Lima metropolitan area served by
SEDAPAL's water services on December 31 of year t divided by the estimated number of people
living in SEDAPAL's service area on December 31 of year t.
Sewerage service coverage is the estimated number of people in the Lima metropolitan area served
by SEDAPAL's sewerage system on December 31 of year t divided by the estimated number of
people living in SEDAPAL's service area on December 31 of year t.
Volume of water produced is the volume of water produced by SEDAPAL. The production
volume at La Atarjea will be registered by water meters at the outlets of the plant. The volume
produced by wells will be estimated based on individual samples. When water meters are installed,
the average annual flow will be used as a reference value.
Volume of water billed is the volume of water billed to SEDAPAL's customers in year t. It does
not include the volume of water billed to customers with an own water source or to industrial
wastewater (for wastewater treatment and collection).
Unaccounted-for water is calculated as a percentage of the volume of water produced in year t less
the volume of water billed in year t divided by the total volume of water produced in year t.



- 106 -
Annex 19
Water connections billed by metering as a percentage of total water connections is calculated as
the total number of SEDAPAL's water connections with a working meter that is read for billing
divided by the total number of SEDAPAL's water connections.
Number of water connections is the total number of water connections in year t.
Number of permanent employees per 1,000 water connections is calculated by dividing
SEDAPAL's total number of permanent employees on December 31 of year t by the total number of
operating water connections on December 31 of year t.
Number of permanent and temporary employees per 1,000 connections is calculated by dividing
SEDAPAL's total number of temporary and permanent employees (regular staff and third-party
contract labor) on December 31 of year t by the total number of number of operating water
connections on December 31 of year t. The number of third-party employees is estimated by
dividing the total cost of third-party contract labor by the average annual salary (including benefits)
of SEDAPAL's employees.
Personnel cost as a percentage of operating cost is calculated as the personnel cost divided by the
operating cost, not including depreciation.
Financial indicators
Average operating revenues are calculated as the total operating revenues in year t divided by the
volume of water billed in year t. The average operating revenue per cubic meter billed is
recalculated in U.S. dollars by using the average U.S. dollar exchange rate in year t.
Average water and sewerage tariff is equal to SEDAPAL's water and sewerage revenues in year t
divided by the volume of water billed in year t. The average water tariff is then recalculated in U.S.
dollars per cubic meter using the average U.S. dollar exchange rate in year t.
Average operating costs are calculated as the operating costs in year t divided by the volume of
water billed in year t. The average operating costs per cubic meter billed is recalculated in U.S.
dollars using the average U.S. dollar exchange rate in year t.
Working ratio is calculated as the operating costs (excluding depreciation) in year t divided by the
operating revenues in year t.
Operating ratio is calculated as the operating costs (including depreciation) in year t divided by the
operating revenues in year t.
Accounts receivable comparator is calculated by multiplying the accounts receivable (including
provision for bad debts) by 360 days and dividing this product by SEDAPAL's operating revenues.
This indicator is expressed in days.



- 107-
Annex 19
Debt service coverage is the internally generated flow of funds (the sum of net income after tax in
year t, depreciation in year t, interest payments in year t and, if applicable, the monetary
corrections in year t) divided by the debt service payments in year t (amortization and interest of
long-term debt).
Internal cash generation as a percentage of investment is defined as the cashflow from operations
(the sum of net income after tax, depreciation, interest payments and, if applicable, the monetary
corrections) less the sum of interest during construction, the increase in working capital, and the
debt service payments in year t. This total is then divided by SEDAPAL's total investment
(investments related to both the Bank-financed project and SEDAPAL's regular investment program)
excluding interest during construction.



- 108 -
ANNEX 20
PERU
LIMA WATER REHABILITATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
LOAN DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
Bank  SlYeand AfitQuarefr Q tr                        Cumulative Disburs
Ending         ~       Disbursemens_____
US  million    US$ million        N of Tot     -
FY 1995
March 31, 1995 !'                          15.1             15.1              10
June 30, 1995 "'                           11.4             26.5              18
FY 1996
September 30, 1995                          7.4             33.9              23
December 31, 1995                           7.4             41.3              28
March 31, 1996                             11.7             53                35
June 30, 1996                              11.7             64.7              43
FY 1997
September 30, 1996                         11.7             76.4              51
December 31, 1996                          11.7             88.1              59
March 31, 1997                              8.5             96.6              64
June 30, 1997                               8.5            105.1              70
FY 1998
September 30, 1997                          8.5            113.6              76
December 31, 1997                           8.6            122.2              81
March 31, 1998                              4.5            126.7              84
June 30, 1998                               4.5            131.2              87
FY 1999
September 30, 1998                          3.8            135                90
December 31, 1998                           3.0            138                92
March 31, 1999                              1.7            139.7              93
June 30, 1999                               1.7            141.4              94
FY 2000
September 30, 1999                          1.7            143.1              95
December 31, 1999                           1.7             14.8              97
March 31, 2000                              1.3            146.1              97
June 30, 2000                               1.3            147.4              98
FY 2001
September 30, 2000                          1.3            148.7              99
December 31, 2000                           1.3            150.0             100.0
Includes US$4 million deposit into the project's Special Account.



- 109 -
Annex 21
Documents Available in Project File
A. General reports and studies of the water and sanitation sector:
Al.   Empresa De Acueducto Y Alcantarillado De Bogota E.A.A.B.: Con Vision Positiva Del
Futuro, Plan De Rehabilitacion Y Expansion Del Sistema De Acueducto Y Alcantarillado
De Santa Fe De Bogota, May 1986.
A2.   American Water Works Association. 1993. Evaluating Urban Water Conservation
Programs: A Procedures Manual.
A3.   Instituto Nacional De Estadistica, INEI, Censos Nacionales, IX De Poblacion, IV De
Vivienda,Lima Metropolitana (Estadistica Preliminar), Direccion Nacional De Censos Y
Encuestas No. 1, October 1993.
A4.   Rischard, Jean-Francois. 1993. "Financing of Infrastructure." Internal Memorandum.
Financial and Private Sector Development Departmet, World Bank.
A5.   Aiyer, Sri-ram. 1993. "Private Sector Infrastructure Financing, Issues. Bank Role and
Strategic Options." Internal Memorandum. Latin America and the Caribbean Region,
World Bank.
A6.   Glynn, Dermot, Bill Baker, Chris Jones, and Jeremy Liesner. 1991. "Major Economic
Issues in Privatization and Regulation. " Discussion Paper. London: NERA.
A7.   Overestimation Of Demand For Water Is Much Too Common, As Reported By Gamn, H.A.,
1987, Patterns In The Data Reported On Completed Water Supply Projects.
A8.   World Bank. 1993. "Peru: Poverty Assessment and Social Policies and Programs for the
Poor." Report 1191-PE.
A9.   World Bank. 1994. "Peru: Public Expenditure Review for the Infrastructure Sectors." World
Bank, Latin America and the Caribbean Department, Infrastructure Operations Division.
Confidential.
AIO.  World Bank. 1990. "Peru: Review Of Infrastructure Sector."
All.  World Bank. 1990. "Peru: Sector Reform And Investment Review."
A12.  Proceedings From The International Workshop In Urban Water Conservation, April 1993,
China.
A13.  Revista Ingenieria, Aidis, Vol XVIV, Nos. I And 2, 1990.
A14.  Santos, E. 1993. "The Changing Role of Multilateral Institutions in Funding Latin America
Infrastructure Projects." International Finance Corporation.



- 110-
Annex 21
A15. Kahn, Alfred. 1988. 7he Economics Of Regulation, Principles, and Institutions. MIT Press.
A16. UNICEF. 1991. "Programa De Apoyo Sectorial De Agua Y Saneamiento, Plan De Accion
Por La Infancia. "
A17. Sheila Webb & Associates. 1992. "Waterborne Diseases In Peru."
B. General reports and studies relating to the project:
B1.   Anuario Estadistico SEDAPAL, 1992.
B2.   Black and Veatch International, Binnie and Partners, and Information for Investment
Decisions Inc. 1994. "Evaluacion Tecnica de los Servicios de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado
para Lima Metropolitana. " Lima.
Volume I            Evaluacion de los Recursos de Agua
Volume II           Evaluacion de Expansion y Rehabilitacion del Sistema de Agua
Potable
Volume III          Evaluacion de Rehabilitacion y Desarrollo del Sistema de
Alcantarillado
B3.   ---. 1994. "Informe sobre la Estrategia de Participacion del Sector Privado en la
Prestacion de Servicios de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado en la Gran Lima. " Lima.
B4.   ---. 1994. "Informe sobre la Estimacion de la Demanda Futura de Agua Potable para
Lima Metropolitana." Lima.
B5.   ---. 1994. "Evaluacion Financieria del Servicio de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado de
Lima (SEDAPAL) para el Incentivo de la Participacion del Sector Privado. " Lima.
B6.   Boletin Estadistico de SEDAPAL. 1990, 1991, and 1992.
B7.   Memoria Anual SENAPA and SEDAPAL. 1991.
B8.   Ministerio de Agricultura. 1994. "Ley Organica de Aguas." Lima.
B9.   Binnie and Partners. Sewage Discharge Measurements. (RIOS 1991). Project preparation
documents.
B1O.  "Proyecto Especial Programa Nacional de Agua Potable Y Alcantarillado, Proyecto de Ley
General de Servicios de Saneamiento." October 1993, Exposicion de Motivos.
B11.  "Proyecto de Ley General de Servicios de Saneamiento." December 1993.
B12.  "Reglamento de la Ley General de Servicios de Saneamiento." 2nd edition. Lima. February
1994.



Annex 21
B13.  "Reglamento de la Ley General de la Superintendencia Nacional de Servicios de
Saneamiento, Documento de Trabajo." 3rd edition. Lima. February 1994.
B14.  "Reglamento de la Ley General de la Superintendencia Nacional de Servicios de
Saneamiento. " 2nd edition. Lima. January 1994.
B15.  SEDAPAL. "Anuario Estadistico 1992. " Oficina de Sistemas, Unidad de Informacion
Gerencial.
B16.  SEDAPAL. "Boletin Estadistico 1990." Gerencia de Planificacion y Presupuesto, Area de
Estadistica e Informacion.
B17.  SEDAPAL. "Memoria 1989." Ministro de Vivienda y Construccion.
B18.  SEDAPAL. Equipo de Preparacion Proyecto BIRF, Proyecto de Rehabilitacion de los
Sistemas de Agua Potable y alcantarillado de Lima y Callao. Lima. March 1994.
Volume 1            Resumen Ejecutivo
Volume 2            Proyecciones de Poblacion y Demanda
Volume 3            Rehabilitacion de los Sistemas de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado
Volume 4            Anexos al Proyecto de Rehabilitacion (Anexos 1 - 9)
Volume 5            Anexos al Proyecto de Rehabilitacion (Anexos 10-13)
Volume 6            Proyecto de Rehabilitacion de Pozos
Volume 7            Reduccion y Control del Agua No Contabilizado
Volume 8            Redes y Empalmes para Uso Conjunctivo Esquemas San Miguel y
Los Olivos
Volume 9            Uso Conjunctivo de las Aguas Superficiales y Subterraneas del Rio
Chillon
Volume 10           Ampliacion de la Cobertura en los Pueblos Jovenes
Volume 11           Proyectos de Asistencia Tecnica
B19.  SEDAPAL. Equipo Preparacion Proyecto BIRF, Evaluacion Global del Programa de
Rehabilitacion de los Sistemas de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado. Lima. April 1994.
B20.  SNC and Lavalin. 1994. "Technical Assistance to SEDAPAL: Chillon River Water Supply
Schemes." Lima.
C. Working Papers:
Cl.   LMG Consultants. 1993. "Analisis de la Situacio Financiera de la Empresa SEDAPAL:
Periodo 1987 -2003. Informe Preliminar. " Lima.
C2.   Hart, Ing. Roberto. 1993. Personal notes.






PERU
LIMA WATER REHABILITATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MAPS






IBRD 26213
/ *                                 .                    METERING PROGRAM                                 7'                                                          CONJUNCTIVE USE
BY DISTRICT                            ./                                                                 COMPONENT                                          P E R U
----------                                                             X. _ .. _                                                                                    ___BY DISTRICT  LIMA WATER REHABILITATION
j  -   , 7                                                                                    \'           N.  -'            ~                                                                    AND
I1                                                                                                                                                  ( !  )  -   /                             MANAGEMENT PROJECT
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
, 7       (                                                                              X                           0                               t /  (./ _.    LIM A METROPOLITAN BOUNDARY
NJ                                            .  ,. -_   KI9I
1                                                                                                                                                                                                             0               10/-  \,I-.OMETERS \'
LOS,                             ,1 --                                                              ;I \0                                              /g
TB5.~~/      / S                                          OOB    A   r
LIMA~ ~ ~ MIAIOE SAGALNA 0\ 1i                                                                            LO  OLIVO  SA    ARI   E  ORS                                                                                            /ERA 
L A   V I C O R A        RA F O EI                                                                           A L A                     
RIMAC                 BRENA                                                      j                         SANMIGUELA>LO                                                                                                                  6
SAN LUIS             BARAR A NC                               \       -                                                                                                   \g:                                             ER 
S A N  M A T I N  D E P O R R E S C HO R R IL LO S              J>>                                                                                                                                                                  -            -
LA MOLINA  IA PUNTA                     V                                                                                                           V                                    \
ECUADOR/
METERING PROGRAM DISTRICTS. ,                                                                               CONJUNCTIVE USE DISTRICTS:) 
LA VMACTAENALOS OLIVOS-SAN MARTIN DE PORRES                                                                                                                                                                                                        B RAZIL
LA VICTORIA               M RAFLORES                                                                           CALLAO                                                                                           _
RIMAC                     BRENA                                                                                SAN MIGUEL j\
SAN LUIS                  B.ARRANCO                                                                                                   ~>.
SAN MARTIN DE PORRES   CHRRLLS                                                                                                                                                                                                      .
LOS OLIVOS                SANTIAGO DE SURCO                                                                                                                                     -                                          Lo 
SAN BORJA                 SUBRQUILLOL  t
LA MOLINA                 LA PUNTA
CALLAC) ICERCADOI         SAN ISIDRO                    ~                                                                                                                                                                                                        :
CZARM EN DE LA LEGUA      LINCE
BELLAV STA                JESUS MARIA
LA pERLA                  PUEBLO [IBEE                                                                                                                                                                                                            (    BOIA        -
SAN MIGUEL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BOLVI
DEEARTmENTOFLIMA
INTERNATIONALBOUNDAR,ES
75'         HL
OCTOBER !9,A






IBRD 2621 2
WATER AND SEWAGE                                                                           GROUNDWATER
_ 7_  /        / :\                            NETWORK REHABILITATION            _      7. _ . /        /  \                                  REHABILITATION                             P E R U
N                         ._ _ _.   BYODISTRICT R                                                                   _H----O    BY DISTRICT            LIMA WATER REHABILITATION
)                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AND
MANAGEMENT PROJECT
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
-    LIMA METROPOLiTAN BOUNDARY
t                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 10 KILOMETERS
\  /d  S   S   %'~~~~~~~~"/"               \                     \      A/        S         S           t"~~~~~~LO OU  LUIGAC\
.Rt &   /  - 9  v}tVILLAT MAtIA DEL                       COI
ECUADOR/ 
I 1 DISTRICTS TO BE REHABILITATED:                                \                       m   DISTRICTS TO BE REHABILITATED:                               \,/ I!
LIMA            MIRAFLORES                                                           ZONA NORTE: SAN MARTIN DE PORRES                                                                     /         R A Z I L
BRENA           LA VICTORIA                   \                                                   LOS OLIVOS                                                                             r
PUEBLO LIBRE    JESUS MARIA                     A                                                 RIMAC
BARRANCO        SAN ISIDRO                                                                                                                                                        P E R U
CHORRILLOS      CALLAO (CERCADO)                                                      ZONA ESTE  SAN JUAN DEL LURIGANCHO
BMAC           LINCE                                                                             AVTAE                                     '-Li                                                T'~ 
ZONA SUR   VILLA MARIA DEL TRIUNFO                                                                                       N
/1 VILLA EL SALVADOR
5.                I  ~~~~~~~BOLIVIA
--                   ZZ  ~~~~~~~DEPARTMENTOFLIMA
INTERNATIONALBOUNDARIES   K
7o  .  15'  CHILE'-_/ CO I
OCTO55 E 






P   E    R    U                                                                                         PROJECT'    EXISTING
LIMA WATER REHABILITATION                                                                                                                             WATERMANS
AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT                                                                                                      '           INESTO[I EHAB tHATL) SEWERAGE MAINS
                                T       5 1-tEE -RS                                                                                         TRLATMENI PLANIS
FINAL DISPOSAL OF SEWAGE
RIVER
WAiE,  NTAKE
BUILT UP AREAS
PROJECT WATER MAINS
|2 M AMAZOT 4A
OM EUNIGN IERNANESEZ
,,                          :                                                                                                     C 'NE VA4 M  AVIAION ARRIOIA
.' :.,, *,   j   ,                  i        ,,                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 M  ISABEI. LA CAIC)t CA
.---   > -     1                         '      , '                         h ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M SOLECDAD
Jn*elbrsho cl A ;riorf   '   ll          -,  ,                            Li~~~~~~~~ M EPA JAMA
----------    -                                                                                      C   ACN
PROJCT SEWERAGE MAINS
--------                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I CHIAX,AR
/0.>  <=  /.                      I                                                        12 COLECIOR No I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2  ~ f T NRC
'  :_,   3 --C:'''' =1J   1|   ARLDIA CHALACA
3 C  ITONCO PRADO
PACIFIC  OCEAN                                                      ;I S ~;0\\                             , \\',                                             C VTGUM8A
IA C 6,AI-ICASH   A
IX CCONDETX VEDA2
920 CPACNACGCI,AS
21  CLJOSE IPEXE
T CARIN  MORA
23 CUnNISE GRANDA
24C STARET
* -  2   PUEBLOS JOVENES                            ,                                                              25{/  76 C COSPEC TA
PA II     OCEANO                                                                                                                                    1 LP  6 CCSTANEROBLO
_,   \                   COMPONENT                                            . ! n .                     \   p                         23~~~~~~-  D C V EL SAEVAGO
k.TJIvIr0,I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cINI                                                  27 C EVONEARIGS [SEE SUB~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7  ISB  A  A
-  -- -                                                                                                   l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---  8I- AL4DAHLJAYLA
N. V,,/              /,.                                               ''''"8"'''"''"":,"""\@"'aLt'''''9                                   L O
CS>^d,oboII'                 /       0    _        I V.                                               r                        h                      C
alE  n   Tlfwfc7   /   ,  \                        , l                                         P                     ,npir on Ihe posw I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~21CJS LA
r r si. 9gE z;;rf l 7   \                       ,,                                                                    anr uddm m on the lPyLll~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~23 JOE RAD
AREA OF MAP   W   q        ;                                                                      -O               < k           \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2  SJR
-   00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
CUERIOS hlVLNfP                      O             N                                                                                            2
V 7APCLIAI F    10 iZDI DICILMERt                                                       t2I
-                           IT NAR^rJl^L   I 7 V IA71E  ,                                                                                L oM\NE T 
51. MARI                                  A            IL(;Ie4 L A   M ERCLD 0 0 C
7 LLEMolEADO    15 V IE^LStAIVADOR   \/                                                                            N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6C      L AVAO
-                'p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,-M.
PUE4105JOVENES                                                              -15'                                  8011YIA
01111. P4060~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h~P  .
Ir~~~~~~~~~I
I   }  PRO/EC7. D15TRIC15   :                                                                 [7~~~~~~~~~~~~~'~ CEAIMNOOMIMA    r     
0_.      --   NTERCUADO E/
AREEA OR 44                                 -I,-
PERLOS .3015                                                                                                                                           (
I TAPAInI        6T, CI                                                                                                                                   IEI 
2 TAPOEfAII     IC .70  DCAIMR
.1CAPABATLL    I  (ROR  C-051LA
~ EN hRATIO1   IT VIARTE                                                                                                                              L. 
5  C1CAR.EN      ;,IIOGRACIO ZE6A110S
OMARIAlEG,I   14 LA MERCED
E LEM 1140DO5    I  I9 TABIADA                               C
PALA10          I  V E[ SAIVAETR                           ' 
PUEBLRO JOVENES                        -                                                                                ITI
0          I      PROJECT DISTRKICS
0                    -      DISTRICT ROUN00ARtE[S    DERARTMENTTOIIMA
-  -   11A METROPOLItAN ROEUNDART                                                                                                   NTERNATIONALB0XNDAREIS



