Page  1
December 22, 1997
Ing. Placido Aguirre 
General Manager 
SEDAPAL 
Autopista Ramiro Priale s/n 
Distrito El Agustino 
Lima, Peru
Dear Mr. Aguirre:
Re:
Loan No. 3811-PE (Lima Water Rehabilitation and Management 
Project) - Amendment to the Project Agreement
Please refer to the Project Agreement dated February 2, 1995 between the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and Servicio de Agua 
Potable y Alcantarillado de Lima (Sedapal). In this letter all terms defined in the 
Loan Agreement have the same meaning as therein set forth.
Pursuant to the request from Sedapal and further discussions between 
representatives of the Borrower, Sedapal and the Bank, the Bank hereby agrees to amend 
the Project Agreement as follows:
1.  Section 2.10 (a) (ii) is amended to read as follows:
(ii)
not later than June 30, 1998 or when the aggregate of the 
proceeds of the Loan Account and the total amount of 
commitments made to pay amounts to or on the order of the 
Borrower in 
respect of expenditures to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan 
shall have reached the equivalent 
of $60,000,000, whichever comes 
first, in the event that 
the Concession Contract has not previously 
been awarded”.
2.  Section 4.06 is hereby amended by deleting “December 31, 1997” in its 
paragraphs (a) and (b) and substituting therefor “June 30, 1998”.
Please confirm your agreement with the above by signing this letter in the space 
provided and returning it to us. The amendments set forth in this letter shall enter 
into effect upon receipt by the Bank of a duly countersigned original of this letter. 
In view of their interest on this matter, we are sending copy of this amendment letter 
to the Minister of Economy and Finance.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Ernesto May
Acting Director
Country Management Unit
Bolivia, Paraguay and Perú
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
SEDAPAL
/s/ Plácido Aguirre
Page  2
    Authorized Representative
Date: December 31, 1997
cc: Ing. Jorge Camet, Minister of Economy and Finance
