Page  1
December 6, 1996
Ing. Placido Aguirre
General Manager
SEDAPAL
Monterrey #281, Segundo Piso
Chacarilla del Estanque
Lima, Peru
          Re:  Loan No. 3811-PE (Lima Water Rehabilitation and
               Management Project) - Amendment to the Project Agreement
Dear Mr. Aguirre:
     Please refer to the Project Agreement dated February 2, 1995 between
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and
Servicio de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado de Lima (Sedapal).  In this
letter all terms defined in the Loan Agreement have the same meaning
as therein set forth.
     Pursuant to the request from the Ministry of Economy and Finance and
further discussions between representatives of the Borrower, Sedapal and
the Bank, the Bank hereby agrees to amend the Project Agreement as
follows:
     1. Section 2.01 (c) is hereby amended by deleting the phrase
"Management Agreement for 1995" and substituting therefor "respective
Management Agreements".
     2. Section 2.10 (a) (ii) is hereby amended to read as follows:
          "(ii)  not later than December 31, 1997 or when the
          aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan Account and the total
          amount of commitments made to pay amounts to or on the order
          of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be financed
          out of the proceeds of the Loan shall have reached the
          equivalent of $60,000,000, whichever comes first, in the
          event that the Concession Contract has not previously been
          awarded."
     3. Section 4.06 is hereby amended by deleting "December 31, 1995"
in its paragraphs (a) and (b) and substituting therefor "December 31,
1997".
     Please confirm your agreement with the above by signing this
letter in the space provided and returning it to us.  The amendments
set forth in this letter shall enter into effect upon receipt by the
Bank of a duly countersigned original of this letter.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Robert W. Crown
   Acting Country Director
   Country Department III
   Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Page  2
AGREED:
SEDAPAL
By Placido Aguirre
   Authorized Representative
Date:  December 26, 1996
