Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5639-so
STAFF APPRAISAL PEPORT
SOMALIA
LIVESTOCK HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
December 13, 1985
Eastern- and Southern Africa Region
Northern Agriculture Division
This document has 9 restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Somalia Shilling (So.Sh.)    =  100 cents
US$1.00                       =  So.Sh. 42.00 (November 1985)
(See Annex 1, Table 12 for
projected exchange rates).
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Hectare (ha)               =  10,000 m2
1 Square Kilometer (km2)     =      100 ha
1 Metric Ton (mt)            =   1,000 kg
ABBREVIATIONS
AHD      =     Animal Health Department of MLFR
AU       =     Animal Units
CBPP     =     Contagious Bovine Pleuropneumonia
CCPP     =     Contagious Caprine Pleuropneumonia
CRDP     =     Central Rangelands Development Project
FAO/IC   =     Food & Agriculture Organization/Investment Centre
FYDP     =     Four-Year Development Plan (1982-86)
GOS      =     Government of Somalia
GTZ      =     German Technical Assistance
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
IDA      =     International Development Association
IFAD     =     International Fund for Agricultural Development
IRC      =     Inter-Regional Committee
L/C      =     Letter of Credit
LCB      =     Local Competitive Bidding
M        =     Million
MLFR     =     Ministry of Livestock, Forestry & Range
MTR            Mid-Term Review
NRA            National Range Agency
NRADP    =     Northern Rangelands Development Project
ODA            Overseas Development Agency of UK
PC       =     Project Committee
PMU      =     Project Management Unit
PPF            Project Preparation Facility
SOE      -     Statement of Expenditure
USAID    =     United States Agency for International Development
WFP            World Food Program
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICUIL USE ONLY
SOMALIA
LIVESTOCK HEALTH SERVICES PROCJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ........................... .         i
I.  AGRICULTURAL SECTOR  .............         ....................   1
Background          .......................................  I
General Bank Group Operations in Somalia  .........          2
IDA Strategy  *....................................          2
Relationship to Other Aid Flows  ..................          3
IFAD, Bank Group, Donor Role  ...................-           3
II.  LIVESTOCK SUBSECTOR AND DISEASE CONTROL   ...o ..........         5
Production and Marketing  ... .......................        5
Government Policy and Institutions  ...*............         8
Animal Disease Control   ........ ..................        10
Issues, Constraints and Project Rationale  ........         11
III.  THE PROJECT AREA             .....................................  13
General ..      ........................................    13
Pastoralists, Production and Scheme  ...0...........    14
Marketing         ........................................  14
Institutions ....*.***.*        .........................   15
Disease Control  *        .................................    16
IV.   THE PROJECT  .....................17
Project Genesis  ...........................*.......        17
Project Objectives  ..............-...........    17
Main Features and Project Components  ............    18
Detailed Features
Part A                                                  18
Part B  ................................               22
Project Costs  .............22
Financing  ....  .....                                     24
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission, comprising of
Messrs. F. Thomas and L. Vidaeus (IBRD), A. Duncan and M. Woodford
(Consultants) and M. Slama (IFAD), that visited the project area in
November-December 1984.
This document has a resutricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
thek ofTwcial duties lts contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizatiorL



-2-
Table of Contents (continued)
Page No.
Procurement  ********************   ..................    25
Disbursements   .....**       ................,.....    27
Accounts and Audits  ........      ......................    28
Environmental Impact  ...... ..... .. .....  ...........  29
V.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT    ...........................    30
Project Organization  .....*......... ...............     30
Disease Investigation and
Livestock Health Services Planning  ..............      31
Mid-Term Review  ................*..... ............    32
Project Allowances  ....... ..se......s*..............    33
Drug Importation and Distribution  .................      34
Administration  ................ ............*...    34
Annual Work Program  .......      ....*     ..........    35
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting  .............       35
Implementation Schedule  ..        ........................    36
VI.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION            ...........................  36
Justification  ....................................    36
Benefits  ...........................*.............    36
Risks  .................................                  37
VII.  ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS        ........................    38
List of Text Tables
Table 1.  Estimated Livestock Population in Somalia  ...        5
2.  Exports of Live Animals from Somalia  ........        7
3.  Livestock Shipments from Berbera         ............   15
4.  Project Cost Summary  ...... ..................    23
5.  Proposed Financing Plan           .....................    24
6.  Procurement Method  ....................  .          26
7.  Proposed Allocation of IFAD Loan and
IDA Credit .......................*.*.**....    27
ANNEXES
1.  Project Cost Tables            ..................................    40
2.  Investigative Work Program - Phase I  ....       .............    56-61
3.  Terms of Reference, Mid-Term Review  ....       ..............    62
4.  Terms of Reference, Technical Assistance Team  ........   63-66
5.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements         ..................  67
6.  Documents Available in Project Files  ............... ....    68
7.  USAID Livestock Marketing and Health Project ..........    69-71
CHARTS
lo MLFR Organization  . ...............                 ......    72
2.  Project Organization       .....................  *...........    73
3.  Implementation Schedule           ...............................    74



- 3 -
Table of Contents (continued)
Page No.
SKETCH
1.  Layout of the Central Laboratory at Hargeisa  .....          75
MAP
Map of Somalia with Project Location (IBRD No. 19008)



- i -
SOMALIA
LIVESTOCK HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:     Somali Democratic Republic
Beneficiary:  Ministry of Livestock, Forestry and Range (MLFR)
Amount:       SDR 4.1 million (US$4.3 M equivalent)
Terms:        Standard
Co-Financing: SDR 5.9 M loan (US$6.3 M equivalent)
from the International Fund for Agricultural Development
(IFAD).
Project Description Objectives:
(a)     The long term goal of tnt, six-and-a-half year project would be
to contribute to the reduction of economic losses in the
livestock sector due to animal diseases and conditions through
justifiable interventions in the area of veterinary services.
The immediate objectives of the project would be to assist
NLFR in (i) defining a comprehensive and economically
justifiable animal disease control program for Northern
Somalia (the Awdal, Galbeed and Togdheer regions) and
(ii) testing such a disease control program on an operational
scale in the project area. By accomplishing these objectives
the project would contribute to strengthening the Animal
Health Department (ARD) of MLFR as an effective institution
serving the livestock sector.
(b)     The project would be complementary to ongoing projects aiming
at animal health improvement in the area; notably the United
States Agency for International Development (USAID) funded
Livestock Marketing and Health Project. Its results would be
expected to serve as a basis for planning further improvements
in veterinary services in northern Somalia and the country as
a whole. In this sense the project would serve as a pilot
project.
Components:  Part A would include disease investigation and livestock
health services planning over the entire project period
concentrated on the first three and a half years (Phase I).
Part B would implement a pilot program for disease control
during the second half (Phase II) of the project. Components
include:
(a) Laboratory services at Hargeisa and Errao
(b) Field Services - investigation



- ii -
(c) Field Services - development
(d) Project Management and
(e) Training
Benefits:    Not quantifiable at present.  Costs and benefits of animal
health services would be estimated during the first
investigative period (Phase I) of the project and monitored
thereafter. Principal production benefits are expected to be
a reduction in disease incidence leading to reduced mortality
and morbidity with improved rates of reproduction and growth.
Principal benefits to producers would be increased incomes and
nutritional status from increased offtake and meat and milk
production. Main economic benefits would derive from
increased export opportunities and foreign exchange earnings.
Risks:       Security in border areas of regions.  Inability to monitor
herds moving across border and consequent possible loss of
data. Availability and continuity of staff/counterparts
required for implementation. Some staff incentives and
facilities have been applied thus helping to attract and
retain qualified staff.Uncertain market outlets and reduced
offtake could jeopardize range resources and increase drought
risk. GOS is exploring alternative markets for livestock and
range monitoring would be a project component. The USAID
marketing and quarantine project is also designed to minimize
such risks. PMU would maintain close contact wiht USAID
through the Project Committee established in MLFR.
Project Components 1/                        Local      Foreign    Total
(USS M)
Laboratory Services                            0.1         1.1       1.2
Field Services:  Investigation (Phase I)       0.4         2.4       2.7
Field Services:  Development (Phase II)        0.2         3.2       3.4
Project Management                             0.1         1.4       1.5
Training                                        -          0.1       0.1
Subtotal                                       0.8        8.2        8.9
Physical Contingencies                         0.0        0.2        0.2
Price Contingencies                            0.2        2.3        2.5
Total Project Costs                            1.0        10.6      11.6
Proposed Financing Plan
IDA Credit                                      -         4.3        4.3
IFAD Loan                                       -         6.3        6.3
Government of Somalia                          1.0         -         1.0
Total                                          1.0        10.6      11.6
1/ Some totals do not add due to rounding.



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements of IDA Credit (US$ Million)
IDA PY                     1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993
Annual                      .9    .7    .8    .6    .5    .4    .4
Cumulative                  .9   1.6   2.4   3.0   3.5   3.9   4.3
Economic Rate of Return: None calculated.
ap: IBRD No. 19008



SOMALIA
LIVESTOCK HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Background
1.01      Somalia is located in the northeastern corner of Africa, bordered
by Ethiopia and Kenya to the west and south and the Gulf of Aden and the
Indian Ocean to the north and east (Map IBRD No. 19008). The length of the
coastline is about 3)300 kilometers, and the land area is about 63 M
hectares. The topography is varied and includes hot and arid coastal
plains, rugged mountains and plateaus, and lowlands of varying fertility
and rainfall. Approximately 13% (about 8 M hectares) of the land is
estimated as potentially suitable for crop production, but with water the
limiting constraint, only a small part (about 0.7 M hectares) of the area
is cultivated.
1.02      Somalia is amongst the poorest countries in the world and is
classified by the United Nations as a least developed country. Per capita
income was estimated at US$265 in 1982. Not only is it among the poorest,
but the general lack of infrastructure-physical and institutional-and the
hostile physical environment, poor communications, lack of modern
transportation system and scattered population centers have created
serious obstacles to development of che country.
1.03      The resident population was estimated at 5.3 M in 1983 and the
refugee population at about 0.5 M. About 50% of the population are nomads
and semi-nomads who depend on livestock for their subsistence; about 20Z
are farmers cultivating land along the Juba and Shebelli rivers and in the
higher rainfall Bay and north-west regions; and 20Z are urban dwellers.
The economy is dominated by the livestock sector which provides a living to
the large nomadic population and generates about 40% of the GDP. Up until
1982/83 exports of live animals represented about 80% of total exports.
Crop production generates about 10Z of GDP and roughly the same share of
exports. Rainfed crop production is based primarily upon maize and
sorghum. Crop production under controlled irrigation is centered on
bananas (the principal cash crop and the second largest export commodity),
sugarcane, rice and maize; production under flood irrigation comprises
mainly maize and sesame. Fish and fish products account for about 2% of
exports as well as of GDP.
1.04      The Agricultural Sector Report of 1981 (Report No. 221ia-SO)
emphasizes the need to strengthen and develop certain key areas of the
sector. Important are those activities which generate increased production
and exports in the short run. The sector strategy calls for development of
underutilized resources (including activating sunk capital), the expansion



- 2 -
of private sector incentives and opportunities and the establishment of
additional export markets to increase foreign exchange earnings.
General Bank Group Operations in Somalia
1.05      Bank Group gross commitments to Somalia (up to September 1985)
total US$247 million, consisting of 28 IDA credits and two IFC
investments. Thirteen projects are under implementation. Over 30% of
total IDA lending has been for agriculture, 25% for transport and the rest
about equally divided over education, water supply, ports, energy, industry
and technical assistance. IFC has so far made two investments in
Somalia--a US$375,000 loan for a molasses terminal for the Juba Sugar
Project and SWF 1,550,000 for a polypropylene bag project.
1.06      Physical progress in implementing development projects in Somalia
has been mixed, and some have not done well. Progress of the North-West
Regional Agricultural Development Project, Phase I, has been excellent, and
the main production targets estimated at appraisal have been met or
exceeded. Projects for roads, ports, water and education have been more
successful than in the agricultural sector. Many IDA-financed projects
have experienced delays in execution. Staffing and management problems
have impeded effective preparation and implementation of projects.
Problems with projects in execution were brought to the attention of the
Government authorities during the last country implementation review, which
was held in Somalia in June 1984. At that time understandings were reached
on the restructuring of several projects in execution.
1.07      Somalia's disbursement performance on projects assisted by the
Bank Group has been satisfactory. The FY85 disbursement rate was 33.5% as
compared to 21.9% for Eastern and Southern Africa and 22.02 Bank/IDA-wide.
IDA Strategy
1.08      IDA proposes to continue to assist the Government to devise and
implement policies and programs to improve the efficiency of both the
public and private sectors, to improve the macroeconomic framework for
domestic and external resource mobilization and allocation, improve pricing
administration and marketing systems, and to increase production and
exports. It aims to support further use of the existing capacity and to
help lay the foundations for longer term growth. Economic and sector work
program strives to support the macroeconomic reform process, and to provide
analytical inputs for the work of the Consultative Group for Somalia.
Issues in public enterprise reform are expected to become an increasingly
important component of our policy dialogue.
1.09      IDA is giving particular attention to aid management issues, and
has undertaken an assessment of technical assistance to Somalia jointly
with the UNDP. An energy assessment has been completed, as has a review of
population, health and nutrition issues. A collaborative review with the
Government and donors of major issues in the agricultural sector is
underway. We are cooperating with the Government in the preparation and
review of periodically updated public investment and expenditure programs,
at both the global and, increasingly, at the sector level. The Advisory



- 3 -
Committee for Juba Valley Development established by the Consultative Group
at its October 1983 meeting provides an important forum for review and
collaboration on issues affecting the development of Somalia's major water
resource.
1.10      The proposed lending program emphasizes productive investments
and rehabilitation programs. An irrigation rehabilitation project is being
prepared to help increase productivity and farmer income in the Shebelli
Valley. A second Agricultural Inputs Program is under consideration. Most
projects have been cofinanced with a number of other donors, and this is
expected to continue in the future.
Relationship to Other AI.d Flows
1.11      IDA disbursements represent about 8Z of total aid flows to
Somalia. We expect that this relationship will continue at about the same
level during the next several years. IDA obligations represent about 12%
of Somalia's total outstanding and disbursed debt up to December 31, 1983.
Debt service payments to IDA represent a very small proportion of Somalia's
total debt service obligations. In 1984, payments to IDA were estimated at
only about 1% of total debt service payments for that year. This trend is
expected to continue.
IFAD, Bank Group. Other Donor Role in Livestock Subsector
1.12      Since the early 1970s, a series of internationally funded
projects supporting Government policy and strategy have been initiated.
These projects, however, reflected an initial emphasis on the establishment
of intensive public sector livestoc' production systems (including
breeding, artificial insemination, feed lots, feed mills, fattening and
dairy farms). Cost overruns, delays, management and technical problems,
input shortages and low level of output led in the late seventies to a lack
of support for these approaches. Increased attention was then focussed on
the management and preservation of critical range resources, involving two
large projects--the Northern Rangelands Development Project, financed by
the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, and the Central Rangelands
Development Project, supported by multidonor financing including IFAD,
USAID, WFP, GTZ and the World Bank. The approach of these projects
centered on the creation of permanent and rotational grazing and drought
reserves, water supply, fodder production, and infrastructure support and
veterinary services.
1.13      Earlier projects involving components for the improvement of
livestock health included the following:
(a)  The Serum and Vaccine Institute (UNDP/FAO, 1969--ongoing) at
Mogadishu;
(b) the British Veterinary Team (ODA, 1969-72) for disease
investigations and establishment of diagnostic laboratory
facilities in Hargeisa in Northwest Somalia;



- 4 -
(c)  the Rinderpest Vaccination Campaign (EEC, 1970-75); the
Trans-Juba Project (IDA, 1974-81); the Northern Rangelands
Deve'lopment Project (Kuwait Fund, 1976-81); and the Veterinary
Laboratory at Kismayo (GTZ, 1977-83 and ongoing support).
1.14      Ongoing projects partially addressing livestock health issues
are:
(a)  the Bay Region Agricultural Development Project with a component,
funded by USAID, to upgrade veterinary services in the region;
(b)  the Tsetse Fly Control Project (ODA supported since 1977);
(c)  the Central Rangelands Development Project with a veterinary
component financed by the Federal Republic of Germany, and most
recently
(d)  the Livestock Marketing and Health Project (USAID funded, 1984;
Annex 7).
1.15      These efforts at development of the livestock subsector have met
with mixed but generally limited success and rates of physical
implementation of development plans have been disappointing. Inflation,
drought and border conflicts have caused severe setbacks. Moreover,
reviews of past and current projects indicate that large project size and
area, complexity of project activities and inadequate baseline data are
factors which frequently have contributed to implementation difficulties.
Project implementation has also been hindered in some cases by dependence
on large-scale construction prcgrams, poor project management and field
supervision, lack of necessary project inputs (fuel, trained GOS
personnel), and lack of interaction with nomadic beneficiaries.
Sustainability of development activities beyond the termination of
externally funded projects has been jeopardized by inadequate cost recovery
and funding by GOS.
1.16      Design for future projects should, therefore, be limited in size,
simple in terms of project activities, take account that funding for MLFR
is meager, emphasize project management and organization with the objective
of sustainability of development activities beyond project life and involve
target-groups (nomadic livestock producers) in project design and program
participation. Private sector entrepreneurs and livestock traders/
exporters who might be induced to import and distribute non-prescription
drugs and other veterinary inputs should also be involved in final project
design. Additionally, there is the need to enlist the active participation
of the public sector to define its own role and of private sector
activities.



-5-
II. LIVESTOCK SUBSECTOR AND DISEASE CONTROL
Production and Marketing
2.01      Animal Population and Production Systems.  There are three basic
livestock production systems in Somalia: (i) traditional nomadic
pastoralism, (ii) transhumant production by settled farmers, and (iii)
specialized sedentary livestock production by urban dwellers. In addition,
the Government has involved itself in specialized livestock enterprises in
the form of controlled grazing, ranches, dairy farms, cattle feedlots, and
poultry farms as well as the delivery of veterinary services through the
public sector.   The total livestock population maintained by these
productive systems was estimated to be about 40 M animals in 1984 of which
over 70% were sheep and goats as shown in Table 1 below. Estimated average
annual growth rates over the period 1975 to 1983 was almost static which is
to be expected in a long-established pastoral system with little
specialized production or improvement in the range feeding resources.
Sheep and goats showed the largest increase but cattle and camel herds
hardly grew at all.
Table I
Estimated Livestock Population in Somalia
(M heads)
Year            Cattle        Camels       Sheep        Goats        TLUa/
1975 a/            3.8           5.4         9.1          15.6        12.1
1980               4.0           5.7        10.3          17.4        13.6
1984               4.2           5.9        10.9          19.1        14.1
Average annual
growth rate        0.14          0.08         0.33         0.39        0.25
a! Tropical Livestock Unit - 250 kg. TLU conversion factors:
Sheep and goats .1, camels 1.2, cattle .8.
(Source: Ministry of Livestock, Forestry and Range).
2.02      Nomadic pastoralism is the predominant form of livestock
production accounting for about 80% of livestock ownership and providing a
livelihood for some 50Z of the human population. The system is based on
multispecies holdings (camels, cattle, sheep and goats), designed for
resilience under arduous and variable ecological conditions to produce
milk1/ and meat for subsistence and to produce marketable surplus of live
I Adult females of all species are milked with emphasis on came's and
cattle .



- 6 -
animals. Mobility in search of grazing and water is an essential element
of the system. Movements into the Haud and other parts of the Ogaden and
into northeastern Kenya are not uncommon, but there are also more limited
local movements within Somalia. Migratory patterns based on national
resources are only somewhat modified by investments in artificial water
resources or block grazing control.
2.03      Livestock are also owned by sedentary crop farmers in defined
areas, notably the river valleys and the northwest. Some stock, mainly
milk cows and sheep, are kept around the homestead throughout the year,
depending on the availability of feed and water, but the remainder are
herded on a basis similar to those of nomadic groups. Urban producers, who
supply the bulk of fresh milk to Mogadishu, Kisnayo and Hargeisa, keep
stock under comparatively intensive conditions in urban and perl-urban
areas.
2.04      The nomadic/transhumant systems based on sparse natural resources
are characterized by high mortality especially in young stock, low
fertility, advanced age at first parturition and slow rates of growth.
Consequently, marketable/consumable offtake is also low. No data exist to
quantify the impact of the variables of nutrition, husbandry, disease or
parasite infestation on survival and productivity. Given the communality
of land use with little prospect of range improvement or change to
individual usage, it appears logical, therefore, to concentrate on animal
diseases and conditions to enhance productivity and export of Somalia's
livestock.
2.05      Offtake and Mortality Rates.  Estimates of annual offtake rates
are highly uncertain in light of the deficiencies in the data on essential
parameters such as herd productivity and mortality rates. Nevertheless,
offtake rate estimates vary between 4% in the case of camels and 13% for
sheep. Offtake rates are likely to vary widely with climatic and
geographical conditions but tend generally to increase during drought years
and decrease in good years. The MLFR does not carry out the necessary
epidemiological studies of mortality and morbidity rates. Thus, mortality
rates are highly uncertain but are believed to be especially high among
young stock (20-30% have been quoted). Estimates of absolute livestock
losses from all causes are sketchy but averages derived from a variety of
sources indicate annual losses of about 3 million young sheep and goats and
1.5 million adults; 200,000 cattle calves and 200,000 adult cattle and
230,000 camel calves and an equal number of adults. The opinion has been
expressed that about one-third of these losses could be prevented by
relatively unsophisticated control measures.
2.06      Production and Marketing.  Based on above highly uncertain
parameters the annual offtake or production in the livestock sector has
been estimated to be about 3.5 M animals of which 1.9 M would be goats, 1.2
M sheep, .2 M cattle and .2 M camels.  This would represent a live-weight
of around 200,000 metric tons. About one-third of the total production is
consumed by producers. Of the marketed offtake about half the cattle and
camels and one quarter of the sheep and goats are consumed in the country.
The rest is exported.



- 7 -
2.07      Available data on exports of live animals (see Table 2) suggest
an increase in offtake over the last 25 years. The main driving force
behind the expansion in exports has been the increasing commercialization
of nomadic livestock herding, pulled by a buoyant market in Saudi Arabia
for small ruminants (i.e. goats and sheep) since the late 1960s.
Table 2
Exports of Live Animals from Somalia
(1,000 heads)
Total Small
Year            Cattle        Camels       Sheep        Coats     Ruminants
1950                3             -            -            -           121
1960               12             6            -            -           576
1970               45            25          548          605         1,153
1980               85            21          829          951         1,780
1983 a/            54             8          569          557        1,126
a/ Excludes shipments from small ports.
SOURCE: Ministry of Planning and Ministry of Livestock,
Forestry and Range.
2.08      During the 1970s the ports of Mogadishu and Kismayo were
developed and are increasingly important in the export of cattle and
camels. In 1982, these two ports were responsible for over 60% of all
cattle exports and over 70% of all camel shipments. On the other hand, the
northern part of Berbera, because of proximity to the Saudi market, has
developed to be the main port of shipment of small ruminants. In recent
years, practically all exports of small ruminants were shipped through
Berbera.
2.09      Saudi Arabia has remained the principal market for Somali
livestock exports. Since 1983, the export market to Saudi Arabia has been
severely disrupted and Somalia's prospects are currently uncertain.
Competition in the crucial Saudi market from highly organized alternative
suppliers has intensified and the deficiencies of the Somali export trade
have been highlighted. Somali exporters are unable to guarantee numbers,
date of delivery or uniform quality; moreover, there are shifts in the
pattern of demand which indicate that consumers in Saudi Arabia are now
less than willing to pay substantially higher prices for the apparently
preferred characteristics of Somali stock. These trends were brought into
sharp relief when, during 1983, Saudi Arabia imposed a ban on the imports
of cattle from Eastern Africa on the grounds of the risk of rinderpest
transmission, and a ban on the imports of small ruminants because of an
alleged risk of brucellosis transmission. Of all Eastern African
countries, Somalia was the hardest hit and responded with intensified
disease control measures. The ban on small ruminant imports was lifted in



February 1984, although the cattle ban remains in force. Exports of small
stock have, however, not recovered to their former levels, and the
prospects of Somalia recovering its market share of the Saudi market must
be considered highly uncertain. GOS has made efforts to diversify its
markets and by late 1984 had arranged for shipments of cattle to Egypt,
although at lower prices and more uniform quality than had been previously
enjoyed in the Saudi market.
2.10      The system for livestock marketing is well established and based
on a network of exporters (Livestock Traders Committee) which employs
agents to purchase stock in the interior. Official exports are subject to
export licensing and to a system of letters of credit (L/C) under which GOS
specifies a somewhat arbitrary L/C value per head (US$42 per small
ruminant, US$280 per head of cattle and US$450 per camel in 1984) which is
below the actual dollar value realized by the sale. The L/C value is
repatriated at the official exchange rate while the exporter is free to
repatriate the remainder at the open market rate or to purchase goods
abroad for resale in Somalia. The high valuation of the currency, in
conjunction with the L/C system, results in a high rate of implicit
taxation on the sector, amounting, at the time of appraisal, to about 40%
on gross earnings in the case of small ruminants.2/ It is expected that
the impact of this taxation on export incentives and the need for a
revision of Government policy regarding the L/C system as currently
practiced will be reviewed under the livestock marketing studies scheduled
to be carried out under a USAID-assisted project (para 2.11).
2.11      A USAID funded Livestock Marketing and Health Services Project
which started its operations in late 1984 is seeking to address Somalia's
immediate livestock marketing constraints (Annex 7). Specifically, it will
focus on upgrading quarantine-and related export facilities to meet
international trade requirements and on improving the health program for
cattle exports. The project is, however, also through two marketing
studies scheduled to be carried out in 1986 to assist GOS in improving the
livestock marketing system and developing a cattle export marketing
strategy.
Government Policy and Institutions
2.11      The Government's current Four-Year Development Plan assigns the
highest priority for livestock subsector development to a reduction of
waste caused by disease and expected subsequent increases in the level of
offtake, exports and foreign exchange earnings. Other priorities include
2/   Calculated as the So.Sh. equivalent of the L/C value, evaluated at the
difference between the parallel and official market exchange rate, in
percent of the export price expressed in So.Sh. evaluated at the
parallel market exchange rate.



-9-
range development and preservation, and production diversification with a
strong emphasis on private sector involvement. Development projects aiming
at achieving these and earlier objectives were reviewed in Chapter I (para
1.13). Efforts to improve animal health through enhanced disease control
measures need to consider and be balanced with available animal feed
resources. Hence, the Northern and Central Rangelands Development Projects
aim at increasing rangeland productivity to accommodate increased livestock
production through the creation of permailent and rotational grazing and
drought reserves, range users cooperatives, stock water ponds and fodder
production water. The longer term results of these efforts are still to be
assessed. Furthermore, under the USAID funded Livestock Marketing and
Health Services Project special provisions are included for expansion of
private sector fodder productioa required for exports of quarantined
cattle.
2.12      Although the livestock subsector comprises a substantial part of
Somalia's social and economic activity, it contributes only 1-1.5% to
Government revenues through direct taxes levied on exports. The tax levied
on domestic slaughter of cattle in municipal slaughterhouses represents a
small contribution to the revenues of local governments. On the other
hand, Government expenditures affecting the subsector in 1984 represented a
mere 4% of the ordinary budget. Given the important role livestock plays
and could play in increasing the country's foreign exchange earnings, the
Government would be justified in allocating more resources to the subsector
and in relying more heavily on it as a source of revenue principally
through the recovery of costs of vaccination, provision of drugs and other
services of direct benefit to producers and exporters.
2.13      The Ministry of Livestock, Forestry and Range (MLFR) is the
Government agency concerned with the development of the livestock
subsector. As shown in Chart 1, it has four departments: Animal Health;
Animal Production; Planning, Training and Research; and Administration.
This Ministry also supervises the National Range Agency (NRA), a parastatal
agency in the livestock subsector.  The MLFR employs about 1,250 permanent
and 800 temporary staff, including 55 graduates of whom 21 graduated from
the Somali National University.
2.14      The Animal Health Department (AHD) which is the largest MLFR
department, is headed by a Director with 18 professional staff in Mogadishu
and 25 veterinarians in the field. The AHD is responsible for all aspects
of animal disease control including movement control, field vaccination and
treatments, meat inspection, laboratory services, the purchase and
distribution of drugs and the manufacture and distribution of veterinary
medicine. Most importantly, AHD has a laboratory service represented by
the Serum and Vaccine Institute (SVI) in Mogadishu, the Kismayo and
Hargeisa veterinary laboratories and a field service operating at regional
and district levels.
2.15      The SVI provides diagnostic, investigative and research services
and primarily manufactures vaccines for deparmental use. The SVI can
satisfy present national demands for most vaccines and works well below
full capacity due to inadequate field demand for vaccines. The Veterinary
Laboratory at Kismayo was established with assistance from the Federal
Republic of Germany (FRG). It is receiving continued assistance from FRG
under the Central Rangeland Development Project under which the operations



- 10 -
of the laboratory will be integrated with veterinary field services through
a phased program for improving animal health involving disease survey,
analysis and evaluation of data and implementation of veterinary
intervention measures. The Veterinary Laboratory at Hargeisa, which was
developed with British assistance (ODA) is now not fully operational.
2.16      The veterinary field services involve vaccinations and treatment
of primarily internal and external parasites carried out by mobile units
based at regional headquarters. Whereas vaccinations are given free,
livestock owners are sold veterinary drugs by AHD's field staff. Figures
on vaccinations and drugs suggest that the best, although inadequate,
coverage is for rinderpest, with minimal ineffectual coverage for most
other diseases. The project would concentrate on the whole spectrum of
diseases and develop a strategy for their economic control.
Animal Disease Control
2.17      The maintenance of animal health through an effective disease
control strategy is critically important in the Somali context where over
60% of the population are directly dependent on livestock not only as an
income-earning livelihood but to support life itself in the widespread
pastoral society. Although subsector development objectives emphasize
reduction in economic waste the strategies and policies to accomplish this
objective are poorly defined. Planning and implementation of veterinary
interventions is impeded by a lack of understanding of current levels of
mortality and morbidity caused by animal diseases. It is recognized that
animal diseases are important and cause economic losses to the subsector.
However, the magnitude of such losses among various livestock categories
and the geographic and seasonal incidence cannot yet be quantified. In
such circumstances, the economic justification and cost effectiveness of
veterinary interventions through veterinary services remain uncertain.
There is, therefore, a need for specific epidemiological studies to
establish a basis for planning animal health strategy. Efforts to remedy
this situation are currently being initiated in the central rangelands area
through the operations of the Kismayo Laboratory and its associated
veterinary services. In the same vein, the proposed project would seek to
strengthen animal health planning in the northern regions of Somalia and
also serve as a basis for national planning.
2.18      Veterinary Services and Drug Distribution.  In the absence of
well defined disease control programs, the veterinary services of AHD lack
focus and guidance, and the links between field and laboratory services
are, therefore, weak. The services provided involve curative measures and
vaccinations. Sick animals have to be brought by nomadic herdsmen long
distances to clinical centers for treatments rather than veterinary
services effectively reaching out to livestock owners. As a result
treatment is directed toward individual animals rather than toward herds or
flocks involved, an inherently costly approach. The above deficiencies in
the basic system of veterinary services are compounded by low motivation of
staff and deficient supplies, equipment and transport for veterinary
staff. A major cause of low staff motivation is the Government salary
structure.



- 11 -
2.19      The Government maintains a monopoly on drug importation.
International drug firms are invited to submit tenders against a list of
drugs chosen by AHD. Drugs are dispatched to regional offices which are
responsible for distribution to district offices and village posts. Drugs
are often dispensed to livestock owners on the basis of uncertain
diagnosis, without adequate instructions regarding their proper use.
Departmental records suggest that antibiotics are used as broad spectrum
drugs whenever diagnosis is not obtained. Importation of drugs is
restricted by the release by the Ministry of Finance of the necessary
foreign exchange, with the result that supplies are small and limited. It
is believed that this has contributed to significant illegal importations
and trade in drugs through the private sector. However, steps are being
initiated to eliminate the official MLFR drug importation and distribution
monopoly. The Government has agreed under the IDA financed Agricultural
Inputs Program to authorize approved dealers to import and distribute
non-prescription drugs and veterinary supplies on the open market. This
would include antihelminthics, acaricide, wound ointments, chemicals for
foot rot and powder antihistics.
2.20      Issues. Constraints and Project Rationale.  As indicated above,
the major issue in the area of livestock health improvement is the absence
of well-defined and regionally focused disease control programs which are
economically justifiable, cost effective and monitored as to their
effectiveness in achieving established objectives. An important aspect of
this issue is the consideration of the appropriate role of public and
private sectors in the delivery of veterinary services, including drugs, to
livestock owners including incentives to private sector participation and
recovery of public sector expenditures for animal health control to sustain
such a program over time. The necessary elements of a disease control
program, currently not in place, would involve the following:
(i)  an identified set of livestock diseases of major economic
importance and their seasonal and spatial patterns;
(ii) choice of appropriate and cost-effective methods, including
suitable veterinary extension services and drug distribution
systems to control or eradicate such diseases;
(iii) design of a system for monitoring the implementation and
evaluating impacts of disease control measures; and
(iv) establishment of organizational and managerial structures
for implementation of disease control programs including the
assignment of an appropriate role to the private sector for
providing veterinary services and drugs.
2.21      Strengthening of the technical and organizational base for animal
health planning in support of the formulation of regional disease control
programs is an immediate priority. The proposed project would address this
need as it relates to northern Somalia.



- 12 -
2.22      The implementation of disease control programs is faced with
logistics problems caused by the mobility of pastoralists, distances and
poor communication between urban centers and location of pastoralists. The
present facilities of AHD i.e., regional, district and subdistrict housing
and office facilities of AHD staff, transport and equipment are viewed as
constraints in overcoming such problems. However, large scale investments
for strengthening of such facilities, need to be planned and justified with
reference to the role and form of public sector veterinary interventions
within the overall context of a disease control strategy. The proposed
project would address this requirement through an appropriately phased
program for strengthening veterinary field services.
2.23      As in the case of other veterinary services, animal drug
distribution needs to be planned with respect to appropriate public and
private sector roles. The present Government monopoly on drug importation
and distribution is contributing to straining the already limited foreign
exchange resources of the Government while failing to tap the resources of
the private sector in meeting the drug demands of livestock owners. The
Government recognizes the need for privatization of animal drug importation
and distribution. A study to examine the feasibility and organizational
aspects of involving the Frivate sector in drug distribution is being
planned under the USAID assisted Livestock Marketing and Health Project
(Annex 7). Furthermore, under the proposed IDA financed Agricultural
Inputs Program, GOS agreement is being sought to the authorization of
traders to import and distribute specified animal drugs (para. 2.19).   The
proposed Livestock Health Services Project would complement these
activities as they relate to northern Somalia, by preparing and
implementing proposals for involving private traders in drug distribution
in the project area.
2.24      Insufficient attention has been given in the past to the
implications of the limited feed resources of the range and the increases
in livestock numbers that might result from an effective disease control
program. Any increase in livestock numbers generated by an animal health
program without a commensurate increase in offtake sustained by an assured
demand for consumption of meat would be counterproductive and exacerbate
the already precarious feed situation and risk of increased losses from
starvation in dry or drought situations. The proposed project acknowledges
the need to plan, implement and monitor a disease control program for
northern Somalia within the constraint of maintaining the sustainability of
the range resources and market offtake (para. 5.14). As the first Phase
(three years) of the project is of an investigatory nature, no immediate
additional stress would be placed on range resources or aggravate the
export market situation. Additionally, given the normal
biological/reproductive constraints of cattle and camels, short-term
increases in numbers would not be expected; although control of parasites
in all stock, particularly sheep and goats, would diminish losses and
increase pressure on feed resources. Project staff would maintain close
links with pastoral groups to solicit their own views on animal health
interventions and on the maintenance of range resources (para. 5.06).



- 13 -
II.. THE PROJECT AREA
General
3.01      The project area (IBRD Map No. 19008) comprises the
administrative regions of Awdal, Galbeed and Togdheer in northwest
Somalia. The area is bounded on the west by the international border with
Djibouti, on the north by the Gulf of Aden, on the south by the
international border with Ethiopia, and on the east by Sanaag and Nugal
Regions. The project area has a surface area of 86,000 km2, and a human
population estimated to be 900,000, of whom 300,000 live in Hargeisa,
Somalia's second largest town. The 1975 census estimated that 67Z of the
population was nomadic, 23% settled farmers (some holding stock) and 10!
non-agricultural.
3.02      Livestock-rearing is the most important economic activity of the
area, with the arable area limited to less than 100,000 ha. The :North-West
Region Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 635-SO), which recently
entered a second phase, has achieved a considerable degree of success in
bringing about increased production in these areas through assisting
farmers in moisture conservation practices. One of the associated benefits
of this project is a modest increase in the availability of feed from crop
residues and improved grazing on the developed farms.
3.03      The climate is semi-arid, subject to the monsoon which brings the
rainfall in two seasons, the gu (April/June) and the der (September/October
and intermittently up to December). Annual average precipitation ranges
from less than 100 mm at the coast to 500 mm inland except for limited
areas where it may reach 900 mm. Variability is very high; Hargeisa, for
instance, with a long-term average of some 400 mm has recorded variations
from 209 mm to 810 mm per year. The major topographical features are (i)
the low-lying coastal plains (the Guban) running some 70 km inland with a
very iot summer climate, (ii) a high escarpment running east-west parallel
to the coent and rising to 1,550 m at Sheikh; (iii) a plateau to the south
of the mountains (the Ogod) extending to Ethiopia, with an average altitude
of 1,200 m arid rainfall in the range 100 - 300 mm; and (iv) beyond this the
Haud, a red s.mdy plain, stretching southwards into Ethiopia, its altitude
falling to some 500 m.
3.04      The project area is connected to Mogadishu by means of a
bituminized road which extends from Burao through Berbera to Hargeisa and
Gebiley and is currently being extended to Borama near the Ethiopian
border. Burao and Hargeisa are also connected by a poor quality dirt
road. Other lesser dirt roads and trails provide poor connections between
towns and villages. Large parts of the range are inaccessible even to
four-wheel drive vehicles, especially during the rains. Telephone
communications are limited to an unreliable service between main towns.
This is disadvantageous for livestock exporters who are unable to speak
directly with importers in other countries. Poor communications make it
particularly difficult for pastorali ts to visit veterinary centers (even
without their animals) or for veterinary services to reach pastoralists.
Outbreaks of disease can thus go unreported and untreated, and diagnosis
and treatment tend to be of an ad-hoc nature. Thus, although the
maintenance of animal health is of great importance to a primarily



- 14 -
livestock-oriented society, and especially so to protect or enhance the
development of its exports, no adequate diagnostic or preventive base
exists mainly because of the lack of communications.
Pastoralists, Production and Scheme
3.05      Available data show that the project area includes an estimated
25% of the national camel herd, 47% of all small ruminants and 5% of all
cattle. In absolute numbers, this would imply a livestock population in
the area of about 0.7 M camels; 2.9 M sheep; 2.5 M goats and 0.1 M cattle.
By comparison with the national average, the livestock economy of the north
is based predominantly on camels and small ruminants, and it is with these
classes of stock that livestock health services would be primarily
concerned. The major movements of livestock and people occur between the
Guban, Ogod and Haud, with a multitude of minor movements within each
zone. These represent a regular large scale migration of several hundred
thousand people who have evolved a range management system of intricate
cooperation over large areas.
3.06      The ultimate beneficiaries of the proposed project would be the
pastoralists of northwest Somalia. Of particular importance are the
nomadic social organizations and de facto herdsmen associations. These
groups are formed out of small subsegments of primary lineage groups, under
the necessity of forging alliances strong enough to exercise effective
pressure upon other primary lineage groups, when it comes to sharing of
resources or settling social conflicts. Outside of these groups, no
collective action is normally achieved within the nomadic lineage society.
In northern Somalia, there are about 350 such groups of which there are
some 110 in Togdheer involving a population of about 360,000, each group
controlling on average, though with wide variations, 33,000 small
ruminants, 4,800 camels, and 3,000 cattle.   No comparable data are
available for Galbeed and Awdal regions.
3.07      The average herd size in the project area is believed to be
somewhat larger than in the Central Rangelands area where a nomadic
household survey in 1983 estimated it to be around 100. The same survey
found an average household income of So.Sh. 28,850 in the Central
Rangelands and estimated that about 40% of the households failed to
generate sufficient income to rise above the food poverty line, and that
about 60% failed to meet the basic needs poverty line. Taking into account
the larger herd sizes in the proposed project area, the incidence of
poverty should be lower, but also here a large percentage of the nomadic
hous..holds would have incomes below the poverty line.
Marketing
3.08      The marketing system has been long established in the project
area, Berbera being the main port of export. Stock purchased at the inland
markets or directly from the producer are assembled by the traders or their
agents, vaccinated and then held for two to three weeks at holding
grounds. Once shipping has been arranged, stock are moved to Berbera



- 15 -
(small stock and most cattle by road transport, camels walked) and loaded
on ships as rapidly as possible as feed resources at Berbera are extremely
limited. Feed for the 2-3 day voyage to Jeddah is purchased by the
exporter at a cost in late 1984 of some So.Sh. 18,000 per load (one load
being adequate for 1,000 small stock to complete the journey).
Deficiencies in the marketing system are primarily related to
infrastructure and supplies of fodder. Inland, the holding grounds in the
Burao-Hargeisa-Berbera triangle Qolcaday have generally fallen into
disrepair and do not allow effective separation of livestock, and the
facilities at Berbera port are substandard. These facilities are to be
improved under the Livestock Marketing and Health Project. Feed supplies,
the prices of which have risen steeply, have to be trucked from long
distances. This constraint is also to be addressed under the USAID
assisted project through provision of credit for fodder production and
transport.
3.09      The present problems of access to the crucial Saudi export market
(para 2.09) are reflected in northern Somalia in depressed real prices and
in greatly reduced livestock shipments from Berbera (see Table 3). In
December, 1984 exporters had still not been paid for deliveries of small
stock made to Saudi Arabia in July/August, and no stock were passing
through Berbera; small stock for 1984 were down 45% and 65% compared to
1983 and 1982. However, increased smuggling of livestock to the Gulf
States through uncontrolled ports was reported. The project would not seek
to address marketing constraints which are being studied country-wide by
USAID and GOS.
Table 3
Livestock Shipments from Port of Berbera
(1,000 Head)
Small
Year       Cattle       Camels       Ruminants      Total A.U. a/
1980        77.1         8.0         14,080.0        1,951.5
1981        51.9         4.7          1,281.1        1,639.2
1982        60.2         3.9           1,312.2       1,713.0
1983        29.8         3.4          1,052.4        1,265.8
1984 b/      6.0         1.6            619.7          670.4
a/ Animal Units (A.U.) 1 camel - 10 sheep/goat - 6 cattle.
b/ Up to November, 1984.
SOURCE: Animal Health Department, Berbera.
Institutions
3.10      Administration. The project area is administered by the Regional
Governors of Awdal, Galbeed and Togdheer with bases in Borama, Hargeisa and
Burao assisted by District Commissioners. Civil order is controlled by a
Police Commissioner and his force; while regional and border security is in
the hands of the Somali Army.



- 16 -
3.11      Government Services.  A wide range of services is nominally
provided to the agricultural/livestock sector. These services include
rainfed and irrigated farm development and extension, forestry range,
animal health, water supply development credit and marketing. All of the
institutions involved, including MLFR suffer from budgetary constraints,
lack of trained staff, transport, housing and low salaries. Staff turnover
is high due to relatively harsh local conditions and isolation from the
mainstream of social and political life and chances of promotion. In the
absence of a solid institutional presence in the area, it was necessary to
form a Project Management Unit to implement the North-West Region
Agricultural Project. A similar arrangement is proposed for the Livestock
Health Services Project. This, however, would not be a substitute for a
soundly staffed and an adequately financed national institution. This will
need to be addressed during the mid-term review (prior to starting the
development phase) of the project.
Disease Control
3.12      At present, the animal disease control activities of AHD in the
northern regions of Somalia are subject to constraints similar to those
discussed in Chapter II (para. 2.17-2.19). Briefly, they comprise the
absence of an adequate information base upon which to found an appropriate
health control policy, serious deficiencies in staffing, staff motivation
and supervision, and a shortage of basic facilities and equipment. In
consequence, the veterinary field services of AHD are not capable of
carrying out the necessary phased program of planning, investigation and
evaluation, which should precede an integrated animal disease control
strategy. The logistic and managerial problems inherent in the provision
of veterinary services for nomadic herdsmen are particularly relevant in
the project area.
3.13      The present knowledge of the spectrum of diseases responsible for
mortality and morbidity in livestock in the northern regions arises from
the accumulated observations of the Somali field staff, supported by the
findings of the British Veterinary Team stationed in Hargeisa 1969-1972.
Some limited work has also been sponsored by the diagnostic section of SVI.
The main diseases mentioned are: in cattle, rinderpest and contagious
bovine pleuropnuemonia (CBPP); in camels, trypanosomiasis and rabies; and
in sheep and goats, Nairobi sheep disease, helminthiasis and contagious
caprine pleuropneumonia (CCPP). However, since the diagnostic laboratory
at Hargeisa is now barely operational and transport facilities for the
veterinary field service strictly limited, little reliance can be placed on
recent accounts uf animal disease in the project area. The roles that
starvation and malnutrition undoubtedly play its causing livestock debility
and mortality also need to be investigated.



- 17 -
IV. THE PROJECT
Project Genesis
4.01      IFAD has since late 1982 been considering possible financial
assistance to GOS in the animal health sector. With the cooperation of the
FAO/Investment Centre (FAO/IC), a Livestock Health Services Project was
identified and prepared. The FAO/IC mission, which submitted its report in
October 1984, proposed a five-year project, costing about US$17 M
(excluding price contingencies), for the simultaneous strengthening of
animal health planning and veterinary field services. The bulk of project
expenditure, US$12 M or 70X, would be directed towards strengthening and
expanding AHD's veterinary field services. This would involve provision of
buildings, transport, equipment and drug supplies. About US$5 M, or 30% of
total project expenditures, would go towards strengthening of animal health
planning, i.e., disease investigation, diagnosis, surveillance and
evaluation involving a substantial technical assistance component.
Financing of project costs was expected to be shared between IFAD
(veterinary field services component), ODA (animal health planning
component) and local financing generated by project sales of drugs.
4.02      The [DA appraisal mission agreed with the findings of the
Preparation Report that strengthening of animal health planning is a
critical element for a livestock health services project. However, for
reasons already indicated (para. 3.12), it had strong reservations about
the conclusions of the Report that substantial and immediate investments in
treatment oriented veterinary field services in the project area are, at
this stage,justified and that such investments should proceed
simultaneously with efforts to improve animal health planning.
Consequently, the mission recommended a project reduced in scale and
modified with respect to objectives compared to earlier proposals.
Further, after prolonged discussions, GOS requected that ODA grant
financing for the animal health planning component be replaced by IDA
credit financing. The source of financing does not alter the project
concept.
Project Objectives
4.03      The proposed project recognizes the need for a phased approach to
development of animal health in the project area. This would involve the
logical sequence of first determining what constitutes an economically
justifiable and cost effective disease control program and second,
comaittinf appropriately scaled and directed resources to the
implementation of such a program.
4.04      The long-term goals of the project would be to contribute to the
reduction of economic losses in the livestock sector which result from
animal diseases and to strengthen the institutional capability of AHD to
serve the needs of the livestock sector. In pursuit of these goals, the
project would assist AHD in:
(i) defining a comprehensive and economically justifiable animal
disease control program for the project area; and



- 18 -
(ii) testing such a program on an operational scale.
4.05      The project would be complementary to ongoing projects aiming at
animal health improvement in the area, notably the USAID assisted Livestock
Marketing and Health Project (Annex 7). It would complement and be
consistent with the phased approach to animal disease control that has
already been adopted under the Central Rangelands Project (IDA Credit
906-SO). Its results would be expected to serve as a basis for planning
and implementing further improvements in veterinary services in Northern
Somalia and the country as a whole. In this sense, it would serve as a
pilot project.
Main Features and Project Components
4.06      The project, to be implemented over a period of six and a half
years, would involve the following two main sets of activities: (i)
disease investigation and livestock health services planning (Part A); and
(ii) implementation on a pilot scale of a disease control program in the
project area (Part B).
4.07      Part A.  Disease investigation and livestock health services
planning would extend over the entire project period but be concentrated to
the first three and a half years (Phase I) and aim at the formulation of a
comprehensive disease control program for the project area. To support
Part A activities, the project would finance the following components:
Ci) strengthening of AHD's veterinary laboratory services in
Hargeisa and Burao;
(ii) strengthening of A!D's investigative veterinary field
services; and
(iii) technical assistance services to help AHD in carrying out
the program.
4.08      Part B.  The implementation of a pilot program for disease
control in the project area would be initiated during the second half of
the project period (Phase II). The scope, detailed design and
justification of such a program, to be proposed during Phase I, would be
subject to a Mid-Term Review (para 4.19). To facilitate the iwplementation
of such a program the project would provide for the strengthening of
delivery systems for veterinary services, including drugs.
Detailed Features
(a) Port A: Disease Investigation and
Livestock Health Services Planning
4.09      Objective and Scope (details are in Annex 2).  The objective
would be to formulate a comprehensive animal disease control program for
the livestock sector in the project area, covering the necessary elements
of such a program as reviewed earlier (para. 2.20). The program would be
expected to result in the following:



- 19 -
(1) identification of animal diseases causing major economic
losses to the sector, i.e. negative impacts on livestock
production, incomes to livestock owners and export earnings
to the country;
(ii) recommendations for cost effective delivery systems for
veterinary services including drugs for controlling
economically important diseases and for monitoring and
evaluating the implementation of such systems;
(iii)  proposals for an appropriate allocation of responsibilities
between the public and private sector, including the
livestock owners themselves, for implementing proposed
delivery systems;
(iv) preparation of a public investment program, including
detailed cost estimates, to support AHD and private sector
agents in the form of facilities, equipment, supplies,
drugs, training, technical assistance and financial
resources to enable them to implement the disease control
strategy, identified under (ii), in the project area during
Phase II;
(v) recommendations for an appropriate system of cost recovery,
given the public sector expenditure program proposed in (iv)
above;
(vi)  recommendations for an appropriate organizational structure
and staffing of AHD's veterinary services in the project
area; and
(vii) an economic and financial analysis of the investment program
proposed under (iv) above.
4.10      Investigations would cover the fields of epidemiology, range
ecology, sociology of pastoral communities, veterinary economics and
organizational and administrative aspects of veterinary delivery systems.
Collection, analysis and evaluation of information in the respective fields
would be planned, programmed and conducted in an integrated manner with the
clear operational aim of formulating an animal disease control strategy for
the project area. The investigations would take the preliminary findings
of the ODA Veterinary Investigations as a starting point (para. 3.13).
They would involve assessments of the spatial and seasonal incidence of
identified diseases relative to (i) livestock migration and feed availa-
bility; (ii) husbandry practices and herd/flock size and composition; and
(iii) the presence of disease conditions. The relative economic importance
of identified diseases would be estimated. The main objectives of the
range and pastoral systems investigations would be to establish and apply a
methodology for correlating disease control strategies with trends in range
conditions and the behavior of pastoralists with respect to animal
husbandry practices and livestock offtake.



- 20 -
4.11      The development of effective delivery systems would he an
essential part of the activities scheduled for Phase I and a prerequisite
for the implementation of Part B of the project. As initial results of the
disease investigation programs become available, the Project Management
Unit (para. 4.17) would design, test, and evaluate alternative systems for
delivery of veterinary services, including the distribution of veterinary
drugs to livestock owners. Attention would be paid to alternative
allocations of functions between the private and public sector, recognizing
the need for greatest possible use of the skills and resources of the
livestock owners and traders. Actual and potential groupings of livestock
owners and traders that could provide a focus for extension, training and
input supplies would be identified. Furthermore, an analysis would be made
of the scope and feasibility for channelling drugs through the private
sector (para 5.17).
4.12      Laboratory Services (US$1.2 M, Annex 1, Table 4).  The space and
facilities of the existing laboratory at Hargeisa are inadequate to support
the proposed broad disease investigation program. Expansion of the
facility is not feasible. The project would provide for (i) the
construction of a new central veterinary laboratory at Hargeisa, and the
rehabilitation of the existing laboratory at Burao to improve the
diagnostic capabilities of AHD in the project area; (ii) the services of an
internationally recruited senior laboratory technician; and (iii) financing
of incremental local staff and operating costs for laboratory services.
During negotiations it was agreed that the site for the new laboratory
would bc selected by December 15, 1985. The transfer of the site to the
project would be a condition of Credit Effectiveness.
4.13      The new Hargeisa laboratory would be the main source of sample
analysis for disease investigations. It would consist of sections for
parasitology, bacteriology and pathology and be provided with a full range
of equipment to carry out disease diagnosis (Annex 1, Table 5). The Burao
laboratory would serve as an outstation for the disease investigations in
the Toghdeer region. The laboratory buildings would consist of
prefabricated structures with floor space of about 625 m2 (Hargeisa) and
250 m2 (Burao). The Hargeisa laboratory would include space for the three
laboratory sections, a washing/preparation room, stores, archives, staff
offices for expatriate and local laboratory staff and an animal house (see
Sketch).3/ In anticipation of the completion of the proposed new
veterinary laboratory facilities project laboratory staff would utilize the
existing facilities in Hargeisa and Burao.
4.14      Field Services and Investigation (US$2.7 M, Annex 1, Table 6).
To strengthen AHD's planning capability and resources for carrying out
veterinary disease investigations in the fields, the project would provide
for technical assistance services, transport, equipment, supplies
(including drugs) and financing of incremental staff costs. The disease
investigation program would rely on sample specimens and information
collected in the field by two Veterinary Investigation Teams. Each team
would be equipped with a 4-wheel drive vehicle and supported by a 5-ton
4-wheel truck which would carry equipment, fuel, water, food and other
3/ Estimated costs refer to base costs for project components.



- 21 -
supplies to allow the team to stay in the field for periods of about 2
weeks at a time (Annex 1, Table 7). Two additional mobile teams for range
and pastoralist systems investigations would be established, and equipped
to operate parallel to the veterinary investigation teams.
4.15      The project would also provide for the rehabilitation of a small
number of AHD veterinary district offices in the project area. This
rehabilitation would involve repairs or extension to existing buildings and
refurbishing essential equipment required to support the implementation of
the field investigation program. Incremental local staff salaries and
other operating costs for the investigative field services would amount to
about US$.6 M over the project period, including about US$.2 M for
veterinary drugs required to support disease investigations.
4.16      Training (US$.1 M, Annex 1, Table 11).  Overseas training would
be provided for a total of 9 staff of AHD through scholarships and
and short-term professional courses. The training would focus on the areas
of veterinary econcmics, epidemiology and animal health planning.
In-service training of Somali veterinary and other staff would be provided
regularly throughout the project period through the services of the
internationally recruited advisors.
4.17      Project Management Unit (US$ 1.5 M, Annex 1, Table 9).  The
project would provide quarters for six internationally recruited advisors
(prefabricated structures, 100 m2 each), two four-wheel drive vehicles,
office accommodation (included in the new Hargeisa laboratory building),
office furniture and equipment. An internationally recruited technical
advisor to the Project Director would be employed. In addition, 20
man-months of short-term consultancies (para. 5.11), would be financed.
Incremental local staff salaries and other operating costs for the project
management unit would be about US$.2 N over the project period.
4.18      Technical Assistance Team.  The implementation of Part A of the
project would rely heavily on the services of internationally recruited
advisors4/ (para 5.07). In total, the project would provide for about 30
man-years of internationally recruited consultant services to assist ARD in
designing and implementing the investigation program, translating results
into recommendations for disease control strategies and programs and for
supervising and monitoring the implementation of a disease control program
(Part B) during Phase II. The indicated complement of advisory services is
considered the minimum necessary to effectively carry out the identified
tasks. Terms of reference for the six internationally recruited experts as
shown in Annex 4 were agreed during negotiations. Early GOS action to
recruit these experts would be critical for the initiation of the
investigation program. The qualifications and experience of the
internationally recruited experts and short-term consultants would be
acceptable to IDA and IFAD. It would oe a condition of Credit
Effectiveness that GOS has completed the contractual arrangements for the
Technical Assistance Team.
4/ The costs of these services are included in the cost estimates
shown above for the respective project components.



- 22 -
(b) Part B: Implementation of a Disease Control Program
4.19      Mid-Term Review.  A review would be carried out at the beginning
of the fourth project year to evaluate the findings of the disease
investigation program and livestock health services planning activities
carried out durIng Phase I. The scope and organizational aspects of the
review are discussed below (para 5.12). The Mid-Term Review (MTR) would
make recommendations regarding the release and the use of a Development
Fund provided under the project, which would be used to assist AHD in
implementing a disease control prog-am through the strengthening of
veterinary field services under Phase II of the project. Release of the
Fund would be contingent on specific criteria being met as set out below
(para. 5.13) An important consideration for the release of the Development
Fund would be satisfactory assurances that livestock increases expected to
result from improved livestock health services will be offset by
increased offtake for export marketing and that the latter would not be
constrained by export market outlets.
4.20      Strengthening of Veterinary Field Services Under Phase Il
(US$3.4 M, Annex 1, Table 8). The program for strengthening veterinary
field services, the details of which would be determined through MTR, would
be implemented over a three-year period (Phase II). It is envisaged that
the Development Fund would be used for support to AHD's veterinary field
service organization in the form of vehicles, equipment, and rehabilitation
of district office buildings. Furthermore, it is expected that it would
provide technical and financial support for the establishment of private
sector veterinary services and drug distribution services consistent with
recommendations regarding the role of private sector in delivery systems
for veterinary services to be reviewed by MTR (para. 4.09, section [iii]).
4.21      The time and proposed funding for the implementation of delivery
systems for veterinary field services may prove insufficient to meet the
longer term requirements for such services in the project area. However,
it is expected that results from the project would serve as a basis for
further planning of livestock health services and that funding for
continued support to the subsector would be forthcoming.
E. Project Costs
4.22      The estimated total project cost, including physical and price
contingencies, is US$11.6 M of which 91% would be foreign exchange.
Investments under the project are free of duties and taxes. Details of
cost estimates, summarized in Table 4, are in Annex 1. The cost estimates
are based on November 1984 figures updated to October 1985 baseline price
levels. Physical contingencies for civil works and equipment and vehicles
are estimated at 10%. No physical contingencies have been provided for
staff salaries (expatriate and local) and training. Price contingencies
have been separately calculated for the foreign exchange and local currency
components, and have been estimated from the expected annual inflation
rates detailed in Annex 1, Table 12. Base costs shown in Table 4 are
estimated using the exchange rate US$1 - So.Sh. 42.00. Total project costs



- 23 -
including price contingencies reflect further expected devaluation of the
local currency as shown in Annex 1, Table 12.
Table 4
SOALIA'
LiEsToneflTH SEmIs PROJECT
PROJECT COS SUMMAY
(S.SH. million)                (IJSS Million)
Z Total                        Z Total
Z Foreign Base                 Z Foreign Base
Local Foreign Total Exchande  Costs  Local Foreign Total Exhmarde  Costs
a== __= ==-          -  -- Z=  === =_ =         _======-
A. LAOTORY MRVICES                   3.9  45.2 49.0      92    13  O.l   1.1  1.2       92    13
B. FIELD SERVICES: INVESTIGATION (PHASE I)  14.9  100.5 115.5  87    31  0.4   2.4  2.7  87    31
C. FIELD SERVICES: DEVELOPMENT (PHASE $I)    9.3  133.9 143.2  94    39  0.2   3.2  3.4  94    38
D. PROJECT MANAGEMENT                4.8  60.4 65.2      93    17  0.1   1.4  1.6       93    17
E. TRAINING                            -   3.0  3.0    100       1    -   0.1  01      100     1
Total BASELINE COSTS                  32.8  343.1 375.9    91   100  0.8   8.2  8.9       91   100
Phusical Contingencies               0.7   6.6  7.4     90      2  0.0   0.2  0.2       90     2
Price Contingencies                 36.2  363.9 400.0   91   106  0.2   2.3  2.5    .91    28
Total PROJECT COSTS                   69.9  713.5 783.3    91   208  1.0  10.6 11.6       91   130
Novmber '9, 1995 10:58
4.23      Detailed estimates of project costs for the strengthening of
veterinary field services (Part B of the project) during Phase II would be
prepared for the MTR (para 4.09). It is expected, however, that these
costs would be contained within a total cost of US$4.8 M, including
physical and price contingencies. The amount has beer determined at a
level which at this stage is considered appropriate to permit an initial
testing of a disease control program in the project area and which would be
consistent with an IFAD contribution of US$4.5 M for financing of estimated
foreign exchange costs.
4.24      An advance under IDA's Project Preparation Facility (PPF) of
US$200,000 M net of duties and taxes has been requested by GOS and is in
the process of being approved. The PPF would cover the costs of
(a) technical assistance to prepare design and tender documents for civil
works, vehicles and equipment; (b) procurement of first batch of vehicles
and office supplies and equipment to support early activation of the
Project Management Unit; and (c) training of key project staff and
recruitment of the Technical Assistance Team. The advance would be
refinanced under the project.



- 24 -
F. Financing
4.25      The financing of project costs would be arranged as follows:
Table 5
Proposed Financing Plan
(US$ M)
Foreign        Local
Exchange     Currency                  Z of Total
Cost          Cost         Total      Project Cost
Part A 1/
IDA                       4.3                        4.3             63
IFAD                      1.8          -             1.8            25
GOS                       -              .7           .7             12
Sub-total              6.1           .7           6.8           100
Part B I/
IFAD Loan                 4.5                        4-5             94
GOS                        _            .3            .3             6
Sub-total              4.5           .3           4.8           100
Total Project
IDA                       4.3                        4.3            37
IFAD                      6.3          -             6.3            54
GOS                       -            1.0           1.0             9
Total                 10.6          1.0          11.6           100
1/ Part A of the project would include all project components except the
development of veterinary field services under Phase II of the Project
which is included as Part B.



- 25 -
4.26      The proposed IDA credit (US$4.3 M) would meet the costs under
Part A of salaries, travel and subsistence of internationally recruited
experts, overseas training and refinancing of the Project Preparation
Advance. The proposed IFAD loan of US$6.3 M, to be made available to GOS
on highly concessional terms,5/ would (i) finance the foreign exchange
costs of civil works, vehicles, equipment, supplies, and incremental
operating expenses under Part A of the project (US$1.8 M); and
(ii) finance the estimated foreign exchange costs of strengthening of the
veterinary field services in the project area as Part B of the project
during Phase II (US$4.5 M).
4.27      The GOS's contribution would be about US$1.0 H, equivalent to
9% of project cost.6/ It would finance the equivalent of about US$.7 M in
local expenditures under Part A for minor civil works and incremental
operating costs through the necessary budgetary allccations to AHD. The
balance, or the equivalent of US$.3M, would finance local expenditures
under Part B.7/ The project is not expected during Phase I to result in
incremental Gavernment receipts from sale of veterinary drugs or services.
Any such receipts forthcoming during the Phase II as a result of
development and implementation of improved delivery systems for veterinary
field services would be retained by AHD in the Northern Region to meet
incremental local expenditures and/or importation of veterinary drugs.
Procurement 8/
4.28      Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 6 below with
IFAD procedures outlined in para 4.29. Procurement for project elements to
be financed by IDA would be made in accordance with IDA guidelines.
51 Service charge of 1% annually, and maturity period 50 years, including
a 10-year grace period.
6/ The GOS contribution to meet local expenditures as expressed in US$
would fall below US$1.0 in the event that devaluation of the domestic
currency proceeds at a quicker pace than what has been assumed for
project cost estimation purposes (Annex 1, Table 12).
7/ Based on token estimates of local and foreign cost elements
of investment and recurrent costs for Part B activities during Phase II
(Annex 1, Table 8).
8/ Unless otherwise indicated, the values quoted are inclusive of physical
and price contingencies.



- 26 -
Table 6
Procurement Method a/
Procurement Method a/
Total
Project Element                  ICB      LCB     Other       N.A.     Cost
(USS M)-
Part A:
1.  Vehicles and Equipment       .26    -           .46b/    .11 e/    .82
(.11)     (.11)
2.  Civil Works including        .75      .10      -         -          .85
pre-fabricated Dldgs.
3.  Operating Expenses &                            .25 b/   .74        .99
Veterinary Drugs
4.  Technical Assistance                           4.10 C/   .09 e/   4.19
Services and Staff
Training                                    (4.10)    (.09)    (4.19)
Sub-total              1.01     .10       4.81      .93       6.85
(4.10)    (.20)    (4.30)
Part B:
5.  Expenses Under Vet. Field                      4.78d,              4.78
Services Dev. (Ph. II)
Total                   1.01     .10       9.59      .93      11.63
(4.10)    (.20)    (4.30)
a/  Figures in parentheses are amounts financed by IDA.
b/  International shopping for equipment and drugs.
c/ Items for IDA financing (expatriate advisory services and overseas
training) will be procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
d/ Procurement methods to be determined as part of Mid-term Review.
e/ Refinancing of PPF.
4.29      Contracts for vehicles and p-efabricated buildings totalling
approximately USS1.1 M would be grouped where possible in contracts valued
at US$100,000 or more and procured by ICB in accordance with the
Bank'sGuidelines. Laboratory and field equipment totalling about
US$400,000 and grouped as much as possible would, because of the small
number of items under individual equipment categories, be purchased through
international shopping after obtaining at least three quotations. Minor
civil works contracts for building construction and rehabilitation with an
estimated total of US$100,000 would be let under LCB. All bidding packages
for goods and works estimated to cost over US$50,000 would be subject to
prior Bank review of procurement documentation. Other contracts would be
subject to selective post-award review.



- 27 -
4.30      The siX internationally recruited experts forming the Technical
Assistance Team, as well as short-term consultants, would be engaged by GOS
following IDA guidelines (para. 4.18). The services of the individual
experts of the Technical Assistance Team would preferably be engaged under
a single contract to be awarded to a suitable and qualified institution or
firm. The agreement by GOS to the above procedures for procurement under
the proposed project was obtained during negotiations.
Disbursements
4.31      The IDA Credit and IFAD Loan would be administered by IDA under a
frame agreement. Disbursements would be made according to the schedule
shown below.
Table 7
Prt3ned ArocatHm of IFAD loan ard ID, Credit
Mmmrt          z  q,wAdituze
Allncated         Faord
(US$)
ns credit
1.    itltait Services (Part A)                    3,920,000     10CM of foreign eqpendituze
2. Oversm TraiznLg (Part A)                           80,000
3. Pefund of Project Prwarntiwn Awm                  200,000     10CZ of awmxt due
4. uaalocaw                                          100,Lo00
Sub-Total                                  4,3000O
IFAD Loom
1. iquupent, vehc3es ann and luprted oonsructkm    1,380,000     lOCZ of foreign exmaditwxs
lmteristltmc. pa      te ildingo (Part A)                    and 90Z of local ePnditus
for iampted ites prooored
localy
2. Incremental rerret casts, i.e., veteria           420,000
dng, and MEM coss for  uidlzq and
vels (Part A)
3. Irwlopot Fund for stretlAdrgof                  4,200,000
veterInary field s
(Part B)a/
4. Azbwrizd Afocation to Special Accxxmt             200,000
5. Unallocated                                       100,000
Sibtotal                                   6,300,000
Total                                      10,600,o0
a/ Catgory to be bnein dcamin cn   its foflwlog outY  of MM.



- 28 -
The disbursement profile for all IDA Eastern Africa Region Credits is
nine years, with about 83Z being disbursed over the first six years. The
shorter overall disbursement period of seven years assumed for the project
is justified because funds for vehicles, civil works, expatriate services
and training would be committed very early in the life of Part A of the
project; in addition the use of the Development Fund allocation under Part
B, would be identified and funds committed during year four of project
implementation. Projected semi-annual disbursements are shown in Annex 5.
4.32      Disbursements against all items financed by the IDA Credit and
IFAD Loan would be based on full documentation, except in the case of the
following items: (i) goods costing less than US$10,000 equivalent,
(ii) incremental operating costs, (iii) overseas training, and
(iv) contracts involving individual consultants. In these cases, only
Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) would be required. Supporting
documentation for SOEs would be retained by PMU for inspection by IDA
supervision missions. Incremental recurrent costs reimbursable under the
IFAD Loan would consist of the foreign exchange cost elements of operation
and maintenance of vehicles, buildings and equipment procured under the
project and the cost of imported drugs.
4*23      Disbursements of funds under the Development Fund would be
intingent on a joint IDA and IFAD decision to release the Fund which, in
turn, would be dependent upon the fulfillment of the conditions specified
below (para.5.13). Necessary amendments to the disbursement procedures for
expenditures relating to Part B activities would be agreed upon following
the recommendations by [TR.
4.34      To ensure that project activities are not held back by a lack of
funds, PMU should have prompt access to the required funds. It would
therefore be a condition of Credit Effectiveness that GOS has deposited in
the Project's account with a bank acceptable to IDA an advance based on an
estimated average of about three months expenditures, involving local
currency payments, in the amount of So.Sh. 2.5 M and that Government would
replenish the project account quarterly to that level or such level as may
be agreed upon until project completion. Furthermore, GOS would open two
special accounts, one for IDA and one for IFAD funds, in foreign exchange
in the project's name with the Central Bank to enable the PMU to disburse
without any delay. IDA and IFAD would at effectiveness make initial
deposits of US$50,000 and US$200,000 equivalent into the respective special
accounts. These arrangements were agreed during negotiations.
Accounts and Audits
4.35      The project entity would establish and maintain accounts in
accordance with sound and generally recognized accounting principles and
practices satisfactory to the Bank. Based on these accounts, the project
entity would provide interim and annual financial statements to reflect the
financial operations and status of the project.



- 29 -
4.36      An auditor's opinion and report satisfactory to the Bank on the
project statements and the special account would be provided within six
months after the closing of each fiscal year. The auditor's report would
include a statement on the adequacy of the accounting systems and internal
controls and on the reliability of SOEs as a basis for disbursements. The
foregoing accounting, financial reporting and audit arrangements would
provide adequate and timely information to IDA for supervision of
disbursements and the project generally. The above arrangements together
with the appointment of acceptable independent auditors were agreed at
negotiations.
Environmental Impact
4.37      The project takes into consideration the often expressed concerns
that the rangelands of northern Somalia have deteriorated over time and are
still actively deteriorating. Casual observations are, however, not
supported by long-term data to substantiate and quantify such concerns.
Although monitoring of range conditions has been instituted under projects
controlled by NRA, these are of recent origin and are not directly linked
to a program of disease control, but rather to systems of range improvement
through controlled access by pastoralists. Additional pressure on range
and feed resources could be adverse; hence, the critical need to increase
offtake for domeetic consumption and export should the disease control
program improve livestock productivity and survival.
4.38      The formulation and implementation of a disease control program
for northern Somalia (i.e., Project Part A) would be linked to the
objective of maintaining sustainability of range resources. The project
would establish and operate a Range Monitoring Team as part of the Project
-nagement Unit and enlist the cooperation of NRA in the monitoring of
range conditions in the project area as a normal part of GOS animal health
and range control programs and as a mechanism for permanent feedback into
planning of disease control interventions. GOS trade officials and the
USAID Livestock Marketing and Health Project are specifically addressing
the issues of export marketing to increase offtake should an animal health
project succeed in reducing losses and increasing productivity. These
developments would be closely followed by the PMU and PC.
4.39      No toxic elements would be applied to the land. All veterinary
vaccines and drugs, to be clearly marked, would be for animal treatment
only and their use would have no adverse effect on humans. If successful,
the disease control program would have beneficial effects on human
nutrition and health and would improve the financial lot of livestock
producers.



- 30 -
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Organization
5.01      The proposed project activities aim at strengthening the
technical and organizational capabilities of AHD's regional veterinary
staff in Northern Somalia in the fields of disease investigation and
livestock health services planning and the subsequent implementation of
cost effective delivery systems for veterinary services within a well
defined disease control program. To this end, proiect organization and
management would be structured to involve primarily existing staff
resources of AHD in the project area, increase the efficiency and
motivation of staff and ensure that when the project terminates activities
initiated under the project are continued as part of a regular AHD program.
5.02     The proposed project organization is shown in Chart 2.  The
responsibility for project implementation would be assigned to a Project
Management Unit (PMU) which would be located in Hargeisa and which would
report directly to the Director of AHD in Mogadishu and a Project Committee
to be established within MLFR. The PMU would include the Technical
Assistance Team, be supported by an Inter-Regional Committee and seek the
actve involvement by livestock owners and traders in project planning and
implementatiou.
5.03     Project Management Unit.  The PMU would be headed by a Project
Director whose qualifications and experience would be acceptable to IDA
and IFAD. The Project Director would be assisted by a Technical Director,
an internationally recruited animal health economist, who would be the
leader of the Technical Assistance Team. The PHU would comprise three
sections during Phase I of the project: Field Investigation, Laboratory
Services and Administration. Veterinary and laboratory staff currently
employed in AHD's Regional Veterinary offices in Hargeisa and Burao would
be assigned to PMU. These assignments would, in the majority of cases, not
create any need for add'tional staff recruitment by ADE since the purpose
of the project would be to organize more efficient use of existing staff
resources. During Phase II an additional section of PMU would be created
for the implementation of the disease control program to be identified
during Phase I. The organization and operation of this section would be
determined as part of the Mid-Term Review. The establishment of PHU and
the appointment of a Project Director would be conditions of Credit
Effectiveness. However, it was agreed at negotiations that the Project
Director would be appointed, PHU established, and the key staff of PMU
recruited by December 31, 1985. Also, the assurances were obtained from
GOS at negotiations that special efforts would be made to retain qualified
local staff within PMU throughout the project implementation period. To
this end, staff incentives (para 5.16) would be kept continuously under
review, and staff transfers avoided.
5.04      Inter-Regional Committee.  To secure cooperation of other
Government and non-Government regional institutions, an Inter-Regional
Committee (IRC) would be headed by one of the Governors in the Project area
and have the Project Director as its Secretary. The IRC would convene
quarterly and as other members have, the regional representatives of



- 31 -
NRA, a representative from the Animal Production Department of MLFR, AHD's
Regional Veterinary Officers in the project area, the Technical Director of
PMU and representatives of livestock owners and traders. When questions of
security, logistics and communications are discussed, the local army
commander would also be invited to participate. It was agreed during
negotiations that IRC would be constituted by September 30, 1986.
5.05      The Project Committee.  Project implementation would be
supervised and monitored by a Project Committee (PC), to be established
within MLFR. The PC would be chaired by either the Minister, Vice-Minister
or the Permanent Secretary of MLFR and include as members the Director of
AHD and representatives from the Planning, Research and Training
Department, NRA and other appropriate agencies. The PC would quarterly
review PMU's progress reports and initiate or direct PMU to take action to
overcome any bottlenecks that might impede timely or effective project
implementation. It would also serve as a coordinating unit for all
development projects in the livestock subsector. The PC would issue clear
instructions to PMU conce ning format, contents and frequency of progress
reports on project implel.entation. The establishment of PC would be a
condition of Credit Effectiveness.
5.06      Involvement of Livestock Owners and Traders.  The project's deep
involvement with the animal health practices of the nomads would require a
broad forum to discuss the nomads' overall views on existing and proposed
delivery systems for veterinary services. This would serve to provide
necessary feedback to PMU relative to activities throughout the project
period. To this end, the PMU would organize by region or area, periodic
assemblies of nomadic and sedentary livestock owners. Similarly, PMU would
seek the active involvement by livestock traders in the project area in its
Phase I planning, testing and evaluation of alternative veterinary delivery
systems, ini particular concerning drug importation and distribution (para
5.17). The PMU would prepare a plan for the organization and interaction
with assemblies/groups of livestock owners and traders which would
recognize the particular problems in administering livestock health
services caused by the mobility of the target group. The agreement was
obtained from GOS during negotiations that such a plan would be submitted
to IDA/IFAD for review by November 30, 1986.
Disease Investigation and Livestock Health Services
Planning (Project Part A)
5.07      The Project Director (a Somali national), assisted by a Technl-al
Director (internationally recruited) would have the overall responsibility
for planning, administering and implementing the disease investigation and
livestock health services planning program of the project. In particular,
he would be responsible for: (i) preparing and supervising the progress of
annual work programs; (ii) reporting progress to PC and financing agencies;
and (iii) preparing proposals for the implementation of a disease control
program covering aspects outlined above (para 4.09) to be submitted for the
Mid-Term Review (para 5.12). The implementation of the disease
investigation program and the associated planning for a disease control
program would be done through the Field Investigation and Laboratory



- 32 -
Services Sections of PMU with the support of long- and short-term technical
assistance services. Local project staffing for these sections is shown in
Annex 1, Table 10.
5.08      Field investigations, including the testing and evaluation of
alternative delivery systems for veterinary services, covering areas
discussed earlier (para 4.10-11) would be carried out by the two Veterinary
Investigation Teams, the Pastoral Systems Analysis Team and the Range
Ecology Team. Each of the teams would be led by internationally recruited
experts, i.e., two Senior Veterinary Investigation Officers, a Pastoralist
Systems Specialist and a Range Ecologist working with AMHD veterinary
officers.  The Range Ecology Team, although a part of PMU, would plan and
execute its work program in close association with NRA and the Range
Management Institute at Burao as it relates to establishing methodology of
range monitoring and data collection.
5.09      The investigative field teams would be staffed with technical and
support personnel from AHD and as appropriate other MLFR departments and
would operate out of the central laboratory in Hargeisa using the Burao
laboratory as an outstation and work closely together as dictated by the
overall work program. Investigations would be carried out along fixed time
schedules and geographical coverage would consider ecological rather than
regional and district boundaries. Other considerations affecting work plan
design would be seasonal livestock densities and movements, geographic
features and disease intelligence. The principal activities of the disease
investigation teams would be to: (i) regularly visit groups of livestock.
owners to obtain intelligence on animal disease spectrum, its epidemiology
and information on disease conditions; and (ii) collect serum samples,
screening of faeces samples for parasites, and as required, perform 'blood
smears and autopsies.
5.10      The Laboratory Services Section would be headed by an AHD
Veterinary Investigation Officer assisted by an internationally recruited
Senior Laboratory Technician. The bacteriology, pathology and parasitology
departments would each be led by an AHD veterinarian. Vi-ological
investigations would, to the extent required, be carried out by the Serum
and Vaccine Institute in Mogadishu or by suitable institutes outside
Somalia.
5.11      The PMU would also be assisted by 20 man-months of short-term
technical assistance services in specific areas of investigation and
planning. These areas would include veterinary economics, animal
husbandry, and organization and management of veterinary services. To
ensure continuity and effectiveness of such services, assistance would be
sought from specialist institutions such as the International Livestock
Centre for Africa.
Mid-Term Review
5.12      At the beginning of the fourth project year, a Mid-term Review
(MTR) would be carried out through a mission including representatives from
GOS, IFAD and IDA. The purpose of MTR would be to: (i) review the results
of PMU disease investigation and livestock health services planning



- 33 -
activities carried out under Phase I; (ii) appraise proposals for a disease
control program in the project area; and (iii) formulate a detailed plan,
including objectives, activities, costs and institutional arrangements, for
the implementation of such a program during Phase II. The tasks for MTR
and important issues to be addressed during the review are discussed
further in Annex 3.
5.13      The MTR would base its work on PHU's Phase I report (para.
5.25). This report would cover the areas outlined earlier (para. 4.09).
Recommendations by MTR for the use of the Development Fund to support
project activities under Part B during Phase II would be reviewed by IFAD
which would apply the following criteria in deciding, in consultation with
IDA, on the release of the Fund:
(a) The main features of a cost effective and economically
justifiable disease control program have been identified.
(b; Outstanding organizational and management deficiencies within AHD
can be adequately addressed and remedied during Phase II of the
project.
Cc) The implementation of a proposed disease control program would
not be rendered ineffective by outstanding sector constraints,
including those related to export market outlets and available
range resources.
5.14      The MTR would carefully examine the relationship between export
marketing prospects for Somali livestock, projected availability of feed
resources on ranges and increases in livestock numbers expected from
improved health services for purposes of determining whether proposals for
a disease control program are compatible with the objective of sustaining
the range resources as a source of livestock feed. To facilitate such an
assessment, the PC through PNU would ensure that the necessary liaison be
established with the USAID Livestock Marketing and Health Project and any
other development or research projects in the livestock sector the
activities of which have a bearing on the objectives of the proposed
project. Specifically, it would ensure that the results of the marketing
studies of the USAID project (para. 2.11), and tte results of the
veterinary investigations under the Central Rangelands Development Project
be incorporated by PHU in its Phase I report and the subsequent MTR.
Agreement by GOS to the completion of MTR, as structured above, by December
31, 1989 was obtained at negotiations.
Project Allowances
5.15      The morale and efficiency of ARD staff in the project area
have been suffering from low salaries, allowances and per diems. This
problem, comon throughout the entire civil service system, is recognized
by the GOS as a constraint to the implementation of development projects
through public sector agencies. The Government is currently reviewing
proposals to increase the civil service salary levels. However, the rate
and schedule for such increases are yet to be determined and implemented.



- 34 -
5.16       In the light of the above and as project activities would be
conducted in remote locations and under harsh conditions, it is proposed to
increase the motivation and cooperation of local veterinary staff by
offering to PHU staff: (i) an inducement allowance which would be over and
above the current basic salaries paid by the MLFR; and (ii) an increased
per diem allowance while on field trips. These allowances would be
reviewed annually in light of the civil service structures for salaries and
field allowances. During negotiations, GOS agreed to submit for IDA review
and approval a proposed salary structure for PMU staff which would contain
an appropriate incentive element and provide for adequate per diem and
allowances. The proposed salary structure would be reflected in and
submitted as part of the annual work program and budget (para 5.22).
Sustainability of these financial i;uducements would depend on the agreement
of MLFR to charge pastoralists for all services rendered for their
exclusive benefit by veterinary staff and that part of these proceeds would
be retained by staff. These arrangements would be finalized at the MTR.9/
Drug Importation and Distribution
5.17      During Phase I of the project, a limited amount of therapeutic
drugs would be required to support the implementation of the disease
investigation program and the testing of alternative and standard disease
treatment strategies. Drugs would be imported directly by PMU through
Djibouti and be stored at project headquarters in Hargeisa. These drugs
would be distributed by project field staff to livestock owners free of
charge in return for cooperation received in the investigation and
treatment testing programs.
5.18      Procedures for drug importation and distribution required during
Phase II to support the implementation of a disease control program would
be recommended as part of PMUs proposals regarding appropriate delivery
system for veterinary services riara 4.09(iii)] for review by MTR. It is
expected, however, that drug im;'ortation and sale under Part B of the
project would involve the private sector to a considerable extent. The
proposals for private sector drug distribution would address: (i)
organizational arrangements for importation and financing of drug purchases
by private import agents (particularly livestock traders); and (ii) the
onward distribution of drugs to livestock owners within the context of the
proposed systems for delivery of veterinary field services. Investigations
to formulate such proposals would be undertaken in conjunction with the
USAID assisted Livestock Marketing and Health Project which is due to
commission a detailed study on this subject during 1985.
Administration
5.19      The administrative aspects of project implementation would
involve procurement, financial control, budgeting, personnel management and
logistics (stores, transportation, etc.). The responsibility for these
9/ GOS is already in the process (1985) of modifying its recruitment/
salary structure, including an increase of 80X in salaries in 1985.
GOS hopes to so increase salaries as to eliminate the need for special
project incentives.



- 35 -
functions would be delegated by the Project Director to the Deputy Project
Director. Because of the remoteness of the project area and poor
communications with Mogadishu, effective and timely project implementation
would require autonomy of PMU in handling project administration matters,
including ready access by PMU to project funds including the project
account (para 4.33). This would become especially important during Phase
II, which would be expected to raise the requirements for procurement and
handling of project funds for operational purposes.
5.20      To assist PMU in its budgeting and financial control of Phase I
project activities, the services of the Financial Controller attached to
the ongoing IFAD and IDA supported North-West Agricultural Development
Project would be obtained on a time-sharing basis. Necessary
administrative arrangements would be finalized between MLFR and the
Ministry of Agriculture by January 1, 1986. Assurances to this effect
were obtained during negotiations. The MTR, in drawing up the
implementation plan for Part B of the project would address the need for
further strengthening of financial control assistance to PMU during Phase
II and make appropriate recommendations accordingly.
Annual Work Program
5.21      Annual work programs covering all project activities would be the
basic management system for the project. They would set targets within the
context of overall project objectives and identify methods to be employed
and resources required to achieve them, and include:
(a) a detailed description of work to be performed, including the
objectives for the ensuing fiscal year, a schedule of activities,
equipment requirements, proposed staffing arrrangements, and
training plans, and distribution of responsibilities for each
work task;
(b) a budget for the period, including proposed capital and recurrent
expenditures, a comparison of proposed budget and actual
expenditures for the previous year; and
(c) a financing plan with cash flow projections, including GOS
contributions to the project account.
5.22      The annual work program would enable PC to review progress,
examine proposed activities and make the necessary arrangements for
budgetary and other support. It would be submitted to PC by October 1 and
to IFAD and IDA by November 1 each year for acceptance to cover the
following 'iscal year. The initial work program covering the period July
to December 1986 would be prepared and submitted to IDA by August 15,
1986. Agreements to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
5.23      Overall monitoring of project progress would be the
responsibility of PC. During Phase II of the project, a plan would be
implemented for monitoring and evaluation of the disease control program.



- 36 -
Such a plan would be prepared by PHU and be submitted as part of PMU's
Phase I Report (para. 5.25). It would specify the organizational
arrangements, manpower and other resources required for establishing a
program for regular monitoring of the impacts of public as well as private
sector interventions to control livestock diseases and for evaluating the
effectiveness of such interventions relative to objectives and targets
established for disease control.
5.24      The PMU would establish a computerized data base covering
epidemiological, economic and other information pertinent to disease
investigations and livestock health services planning. The data base would
be maintained and updated throughout the project period and serve as a
framework for monitoring and evaluation of disease control Leasures.
5.25      The PMU would prepare and submit quarterly progress reports
through PC to IFAD and IDA according to an agreed format. A report
covering the findings of Phase I activities and detailed proposals for
Phase II activities would be submitted by PMU to the same agencies by
September 30, 1989. The subject matters covered and areas of proposals
contained in the report would be as indicated above (para 4.09). The
agreement by GOS to the timing and areas to be covered by PHU's Phase I
report was obtained during negotiations. The PMU would also prepare a
project completion report no later than siX months after the completion of
the project.
Implementation Schedule
5.26      The project would be completed over six and a half years, i.e.,
by December 31, 1992, assuming project start-up by July 1986. An
implemcntation schedule is shown in Chart 3.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Justification
6.01      While nearly all ongoing projects in the livestock subsector do
have some animal health component, there is presently no systematic
approach to upgrading the national animal health services. The Somali
animal health services are presently not capable of carrying out a phased
program of planning, programming, implementation and evaluation required
for successful and cost effective control of animal disease. Hence, the
justification for the proposed project.
Benefits
6.02      The project would aim at strengthening AHD's technical and
organizational capabilities in planning for animal health improvement in
northern Somalia. Such strengthening, leading to the formulation and
implementation of an economically justifiable and cost effective disease
control strategy, would in the longer term result in benefits to the
livestock subsector in the project area. These benefits would occur in the



- 37 -
form of reductions in the economic losses of livestock and livestock
products due to animal disease. They would translate into incremental
earnings of livestock owners, pastoralist households and livestock traders,
as well as increased foreign exchange earnings to the country. The latter
benefits are predicated upon the assumption that incremental commercial
offtake made possible through reduced livestock mortality rates would be
primarily exported.
6.03      Incremental project benefits would start accruing under Phase II
of the project with the implementation of a disease control program (Part B
of the project). They are at this stage not quantifiable since (i) there
is an absence of reliable baseline data on livestock mortality and
morbidity rates in the project area (to be remedied under Part A of the
project); and (ii) they would be dependent on the nature and scope of the
disease control program and its associated investment and implementation
costs which would be determined as part of project activities during
Phase I. Thus, the project as proposed does not lend itself to an economic
rate of return analysis at this stage. However, such analysis would form
part of the Mid-Term Review (para. 5.12).
Risks
6.04      Basic risks inherent in the project are:
(a)  Border Security.  Abeyance of this risk is the function of local
government and police/armed forces and includes prudent reporting
of staff movements in sensitive areas and maintaining a low
profile.
(b)  Herd Movement.  Loss of data/contacts with predesignated herds
selected for monitoring and control. Remedies would include
branding/tagging of selected herds and appointment of
para-veterinary personnel to live with migrant owners.
(c)  Staffing.  Because of the remoteness of the area, harsh working
conditions and distance from the main seat of power and
promotion, it is difficult to attract and retain qualified local
staff over the long term for project implementation. The
proposed salary incentives and the provision of facilities and
transport 3hould help to ameliorate this problem (para. 5.16).
(d)  Market Outlets.  A successful animal health disease control
program resulting in reduced mortality and morbidity could
jeopardize range resources and increase drought risk if not
accompanied by an increased offtake for internal consumption or
export. The GOS and USAID are exploring increased, diversified
market cutlets to minimize the risk of overstocking and range
degradation. The project would have little or no impact on the
size of animal herd during the investigatory stage (Phase I).
Furthermore, even if a veterinary services stage (Phase II) were
to prove highly successful in controlling disease, it is unlikely
that there would be any rapid build-up of numbers in the face of
the normal over-riding factor of low nutrition and poor general



- 38 -
husbandry. However, following the MTR, release of funds for a
disease control program under Phase II would be contingent, inter
alia, on GOS demonstrated ability to raise livestock exports to
levels offsetting livestock increases resulting from improved
animal health services (para. 4.19) and on parallel USAID study
findings (Annex 7, para. 4 lb]).
VII. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      The following agreements and assurances were obtained from GOS
during negotiations::
(a)  The site for the new central laboratory and housing for the
Technical Assistance Team at Hargeisa w3uld be selected by
December 15, 1985 and the transfer of this site to project use be
expedited (para. 4.12).
(b)  GOS would take immediate action to recruit the six experts of the
Technical Assistance Team based on TORs as agreed; the experts
would have qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA and
IFAD (para. 4.18).
Cc)  The prorurement procedures were agreed upon (para. 4.30).
Cd)  The project would maintain its accounting system in accordance
with sound and generally recognized accounting principles and
practices and have Ruch accounts audited by independent auditors,
acceptable to IDA and IFAD, and furnish them to IDA/IFAD within
six months of the close of each fiscal year (para. 4.35).
(e)  Special efforts would be made to retain key professional staff,
assigned to PMU and/or trained under the project, with the
project through'ut the implementation period (para. 5.03).
(f)  An Inter-Regional Committee, chaired by one of the Governors in
the Project area: would be constituted by September 30, 1986
(para. 5.04).
(g)  PMU would prepare and submit to IDA and IFAD for their review a
plan for the organization of, and interaction with,
assemblies/groups of livestock owners and traders in the project
area by November 30, 1986 (para. 5.06).
(h)  A Mid-Term Review would be completed L, December 31, 1989.  IFAD,
upon its review of the proposed Phase II implementation plans to
be undertaken following agreed criteria would, in consultation
with IDA, decide on the release of the Development Fund to
support Phase II project activities (para. 5.12).
(i)  The Mid-Term Review would be based on the findings and
recommendations of PMH's Phase I report which would be submitted
to IDA/IFAD by September 30, 1989. The subject matters covered



- 39 -
and areas of proposals contained in the Report were agreed upon
(para 5.25).
(j) PNU would annually, together with the Annual Work Program and the
Budget, submit to IDA for its review and approval a salary
structure for PMU staff containing an appropriate inducement
allowance over and above the basic salaries paid by MLFR and an
adequate per diem allowance while on field trips (para 5.16);
(k) The services of the Financial Controller attached to the
North-West Agricultural Development Project would be obtained by
the project on a time-sharing basis with administrative
arrangements to be finalized between MLFR and the Ministry of
Agriculture by January 1, 1986 (para. 5.20).
(1) PHU would prepare annual work programs and submit them to
IDA and IFAD; the first such program covering GOS FY86 would be
submitted by August 15, 1986 with subsequent programs to be
submitted by November 1 each year for acceptance to cover the
following fiscal year (para. 5.22).
7.02      Conditions of Credit Effectiveness would be that:
(a) The site of the central laboratory and housing for the Technical
Assisttnce Team had been transferred to the Project (para.
4.12). _/
(b) GOS had completed the contractual arrangements for the Technical
Assistance Team to be engaged by MLFR to assist in project
implementation (para. 4.18).
(c) GOS had opened up a Project Account in a Bank acceptable to
IDA/IFAD and made an initial payment of So.Sh. 2.5 H into the
account (para. 4.34).
(d) A Project Management Unit would be established and a Project
Director, with qualifications and experience acceptable to
IDA/IFAD had been appointed (para. 5.03).1 U/
(e) A Project Committee, chaired by the Minister, Vice-Minister or
the Permanent Secretary for MLFR had been established (para.
5.05).
7.03      With the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project is
suitable for an IDA Credit on standard terms of US$4.3 million. The
borrower would be the Government of Somalia.
10/ Action expected to be completed by December 31, 1985.



- 40 -
ANNEX 1
SOMALIA
LIVESTOCK HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Project Cost Tables
Table No.
1      -      Project Components by Year - Base Costs
2      -      Project Components by Year
Including Contingencies
3      -      Summary Accounts by Project Components
4      -      Laboratory Services
5      -      Laboratory Equipment
6      -      Field Services:  Investigation (Phase I)
7      -      Equipment for Mobile Investigation Units
8      -      Field Services:  Development (Phase II)
9      -      Project Management
10      -      Project Staffing and Costs
11      -      Training
12      -      Inflation and Foreign Exchange Rates Used
For Project Cost Estimates
13      -      'Fnancing Plan by Summary Accounts



SWIA^LIA
LIVESTOCK HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Project Caanmts by Year
(BSSH. '000)
east Costs                                 Total
86/87   87/88   86/89    89/90     0/91    91/92   92/93      SO91.  (USs '00)
At LABORATORY SERVICES                     28938980 5M002,5 5M0025  5M002.5  2,902.5  19516.5 1.139,4  49Z53.8   1.165.6
B. FIELD SERVICES: INVESTIGATION (PMISE I)   2998.G7 22,565.0 20,535.4  16,1758 12.3538  9M203.9  5840.9  11543.5    2749.6
C. FIELD SERVICES: DEYELOPlINT (PHASE 11)        -        -       - 42,956.4 57o276.8 29640.0 14M320.0  143152   3M409.4
D. PROJECT NANAGEHENT                      29,1065 9v240*7 79140.7  7,140.7  5,040.7  5,040.7 2,520.4  65v232#4   1,553.2
E. TRAINING                                 1.5120 16512,0        -        -         -        -       -   3024.0        72.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                         87,917.2 39U320.2 32,67896 71,277.4 77.573,9 44401,0 23,820.6 375.P9,9   8949.7
Pthsical Ccntinomies                      5M562.6   485.3   292.4    282,4    292,4    2624   196.1   7,393.5         176.0
Price Continufcils                        29M376.4 23,48746 29,906.0 84,715.6 1112981,3 74.738,4 46,581*4 399,966.7   2.503,0
Total PROJECT COSTS                         122,776.2 62,293.1 62,767.0 156,275.4 189P137.6 119.421d7 70,599.1 793,269.0  11,626.9
-m- swm-   a- _11I Zan--= s _I_  _szam                        20--
Foreign Exchange                         113458743 55779.4 56,944.9 143,842,1 173,054.9 106,702.4 U9602.5 713.51345  10,602.3
.---------  -  -------  -  ---------  -  --  -    _ -  -    -  -_ -



SOIALIA
LIYESTOCt HEALTH SERYICES FROJECT
Project Coeonmnts bv Year
Totals Including Contingencies                                         Totals Includinr Contirsewicies
(S,SH. '000)                                                            (USt '000)
86/87    87/88    88/89     89/90     90/91      91/92    92/93    Total      66/87   97/8a  98/19  89/90   90/91   91/92  92/93  Total
:::::::::               ::::::::      888388888ass:s  2::er::e 8.388888 838888888s  3888883 13328  88888 888.88   888 e:88888 e8::    8sas    8::ee 8
A. LABORATORY SERVICES                          40,450.6  8,1l1.5  9,610,6  119021.6  7,153.9   4,171.5  5,421.6  93,936,3    774.9  136.2 146,3  157.5    9J,2   5407  42.7  19410.4                N
D. FIELD SERVICES;  INVESTIGATION (PHASE 1)    39,61342 36t845,4 s9,457,8  35,731.1  30,461.7  25,093.4 17,596.3 224,7908.    758,9  619,3 600,6   510.4  417,9   329,s 219,4  3,455.7
C, FIELD SERVICES:  DEYELOPMENT (PHASE 11)             -        -        -  93,913,4 139,143,3  76,543.8 429093.9 351594,4          -       -     - 1I340.2 19908,7 1,004,5 '524.9  40778,3
D. PROJECT MANAGEMENT                           40,!24,'i 14,91899 13,69896  15,709,3  12,373,9  13,61s.0  7.486,3 1189524.5    780.2   250.7 208.5   224,4  169o7  178.6  93.3  IS05,6
E. TRAINING                                      1,987.8  2.427.3        -          -                   -        -   4.415.0    38.1    409        -       -       -       -     -     73.9
Total PROJECT COSTS                              122.776,2 62,293,1 b2v767,0 156,275,4 1899137e6 119421.7 70,598,l 783269.0  2,352.0 1,046,9 9554 2,232,5 29594,5 1,5602 80.3 11,629.8
22==:::::    zasassassassaS Z =:::7:59 X--.----:axxx  aass238 aZ Z =S:S-X2X MUX-: 9  = a lW2sXa     - -2 ::   Saa ss JA ~     -      -'-AS
................................................... . ..............................  - -------- - -----~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



43                                       Annex I
Table 3
SONALIA
LIYESTOCK HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
SuaurY Account by Projec' Caanhmft
(S.SH. '000)
FIELD                                        Physical
FIELD SERVICES:  SERVICES:                                      Cantiusencies
LAWRATORY   INVE5TI6ATION   DUELOPEWN      PROJECT                         -         -
SERVICES      (PHASE I)     (PHASE II)   MANAGENENT TRAINING   Tatal       2    Amount
I. INVESTMEIT COSTS
A. CIVIL SOAS                         14,934.1          344.4              -    12,738.7          -   30,617.2  10.0  3,061.7
P. VEHICLES                            2,014.1          6,435.7            -       333.0          -    B,782.8  10.0   878.3
C. LABORATORY AND FIELD EGUIPIENT      64518.2          3,132.2            -           -          -    9v650.4  10.0   965.0
D. FIELD SERVICES
DEVELOPMENT (PHASE II)                    -                -     42v95'J.3           -         -   42P955.3  0,0       0.0
E. PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY              -            840.5            -      6,899.3         -    7,739.8  5.1    396.5
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                   23i366.5         13,452.8     42r955.3    I',971.1          -   99,745.7  5.3  5,301.6
II. RECDWRENT COSTS
A. EXPATRIATE ADISOR SALARIES        20,329.0         77,784.0             -   37,800N0          -  135,912.0  0.0       0.0
D. INCREMENTAL STAFF COSTS            2,334.2         11,682,7            -      2,031.6         -   16,048.4   0.0      0.0
C. VEHICES AND NULDIN6S 0 t H         1,404.8          2,886.4            -    29920.7           -    7,211.9  10.0    721.2
D. VETERINARY DRUGS                         -          7,350.0             -           -         -    7,350.0  10.0   735.0
E. SUPPLIES AND EQUIPMENT             1,520.4          2,327.6            -    2M509.0           -    6,357.0  10.0    635.7
F. TRAINING                                                  -             -           -   3,024.0    3,024.0  0.0       o.0
G. FIELD SERVIES
DEVELONPENT (PHASE II)                                    -    100i239.9            -         -  100l239.9  0.0       0.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                    25r'J87.4       102,030.7    10O239.9    45r,261.3   3,024.0  276,143.2   0.8  29091.9
Total BASELINE COSTS                      48,953.8        115p483.5   1439195.2   65,232.4  3P024.0  375,888.9  2.0  7ih93.5
Physical Continsencin                   2r629.2          2,601.7            -     2rb62,6          -    74393.5  0.0       0.0
Price Continsuiczes                    32r353.3        106.713.6   208i399.2   51r129.5  1X391.0  399i986.7   1.0  3,895.5
Total PROJECT COSTS                       83,936.3        224,798.8    351i594.4  118,524.5  4r415.0  783M269.0  1.4 11,288.9
Foreign Exchmnse                       766538.4        194,S82.1    328r74.6  10?9428.3  4r415.0  713r513.5   1.4 10,051.1



W.Ih
L1WYS   n.rd MICM MMI
Tible 101. AMTU1        1WI
h ilgd Cat Tile
CWA. for. Er. To                     Iinrw
Unit   M?  U    /MM  PM  "M  VI/M  92MTotal lhiatUlt Cu 67 N ?                  7Ae  MM   t9/90    t2 9V 1 VI   "3   Ttal        t   W,         . I   t4 lAte   ateU       ktwI
_d-" 111 mu1    .                '         - _su1
A. MUulE
LAAtMM       UYNJIUI2SIA /a         2       625    -                                67  13,595. -  -  -   - -                                           -115fs,1   @61 6.95           0        0        0     cM
LTUSt         If   PM  /b h         2       ZO      -    -    -          -     -     - 0        17     2          -              -       -      -       - 4.231  0.1  0.95            0        0        0     Ce
-Ttutl 601311                                                                                         54,634.5       -      -       -      -       -       - 24.13.
L, ENTIfOWT W YMLW /a
LAM Ms USINsit                                I    -    'I  6'14'.    6.1634                                      -      -       -       -      -       - 6,43.9   oil O.il           0        0        0     El
LAIin r    MUT IINTI no             4         1i                                             4 '41               '      '       -       -      -       -2  54.3   0.1 0.6            0        0        0     lE
4 INIL KIE MI10                     be        22                                            505   1,4I.          -      -       -      -       -       - 11i81.1   0.1  0.95         0        0        0    Yu
mPTIS                             lt          22                                            146.5 m.o            -      -       -      -       -       -   333.0  0.1 05             0        0        0    WM4
lTotl CEW          AW MU 3CI. it                                                                       *,5J2,3       -              -       -      -       - 6532.3
Totl    D TE(T  Will                                                                                     23.148,5      -       -      -       -       -      - 23,146.5
T_n          m        m .    u uacoin
.~~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
A. IVATIIATC 4891W ULMIB
M, IMA1AY  TMIUICIMd            Potler       1    I    I    I  0il  0.2  0,2  4.3           4.200  4,200, 4.24Q,0 4,20040 4,200.02d10.0  714.0  714.0 20,3L6         0               0        0        0  WALE
11*-Totl   ATUTrE  ANI          sIM I                                                                 46200.0 4#200,0 4.2000 4,200.0 2M1000   714.0  714.0 20.32.0
*. 0CM  UTVV Ca
IiUM ATI  ITMIF LfdAil  /d    Lu  S;a        .     .W,..                      .                      91   359.1  359.1  359l   Mel.  35.1  119.1  2.34M2            0    0         0         0        0     IL
*-Totl LWA  STAF COlS                                                                                   359.,  359.1  359.1   359    359.1    9.1  179.  2334.2
C. P01131 U IMUllTUWOE
LA MUW      [     W9111 1W1 A   L.n M  .     .                 -         -   .     .     .           325.0  257,5  157.5  257.5  157.5  157.5   79.1  152.3   0.1    I               a        0        0    IE
LAIOATU            Pu            Lt OAS    .t             .       .     .     .4                              42.O  42.O   420   420   42.0   44.1   331.1  0.1    1                0        0        0     ME
4 NMWl 11E1 a CUlE                 K         I    I     I          I    1  0.5  4.5         634      U.4   U.4   63.4   U.4   43.4    3.4   31.7   412o3  0.1  0.95                 0        0        0     ON
IQEWDMI  .e L_w 9S.                                                                                          1 - .0,5  110.5  130.5  210.5   30.5   902   992.5   0.t  0.5           0        0        0     ON
-lT.tal OlfAtln An  MIECU                                                                               462.4  443.4  4434    43.4   43.4  44.4  245ff  2.925.2
tal EUAnT Will                                                                                            5.0215 500e2,5 5.,5 5.002,5 2,902.5 1.526,5 5.2394 25M567.4
mii    in   m M     mine  11uim  hnm~ 3mm as
Tota                                                                                                      2        MO3M0 5,002.5 5002.5 502,5 2,9M2,52,526.5 1219 4  6ffi.i
m.wwuma A1111= mauin 311 m11
/a  nfifuinead  stfltui  5rclud itifstaf  ttof     (fr H atus lato W iua   local PrO.imt staff le *W stIAr ed Ztilitlts
hb P,abuicatA  stuiw     hawludilJ Staff offite i    a et sAvtirs)
/a ktails ean mut am in kmw  It Tle 5
Id  Mails i Tile .It
ai 2 en ctMtimt  osis



- 45 -
Annex I
Table 5
Page 1
Coot of L 1boatoy Kqudat
NO. Cf     Ehit Cost (Cr)    Total Ccat (CI?)
unit     lita             (US$)                (M5)
A. Ccinzl Labmratcxy at 2!EEIS&
PatoDx Swetlal
Fcat-rm  l.nutruua (lmivL, SW,
farpu,  Ixsos b    atctih  foraps)          Set         2                86)                1,7D
A_tmd tim. prooeow                            no.         1              6,325                6,325
Pwaffln oa                                    no.         1              3,45D                3,4M
IncaOe                                        no.         1              3,4!D                3,4M3
,Uczatot  knife  Crop                         no.         1                12D                  1D)
-      .    :esatch (tpc
acmdint)                                   no.        1              6,)00                6,O0
CisntrLfi~a -dcro)intocrit                    no.         1               575                   575
efrgarstor, dometic                           no.         1               46)                   46D
Sib-total                                                                              _23_
Bacterio1S Sectin
Refrlgerator, domestic                        ro.         1               46)                   4'D
Freezer, cest (-M)C)                          no.         3               210                   63D
incubators                                    nW          2             1,03D                 2,06)
Wace baths                                    no.         2              1,15                 2,300
, freestaidrig                      no.         1              3,7(0                3,740
Centri.fuge, benc nh.                                     1              2,300                2,30D
Xcroscope, research                           no.         1              5,7M3                5,75M
Sal     n torsi.                                          1             2,015                 2,015
BaLe, aalytical                               no.         1             2,0;D                 2,0D)
pHl nter                                      no.         1               63D                   633
Pressure vacm pum                             no.         1               2D                    2D
Aharobic jar                                  no.         2                 SD                  18)
Water scill 2 liters/hr                       no.         1              1,810                18'0
'ims (b1ezs, grinders)                        no.         2                110                  2D
Iauinm flI cmbinec                            no.         1             2,B8)                 2,8)
ht1xic   pipettes                             no.         2                40                   ID
Frem  dryer, bench                            no.         1             6,90D                 6,9J0
Sb-total                                                                                3.,235
Parasico1y SectIn
I                                                                       L0.  1  ,0            10
Csitrifqe. fref   staudg                      no.         1             3,740                 3,740
Refrlger.cor, dotic                           no.         1               46D                  46)
Waer bith                                     no.         1              1,15)                1,L3
~bUif1ers                                    sM.         2                31)                   6)
c . research                        no.         1              5,7!S                5,7D
ttcresnope. sciercpk dismecting              no.         1              1,38)                1,31D
sub-total                                                                               13,5ED



- 46 -
Annex 1
Table 5
P.age 2
NO. at      hit Got (CIF)       otal Coat (C')
Uhit     [hdt             (Ms5)               (US)
Wauhim Preprai  am
Atcuje,                   te                 Wo.         1              q,2m                 9s,m
StPUlirm portawe                              W.         2               4a o                 MO0
Wae atil 8 utea/hr.                           We.        1             8,61D                 8,f61
IWcw d1axdzsr 2 Utera/ Ln.                    we         1               BID                  88D
Diy hmc l cerilir                             w.         1              1,860                1,8Y
Boal, tordm                                  no.         1             2,02D                 2,OM
Balna, amayticaL                              We.        1             2.OM                  2,01
Pette riUe                                   no.         2                SD                   l8)
Sib-total                                                                              25
Caps cmplet with fMes and
-.erecs                                    ro.        D                         1)
cape racks                                   see         1               56D                  56
Sib-ctoal                                                                               1,76D
Germml labmoxaoy aiplies
MiUscellanucs  inor eq*pxnt                   set        I             11,MD0               11,310
l       llnM    glas_me                      Osc         1             5,73                  5,7D
w9ce,llan        chudmcals, re,agas awd fmi.    sec      1             5,73D                5.73)
ibtotal                                                                               _2302
Othezg
incnrator                                    no.         1             5,73)                5,73)
Staud-  gsmrr                                no.         1             5,7!D                5,7D
Raio tranusiver with aril --3d
aIcllary equlipant                         se          1              5,7M                 5,73
AirCmaiitioxur                               no.         1               575                   575
Spare geerator for fisld ei.uits             no.         2             1,00                 2
SI-total                               -,19,825
Total for HargIsa Laboratory                                                               110,983
B. Iaboraowr at  Eao
Centrfiue. ud     amtocrit                   no.         1             2,300                2,30.
Radio armiver with aerial eqiipmit           no.         1             2,300                2,MO
Pptrol/i.ter taik trailer                    no.                       2,3m                 2,31D
Gwtor (ptrol)                                  .         1             1,000                1,0
Eaxtbscey (12 V)                             no.         1               23D                  23)
Total for                                                                                    81D  1
Gcaid Tota                                                                                 149,0!1
-                                                                                             m



- 41-                                                                                         Amex.I
1011A                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tabi.6
L1   mmiv               mm
1*4 . 6.1314 MM                 Wm09166049364
944k4. Cas 1*3
sumou,                                                         6.. Cask
4. imumur mrs~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s.                                                                                         Ieow
a. mmmiiCor
mm vm em "Ma                        *,l.       1                               -           I66.1    946.1MA                                                 661      .1 06.9        4                      9
4mu131932D                             .2                                                   66.1  2.1Z.                                                      Hill46    6.3   La9     6        6       6    tI
613931                                 54         4                                           36 .1 44.3                                                      44.1    63T.OW                           4     m
3I663                                4..W  b    2    -                                2      =4.4.2 4  -.                            72. 6 2 3 .                     6.1.9           a        *              El
FMiti  iUV~    6?                               2                                     2     276.2    194L                                                   3132.4    .1.9           I        *         
9U6l EjMl   ro                                                                   -     2      39.    36.6 23132.261.4                                                                            
91m 11WOFF1111 I                    4.4        1 4                             -    I      2.21.    9U.09  WM944.9   O 6.9I                                                         6        6 I           D0 v
*61113153rm  S.EU                No~        1.        2                        - .    .  I    4.614.6163.6.129OL  .6       3M074M.MGb064.444                       6.   6.1                 6         
am31131343.3156                    inTh.     I.      2        M   21.   42  4.2  LI        4,X6   7.96.  1.4664  b46.9  MO.6.  ?.16.0  14.360 2.4.6 46.36.            6    n        *        *       a  mmaj
4004.3111  M43.fNW                          6o1    I    I  6.1  0.2  4.2  4.2  M.          4.36   3.136  .61136.6  4.36.6  2,399.   7144.6  114.6  Z14.6 15.32.6      *                      *       6  SW
Wind6* 11601154 mm1.9                          06      1    16.    .    .    .    .           43      .3611,   4.3116.6lwl  2.36.    74.611.    73.1.014.6              4    n        4        6       *lt
409633 POW' 9MA848Id             LOPs I.       -          -     -     -     -     -     -     - -1          P&2     392   192.2  59.2  31,2.2  294.6   MM49.         a    6        4        6       *     AL
3! i 1  to1                     156am,       2    2    2    2    3   2    I   42         83.1    976.  969 9n6.I            919.   97.   916.9L  46.1  6.346.      6    6        6        6       4     AL
am 4A461 f                        ?MvM       2    2    2    I    1    4  6.1  1.5        49W.6    j19.2   24.2   319.2    39.41  439.4   Me.  79.6  4.314.2        6    6                               IL
E. sormi M *4MB
TIM9S91J3 K1311U1F I36In  Isma...              2    2    2    2    2    2    4   13         NJ.    43.4 4.6 1     .6 I6.   I3.4   43.6  43.d,  19.]  4.6.6  6.1 4.95                4        6      9    mm
111544  FMA                          ub         -    -             - -6               -a       .M64ie . 1. 43.6  .44S. 1.01.   3.' 3  d% .4 .0 .3.60  7,336.6  6.41 I        6        *       * g
4141 .3131SE 4NMJ                  &ad,                   A   4      A 6       I   26       43.4    25362   36.?   3.7   222.   2227  236.7  434.9  1.6494   6.1 4.9                0        4      6      99
I   UIN                            tad. 2K                2    2    2  2        1  12       91.       W      12 196.WI6339.219. 196.  119.36524.0227A4 LI4.91                       6        6       6     ON
3199114611430139666FM  I&        Low inm                                          -39-19. 11499.5   19.1   1991.1   499.1  M99.   31.6  I.29S   sLI    6                   6        6       6     6E
16-1a4~~~4 96641466613 554I1~~~~~                                       3.63.2  1.63.2  4.63.2  3.63.2  3.69.2 4.49.2 3.421211 212.13624.4-1 MUi
Isiu I113 P 446.S                                                                                       17,3.629;Z.96.436.6.  36M.1  0363.9.933.81;.6604.9 162.43.1
low                                                                           ;M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.13   22,L1. 3b.96.  SWIM 12 32.29.9 13.6 51,69433.64S.1
Ia Ps.d.m   ~  P99 9w .39.aim u3  Os 13193t         9.3397m
lb Sal  ansrabi,
,M rhcue fmf to99. atI dhl,.m6d fs44m4v ts.mIatjas or lasi.4sU. mokpmu
i 54.,.  1*3 Tal4t
it To 34.9)4.. field t.31553  g,u.s,5i.of 9 milos,  at 9.99 29Id9 Wm1 in din .sv VW6
.9 T Is. AddlI ama   9.64    M M aatwo s   O.athala awl   s5,wm Wm dd vemor soottwi 1ind Ifew  s muS wasi, of3 mis.. St LIN6 MM1d  OM 11 4M..
'6 CAtasa13 of au.  dimmostst, field ad cOla.l sW.Ils
iI. To i3~. Buss me"s.55i111a 99563
is 1FIiew af smull Is. ..anm. . SW sms,1 1*113 .mpum ia  to sisiesm to 994.4t flmatIin



- 48 -
Aanne I
Table 7
Equ1j3 for Nble Izm-MUg Ihit.
(Set pr UFdbt)
No. ce     Ibit Xt (CU)    TheaL Cut (Cl)
Ibit     IUts             (USS)               CMlS)
Dlnwtic  Esd.tm
Paht-urtm  Izuwin_                            Met        2                8as                1,7
hS,ra.p. dinectiM                             I.         1              1,31)                1.38D
1r ,Uigt                                     1n.         I              1,02                 1,02
9L_m                                          at         1                400                 4a0
Cantrlfqs, had uith cver                       o.        1  2I13                               2)
antrifiw    e      d tinccrit                            1                575                  575
Qm uA  (htehudhg elidi ndu
p:y   bttl)                                 Mt         1                8am                  863
OCaudLo (1ric1uxig saLt adz e
a mvitineb                                   se         1                6                     6
pr _usv                                     Mt                           SDII
Mlmr squpA   t (imludiig dr_arg
Lztumnuta                                   Mt         1                638D
sub-total                                                                              _8,5
Fiald Equ1it
Syrln, tua7 &aty. 2)i n. &
spzn pMrts                                  no.       ID                 35                  35D
Syrls. tewr &Ity, 10 m1. &
spam pat                                   n.         1I                25                   25
Df  gm                                       no-.       ID                 15                 I!D
Portacj sterLizer                                        2               17 0                 3M)
Sp.rg hiam m                                             2                115                  2D
&wdizw Cautrator                                         2                W)                   1I)
Intniism  bmc                                rI.                         21D                  21D
rold bx                                       W.         6                115                  69D
Refrierator (electric/solar)                 no.         I              1,al                 l,O
Chst fre r (electric/solar)                  no.         1                        1,00L
Sub-tal                                                                                 4,3)
GRiq E*dpw
Tent (offic, dinlxg/Lyoratory)                no.        1                575                 575
Tent (slaeplng)                              no.         3               575                 i.725
Bad                                          ro.         9                IXDO                2
Tab]&                                         no.        3                140                 4D)
Chair                                         no.        9                 35                 315
stow                                         no.         3                9)                  22)
Cbddseatiag  utensils                        set         9                 6)                 540
Law>                                         no.         4                25                  100
Storae bx                                    no.         6                85                  51D
Sub-total                                                                               5,355
urs
Petrol/water tLnk trailer                     no.        1                750                  7D)
Raio transcver vdth aerial                   no.         1              2,000                2,000
Geirator (petrol)                             no.        I              1,;00                1,000
Extra battery (12 v)                          no.        I                Z)                  2m)
solar PFzls                                  no.         2              1,000                2,000
Subtotal                                                                                 5,96
Total for OnemT                                                                             24,3)5



LIVESTOCK WATN  StIMS FCT
Table 103. FIELD SflICET9   kIOIT  (FME 11)
hllied Cost Table
13.31. '0Q00
QuatitY                                                      aS. Casts                            Fi
--  Unit -- -                                                             Cn t For. 6ms Tax fmarv
Unit   8d/U? 87/9 86/89 89/90 90/91 91/92 92/93 Total Cost U/? 6INN 89  9/90   90/91    91/92    99                 Total      at. E eh.  Le    htourA
Is INWSTNiT COSTS
A, STW ITENIr6 Of M "      IWY
SERI1CIB Al DiSSTRICt  D FIELD
LEYEW. IEC1ICLES, EWIPNT
CIIL WLSi /a                        LU.S                                                   -            -    -    -  .310.4 29P 9                       - 42p95.43      0  009          0    El
Totel IESIT  CSTS                                                                                             -    -      - i4,318,6   6.,9          -        - 421055.3
2   32=  1        _    _                             
a-
A. IMTMAL IATIIS COSTS
INUI:   DiU P11   VAlES
TO SItT I I9T      INS
Of NOS YETNIUIWT
FiElD SERVICE                     Lu  Soue-                                                                 -            - 23.640 216O4.0 29.s40.0 14P320,0 100,239.9  0  0.9         0     KR
Total iECU4ET COSTS                                                                                           -    -    - 29.640,0 29640.0 22U40.0 14Y320,0 100.239#1
22   _aj 3         *  _c:_ =a a *_
rotal                                                                                                          -    -    - 42MMA 57,276., 2M1640,0    M.20  143495.2
/a  Total cost ot PiME lit tentativel projc   t thw  miValent ot US  3A4 million (bs Coslt, to be estieite  in ditail at Kid-loe Review,
ot Ahich about 302 wuld be in thw fare ot investment mii's and 702 in Ui torm at oecrre t costi..



h i. 1 .956 m IUI
kt.al.6 GinO Id!. ~ ~   ~       ~       ~      ~      CAA   i.  "6  Tm                In   y    M   r
Unit9   Ud/C  V7/11 U/fl 40/90 WV/I 91/M  V93/ 1.1.1  14n  Cat   W4I?    07/0   MARl  39/1   99/91   91/9    "Al  TUlu   WA  Lndi.  3*.    14. kW    WA.   kem
49TUS FM (3AT1IATE AUIMU  /a          100 &2       4                                  -      a    2,122.1  1201111                                                 - 121YR7 4 1  .1  I.9           a         I        I      co
4 "a  ply[ 010.Ls /b                     42,         2     .-    .                            .        40,1   1,41.1                          1.1                           .1    II#J.91            I         0        0     PFf
VANFMTS                                  sit                                                                                                                                                                   I    4.  I      0.09      4  kg
9I4139/c                       14~~~~~~l.  I                                         IN 41,            3,4*444    4.1  *.1                                                                                    0
&h-rot.I W@AIN  No2 0010.63                                                                                     11317,2.1bw1,7.
I. KoiJIET
0r1111 9I1TlnK                           Ut         10                                        10         37     314.9        -                                            54.9   13.  0.94           I         4          
flCTOCION/d                              14,         I                                                no I2.    i2n, I                                                     2.1    4.l14.9,6          0         0        0     WI
NIwaio cvim u.IO       ..urIME.          14 .        2I                                               240.4    411,2                                                 -    441.2    0.1  0.94         I         0        I    WFI
TVKNIUMS                                ft.                               4              -             21.9   67.1                                                   .07.14. I4.I4I4I0 
TOPKI uC'.tGU                            lb.         34                                3               13.1      394 A                                                     39A4    1.10.9            0         0        0     ME
WA CmXIa,u                               14, lb     23                                        ~20       2.2       41,7                          .                          47    4.1 0.94            I                  I 
W W-TtI 104199W                                                                                                   1.1,M.164.1
C.9UIM      FUW4AtIU TA/ it1                      g                - -    -                       -              3,fl4.5                                                - 3774.1        0     I         4         0        0     mI
1.4.3 IMITIIJII (11                                                                                               21,616.6                                                  21,416.4
IL.           CETI Gll
A. WOIAMEti 916 N IM N II
TIOSICN  IZMTU  IOCTOhOUhUI           iAmnon        I     I     I     1.    I     I  0.3   C.1       4r24    WWI0. 6M.249   4M.20 4,24.0 4,240.4 4,24.0 2P,N1 9,02 .149             0     1         4         0        0   KUn
mlM       WLTM II                     s/a         1    It     1     1           .     .   A          423   2,IU.0 41202,140.  2.110.                               l  -40490        I            0          I        I   MDE
9*-TOW    OtOItAft MIU  IMAIl                                                                                    6.340.0 .. 1 4.4 b   .0 64349.4 4,2M.0 4M.2 0 2.1090 VsW490
I, IIqfM.A ITOT Kula /A                  L, g I.3.. .3 . .12.4  312.4  312.6 312.6 31261 32126  136.3 2.4111,4    0I                                                                                                       0   A.
C. 3939911 MS U11T1
tia gm    W Mm  4M.ME(too                           2     2     2    2      2     I     I   Is        3.4    126.9  126.9  126.9  1.2.9  126,9  126.    63.4   424.7    0.1  0.93                             I       0       a
433113                                  Fab~        t     I     I    I      a     I  0.1   .15        3.4      3.4   U3,    63.    6.4   43.    61.    31.7   413.3    4,1  C.9                    0         I        I      40
s14i1tm  I 0m911          n 399910So 1.                         ..              ..? 31.7 U.?   U    31.  23.7  33.?  11.9  266.2  0.4 0.95                                                           0         0    0  15
40113146  lb                          LiSH. 3.1  3W6ll   wi4.1   36.1  346.1  112.1  1.642,7    0.1   4.1                                                                                            0                    
Wm   49114                           LLW 'w 9*92P73..W.                                                                                                                           0.1   0I                             0     1
9*TOta   WWAIIUMSW  U14130N.                                                                                     Is429.4   20,   323.2  53202   10.2  123.3  264.1  41304.2
Meal 4101  CUTS                                                                                                     NOW  f99.24,771.6,7,40.7 10.1 40.71,440.7 2,12.4 44233.0
flial                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~291P9.3 9.246,7 7.14,.17,109.71,09,J1,04"7 2,12.4 63,232.4
/b  A..d,aud udiP  PFf fit  ,fliwa  0.1IN crw4*t W&F ,r.AOI
/C tnrWe.b oht..
/6 InuMtv.h*.w
tob a    t  . i.bd .,
It  Tuc#wg.l aivsuatao   to finlize ,,wraitzm  of 46nmo a   t..ht 6101m1e
.v.ct civil uf.tu wAtlosn stu .imUt w4 tr,inwi of kiv MlU sUiff. orm mvt, of fwm,vl0ra TI team
/6 141ail 1r. Tle t0
/b  32 on ,u.t.'atilnm  int



- 51 -                           Annex 1
Table 10
Page 1
SOMALIA
LIVESTOCK HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Project Staffing and Costs I/
Project Salaries
No.         (S.Sh x 1 000)
Salary Level  /  Total
Project Management and Administration
Project Director                           1          92.4          92.4
Dy Project Director                        1          56.8          56.8
Accountants                                2          35.6           71.2
Storekeeper                               1           18.5          18.5
Assistant Storekeeper                      1          15.8           15.8
Secretary/typist                          1           39.6          39.6
Typist/clerks                             3           18.5          55.5
Drivers                                   3           13.2          39.6
Messenger/cleaners                         2           8.4           16.8
Watchmen                                  2            7.9          15.8
Mechanic/electrician                       2          23.8          47.6
Sub-total                                                       469.6
Laboratory Staff
Hargeisa Laboratory
Veterinary Investigation Officer          3           47.5         142.5
Laboratory Technicians                    3           35.6         106.8
Laboratory Assistants                      3          26.4          79.2
Messengers/cleaners                       2            8.4          16.8
Watchmen                                   2           7.9           15.8
Driver                                    1           13.2          13.2
Sub-total                                                       374.3
Buras Laboratory
Veterinary Investigation Officer          1           47.5          47.5
Laboratory Technician                      1          35.6          35.6
Laboratory Assistants                     2           26.4          52.8
Driver                                     1          13.2           13.2
Messenger/cleaner                          1           8.4           8.4
Watchmen                                   1           7.9            7.9
Sub-total                                                       165.4



- 52 -                            Annex I
Table 10
Page 2
SOMALIA
LIVESTOCK HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Project Staffing and Costs I/
Project Salaries
No.         (S.Sh x 1 000)
Salary Level _   Total
Field Services and Investigation Staff
Veter!nary Field Teams (2)
Veterinary Investigation Officers         4           67.5          190.0
Veterinary Assistants                     4           35.6          142.4
Drivers                                   4           13.2           52.8
Cooks                                     2            9.2           18.4
Stockmen                                  4            8.4           33.6
437 2
Pastoralist Systems Analysis Team (1)
Livestock Production Officer              1           47.5           47.5
Soclo-Economist                           1           47.5           47.5
Enumerators                               6           26.4          158.4
Data Clerks                               2           18.5           37.0
Driver                                    1           13.2           13.2
Cook                                      1            9.2            9.2
3ub-total                                                        312.8
Range Ecology Team
Range                                      1          47.5           47.5
Field Assistants                          2           26.4           52.8
Data Clerk                                1           18.5           18.5
Driver                                    1           13.2           13.2
Cook                                      1            9.2            9.2
Sub-total                                                        141.2
TOTAL                                                                 1,887*3
1/ Project staffing wolad, with few exceptions, involve personnel
currently on the payroll of the Animal Health Department. Incremental
staff salaries are therefore equal to the difference between staff
salaries shown in above table and current salary levels paid by AHD.
The latter are estimated as 50Z of project salaries.
2/ Indicated salaries are set with reference to salaries paid for
equivalent staff positions under the North West Agricultural
Development Project in 1984 plus 5Z.



LIESTOK IWATN UN ICES "MECT
Table 105. T1111K
etailS Cost T*le
("iI. '0N)
Parmeters
mntzt'j                                                  lne Cobt                           Ph.
------------- ------------------------------  Unit  -----                                                        Cont, For. Grose Tax             Do2. Tax SinrI
Unit    86/87 97J68 868/9 89/90 90/91 91/92 92/93 lotal  Cost  86/87   97/68  68/69 89/WO 90/91 91/92 92/93 Total   Rit  Exch.  Rate    Duhv Rate   Rate  Acco4It
*82:333*33  :222:2323XV  maR23-Zzc a:::  333  33332 3*333 3---23  333?- :3:238: 22*SV& L23333  338Z   3 3:233 2*3 Bas.33=XL  =23333s *fl     - in33  332323382332
1, RECURRENT tOSIS
A. TRAINING 
GRADUATE TRAINIK (WETERINIAT
ECONIONICSr EPIEIOIILO.Y,
ANIiL HEALITH PLANING) /a        IK/(fEARS        3     3     -     -                       o6  420  1260.0 1260,v-                                  2,520.0      0      1         0         0        0      TRA
PROFESSIOiAL TRAINING /b            Man/Months       3     3     -     -     -      -     -          84    252.0  25;,0                                   o504.0             1         0         0         0     TRA
S4b-Totei TRAINING                                                                                           1,452.0 1,512.0 -3024,0
Total FEIURENT COSIS                                                                                            J.512,0 1,512.0               3024.0
332    =z3 3 xs383   382 a 3 z323  ---43  x2 zz3 23382 : j
Total                                                                                                            1,512,0 1,512.0               3024.0
/I  Two wear overseas etaduate Prosram including 3 irAdute veterinarians,
b  10 month overseas training courFes in veterinarw economics, animal hLalth plumings efidemtolonatv l Itborators wurt. including 6 trairs.



- 54 -
Annex I
Table 12
SOMALIA
LIVESTOCK HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Infiation and Foreign Exchange Rates Used for
Project Cost Estimates
Official
Inflation  Rates (I)        Exchange Rate
Local I/     Foreign 'I      So Sh per US$ '!
1985/86                        35             .0325             42.0 4/
Project Year
1986/87                        25             .07               52.2
1987/88                        20             .0725             59.5
1988/89                        17.5           .076              65.7
1989/90                        12.5           .0765             70.0
1990/91                        10.0           .06               72.9
1991/92                        10.0           .045              76.2
1992/93                        10.0           .045              80.2
1/ Based on inflation rates (%) per calendar year of 30, 20, 20, 15, 10,
10, 10 during 1986 to 1992.
2/ Based on Bank Guidelines on Expected Price Increases dated August 15,
1985.
3/ Constant Purchasing Parity Exchange Rates. This reflects a minimum
expectation regarding devaluation of the domestic currency. If and
when the dual exchange rate system is unified as envisaged under the
IMF program, the unified rate is expected to be 1US$ - S.Sh. 80 (or
above).
4/ Rate used for showing base costs at time of negotiations (Nov. 1985).



- 5 -                                     Annex 1
55                                        Table  13
SOMALIA
LIESTOCK HEALTH SERUICES PROJECT
Financing Plan bv Suman Acounts
(USS '000)
GOVERGNENT OF
IDA           IFA           SOMALIA         Total                    Local
(-Ecl.   Duties t
Amount   Z   Amount   I    Amot   1           Mount   Z    For. Exch. Taxes)   Taxes
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL  ORS                             -     -    791.3  91.7     70.9   8.3    852.1   7,3        781.3    70.9          -
D. UEHIOES                               -      -   233.1  95.8      10.2   4.2    243.3   2.1        233.1    10.2          -
C. LABORATORY AND FIELD EIUIPIENT        -      -    256.7 96.0      10.7   4.0    267,3  2.3         256.7    10.7          -
P. FIELD SERVICES
IEVELOPIET (PHASE II)                 -      -  1v310O0  93.5     91.0   6.5   1v401.0  12.0    1,310t0    91.0           -
E. PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY       200.4  97.8        -     -      4.6   2.2    204.9   1.8        200.4      4,6         -
Total INJESTIJIT COSTS                   200.4  6.7  2,591.0  86.9    187.3  6.3   2,968.7  25.5    2,781.4   187.3             -
II. RECURRET COSTS
A. EXPATRIATE ADVISOR SALARIES     4,018.0 100.0        -    -         -     -   4,018.0  34.6    4,018.0         -         -
D. INCREENTAL STAFF COSTS               -      -        -    -    48!,7 100.0    489.7  4.2              -    489,7         -
C. VEHICESAN IMELDIN6 0 1 N             -     -    197.2  80.2     48.7  19.8     2459,  2.1        197.2     48.7         -
h. YETERINARY DRUGS                      -     -   251.1 100.0         -     -     251.1  2.2        2il.1        -         -
E. SUPPLIES AN  EQUIPMENT                -     -    117.9  59.2     81.4  40.8    199.3  17         117.9     81.4         -
F . TRAINING                          78.9 100.0        -     -        -     -      78.9  0.7         78.9        -         -
6. FIELD SERVICES
DEVELFOPENT (PHANSE II)               -     - 39157.8  93.5   219.4   6.5   3i377.3  29.0       3r157.8   219.4          -
rotal RECRRENT COSTS                  49096.9  47.3  3,724.1  43.0    839.2   9.7  9,660.1  Y4.5    7,820.9    839.2            -
Total Disbursement                      49297.2  37.0  6,305.1  54.2  1,026.5   8.8  11P628.8 100.0   10,602.3  1i026.5          -



- 56 -
Annex 2
Page 1
SOMALIA
LIVESTOCK HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Investigative Work Program - Phase I
A. Justification
1.        There is at present no adequate technical base for the assessment
of the economic effect of diseases in Northern Somalia, nor is there
information on the incidence and prevalence of major diseases, their effect
on mortality and morbidity, or the comparative advantage of alternative
means of control and reducing economic losses. The main sources of
information on disease patterns are the AHD Annual Reports and sketchy
reports of the work carried out by the ODA Veterinary Team between 1969 and
1972, which provide some information on the presence in the area of certain
diseases and provide a valuable starting point for the proposed
investigative program. However, the investigatory work is far from
complete, since the technical base for investment in animal health services
requires complementing in two respects: (a) the completion of a
multidisciplinary survey of animal health and (b) translating these results
into an operational disease control program.
2.        The veterinary services of the northwest of Somalia comprise a
conventional system based on curative measures and some prophylactic
interventions (vaccinations). Services are largely confined to centers to
which livestock owners come when they require veterinary assistarce.  The
system is unsatisfactory in that the majority of stock owners are nomadic
people who find it difficult to visit static veterinary centers. Drugs are
often dispensed on the basis of uncertain diagnosis, and treatment is
directed toward individual animals rather than toward the livestock
population as a whole, an approach that is inherently costly and
ineffective. Drawbacks to the basic principles of the veterinary service
are compounded by its weaknesses which are related to the low budget, poor
staff motivation, and lack of supplies and equipment.
Objectives and Approach of an Investigative Program
3.        The objective of an investigative program would be to provide the
technical and economic basis for decisions on the future structure and
scale of animal health services. The essential elements of investigation
would be to:
(a) Rank livestock diseases in order of economic importance.
(b) Assess the potential benefits to be gained by control or
reduction of the major diseases, and whether benefits outweigh
costs of control.
(c) Establish the seasonal and geographical patterns of major
diseases in order to focus on interventions to control them.



- 57 -
Annex 2
Page 2
(d) Define a least cost disease control program directed at those
diseases identified as being economically important.
(e) Consider the relative roles to be fulfilled by AHD,
the private sector, and formal or informal groups of
pastoralists; the uses of mobile veterinary staff from the main
towns as against resident or mobile staff in the rural areas; the
relative emphasis to be accorded to prevention and co cure; and
the scope for cost recovery on vaccinations and drugs.
(f) Test on a pilot basis the approach to disease control indicated
by the field investigations and to modify the approach in the
light of experience gained.
(g) Address the staffing, organization and management of AHD.
Multidisciplinary Approach
4.        To address these questions, the investigative program would adopt
a multidisciplinary approach in which the health status of animal
populations would be the focus of analysis. The incidence and prevalence
of disease would be related to factors such as migration and feed
availability (Range Ecologist), husbandry practices and herd and flock size
and composition (Pastoral Systems Analyst), and the presence of disease
conditions (Veterinary Investigation Officers.) The Pastoral Systems
Analyst together with the Veterinary Investigation Officers and short-term
assistance from an animal health economist would estimate the relative
economic importance of the major identified diseases t:hat have been
identified.
Outputs of Investigation
5.        The major outputs from the investigation program would be:
(a) identification of animal diseases causing major economic
losses to the sector, i.e. negative impacts on livestock
production, incomes to livestock owners and export earnings
to the country;
(b)   recommendations for cost effective delivery systems for
veterinary services including drugs for controlling
economically important diseases and for monitoring and
evaluating the implementation of such systems;
(c)   proposals for an appropriate allocation of responsibilities
between the public and private sector, including the
livestock owners themselves, for implementing proposed
delivery systems;
(d)   preparation of a public investment program, including
detailed cost estimates, to support AHD and p-tvate sector
agents in the form of facilities, equipment, supplies,



- 58 -
Annex 2
Page 3
drugs, training, technical assistance and financial
resources to enable them to implement the disease control
strategy, identified under (ii), in the project area during
Phase II;
(e)   recommendations for an appropriate system of cost recovery,
given the public sector expenditure program proposed in (iv)
above;
(f)   recommendations for an appropriate organizational structure
and staffing of AHD's veterinary services in the project
area; and
(g)   an economic and financial analysis of the investment program
proposed under (iv) above.
6.        The findings of the investigation program would be presented to
GOS and the donors in the form of a Phase I Report which would form the
sturting point for the Mid-Term Review Mission which would take place at
the beginning of the fourth project year.
Fields of investigation.
7.        The investigation would adopt a systems approach in
simultaneously investigating, analysing and evaluating the epidemiological,
ecological and sociological dimensions of an animal disease control
strategy. The components of the investigation would be as follows.
(a) Disease assessment. The starting point would be
the incomplete findings of the ODA Veterinary Team in order to
verify the lists of the diseases that occur, assess their
incidence, and identify their current impact on rates of
morbidity and mortality. This would be done primarily by
selecting herds and flocks on a systematic basis such that the
major ecological types and husbandry patterns are covered. It
would be essential to ensure the collaboration of the stock
owners by explaining the purpose of the work and likely benefits
to them. When necessary, the project would buy stock to be run
with sample herds. Specimens would be taken from the animals by
the Veterinary Investigation Officers, and standard diagnostic
procedures and treatments would be devised.
(b) Data Ar.alysis. The data collected would be used
to build up a dynamic picture of the age-specific spatial and
seasonal pattern of disease in animal populations and of its
effects among different classes of stock.
Operation
8.        Disease assessment would be conducted by two mobile veterinary
investigation teams, each led by an experienced internationally recruited
veterinarian and accompanied by a counterpart Somalia veterinarian. The



- 59 -
Annex 2
Page 4
mobile teams would operate out of the Hargeisa veterinary laboratory to
which all specimens would be brought for analysis. The teams would also
work in close cooperation with the Range Ecologist and the Pastoral Systems
Analyst and the overall work plan would be designed in consultation with
the Project Director and the Technical Director. Field investigations
would be carried out on fixed time schedules and would take into account
ecological zones rather than regional and district boundaries. Other
considerations affecting work plan design would be seasonal livestock
densities and movements, ecological and geographic features and disease
intelligence. Each mobile unit would be equipped with a 4-wheel drive
vehicle and supported by a 5-ton, 4-wheel drive truck which would carry
investigational and camping equipment, fuel, water, food and other supplies
to allow the team to stay in the field for two weeks out of each month.
9.        The work plans of the mobile veterinary investigation units would
comprise several district activities, as follows:
(a) The mobile unit staff would visit representatives of groups of
livestock owners on a regular basis in order to obtain disease
intelligence on the current spectrum of animal disease, and its
epidemiology, and subjective irformation on the state of the
range.
(b) Where livestock owners are prepared to cooperate, autopsies would
be performed, blood smears and faeces samples screened for
parasites, and serum samples collected for examination on return
to Hargeisa. This activity would be carried out on a regular
basis as regards geographic location and season, and would
provide the basis for a disease surveillance program.
(e)  Specific diseases would be selected for in-depth investigation
and these would be studied on an opportunistic basis.
10.       Geographic and Seasonal Coverage.  The two mobile veterinary
field investigation units will operate throughout the Awdal,Galbeed and
Togdheer regions of northern Somalia. The operational areas allocated to
each mobile team would be agreed with the Project Director and the
Technical Director and it is anticipated that one team would be assigned to
the east of Hargeisa and would use the Burao facilities as a substation
while the other team would work in the area to the north and west of
Hargeisa.   When allocating operational areas, seasonal livestock movements
and densities would be taken into consideration.
11.       Systems analysis.  The Pastoral Systems Analyst would measure
production parameters .and would identify husbandry systems of selected
herds. In conjunction with the findings of the Range Ecologist t.'e
analysis should provide guidance as to the major causes of mortality and
morbidity in the project area, to the interaction between starvation and
disease, and to the likely economic benefits that would r 3ult from
intensified efforts at disease control.



- 60 -
Annex 2
Page 5
12.       Supporting this analysis should be an assessment of the economic
and social value of livestock. The economic analysis would draw on the
findings of studies on the export market due to be commissioned under the
USAID-assisted Livestock Marketing and Health Project. It would,
if necessary, be supported by a short-term consultant economist.
13.       Range Ecology. The Range Ecologist would contribute in two major
respects to the Phase I field investigation, first in providing an
assessment of the extent, if any, to which the ranges, or critical parts of
them, are overstocked, and therefore of the scope for further increases in
animal populations without causing deterioration; and second in
contributing to the analysis of the manner in which starvation and disease
interact, and therefore cf the extent to which reduced disease incidence is
likely to result in economically beneficial increases in production. These
aspects of the Range Ecologist's work are integral to the formulation of an
animal disease control strategy but they are unlikely to provide definitive
answers prior to submission of the recommendations for the Mid-Term Review
Mission.
14.       The Range Ecologist would, simultaneously with this, establish a
methodology to measure range conditions in selected areas and initiate a
routine range monitoring system to identify range variability and trends
over the medium and long term. In this, collaborative links will be
established with the range monitoring work of the NRA (including the
Central Rangelands Development Project) in order to standardize techniques
and to ensure that results are comparable.
i5.       Developing delivery systems.  During the second year of the
project, as initial results become available, the project will design, test
and evaluate on a pilot basis alternative methods of improving animal
health. Three aspects will be given priority. First, the minimum number of
diseases and conditions that have been identified previously (primarily by
the ODA Veterinary Team, the UNDP/FAO projects SOM/78/006 and SOK/82/004)
as being of prime economic significance will be included, at least in the
early stages. The preliminary list from which these diseases are likely to
be selected is as follows.
*(a) Nairobi Sheep Disease
(b) Contagious Caprine Pleuropneumonia
*(c) Helminthiasis (sheep, camels)
(d) Trypanosomiasis (camels)
*(e) Rabies (camels)
(f) Contagious Bovine Pleuropneumonia
*(g) Pneumonia (sheep)
(h) Ectoparasites and tick-borne disease (all species)
(i) Anthrax (camels, cattle)
(j) Blackquarter (cattle)
(k) Haemorrhagic Septicaemia (cattle, camels)
(1) Rinderpest (cattle)
* Likely subjects for in-depth investigation.



- 61 -
Annex 2
Page 6
16.        Second, interventions will be closely focussed seasonally and
geographically to achieve a high degree of coverage with cost
minimization. Third, detailed attention will be paid to the alternative
allocations of functions between the private and public sectors and
pastoralist groups. The greatest possible use will be made of the skills
and resources of the pastoralists themselves. The Pastoral Systems Analyst
would identify actual and potential groupings that could provide a focus
for extension, training and input supplies. An analysis will be made of the
scope for channelling drugs through the private sector, in conjunction with
the USAID-assisted Livestock Marketing and Health Project which is due to
commission detailed studies on this issue during 1986.
17.       The project would design and implement field systems for
monitoring and evaluating the implementation and as far as possible the
effects of disease control measures. Implementation monitoring would
concentrate of means on minimizing sources of waste and high cost in the
delivery systems. Monitoring the effects of disease control measures would
involve establishing systems for measuring changes in key indicators,
including parasite burdens and disease incidence, and in production
parameters, including weight gain, fertility rates, and changes in
mortality. On the basis of the initial experience with delivery systems,
recommendations will be provided to the Mid-Term Review as to the most
des.Lrable directions for development of delivery systems during the second
phase of the project.
18.       Extension services.  In conjunztion with the development of
delivery systems, the Pastoral Systems Analyst would examine alternative
means of developing effective extension services to livestock owners. In
view of the currently extremely limited knowledge among non-pastoralists of
what would constitute a valid content of an extension program, this
examination would initially focus on a two-way communication with
pastoralists. Based upon this, and upon a preliminary identification of
the appropriate extension messages, this component of the project would
conslder, and if appropriate test on a pilot basis, the scope for involving
groupings of pastoralists as a channel for communications and for material
inputs. In parallel, recommendations would be made on as to the support
required by such groupings from the public and private sectors in the form
of inpt.t delivery systems, technical advice, and training.
19.       Data bese.  The project would establish a computerized data base
in Hargeisa for epidemiological, socio-economic, animal production and
ecologicai data collected under the field investigation program.



- 62 -
Annex 3
SOMALIA
LIVESTOCK HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Mid-Term Review (MTR) Terms of Reference
General
1.        A joint GOS/IFAD/IDA review would be carried out at the beginning
of the fourth project year to evaluate the disease investigation program
and livestock health services planning activities carried out during Phase
I. The MTR mission would make recommendations regarding release of the
Development Fund provided under the project to assist AHD in implementing a
disease control program through strengthening of veterinary field services
under Phase II. Details of this program to be implemented over a
three-year period would be determined through the MTR.
Mission Composition
Z.        The mission would be composed of senior representatives of GOS
(MLFR, Planning, Finance), IFAD regional controller, IDA project officer,
the Technical Director of the project and the Bank Resident Representative.
Terms of Reference
3.        In order to justify the release of the Development Fund and plan
the use of the financial resources, the mission would have to satisfy
itself that:
(a)  the main features of a cost effective and economically
justifiable disease control program based on projections of
economic costs and benefits had been identified;
(b)  existing staffing, organizational and management deficiencies
within the Animal Health Department can be adequately addressed
and remedied during a second development phase of the project;
and
(c) the implementation of a proposed disease control program would
not be rendered ineffective by outstanding sector constraints,
including those related to export market outlets and available
range resources.
Provided the above conditions are met, the Joint Review Mission would
recommend to IFAD to approve a program for funding under the second phase.
The agreement by GOS to such arrangements was obtained at negotiations.



- 63 -
Annex 4
Page 1
SOMALIA
LIVESTOCK HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Technical Assistance Team - Terms of Reference
1.        Technical Director (One)
The Technical Director would be directly responsible to the
Project Director for the performance of the Technical Assistance Team
(TAT).
Qualifications:
(a) Should possess a recognized degree in veterinary medicine with
post-graduate exparience or a degree in tropical veterinary
medicine and animal health economics.
(b) Have at least ten years experience of preventive veterinary
medicine in developing countries and proven ability in
organization and management or project implementation.
Duties:
(a) Advise and assist the Project Director on all aspects of project
implementation, including:
(i)  Phase I (3.5 years) disease investigation program leading to
Mid-Term Review (MTR); Phase II (3 years) disease control
program and continued investigative work.
(ii)  Annual budgets and work plans for the project as a whole and
for subsidiary activities of TAT;
(iii)   Together with the Deputy Project Director ensure timely
procurement, provision of stores, transportation and
adequacy of financial control;
(iv)  Collection and analysis of data derived from laboratory and
field investigation teams and prepare progress and technical
reports.
(b) Prepare proposals for the implementation of a disease control
program to be submitted for the MTR.
(c) In addition to the above, the Technical Director would supervise
the diagnostic laboratory services of the project and advise on
the need for specific short-term consultancy services needed (see
section 7) and on training needs of Somali staff.



- 64 -
Annex 4
Page 2
2.        Senior Laboratory Technician (one)
The Senior Laboratory Technician would be directly responsible to
the Technical Director for project laboratory services supporting the field
investigation program and the subsequent implementation of the disease
control program.
Qualifications:
(a) Member of the Institute of Laboratory Technicians or equivalent
with a mininium of five years experience in laboratory technology.
(b) Additional experience in laboratory layout and equipment for
hardware and software is essential.
Duties:
(a) Establish a standard methodology for the reception and study of
materials provided by the veterinary investigation teams in the
general areas of bacteriology, pathology and parasitology;
(b) Develop a systematic log of samples received and the diagnostic
results. Plot these on a seasonal, spatial and incidence basis
by species and if possible, by ownership for reports to the
technical Director;
(c) Train counterparts in diagnostic/laboratory techniques; organize
and maintain laboratory discipline and recommend selected staff
for external training.
(d) Prepare an annual work and procurement plan to assist the
Technical Director in his periodic reporting.
3.        Senior Veterinary Investigation Officer (Two)
The Veterinary Investigation Officer would be responsible to the
Technical Director for all aspects of his field work and analysis as part
of a multidisciplinary team.
Qualifications:
Possess a recognized degree in veterinary medicine and have
at least five years experience in tropical veterinary medicine,
preferably in field investigation of animal disease control.
Proven ability to live and work under difficult field conditions
an advantage.
Duties:
(a) Assess the incidence and prevalence of livestock diseases and
conditions resulting in losses among herds and flocks in the
project area by appropriate sampling;



- 65 -
Annex 4
Page 3
(b) Identify seasonal and geographic variations of disease incidence
and losses;
(c) Identify the most economically significant diseases and propose
cost-effective strategies for their control or eradiction;
(d) Implement these strategies on an experimental basis;
(e) Provide in-service training to Somali staff; and
(f) Provide field material for diagnostic analysis and report
findings as required by the Technical Director.
4.        Pastoral Systems Analyst
The Pastoral Systems Analyst would be responsible to the
Technical Director for his contribution to a multidisciplinary team effort.
Qualifications:
Should pcssess a recognized degree in sociology,
anthropology, social economy or rural development with at least
five years of field experience preferably with pastoral societies
of eastern or western Africa. Ability to live under hard field
conditions and communicate with pastoralists would be essential.
Duties:
(a) In conjunction with the veterinary and range investigation teams,
design and conduct a program of investigation of the economic,
social and husbandry aspects of livestock production systems in
the project area;
(b) Collect field data, analyze and evaluate findings;
(c) Assess the constraints inherent in the productive system,
including producers' attitudes to outside intervention (including
disease control) and suggest remedies for their removal;
(d) Identify key groups or persons through which to channel
information, goods and services and training;
(e) Provide in-service staff training and prepare extension material
for producers;
(f) Report as required by the Technical Director.
5.        Range Ecologist (One)
The Range Ecologist would form part of the multidisciplinary
teams and would be responsible to the Technical Director.



- 66 -
Annex 4
Page 4
Qualifications:
A recognized degree in agriculture with further trainiug in
animal husbandry and range ecology. At least five years
experience working in field of range management in arid areas.
Ability to work as part of a team under adverse field conditions.
Duties:
(a) In association with the National Range Agency establish the
methodology of range monitoring and data correlation;
(b) Identify sites and baseline data of range composition and
estimate carrying capacity based on biomass on a seasonal basis
and long term;
Cc) Estimated safe stocking rates and monitor effects of over- or
understocking over time;
Cd) Together with the Pastoral Systems Analyst, identify range use
patterns, including frequency of use and rest with particular
attention to periods of stress;
(e)  Conduct in-service training;
Cf) Collect field data and prepare periodic reports as required by
the Technical 'Director.
6.        Nan-month requirements.  The man-month requirements for the
individual experts have been estimated as follows (see also Chart 3,
Implementation Schedule):
Man-months
service
Technical Director                                         78
Senior Veterinary Investigation Officer - 1                78
Senior Veterinary Investigation Officer - 2                54
Senior Laboratory Technician                               58
Range Ecologist                                            43
Pastoral Systems Analyst                                   43
Total                                                354
7.        Short-term Consultants.  The Technical Assistance Team and the
Project Management Unit would be assisted by 20 man-months of short-term
consultant services in specific areas of investigation and planning. These
areas would include veterinary economics, animal husbandry, and
organization and management of veterinary services.



- 67 -
Annex 5
SOMALIA
LIVESTOCK HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Projected Seml-Annual Disbursements of IDA Credit and IFAD Loan
(US$ M)
I  D  A a/           I F A D b/     Joint IDA/IFAD
Project  Semester End of    Cumu-    End of    Cumu-    End of         Cumu-
Year    Ending    Semester  lative   Semester  lative   Semester   lative
1     Dec. 86       .6       -         -         -          .6         .6
June 87       .3        .9        .7        .7       1.0        1.6
2     Dec. 87       .3       1.2         .7      1.4        1.0       2.6
June 88       .4       1.6        .1       1.5        .5        3.1
3     Dec. 88        .4      2.0         .1      1.6         .5       3.6
June 89       .4       2.4         n       1.6        .4        4.0
4     Dec. 89        .3      2.7         n       1.6         .3       4.3
June 90       .3       3.0        .7       2.3       1.0        5.3
5     Dec. 90        .3      3.3         .7      3.0        1.0       6.3
June 91       .2       3.5        .9       3.9       1.2        7.4
6     Dec. 91        .2      3.7         .9      4.8        1.2       8.5
June 92       .2       3.9        .5       5.3        .7        9.2
7     Dec. 92        .2      4.1         .5      5.8         .7       9.9
June 93       .2       4.3        .5       6.3        .7       10.6
n - less than US$50,000.
a/ Close to 90Z of IDA disburseneats would be against a contract for the
services of the Technical Service Team and as such be subject to the
payment terms to be negotiated under such a contract. For projection
purposes it has been assumed that a mobilization advance equivalent to
10% of the estimated value of the contract would be paid and that the
advance would be recovered over progress payments which would be
proportional to amount of services used.
b/ Projections beyond 1989 are tentative and will be revised following
MTR.



- 68 -
ANNEX 6
SOMALIA
LIVESTOCK VETERINARY SERVICES PROJECT
Relevant Documents Available in Project File
1. Livestock Health Services Project
Preparation Report
IFAD document prepared by FAO/IC
October 24, 1984.
2. Livestock Marketing and Health Project
USAID Report No. 649-019
July 12, 1984.



- 69 -                       Annex 7
Page 1
SOMALIA
LIVESTOCK HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
USAID Livestock Marketir- and Health Project
A. Project Objective and Description
1.        The goal of the Livestock Marketing and Health Project is to
support the expansion of Somali livestock exports and foreign exchange
earnings and to increase the income and welfare of the Somali people over
the next decade. The Project purpose is twofold: (i) to restore the
contribution of cattle exports to the Somali balance af payments; and (ii)
to lay the conceptual basis for a broader approach to strengthening the
Somali livestock industry.
2.        In order to address Somalia's immediate marketing concerns, the
Project will focus on upgrading quarantine and related export facilities to
meet international trade requirements and on improving the health program
for cattle exports.  This will involve investments in physical
infrastructure for quarantine stations and marshalling yards near the
ports of Kismayo, Mogadishu and Berbera. The Project also will provide
supplies and equipment to the Somali Government veterinary service for
vaccination activities before and during cattle quarantine. In addition,
the Project will provide technical assistance for improved animal health
measures and management of cattle quarantine and production of fodder. It
will further provide equipment to a serum and vaccine institute and
diagnostic laboratories and financial support to the private sector
(Livestock Investment Fund) for feed production and transport related to
animal quarantine. The final major element of the Project is a series of
studies designed to improve understanding of the characteristics and
potential of the Somali livestock industry to serve as a foundation for
future project development in the livestock sector. All of these Project
elements will be implemented through the Mlnistry of Livestock, Forestry
and Range (MLFR).
B. Benefit
3.        Private sector livestock traders will be the primary
beneficiaries of the Project as cattle exports and resultant incomes are
increased. Cattle herders will similarly benefit from the Project since
the demand for their animals will increase and pressure on the range will
fall with a higher offtake rate. Farmers will benefit from a growth in
demand and increase in price of fodder stimulated by the quarantine
system. The rest of the Somali production also is expected to benefit from
the increased foreign exchange entering the economy as a result of the
Project.



-70-
Annex 7
Page 2
C. Studies and Surveys (USS626,000)
4.        The third element of the Project is a series of studies designed
to gain a better understanding of the characteristics, trends and potential
of the Somali livestock industry to serve as the empirical and conceptual
base for a longer-term program. As noted below, the data gathering program
will include two marketing studies, an in-depth social analysis, a
feasibility study, and a user fee study.
(a) Livestock Marketing Study. This will be a detailed survey
on how the livestock system operates in Somalia. It will concentrate on
how livestock is marketed, the role of credit, the effect of government
regulations (including foreign exchange controls) and taxes, response of
the system to drought, and the particular characteristics of the three
major geographic regions. Particular attention will be paid to constraints
(and opportunities) that might be addressed through future interventions,
especially with the private sector. The study will be carried out in
cooperation with the Department of Planning, Training and Research of the
MLFR.
(b) Export Marketing Study. The study will be a six month
appraisal of ways in which Somalia can improve its competitive position in
existing markets and the potential for penetrating new markets in the
Middle East and elsewhere.  It would also examine Somali's potential for
diversifying into other livestock products, primarily frozen or processed
meats.
Cc) Social Dynamics of Somali Livestock. The study will involve
a second in-depth analysis of the livestock system, this time from a social
perspective. The study will describe the role of each major group of
participants, particularly herders and traders. The analysis will
investigate pastoralists' perceptions of, demand for, and participation in
Government-sponsored animal health and marketing programs. In addition,
the study will identify constraints to effective implementation of MLFR
programs at the pastoralist level. As with the marketing study, the
research will seek to identify problems that might be susceptible to
project interventions.
(d) Feasibility Study-Drugs. The study of 3-5 months will
examine the marketing, economic and technical feasibility for a Somali drug
formulation and packaging enterprise in the private sector. It will also
examine the possibility of animal drug importation and distribution by the
private sector and the potential regulatory role of the Government; and
(e) User Fees Study. A study will be conducted by an economist
and an official of the Ministry after tenders for construction of the
quarantine facilities have been submitted. The study will determine an
Initial estimate of the costs of operating and maintaining the proposed
quarantine facilities (including vaccines and medicines) and the schedule
of fees that should be charged to traders to finance such costs based on
given assumptions as to volume of exports. In addition, procedures will be
established for conducting periodic reviews and adjustments of the fee
schedule. The study will also develop procedures for management of the
revolving fund.



- 71 -
Annex 7
Page 3
5.        Timing of Studies.  The following schedule was originally
proposed:
(a)  Livestock Marketing Study:       November  1985 to September 1986
(b)  Export Marketing Study:          April      1985'to September 1985
(c)  Social Dynamics:                 September 1985 to August    1986
(d)  Feasibility Study-Drugs:         April      1985 to June       1985
(e)  User Fees Study:                 December  1985 to February  1986
However, the commissioning of the two marketing studies has been delayed.
The studies are now expected to start early 1986.
D. Evaluation
6.        It is planned to hold a Mid-Term Review in July-September 1986
followed by a second such review two years later.
E. Financing
7.        The financing of this five-year US$16.5 million program by
component is as follows:
USAID                 GOS
Component                     FX (US$1,000)   LC (US$1,000 equivalent)
Technical Assistance                  2,755                    -
Staff and Counterpart Salaries            -                  475
Quarantine Facilities
Construction/Rehabilitation         2,965                2,276
Commodities                           1,180                  150
Livestock Investment Fund             2,000                    -
Training and Evaluation                  192                   -
Support Costs                           107                1,659
Inflation and Contingencies           1,801                  940
TOTAL    11,000                5,500



SOKALIA
LIVESTOCK HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
HLFR ORGANIZATIONAL DIAGRAM
MINISTRY OF LIVESTOCK, FORESTRY AND RANGE (IGFR)
FI n
Department of                 Animal Production                      Department of Planning |                                         a        r  -   -
Animal Health  |                  Department                         Training and Research               Adminstration               Agency (N.R.A.)
Serum b Vaccine
_  Institute                                                                                                                           Central
at Mogadishu                          -    - -       _                                                                                   Adminiatration
Breeding and Selection
pVeterinary Lab. |        _         Sectlon                                                                                              |   Range and
_ a*t Kt  IayI                                                                                                                             Environment
Artificial Insemination             Training School of                                                          Reearch
_ aterinory    _          _bl       Section                         'n1 al Science                                                                                        -4
t,t  a:r:,-1smPoultry                                                                                                                Planning
_   Section        
Too Too Control1
_   Unit                                                                                                     t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lorest'ry
str et~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
X   |                                                                                             | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Central   IlotenI I
l   |                                                                                             | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rangeland |   Rngeln|
Substation                                                                                                                          Project   1   D. Pro.           1
.   .                                                                                        I             |  I! E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RDeP |_



SOMALIA
LIVESTOCK HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION
H LFR ProJect Covmittee|
Director, Animal Health
Department
|  Inter-Regional    {                    | Project Management Unit
|  Committee    {                      |     Project Director
| Technical Director            .|AdministrationDe.
|Investigation, Pl.anning                       |Proje Ct Directo 
Veterinary Field
Services Operations                 Field Investigations               Laboratory Services                          Procurement
(Phase II)                                                           Senior Lab Technician
Veterinary
Investigation                      Bacteriology
Teams (2)                          Section
Range Monitoring                   Pathology
Team                               Section                         Financial
Control
Pastoral Systems                   Parasitology
Analysis Team                      Section                                         >
0



qM,.IA
LTVFhYfX= WALIM MMMzs 'WrT
T,vlenttlcmn leAdule
PrevPro|octt                                                     I P ro nt  7"t                                           I
Isat veer    |          4 YeAr       I W  Year    | th   .r    |Stl' Year    |           t% -eqr        7t'iyr
14R 5        j I              IlqR7           IQF              tqt             It               Iql              l"t7m 
-~~~~~~~ .j~                 .   .-    
3  4   1   2   3   A   a1          7 2  _1   4   2        1 I   2                      4 _         3   A   I        1   4   1   '   1   &
Anm   t 'k1 alth Service  Plann_____        ____011In
1.  Recnttsmnt of TetnitcAl AAsastiee Tem_
2.  Procuremet of civil wrka, vehiclea
o Selection of central laboratory site
o Ftmalizattoni of dktip wel preparatic
and Issate of tender ea'cx,nts  for
laboratory billditg aM IaLsII't for
Techrical Aasistmex  TmnI
oIdc evaltuaticlnam] ctract &tsl for
laboratory aid hmtruig bilidurw
O Laboratory and hmming constnirtim__
o Prenou    t of lAboratory awl field
o Procuront of etvmice batch of wldclea
o P,,re7nt of r            e  hnwr  vehicles
o Rehibtlitatic-n of district offices
3. Tedahiaxl Asistanc  Services                                                                    _
o Tedwnlcal rltrector
o Sr. Field Veterlrary Officer - I                                _           _   _   _   _   _   _
o Sr. Field Veterinary Officer - 7
o Sr. tahorstor Tehdtctiena
o  AW  EcologistE
o Pastoral Systems Analyst
4. lXTHwe lveetipttcn ami PLan__rH,
 Foreilation of wo*, Ings
o rata collecticn ard aulysia
o PFawe I of ruert prq.rattcun
S. Mld-Tem Review
6. Omea   Trainir4t
Part B:          MOt,f VeterinTry
WAD aod ftotanti bni             r 7. 1965
Mk &Ird Prentim :  Jasuary 15, 196
Cilt/Lan S4*q           I Jaury 31, 19%6
Pmject EWfePt :  lay I, 19S6
lUil-Thra Nview       I: rcer 31. 19S9                                                                                                                                                                                 '1
1er  I ,letecmlu       :  O r  31. 1959                                                                                                                                                                                 t
Project Ql.Ueti7n      :   X-r  31, 1992
It/lAt  Culr              A J   30, 1993
c tt                                                                         -
- R_s  It ActivltY odsct to further tender Mscifiattlon by tVATer  kvtiew.



- 75 -                      SKETCH 1
SOMAMLIA
LIVESTOCK kLEALTH SE&VICES PROEJCT
Layout of liargeisa Laboratory
Store
Secretary     Office          Office        %a.61353 ware]
N   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~IToilet
Main Entrance  ,'--                                               L
-Washing/
Entrance |                                     F  Prepar,tion
Hall/       Office          ffice            L Room
Visitors
B8acteriology
Conference          [
Room             '
~Parasitology
Staff Room           ,
Pathology
Store
(Heavy equiDment.lents.
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   cam ping   equipm ent)
O    2         4 6m



IBRD tI
PEOPLE S DEMOCRATIC
{   *        s               REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
ir2                 !- DJtBOUTI                               _                      Gulf  of  Aden,
i              ,   04150 Ua I                                                                 Ad                CondaIDJIAOUTA +
.  L                                                                                                            C-ndab       |
kJ ,                  i                                                                        Ado   BaOW89                    _   _   .
Too Wa ulEwo   \MI                                                                      IW4                    I
.4                r .,;             :fiAHAOAt
Las Anod       /aro.
S   O M A L I A ~ lv  ,  
LIVESTOCK HEALTH SERVICES                                                               1                                                                     a.
PROJECT
PROJECT AREA
R ItUMIPdUS SIJArACrO 11Am^s'                                                      @      /GL.ea            ,"iA  
GRAV[LKARTH SURrfACE  ROADS
MAOR  PORTS
+      DOMAISTIC AIRFI'l LOS
*      INTFRNATIONAL AIRF[LlG/
DIS1RICT ROLtNIARIES
REGION BOUNDARIIS
INTFRNATIONAL [IOUNUA'IIFS
, CJ~U    I.APIANA   -fi ,                              RUReb                     !
-   Ii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
X                              ,  tFer Fz,cr  -      XJ    r ~~~~~~~~~~L fUP    | PAR.DERl[
~~Oa-~r   GAII HRIurAo                           \   -           /
r   "E-r                                    El BurI.
'+_    _</ ,. \Hoddu> /w'                            /
-4                  ,tqob <.,                  v        r V a                                 FLrfdo  --
c      \  Z .S.L4r.1.9     -t   f                    v                  o,  5,~~~~0   o  100  1o2025   c
o/  C^RH  e4^R oOnidgo   .        s       t   F.O^LlE   %/                     II~~~~~~~~~~~ILONAETERS
X V ~~~~~. !  K"A *IF..               Idn                                .0Af i L1
-   ~~   D;nsor                 t      - -'1   \ Bur Ak
MO GADISHU                               r
MOAIHUIAR
r,.                                                                            su ~             SAUDI  A RABI A N
UJ' IL bi  oele5                                                            o                                                        il N lR,/;    DJIHOUT.,-T   ,  '
qan -    se. -,                                                                                                       r       -  
o L  _>x ) ^v r                                                                             (                   \~~~~~~~r  THIPI
\  \   \\F0                                                                   o -      >   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E T H I O P I A   'r-
RKolb-.s                                                                  . .At' +)5KIsDA Qo   .'r'
Yiob7t, { .~~~~~~- '.,,.yw. l_auw nu................ GD  
A   DI ~ ~        ~       ~       ..n~   D              0      A       . w ~  
fl .MA.f V flfl SWibA    1Sa'Fin g   . __ I KENYA  I
\eodade~~~~~~ .'                    l      t,AsS. bty        ki         V *                                           'Iy_    ,s
k,-
4a' d                                                            _ ANZANIA >
JUNE 1985



