Document of
The World Bank
FOX OMCIAL USE ONLY
C~ R. Gt) -S o
Repor No. i-4189-SO
4.f
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED SDR 4.1 MILLION CUSA4.3 MILLION) CREDIT
TO THE
SOMALJ4DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOR A
LIVESTOCK HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
December 12, 1985
I  Ths domm  h  a reslrcud dhidm and may be aed by redbplus euy in the peformnce of
th-r . -m dul. ft       I =y n   ehele be d_losed witbou WeeAd Bo& authwdztiu.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Somali Shilling (So.Sh.) = 100 cents
US$1.00                    =  So.Sh. 42.00 (November 1985)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Hectare (ha)                =    10,000 m2
I Square Kilometer (kmn2)     =       100 ha
1 Metric Ton (mt)                   1,000 kg
ABBREVIATIONS
AMED    =    Animal Health Department of MLFR
AU      =    Animal Units
CBPP    =    Contagious Bovine Pleuropneumonia
CCPP    =    Contagious Caprine Pleuropneumonia
CRDP    =    Central Rangelands Development Project
FAO/IC  =    Food & Agriculture Organization/Investment Centre
FYDP    =    Four-Year Development Plan (1982-86)
GOS     =    Government of Somalia
GZ      =    German Technical Assistance
XCB     =    International Competitive Bidding
IDA     =    International Development Association
IFAD    =    International Fund for Agricultural Development
IRC     =    Inter-Regional Committee
L/C     =    Letter of Credit
LCB     =    Local Competitive Bidding
M       =    Million
iMLFR    =    Ministry of Livestock, Forestry & Range
MTR     =    Mid-Term Review
NRA     =    National Range Agency
NRA1DP   =    Northern Rangelands Development Project
ODA     =    Overseas Development Agency of UK
PC      =    Project Committee
PMU     =    Project Management Unit
PPF     =    Project Preparation Facility
SOE     =    Statement of Expenditure
USAID   =    United States Agency for International Development
WFP     =    World Food Program
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
- i -
LIVESTOCK HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:     Somali Democratic Republic
.
Beneficiary:  Ministry of Livestock, Forestry and Range (MLFR)
Amount:       SDR 4.1 million (US$4.3 million equivalent)
Terms:        Standard
Co-Financing: SDR 5.9 million loan (US$6.3 million equivalent)
from the International Fund for Agricultural Development
(IFAD).
Project Description
Objectives:
(a)     To reduce economic losses in the livestock sector.  The
immediate objectives would be to assist MLFR in (i) defining a
comprehensive and economically justifiable animal disease
control program for Northern SomalFa and (ii) testing such a
disease control program on an operational scale. The project
would strengthen the Animal Health Department (AHND) of MLFR.
(b)     The project would be complementary to ongoing projects in
animal health.  It would serve as a basis for planning further
improvements in veterinary services.
Components: Part A: disease investigation and livestock health services
planning over a six and a half year period concentrated on the
first three and a half years (Phase I). Part B: pilot
program for disease control during the second half (Phase II)
of the project. Components: laboratory services at Hargeisa
-               and Burao; field services - investigation; field services -
development; project management; and training.
Benefits:    Not quantifiable at present.  Costs and benefits of animal
health services would be quantified during the first three
years of the project. Production benefits would come from
reduced mortality and morbidity with improved rates of
reproduction and growth. Main economic benefits would derive
from increased exports.
Thisdbnument hmsa retioteddLsuibuton and may be used bymipentsonloy inthe perfonmaneof
theirofrw duties. Its contents nay nototherwisebedisdodsedwthout World Bank authorization.



- ft -
Risks:       Some border area may be insecure.  It may be difficult to
monitor herds crossing borders, and data may be lost.
Qualified counterparts may be difficult to retain.  Soms staff
incentives and facilities may help to attract and retain
qualified staff. Uncertain market outlets and reduced
livestock offtake could jeopardize the range. GOS is
exploring alternative markets and range monitoring would be a
project component. The USATD Marketing and Realtb Project is
designed to reduce such risks. PKU would maintain close
contact with the USAID project through the Project Committee
in MLFR.
Cost Estimates 1/                            Local      Foreign    Total
=-~~ (US$ million)-
Laboratory Services                             0.1         1.1       1.2
Field Services:  Investigation (Phase I)        0.4         2.4       2.7
Field Services:  Development (Phase II)         0.2         3.2       3.4
Project Management                              0.1         1.4       1.5
Training                                         -          0.1       0.1
Subtotal                                        0.8        8.2        8.9
Physical Contingencies                           -         0.2        0.2
Price Contingencies                             0.2         2.3       2.5
Total Project Costs                             1.0        10.6      11.6
Proposed Financing Plan
IDA Credit                                       -         4.3        4.3
IFAD Loan                                        -         6.3        6.3
Government of Somalia                           1.0         -         1.0
Total                                           1.0        10.6      11.6
Estimated IDA Disbursements (US$ Million)
IDA FY                1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993
Annual                 0.9   0.7   0.8   0.6   0.5   0.4   0.4
Cumulative             0.9   1.6   2.4   3.0   3.5   3.9   4.3
Economic Rate of Return: None calculated.
Man: IBRD No. 19008
1/ Totals may not add due to rounding.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOR A LIVESTOCK HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Somali Democratic Republic for SDR 4.1 million
(US$4.3 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a
Livestock Health Services Project. The International Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD) will cofinance the program with a loan of SDR 5.9
million (US$6.3 million equivalent).  The IFAD loan will carry a service
charge of one percent annually, with a maturity period of 50 years,
including a 10 year grace period.
PART 1 - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report on the economy entitled: 'Somalia - Towards Economic
Recovery and Growth (Report No. 5584-SO) was distributed to the Executive
Directors in August 1985.
The Resource Base
3.        Somalia is a large, sparsely populated country; its varied
topography includes a hot and arid coastal plain, rugged mountains and
plateaus, and lowlands of varying fertility and rainfall. Its population
of about 5.3 million is unevenly distributed over a land area of nearly
638,000 sq km of semi-desert. Population growth in recent years has been
about 3 percent (excluding refugee inflows) which will result in long-term
pressure on the fragile resource base. Only aoout 13 percent of the land
is suitable for cultivation, but with watez the main constraint, only a
small fraction (8.5 percent) of this potentially arable land is cultivated.
4.        The mainstay of the economy has long been nomadic pastoralism.
About 50 percent of the population are nomads and semi-nomads who depend on
livestock for their livelihood. Livestock production accounts for about 40
percent of GDP and provided, until recently, over 80 percent of export
earnings. Crop production generates about 10 percent of GDP.
.
5.        Apart from the traditional export of livestock, commercial
agriculture is centered mainly on the production and export of bananas and
the production of sugar, sorghum, and maize for the domestic market.
Expansion of the manufacturing and service sectors is limited by the small
size of the domestic market, poor infrastructure, and shortages of capital
and entrepreneurial experience. The existence of several minerals has been
confirmed, but their exploration is still at an early stage.
6.        A number of foreign companies have been engaged in onshore and
offshore exploration for hydrocarbons but so far no commercially viable oil
prospects have emerged. Investigations for natural gas, under an IDA



- 2 -
credit, have proved disappointing. In the absence of other known resources,
Somalia's prospects depend upon agricultural and livestock development,
whose progress will depend upon careful management of the scarce land and
water resources, and improvements in animal health.
7.        Somalia is among the poorest countries in the world and is
cIlassified by the United Nations as a least-developed country. Per capita
income was estimated at $265 in 1982. Other indicators of the country's
low level of social and economic development include: a crude death rate
estimated at 20 per thousand population (compared to a crude birth rate of
50 per thousand); an average life expectancy of only 45 years; an infant
mortality rate as high as 142 per thousand population; primary and
secondary school enrollment ratios of 30 percent and 11 percent,
respectively; and a ratio of nearly 16,000 persons per physician.
Past Development Strategy and Performance
8.        Following its assumption of power in 1969, the Government adhered
to a program of "scientific socialism' whose stated objectives were
egalitarianism and social justice, development through the public sector,
nationalization of certain foreign enterprises, and the formation of
cooperatives. Public ownership and management expanded both through
nationalizations and through the creation of new public enterprises. The
parastatal sector established in the 1970s included about 45 autonomous
agencies which eliminated private enterprise in wholesale trade and
banking, and which dominated manufacturing.
9.        In the early 1970S Somalia made considerable progress in meeting
certain basic needs. A program of literacy and primary education had
notable results, and an effective system of food distribution was also
established. In other respects, however, the record in the social sectors
-has been less impressive, particularly in water supply, sanitation and
health, where services have frequently been biased in favor of the urban
population. Moreover, there are indications that there has been a trend
towards increasing income differentiation within the rural sector.
10.       During the 1970s the Somali economy experienced stagnation in
production and a decline in per capita income. Only the services sector
grew during the period, by 3.5 percent per year and the growth in
government services, at an annual rate of about , percent, was particularly
striking. Beginning in 1981, the economy witnessed a reversal of the past
trend, with real GDP in 1981-82 growing on average by 6.4 percent per year
notwithstanding some decline in the services sector.
11.       Over 100,000 Somalis have migrated to work in the Gulf area,
which has led to severe depletion of Somalia's already small stock of
qualified and skilled manpower. The savings of these emigrants are
potentially an important resource for the economy, but despite substantial
adjustment of the exchange rate, only a small proportion of emigrants'
savings is remitted, largely through unofficial channels.



- 3 -
12.       Following a border conflict with Ethiopia in 1977/78, there was a
great surge in Government expenditures which resulted In widened deficits
in boLla the budget and the balance of payments. During 1978-80, the
Government's financial situation deteriorated rapidly, mainly because of
the sizeable expansion in expenditures consequent upon the border conflict,
the cost of maintaining large numbers of refugees, and the wage bill
associated with the Government's policy of guaranteeing employment for
secondary school leavers. At the same time, official foreign aid
declined. This resulted in Government recourse to deficit financing. With
further deterioration in the budgetary situation in 1979 the Government's
recourse to the Central Bank rose to record levels (about 13 percent of
GDP). This, in turn, led to rapid inflation, from 10 percent in 1978 to 60
percent in 1980.
13.       Official data on Somalia's balance of payments are incomplete,
but it seems that the country had a reasonably comfortable overall balance
of payments position up to the beginning of 1979. The stagnation in
exports and surge in imports since 1979 resulted in a widening of both the
current and overall balance of payments deficits. The current account
deficit during 1980-83 averaged $290 million, as compared to $110 million
in the years 1977-78. Total international reserves, which rose steadily in
the 1970s to $158 million in March 1979, dropped to $15 million at the end
of December 1980, and have since dwindled to nearly zero.
14.       The stagnation of export earnings and the near zero level of
domestic savings have rendered Somalia entirely dependent upon external
assistance for the financing of development. After joining the Arab League
in 1974, Somalia mounted a successful effort to attract funds from the Arab
petroleum exporting countries. After 1977, the sources of foreign
assistance shifted from the centrally planned economies (except for the
People's Republic of China, which maintains a large program) towards Arab
bilateral and multilateral institutions and OECD countries, several of
which have had substantial assistance programs for a number of years.
According to OECD data, Somalia's receipts of ODA during the period
1980-1982 averaged nearly $400 million per year, equivalent to some $75 per
capita per year.
15.       Somalia's external debt burden has grown rapidly in recent years
and amnunted to about $1.4 billion at end 198&. The structure and terms of
borrowing have also hardened. The debt service ratio in terms of
obligations rose from 7 percent in 1979 to nearly 50 percent in 1983 and is
projected at about 100 percent in 1986. The country also has accumulated
debt service arrears.  The problem of arrears has not been fully resolved
by the debt rescheduling at the Paris Club in March 1985. IMF and World
Bank staff have encouraged the Government to seek further debt relief where
possible on concessional terms.
Policy Changes
16.       As the financial crisis deepened through 1978-1980, the
Government became convinced of the need to take remedial action and
embarked on a course of moving towards a more market-oriented economy.



- 4-
Beginning in early 1981, the Government successfully implemented two
successive stabilization programs supported by INF standby arrangements.
The measures taken under these programs included adjustment of the exchange
rate, fiscal and monetary restraint, and significant liberalization of
agricultural marketing. Under the first standby program, a dual exchange
rate was introduced, producer prices for agricultural crops were increased,
and banana growers received the full benefit of devaluation. This program
also involved a substantial reduction in Government recourse to the banking
system and increased interest rates.
17.       Following the completion of the 1981/82 program, a new
stabilization program was adopted in mid-1982, supported by the IMF with an
SDBR 60 million 18-month standby arrangement for the period July
1982-December 1983. The dual exchange rate was unified on July 1, 1982,
the Somali shilling was again devalued, interest rates were raised, and
fiscal and monetary expansion was restricted. In January 1983, a bonus
scheme was introduced providiag for a premium of 25 percent in foreign
exchange terms of inward remictances and capital inflows by Somali
nationals. In mid-1983, a more flexible exchange rate system was
introduced whereby the Somali shilling was pegged to the SDR adjusted by
the relative rates of inflation between Somalia and the five countries In
the SDR basket. However, the beneficial effects of these measures were
overshadowed by the negative impact of a ban on Somali cattle imports by
Saudi Arabia (which has been in effect since May 1983) and by the impact of
a drought that began in 1983 and continued into 1984.
18.       The Government decided in 1983 to abandon its policy of
guaranteed employment to high school leavers. The Government is in the
process of determining which public enterprises should be phased out of
operation, which privatized, and which retained in the public sector.
Another step to liberalize the economy was the de facto elimination of the
Government monopoly on grain purchases.
19.       The policy reforms introduced by the Government from 1981-83 had
a positive impact on the economy. Reductions were effected in the rate of
growth of the money supply, in Government recourse to the banking system,
and in the rate of inflation. There was also some increase in commodity
production and exports.   These measures represented the first stage in the
formulation and implementation of a policy agenda directed at restoring
financial equilibrium, rehabilitating andJmaking fuller use of existing
agricultural and industrial productive capacity, and establishing the
foundations for long-term growth.
20.       In March 1983 the Government requested the Bank to organize a                 4
first Consultative Group Meeting for Somalia. It prepared a Medium-Term
Recovery Program (MTRP) for the Consultative Group Meeting, consisting of
(i) a program of phased policy measures aimed at restoring equilibrium in
the balance of payments and public finances and at rationalizing the
pricing and incentive structure; and (ii) a resource-constrained Public
Investment Program (PIP) for the period 1984-86. The formulation of this
recovery program represented a major accomplishment.



- 5 -
21.       The inaugural meeting of the Consultative Group for Somalia was
held in October 1983. Participants were encouraged by the remedial policy
measures taken by the Government of existing facilities. They welcomed in
particular the substantial adjustments made by the Government in the size
and composition of the investment program at the Consultative Group
Meeting. These adjustments included postponing some new projects pending
results of new studies, rephasing the implementation of ongoing projects
and introducing new high-priority schemes such as the rehabilitation of
irrigation in the Shebelli region. It was recognized at the meeting that
further financial aid to Somalia should be on highly concessional terms and
that Somalia should attempt to secure debt relief on concessional terms.
22.       Following the Consultative Group Meeting, intensive discussions
between the Government and donors were held concerning follow-up action on
the development of the Juba Valley, including the proposed Bardhere Dam,
and agreement was reached with the Bank on terms of reference and a
timetable for a study of interim water solutions, financed under the first
IDA Technical Assistance Credit. A USAID financed Civil Survice Study has
been reviewed by the Government and arrangements for follow-up are being
made.
Recent Developments
23.       After having improved markedly between mid-1981 and late 1983, in
1984 the Somali economy came under increasing stress, due to (i) the acute
shortage of foreign exchange due to the fall in livestock exports; (ii) a
drop in domestic food production owing to a drought in 1983 and the
lateness of rain in early 1984; and (iii) the March 1984 government
decision not to implement additional policy measures for exchange rate
adjustments and financial restraint under an IMF program. Following the
breakdown of the stabilization program, the exchange rate in the parallel
market fell steeply. In addition, there was a sharp acceleratior in
monetary expansion, fueled largely by a rapid expansion in net credit to
the Government. Domestic inflation rose from 32 percent in 1983 to over 90
percent in 1984.
24.    As the economy deteriorated, the Government came to realize the need
for new corrective measures. Following an IMF mission and a parallel Bank
mission in early September 1984, the Government adjusted the exchange
rate. During the 1984 Bank/Fund Annual Meeting discussions, the Minister
of Finance reiterated Somalia's commitment to a recovery program
emphasizing development of the productive sectors, rehabilitation and full
utilization of existing capacities, and encouragement of the private
sector. The Minister also confirmed the Government's decision to reopen
its dialogue with the IMF.
25.       In connection with the design and negotiation of the Stand-by
Arrangement, Bank staff reviewed the Government's draft Public Investment
Program (PIP) for 1985; following some adjustments by the Government, Bank
staff infor-med the IMF staff that it considered the PIP broadly consistent
with the country's development needs and objectives. Major policy actions
included: (a) devaluation of the Somali shilling by almost 50 percent and



introduction of a free foreign exchange market for nearly all private
sector transactions; (b) abolition of price controls; (c) restrictiou of
credit and severe fiscal limits; (d) civil service staff reductions; (e)
arrangements to improve debt management and regularize Somalia's relations
with creditors; (f) increases in interest rates; and (g) public enterprise
reforms.
26.       On January 1, 1985 the Government implemented nearly all the
preconditions to the IMF Stand-by program. These included a freely
floating system for the determination of the market exchange rate for most
private sector transactions, and virtual elimination of all trade
restrictions. On a transitional basis, an official exchange rate for
government transactions has been maintained. The official exchange rate
was devalued by 38 percent in domestic currency terms and is to be adjusted
each month by the difference between domestic and international inflation
plus an additional 0.5 Somali Shillings per US dollar.
27.       On January 23, 1985 a special meeting of the Consultative Group
for Somalia was held to mobilize financial support for the country's
balance of payments in 1985. At this meeting about US$80 million were
committed in additional support for 1985. Subsequently, the IMF Board
approved, on February 22, 1985, an SDR 22 million Stand-by Arrangement and
a SDR 33 million Compensatory Financing Facility. At a meeting of the
Paris Club on March 4, 1985, Somalia was accorded a rescheduling of its
debts (arrears and principal) by its major OECD-member creditors. The
second meeting of the Consultative Group was held on November 5 and 6,
1985, to review Somalia's 1986-88 Public Investment Program, medium-term
prospects, and aid requirements.
28.       The Consultative Group reviewed the requirements of aid
disbursement for 1986 and concluded that about US$430 million of external
assistance needed to be provided, through a combination of project aid,
commodity aid, cash aid and debt relief; debt relief would have to
constitute about one-fourth of the total, and cash and commodity aid
together one-third. Members indicated their continued support for
Somalia's program through significant amounts of project and non-project
aid for 1986 and the ensuing years, and confirmed the need for broadly
based debt relief.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SOMALIA
29.       Bank Group commitments to Somalia to date total US$247 million,
consisting of 28 IDA credits and two IFC investments. Thirteen projects
a-e under implementation. Over thirty percent of total IDA lending has
been for agriculture, twenty five percent for transport and the rest about
equally divided over education, water supply, ports, energy, industry and
technical assistance. An agricultural inputs program was approved in FY85.
IFC has so far made two investments in Somalia -- a US$375,000 loan for a
molasses terminal for the Juba Sugar Project and SWF 1,550,000 for a
polypropylene bag project.



-7-
30.       Physical progresa in implementing development projects in Somalia
has boen mixed, and saoe have not done well. Progress of the North West
Region Agricultural Development Project - Phase I has been good, and the
maln production targets estimated at appraisal have been met or exceeded.
Projects for roads, ports, water and education have been more successful
than in the agricultural sector. Many IDA-financed projects have
experienced delays in execution. Staffing and management problems have
impeded effective preparation and implementation of projects.
31.       Somalia's disbursement performance on projects assisted by the
Bank Group has been satisfactory. The FY85 disbursement rate ms 33.5
percent, as compared to 21.9 percent for Eastern and Southern Africa and
22.0 percent Bank/IDA-wide.
IDA Strategy
32.       In early January 1985 the Government implemented far-reaching
policy reforms to liberalize the Somali economy and to improve its
macroeconomic management. We propose to continue to assist the Government
to devise and implement policies and programs to improve the efficiency of
both the public and private sectors, to improve the macroeconomic framework
for domestic and external resource mobilization and allocation, improve
pricing administration and marketing systems, and to increase production
and exports. We aim to support further use of existing capacity and to
help lay the foundations for longer term growth. Issues in public
enterprise reform are expected to become an increasingly important
component of our policy dialogue.
33.       We are giving particular attention to aid management issues, and
have undertaken an assessment of technical assistance to Somalia jointly
with the UNDP. An energy assessment has been completed, as has a review of
population, health and nutrition issues. A collaborative review with the
Government and donors of major issues in the agricultural sector is under
way with support from an SPPF. We are cooperating with the government in
the preparation and review of periodically updated public investment and
expenditure programs, at both the global and, increasingly, at the sector
level. The Advisory Committee for Juba Valley Development established by
the Consultative Group at its October 1983 meeting provides an important
forum for review and collaboration on issues affecting the development of
Somaliast major water resource.
34.-      In our lending work, we plan to emphasize productive investments
and rehabilitation programs. An irrigation rehabilitation project is being
prepared to help increase productivity and farmer incomes in the Shebelli
Valley. Most projects have been cofinanced with a number of other donors,
and this is expected to continue in the future. For example, an IDA
commodity import program is being cofinanced by a grant from Federal
Republic of Germany, and IDA administers additional commodity assistance on
behAlf of Italy. Our economic and sector work program strives to support
the macroeconomic reform process, and to provide analytical inputs for the
work of the Consultative Group for Soalia.



- 8-
Relationship to Other Aid Flows
35.       IDA disbursements represent about eight percent of total aid
flows to Somalia. We expect that this relationship will continue at about
the same level during the next several years. IDA obligations represent
about 12 percent of Somalia's total outstanding and disbursed debt up to
December 31, 1983. Debt service payments to IDA represent a very small
proportion of Somalials total debt service obligations. In 1984, payments
to IDA were estimated at only about one percent of total debt service
payments for that year. This trend is expected to continue in the future.
PART III - THE LIVESTOCK SUB-SECTOR
Background
36.       The total livestock population was estimated to be about 40
million animals in 1984 of which over 70 percent were sheep and goats.
Nomadic pastoralism is the predominant form of livestock production
accounting for about 80 percent of livestock ownership and providing a
livelihood for about 50 percent of the human population. No
epidemiological studies of mortality and morbidity rates have been carried
out, but they are believed to be high especially among young stock. Rough
estimates show losses from all causes to be about 4.5 million sheep and
goats, 400,000 cattle and 460,000 camels a year.
37.       The annual offtake or production in the livestock sector varies
widely with geography and climate, and has been estimated to be about 3.5
million animals of which 1.9 million would be goats, 1.2 million sheep, 0.2
million cattle and 0.2 million camels. About two-thirds of the total
production is marketed. Export data suggest an increase in offtake over
the last 25 years. The main driving force behind this expansion has been
the increasing commercialization of nomadic livestock herding, pulled by a
buoyant market in Saudi Arabia for goats and sheep since the late 1960s.
This market has, however, in recent years been severely disrupted.
Competition from better organized suppliers has intensified and Saudi
consumers are now less willing to pay substantially higher prices for
Somali stock. In 1983 Saudi Arabia banned imports of cattle and small
ruminants from East Africa on grounds of the risk of disease. The cattle
ban remains in force, and exports of small stock have, despite the lifting
of the ban on small ruminants, not recovered to former levels. The
prospects of Somalia recovering its Saudi market share are highly
uncertain.  GOS has made some efforts towards diversifying its markets. A
USAID-funded Livestock Marketing and Health Project, which started late
1984, focuses on upgrading quarantine and related export facilities to meet
international trade requirements and on improving the health program for
cattle exports. Through marketing studies, it is expected to assist GOS in
improving the livestock marketing system and developing a cattle export
marketing strategy.



- 9 -
38.       Official exports are subject to export licensing and to a system
of letters of credit (L/C) under which GOS specifies an L/C value per head
which is below the actual dollar value realized by the sale. The L/C value
is repatriated at the official exchange rate while the exporter is free to
repatriate the remainder at the open market rate or to purchase goods
abroad for resale in Somalia. The high official valuation of the Somali
currency, in conjunction with the L/C system,, results in a high rate of
implicit taxation on the sub-sector, anounting, at the time of appraisal,
to about 40Z on gross earnings in the case of small rminants. It is
expected that the impact of this taxation on export incentives and the need
for a revision of Government policy regarding the L/C system will be
reviewed under the marketing studies scheduled to be carried out under the
USAID-assisted Livestock Marketing and Health Project.
Government Policy and Ilstitutions
39.       The Government assigns the highest priority for livestock
subsector development to a reduction of waste caused by disease and to
subsequent increases in offtake, exports and foreign exchange earnings.
Other priorities include range development and preservation, and production
diversification with a strong emphasis on private sector Involvement.
Efforts to improve animal health through enhanced disease control measures
need to be balanced with available animal feed resources. Hence the
Northern and Central Rangelands Development Projects aim at increasing the
productivity of rangelands to accommodate increased livestock production.
Furtheruore, under the USAID assisted Livestock Marketing and Health
Services project, special provisions are included for expansion of private
sector fodder production.
The Ministry of Livestock, Forestry and Range (MLFR) is the Government
agency concerned with the development of the livestock subsector. The
Animal Health Department (AnD), the largest MLFR department, is responsible
for all aspects of animal disease control including field vaccination and
treatments, the distribution of drugs and medicine, and central and
regional veterinary laboratory services.
Issues in Animal Disease Control
40.       Although subsector objectives emphasize reduction in economic
waste caused by disease, the strategies and programs to accomplish this
objective are poorly defined. In the absence of well-defined disease
control programs, the veterinary services of AHD lack focus and guidance,
and the links between field and laboratory services remain weak. Effective
planning of veterinary interventions is impeded by a lack of understanding
of current levels of mortality and morbidity caused by animal diseases.
The major issue in livestock health improvement is therefore the absence of
well-defined and regionally oriented disease control programs which are
economically justifiable, and monitored as to their effectiveness. This
issue requires consideration of the appropriate roles of public and private
sectors in the delivery of veterinary services and recovery of public
sector expenditures to sustain such programs. Strengthening of the
technical and organizational base for animal health planning is an
immediate priority. The proposed project would address this need as it
relates to northern Somalia.



- 10 -
41.       The monopoly on animal drug importation and distribution strains
the Government s foreign exchange resources while failing to tap the
resources of the private sector in meeting the drug demand. The Government
recognizes the need for privatization of animal drug importation and
distribution. A study to examine the feasibility and organizational
aspects of involving the private sector in drug distribution is being
planned under the USAID-assisted Livestock Marketing and Health Project.
Furthermore, under the IDA-financed Agricultural Inputs Program, GOS has
agreed to authorize approved dealers to import and distribute specified
animal drugs. The proposed project would closely follow these activities.
42.       Insufficient attention has been given in the past to the
implications of the limited feed resources of the range and the increases
in livestock numbers that might result from an effective disease control
program. Any such increase in livestock numbers, without a commensurate
increase in offtake sustained by an assured demand for consumption of meat,
would be counterproductive and exacerbate the already precarious feed
situation and risk of increased losses from starvation in drought
situations. The proposed project acknowledges the need to plan, implement
and monitor a disease control program for northern Somalia while
maintaining the sustainability of the range resources and market offtake.
Bank Group and Other Donor Roles in Livestock Subsector
43.       Since the early 1970s, a series of internationally funded
projects supporting Government strategy have been initiated. These
projects, however, reflected an initial emphasis on the establishment of
intensive public sector livestock production systems. Cost overruns,
delays, management and technical problems, input shortages and low level of
output led to a lack of support for this approach. Attention was then
focused on the management of critical range resources, involving two large
projects-the Northern Rangelands Development Project, financed by the
Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, and the Central Rangelands
Development Project, supported by multidonor financing including IDA.
Ongoing projects partially addressing livestock health issues include:
(i) the Bay Region Agricultural Development Project (involving IDA
financing) with a component, funded by USAID, to upgrade veterinary
services in the region; (ii) the Tsetse Fly Control Project (ODA supported
since 1977); (iii) the veterinary component of the Central Rangelands
Development Project financed by the Federal Republic of Germany; and most
recently (iv) the Livestock Marketing and Health Project (USAID funded,
1984).
44.       The efforts at development of the livestock subsector have met
with mixed but generally limited success. Cost overruns, drought and
border conflicts have caused severe setbacks. Large project size and area,
complexity of project activities and inadequate baseline data are factors
found to have contributed to implementation difficulties. Dependence on
large-scale construction programs, poor project management and field
supervision, lack of necessary project inputs and lack of interaction with
nomadic beneficiaries are additional factors. Sustainability of
development activities has been jeopardized by inadequate cost recovery and
funding by GOS. The design of th2 proposed project recognizes these
factors.



- II -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
45.       The project was appraised In November-December 1984, and the
Staff Appraisal Report No. 5639-S0, dated December 12, 1985, is being
circulated separately. A supplementary project data sheet is attached as
Anne% TII. Negotiations were held In Paris, on November 7 and 8, 1985.
The Government delegation was led by Mr. Russein elabeh Fahie, Permanent
Secretary, Ministry of National Planning.
Justification and ObJectives
46.       While many ongoing projects in the livestock subsecto: provide
some support for animal health, there in presently no systematic approach
to upgrading the national services. These services are presently not
capable of carrying out a phased program of planning, programming,
implementation and evaluation required for successful and cost effective
control of animAl disease. The proposed project would provide the required
atrengthening.
47.       The long-term goals of the project would be to help reduce the
economic losses in the livestock sector which result from aniral diseases,
and to strengthen the institutional capability of AED to serve the needs of
the livestock subsector. The project would assist AND in: (i) defining a
comprehensive and economically justifiable animal disease control program
for the northwest regions; and (ii) testing such a program on an
operational scale.  The project area, defined as the Awdal, Galbeed and
Togdheer Regions, has been chosen because of the large proportion of the
national livestock herd (particularly of small ruminants) found in the area
and its significance as a major supply area for the livestock export trade
with the Gulf and Middle East countries. The project would be
complementary to ongoing projects aiming at animal health improvement in
the area, notably the USAID assisted Livestock Marketing and HeAlth
Project. It would be consistent with the phased approach to Animal disease
control that has already been adopted under the Central Rangelands Project
(IDA Cr. 906-SO). Furthermore, its results would serve as a basis for
planning further improvements in veterinary services in northern Somalia
and the country. In this sense, it would serve as a pilot project.
Project Description
48.       The project, to be implemented by a Project Management Unit
within AND would (i) strengthen disease investigation and livestock health
services planning (Part A); and (ii) implement, on a pilot scale, a disease
control program in the project area (Part B). Part A activities would
extend over the entire six and a half year project period but would be
concentrated in the first three and a half years (Phase I), and would aim
at the formulation of a comprehensive disease control program for the
project area. The implementation of a pilot program for disease control in
the project area (Part B) would be initiated during the second balf of the
project period (Phase II). The scope, detailed design and justification of
such a program, to be proposed during Phase I, would be subject to a



- 12 -
Mid-Term Review (MTR). To facilitate the implementation of such a program
the project would provide a Development Fund to be used for the
strengthening of delivery systems for veterinary services. The individual
project components of the project are described in the following
paragraphs. 1/
Detailed Features of the Project
49.       Laboratory Services (US$1.2 Million).  The space and facilities
of the existing laboratory at Hargeisa are inadequate to support the
proposed broad disease investigation program. The project would therefore
provide for (i) the construction of a new central veterinary laboratory at
Hargeisa, and the rehabilitation of the existing laboratory at Burao to
improve the regional diagnostic capabilities of AHD; (ii) the services of
an expatriate senior laboratory technician; and (iii) financing of
incremental local staff costs and operating costs for laboratory services.
The selection of the site for the new laboratory would be finalized by
December 15, 1985. Transfer of land for the project's use for the
laboratory and for expatriates' housing would be a condition of Credit
Effectiveness.
50.       Field Services and Investigation (US$2.7 Million).  To strengthen
AHD's resources for veterinary disease investigations in the field, the
project would provide for technical assistance services, transport,
equipment, supplies (including drugs) and financing of incremental staff
costs and the rehabilitation of a small number of AHD veterinary district
offices. The disease investigation program would rely on specimens and
information collected by two Veterinary Investigation Teams with two
additional mobile teams for range and pastoralist systems investigations
operating parallel.
51.       Training (US$0.1 Million).  overseas training would be provided
for a total of nine staff of AED through scholarships and short-term
professional courses. The training would focus on the areas of veterinary
economics, epidemiology and animal health planning. In-service training of
Somali veterinary and other staff would be provided regularly throughout
the project period through the services of the expatriate advisors.
52.       Project Management Unit (US$ 1.5 Million).  The project would
provide quarters for internationally recruited advisors, vehicles, office
accommodation, office furniture and equipment. An internationally
recruited technical advisor to the Project Director satisfactory to IDA
would be employed. In addition, 20 man-months of short-term consultancies
would be financed.
I/ All amounts shown are baseline costs in October 1985 prices.



- 13 -
53.       Technical Assistance.2/  The project would provide for about 30
man-years of internationally recruited consultant services satisfactory to
IDA, to assist AHD in designing and implementing the investigation program,
translating results into recommandations for disease control strategies and
prog-ams and for supervising and monitoring the implementation of a disease
control program (Part B) during Phase II. The indicated complement of
advisory services is the minimum considered necessary to effectively carry
out the identified tasks.  Terms of Reference for the consultants have been
finalized and early GOS action to recruit the above consultants would be
critical for the initiation of the investigatorial program. It would be a
condition of Credit Effectiveness that the Government has completed the
contractual arrangements for at least six consultants.
54.       The Development Fund for Strengthening of Veterinary Field
Services (US$3.4 Million). The program for strengthening veterinary field
services, would be financed through a Development Fund and implemented over
a three-year period (Phase II) with details to be determined through )TR.
It would be likely to include support to AHD's veterinary field service in
the form of vehicles, equipment, and rehabilitation of district office
buildings. It would also be expected to provide technical and financial
support for the establishment of private sector veterinary and drug
distribution services.
Project Costs
55.       The estimated total project cost, including physical and price
contingencies, is US$11.6 million of which 91 percent would be foreign
exchange. Items procured under the project are free of duties and taxes.
The cost estimates are based on November 1984 figures updated to October
1985 baseline prices. Physical contingencies for civil works and equipment
and vehicles are estimated at 10 percent. No physical contingencies have
been provided for international and local staff salaries or training.
Price contingencies have been estimated from the expected annual
international and local inflation rates. Base costs are estimated using
the exchange rate US$1 - So.Sh. 42.00. Total project costs including price
contingencies reflect further expected devaluation of the local currency.
56.       Detailed estimates of project costs for the strengthening of
veterinary field services (Part B of the project) would be prepared for the
MTR. It is expected, however, that these costs would be contained within a
total cost of US$4.8 million, including physical and price contingencies.
The amount has been determined at a level which at this stage is considered
appropriate to permit an initial testing of a disease control program In
the project area and which would be consistent with an IFAD contribution of
US$4.5 million for financing of estimated foreign exchange costs. An
2/ The costs of these services are included in the cost estimates shown
above for the respective project components.



- 14 -
advance under IDA's Project Preparation Facility (PPF) of US$200,000 net of
duties and taxes has been requested by GOS. The PPF would cover the costs
of (a) technical assistance to prepare design and tender documents for
civil works, vehicles and equipment; (b) procurement of the first batch of
vehicles and office supplies and equipment to support early activation of
the Project Management Unit; (c) costs for recruiting the Technical
Assistance Team, and training of key project staff. The advance would be
refinanced under the proposed IDA Credit.
Proposed Financing
57.       The financing of project costs would be as follows:
Proposed Financing Plan
(US$ Million)
Foreign        Local
Exchange     Currency                      Z of
Cost          Cost         Total      Project Cost
IDA                       4.3          -             4.3             37
IFAD                      6.3          -             6.3             54
GOS                       -             1.0           1.0             9
Total                 10.6          0.8          11.6            100
58.       IDA financing (US$4.3 million), would meet the costs of the
internationally recruited advisors, training, and refinancing of the
Project Preparation Advance, all under Part A of the Project. The proposed
IFAD loan of US$6.3 million, to be made available to GOS on terms similar
to IDA would (i) finance the foreign exchange costs of civil works,
vehicles, equipment, supplies, incremental operating expenses of the
project (US$1.8 million) under Part A ; and (ii) through a Development Fund
(US$4.5 million) finance the strengthening of the veterinary field services
(Part B) during Phase II. Effectiveness of the IFAD loan agreement would
be a condition of Credit Effectiveness. The GOS's contribution would be
about US$1.0 million, equivalent to 9 percent of project cost.3/ It would
finance local expenditures for minor civil works and incrementii local
operating costs.
3/ Based on token estimates of local and foreign cost elements for Part B
activities during Phase II.



- 15 -
Project Implementation
59.       Project organization and ianagement would be structured to
involve primarily existing staff resources of AND in the project area,
increase the efficiency and motivation of staff and ensure that when the
project terminates, activities initiated under the project are continued as
part of a regular AHD program. The responsibility for project
implementation would be assigned to a Project Management Unit (PNU) which
would be located in Hargeisa but which would be reporting directly to the
Director of AND in Mogadishu and a Project Committee to be established
within M1Ru. The PMU would include the Technical Assistance Team, be
assisted by short-term consultant services in specific areas of
investigation and supported by an Inter-Regional Committee, and seek the
active involvement by livestock owners and traders in project planning and
implementation. Consultants would be recruited according to IDA
guidelines.
60.       Project ManagMent Unit. The PMU, headed by a Project Director
assisted by a Technical Director, an internationally recruited animal
health economist, would comprise three sections during Phase I of the
project:  Field Investigation, Laboratory Services and Administration.
Veterinary and laboratory staff currently employed in AND's Regional
Veterinary offices in Hargeisa and Burso would be assigned to PMU. During
Phase II an additional section would be created for the implementation of
the disease control program. The organization, staffing and operation of
this section would be determined as part of the MTR. The establishment of
PMU and the appointment of a Project Director would be conditions of Credit
Effectiveness 4/. Special efforts would be made to retain key
professional staff assigned to PHU, and staff trained under the project,
throughout its implementation period.
61.       The Inter-Regional Committee. To secure cooperation of other
Government and non-Government regional institutions, one of the Governors
in the project area would chair an Inter-Regional Comittee (IRC) with the
Project Director as the Committee Secretary. The IRC would convene
quarterly, and have as other members regional representatives of the
National Range Agency, a representative of the Animal Production Department
of MLFR, AnD's Regional Veterinary Officers in the project area, the
Technical Director of PMU, and representatives of livestock owners and
traders. The IRC would be formally established by September 30, 1986.
62.       The Project Committee.  Project implementation would be
supervised and monitored by a Project Committee (PC), to be established
within MLFR. The PC would be chaired by either the Minister, Vice Minister
or the Permanent Secretary of MLFR and include the Director of AwD and
representatives from the Planning, Research and Training Department, the
National Range Agency and other appropriate agencies. The PC would review
quarterly PMU's progress reports and initiate or direct PMU to take action
to overcome any bottlenecks that might impede timely or effective project
implementation. It would also serve as a coordinating unit for all
4/ Actions expected to be completed by December 31, 1985.



- 16 -
projects in the livestock subsector. The establishment of the PC would be
a condition of Credit Effectiveness.
63.       Involvement of Livestock Owners and Traders.  The project's deep
involvement with the nomads would require a forum to discuss the nomads'
views on existing and proposed delivery systems for veterinary services.
To this end, P14U would organize by region, periodic assemblies of livestock
owners and seek the involvement of livestock traders particularly in
matters relating to planning drug importation and distribution. The PMU
would prepare a plan for the organization and interaction with
assemblies or groups of livestock owners and traders which would recognize
the particular problems in administering livestock health services caused
by the mobility of the target group. Such a plan would be submitted to
IDA/IFAD for review by November 30, 1986.
64.       Mid-Term Review.  The purposes of the MTR would be to:  (i)
review the results of disease investigation and livestock health services
planning activities carried out under Phase I; (ii) appraise proposals for
a disease control program in the project area; and (iii) formulate a
detailed plan, including objectives, activities, costs and institutional
arrangements, for the implementation of such a program during Phase II.
Recommendations by MTR for the use of the Development Fund to support
project activities during Phase II would be reviewed by IFAD which would
apply the following criteria in deciding, in consultation with IDA, on the
release of the Fund:
(a)  The main features of a cost effective and economically
justifiable disease control program have been identified.
(b) Outstanding organizational and management deficiencies within AED
can be adequately addressed and remedied during Phase II of the
project.
Cc) The implementation of a proposed disease control program would
not be rendered ineffective by outstanding sector constraints,
including those related to export market outlets and available
range resources.
65.       The MTR would carefully examine the relationship between export
marketing prospects for Somali livestock, projected availability of feed
resources on ranges and increases in livestock numbezs expected from
improved health services to determine whether proposals for a disease
control program are compatible with the objective of sustaining the range
resources as a source of livestock feed. To this end, PC through PMU would
ensure that the necessary liaison be maintained with the USAID Livestock
Marketing and Health Project and in particular that the results of the
marketing studies of this project be incorporated in MTR. The MTR as
structured above, would be completed by December 31, 1989.
66.       Project Allowances.  Project activities would be conducted in
remote locations and under harsh conditions. The morale of AND staff in
the project area has been suffering from low salaries and allowances. The



- 17 -
project would provide for: (i) an inducement allowance to P(U staff which
would substantially raise salaries compared to the current basic malariea
paid by lLFR; and (ii) an increased per diem allowance while on field trips
to be reviewed annually in light of the civil service structures for
salaries and field allowances. Proposed salary and allowance scales would
be submitted as part of the annual work program and budget. Sustainability
of these financial inducements would depend on the agreement of MLFR to
charge p"storalists for all services rendered for their exclusive benefit
by veterinary staff. These arrangements would be finalized at the IZR.
67.       Drug Tmportation and Distribution.  During Phase I, a limited
amount of therapeutic drugs would be required to support the disease
investigation program. Drugs would be distributed to livestock owners free
of charge in return for cooperation received. Procedures for drug
importation and distribution required during Phase II to support the
implementation of a disease control program would be recommended by PMU for
review by MfR. Proposals for private sector drug distribution to be
prepared by PMU would address organizational arrangements for importation
and financing and onward distribution.
68.       Administration.  Because of the remoteness of the project area
and poor communications with Mogadishu, effective and timely project
implementation would require autonomy of PKU in handling project
administration matters, including direct access by PMU to project funds.
To assist PNU in its financial control of Phase I project activities, the
services of the Financial Controller attached to the ongoing IFAD and IDA
supported North-West Agricultural Development Project would be obtained on
a time-sharing basis. The MTR, in drawing up the implementation plan for
Phase II would make appropriate recommendations for further strengthening
of administrative and financial control assistance to PMIU.
69.       Annual Work Programs. Annual work programs covering all project
activities would be the basic management system for the project.  They
would set targets within the context of overall project objectives and
identify methods to be employed and resources required to achieve them.
The annual work program would enable PC to review progress, examine
proposed activities and make the necessary arrangements for budgetary and
other support. It would be submitted to PC by October 1 and to IFAD and
IDA by November 1 each year for acceptance to cover the following fiscal
year. The initial work program would be prepared by August 15, 1986.
Procurement 5,
70.       Contracts for vehicles and prefabricated buildings totalling
approximately US$1.1 million would be grouped where possible in contracts
valued at US$100,000 or more and procured by ICB in accordance with
IFAD guidelines. Laboratory and field equipment totalling about US$400,000
and grouped as much as possible would, because of the small number of items
under individual equipment categories, be purchased through
5/ Unless otherwise indicated, the values quoted are inclusive of physical
and price contingencies.



- 18 -
international shopping after obtaining at least three quotations. Minor
civil works contracts for building construction and rehabilitation with an
estimated total cost of US$100,000 would be let under LCB. All bidding
packages for goods and works estimated to cost over US$50,000 would be
subject to prior IDA review of procurement documentation. Other contracts
would be subject to selective post-award review. The six internationally
recruited experts, forming the Technical Assistance Team, as well as
short-term consultants, would be engaged by GOS following IDA guidelines.
The services of the individual experts of the Technical Assistance Team
would be engaged under a single contract to be awarded to a suitable and
qualified institution or firm.
Disbursements
71.       The proposed IDA Credit and IFAD Loan would be administered by
IDA under a frame agreement. Disbursements over seven years against
project expenditures would be made to meet 100 percent of foreign exchange
costs. The disbursement profile for all IDA Eastern Africa Region Credits
is nine years, with about 83 percent being disbursed over the first six
years. The shorter overall disbursement period of seven years assumed for
the project is justified because funds for vehicles, civil works,
expatriate services and training would be committed very early in the life
of Part A of the project; in addition the use of the Development Fund
allocation under Part B, would be identified and funds committed during the
fourth year of project implementaticn.
72.       Disbursements against all items financed by the IDA Credit and
IFAD Loan would be based on full documentation, except the following items:
(i) goods costing less than US$10,000 equivalent, (ii) incremental
operating costs, (iii) overseas training and (iv) approved contracts
involving individual consultants. In these cases only Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs) would be requested. Incremental recurrent costs
reimbursable under the IFAD Loan would consist of the foreign exchange cost
elements of operation and maintenance of vehicles, buildings and equipment
procured under the project and the cost of imported drugs. Disbursements
of funds under the Development Fund would be contingent on a joint IDA and
IFAD decision to release the Fund (para 64). Necessary amendments to the
disbursement procedures for expenditures relating to Part B activities
would be agreed upon following the recommendations by MTR.
73.       To ensure that project activities are not held back by a lack of
funds, PMU should have prompt access to the required funds. It would
therefore be a condition of Credit Effectiveness that GOS has deposited in
the Project's account with a bank acceptable to IDA an advance based on an
estimated average of about three months expenditures, involving local
currency payments, in the amount of So.Sh. 2.5 million. GOS would
replenish the project account quarterly at that level, or such other level
as agreed upon, until project completion. Furthermore, GOS would open two
special accounts, one for IDA and one for IFAD funds, in foreign exchange
in the project's name with the Central Bank of Somalia to enable PMU to
disburse without delay. IDA and IFAD would make initial deposits into the
special accounts of US$50,000 and US$200,000 respectively.



- 19 -
Accounts and Audits
74.       The project entity would establish and maintain accounts in
accordance with sound and generally recognized accounting principles and
practices satisfactory to IDA. The project entity would provide interim
and annual financial statements to reflect the financial operations and
status of the project. An auditor's opinion and report satisfactory to IDA
on the project statements and the special accounts would be provided within
six ;;onths after the closing of each fiscal year. The auditor's report
would include a statement on the adequacy of the accounting systems and
internal controls and on the reliability of SOEs as a basis for
disbursements. Independent auditors would be acceptable to IDA.
Environmental Impact
75.       Additional pressure on range and feed resources could be adverse;
hence, the critical need to increase offtake for domestic consumption and
export when the disease control program improves livestock productivity and
survival. The formulation and implementation of a disease control program
for northern Somalia would be linked to the objective of maintaining
sustainability of range resources. The project would establish and operate
a Range Monitoring Team within PMU and enlist the cooperation of the
National Range Agency in the monitoring of range conditions in the project
area as a normal part of GOS animal health and range control programs and
as a mechanism for permanent feedback into planning of disease control
interventions. GOS trade officials and the USAID financed quarantine and
marketing project are specifically addressing the issues of export
marketing to increase offtake as improvements in animal health services
results in reduced losses and increased productivity. These developments
would be closely followed by the Project.
76.       No toxic elements would be applied to the land.  All veterinary
vaccines and drugs, to be clearly marked, would be for animal treatment
only and their use would have no adverse effect on humans. When
successful, a disease control program would have beneficial effects on
human nutrition and health and would improve the financial lot of livestock
producers.
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
77.       Overall monitoring of project progress would be the
responsibility of PC. Duiring Phase I PMU would establish a comprehensive
data base covering epidemiological, economic and other information
pertineat to disease investigations and livestock health services
planning. A plan for monitoring and evaluation of the disease control
program in Phase II would be prepared by PMU and reviewed by MTR.
78.       The PHU would prepare and submit quarterly progress reports
through PC to IFAD and IDA according to an agreed format. A report
covering the findings of Phase I activities and detailed proposals for
Phase !I activities would be submitted by PHU to the same agencies by
September 30, 1989. Agreement by GOS mn the timing and specific areas to



- 20 -
be covered by the report wes reached during negotiations. The PMU would
also prepare a project completion report no later than six months after the
completion of the project.
Benefits
79.       The project would aim at strengthening AED's technical and
organizational capabilities in planning animal health improvement in
northern Somalia. Such strengthening, leading to the formulation and
implementation of an economically justifiable and cost effective disease
control strategy, would in the longer term result in benefits to the
livestock subsector in the form of reduced economic losses of livestock and
livestock products due to animal disease. They would translate into
incremental earnings of livestock owners, pastoralist households and
livestock traders, as well a6 increased foreign exchange earnings to the
country.
80.       Incremental project benefits would start accruing under Phase II
of the project with the implementation of a disease control program. They
are at this stage not quantifiable since (i) there is an absence of
reliable baseline data on livestock mortality and mrbidity rates in the
project area (to be remedied under Part A of the project); and (it) they
would be dependent on the nature and scope of the disease control prograu
and its associated investment and implementation costs which would be
determined as part of project activities during Phase I. Thus, the project
as proposed does not lend itself to an economic rate of return analysis at
this stage. However, such analysis would form part of MTR.
Risks
81.       Basic risks inherent in the project are:
ka) Border Security.  Minimization of this risk Is the function of
local government and police and armed forces and includes prudent
reporting and prior clearance of staff movements in sensitive
areas.
(b)  Herd Movement.  Contacts may be lost with predesig4ated herds
selected for monitoring and control. Remedies would include
branding or tagging of selected herds and appointment of
para-veterinary personnel to live with migrant owners.
(c)  Staffing.  Because of the remoteness of the area, harsh working
conditions and distance from the main seat of power and
promotion, it is difficult to attract and retain qualified local
staff over the long term for project implementation. The
proposed salary incentives and the provision of facilities and
transport should help to ameliorate this problem.
(d) Market Outlets. A successful animal health disease control
program resulting in reduced mortality and morbidity could
jeopardize range resources and increase drought risk if not



- 21 -
accompanied by an increased offtake for internal consumption or
export. The GOS, with support from a USAID funded project, is
exploring increased, diversified market outlets to minimize the
risk of overstocking and range degradation. The proposed project
would have little or no impact on the size of animal herd during
the investigatory stage (Phase I). Furthermore, even if a
veterinary services stage (Phase II) were to prove highly
successful in controlling disease, it is unlikely that there
would be any rapid build-up of numbers in the face of the normal
over-riding factor of low nutrition and poor general husbandry.
However, following MTR, release of funds for a disease control
program under Phase II would be contingent, inter alia, on GOS
demonstrating the ability to raise livestock exports to levels
offsetting livestock increases resulting from improved animal
health services, drawing on the findings of the USAID study.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
Attachments
A. W. Clausen
President
December 12,1985
Washington D.C.



4~~~~~~~~~~~
a2a 



.  .   _             - 23 -                                          Annex  I
LLJi.                                        Page 1 of 7
WIgstkIU.I~ ~     RECENT         lIIW        l       --  --
E6TINTE&      00UN IN9N MAnIC     *1NVS6V55a
OWES OMiTS M36)                       ..M..O230.                             236.6                   1063.#
(KILOSAIS 0?f UZI. NQUhALbht)     11.0       25.0        15.0              62.2                   561.3
1M2  SD 123.3326=
mowuun           a  (w.hf.am )   2430.0      246.0
POUZATIONWID:l   Crd=N)              24SL0  34L0       bO                    .
1313 POPlAWhW ng  TO tAL)         17.3       23.1        32.3              20.1                    32.0
nPguunz ponen
P0MATI D In TM1 2000 CUL)                               6.3
STAlS1IIOULAIO  (WILT.)                           31.0
POIUTACOU "Olow=                                        L.9
wO      1 0uaTsC II atn.
nx SQ. M.                        3.6        3.4         6.0              33.2                    03.1
M SQ. St. AGR. ULD                .2       11.6        16.3             112.3                   12
PaOtOATNo MMR=X CZ01=()
0-14 us                        44.7        *7.5       4.6               46.0                     43.6
1-6  MJ                         52.4       50.5        32.5              50.                    51.3
655 *0 A                         2.7        1.9         2.6               2.9                      2.7
stun moz r 1
TOML                             1.8         3.3        3U                2.6                      2.9
031*3                            0.9        6.3         3.6               6.4                      5.1
cm= am1  aum (ITWO)               50.1       50.1        u.s               47.2                    *7.0
WS mm  USt (Mt MU)                23.9       2S.3        20.3              17.3                    13.0
Cmo    _     Saonuno  IATZ         3.2        3.2         3.2               3.3                     3.
LOUOS 433231 (tD0)               ..          ....  
1 UiCndIEoiU n[ (tOM)            ..         ..          2.0               3.3                     6.
TM AnaniFn
MU Of wroaD uzOO6 ax CAPITA
C1969-71-100)                     97.0      1o.0         *0.0              63.3                     U9
CZ w orIoumUt)          76.0       70.0       94.0              67.7                     965
C(am   U VA)    N        7.0       51.0   68.0                  51.9                     35.4
or 3R5 ANU. SMD 1U3             7.0       40.0        38.0 1t 1i7                                 0.5
cma   CAM  1-4) us am             3a.9       35.1        30.0              23.1                    16.6
L1  ElECT. AT   CU      M)        35.0       37.2        44.3              47.6                     SL0
DIWAS ICM . RAI  CM15' 20)       175.0      153.5       142.0             119.3                   106.6
TOTAL                                       t5.0       33.0 A            2.1                      42.
R                                ..         17.0       36.07j            63.5                    67.3
U3AL                              .         14.0       21.6 A            19.3                     3S8
A==S TO IC&DXSOUIL
(Z Of ImATIS)
TOTAL                            ..          ..         .-               26.3                    2s6
VIM*3                            ..         ..          ..               63.4                    57.7
SODA!  ..  ..        ..               20.6                    2M?
iOiLATIUS it amXCA             36570.0    26230.0    15630.0 4          27901.7                 11791.7
PO. 115 0331N0 i330             410.0      4570.0      2550.0 JW         30L64                   245a.8
VW. "a ROSPITaL M
TOTAL                           690.0      71k.0      h0.0 aIC         1273.6                    982.1
D lUNAR                        140.0       300.0        .               426.2                   368.8
Ula                            5640.0     7400.0        ..             3292.3                   4371.9
AssIu  PMK  HSeIL MM                                                                               27.2
0
Imes=
LaISE= SE OF OUOSUOIf
TOMaL                            ..
aS                               ........
EZUAL                            ..         ..         35.5 3/c
LARSAg NO. 0F WUSOShiS*
tlTUL                             ..         ......
WU1*                             ..          ......
.A                               ....
WhiZw or fUILIS XX CRC!a.
TOTL                              ..         ...
_a                              .._
.~~ .._



- 24 -                                         Annex I
T A H L R  A                                     Page  2  of  7
SOMALIA               - SOCIAL INDICATOrS DATA SNHST
SOIALIA                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WIQIT    AWRGS) Is.
MOST                     (MUST RECw  SSuT) /
RECERT         LW lNCUS AFRIA           MIDLE  lDCLL
196igw     19701b. ESThIA           SOUH OF bANARA       AnRCA S. UF SAHAA
ADJUSTED ENKDOLIMET RATIOS
PRIIAL:  TOTAL                    9.0        11.0       3U.U Id            67.8                     95.7
MALE                   13.0       17.0        38.0 d            77.6                    100.0
FEMALE                  5.0        5.0        21.0 i;r          54.9                     83.2
SECONDARY: ITOAL                  1.0         5.0       11.0 7d            13.5                     17.3
MALE                    2.0        8.u        16.0 71           17.9                     25.0
FEMALE                  ..         2.0         6.0 Id            9.1                     14.8
VOCATIONAL CZ OF SECONUAIW)        26.4         3.1       17.6 /d            13.2                      5.9
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIAIW                           29.0        33.0       33.0 /d            44.9                    41.1
SECONDARY                        20.0        24.0       21.0 7d            27.4                     25.5
COI_rCFTON
PASSENGER CARSITHOUSAND POP         1.1         2.0        ..                 3.8                     20.8
RADIO RECEVERS/THOUSAND POP         9.8        14.4       25.9               55.8                   107.3
TV RECEIVERS7THOUSAND POP           ..          *-         *-                 2.6                     20.8
NEUSPA    ("AILY CENtRAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION            O.8         1.4        ..                 5.0                     18.4
CINEM  ANNUAL ATENDANCE/CAPrrA      0.6         1.4        ..                 0.5                      0.4
LAt RVol=
TOTAL UAEOR FORCE (TUlOUI)       1007.0      1331.0      1a15.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                 29.4        29.0       28.0               34.2                    36.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)            88.0        85.0       82.0 /d            77.5                     54.5
INDUSTRY (PERCT)                  4.0         6.0        8.O 7d             9.7                     18.3
PAErTCIPATION RATE (MERCENT)
TOTAL                            41.1        38.5       35.7               39.3                     36.8
HALE                             58.7        55.2       52.3               50.9                     47.1
FEMALE                           23.9        22.0       2u.6               28.1                     27.2
ECONOMIC DPEPNDENCI RtInO           1.2         1.3        1.3                1.3                      1.3
TJ        DIfRInUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE LIONE
RECEIVED 8
RICHEST 5S OF ROUSEHOLDS          ..
HIGTHESr 2O0 OF HOUSEOLDS         ..
LOWEST 20Z OF HOUSEHOLDS          . .
LOWES? 401 OF HOUSEHOLDS          ..
ESTIMATED ABSOLErE POVEny IECOM?
LEEL (USS PER CAPITA)
RBNa                              ..          ..        150.0 le          165.5                   5Y0.7
RIRAL                             ..          ..       110.0              95.0                    275.3
ESTIMATED RELATVE POVEr INCISE
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPrrA)
URBAN                             ..          ..        o5.0 1            113.1                    545.6
RURAL                             ..          ..        50.07              67.6                   201.1
ESTIMLED POP. MEI  ABSOLUTE
POVERITY INCOME LEVEL (S)
URBAN                             ..          ..        40.0 Io            36.6
RURAL                             ..          ..        70.0 7w            61.8
NOT AVAILABLE
DOT APPLICABLE
N O T 1C S
a   The grp averages for each indicator are populartlnrvlfed arithmetic  asons   Oanrqs of cinatrlaS
among the indicators depends on avilability of data ad Is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherise noted. "Data for 1960r refer to any year betwee  1959 ad 2961; 'Data for 1970" betmn
1969 and 1971; snd data for "fot Recent Estiate" betwen 1981 nd 1983.
/c 1977; /d 1980; le 1978.
JUhR* 1985



- 25-                                                 Atex I
Pag 3of 7
DUINTKOS OF SOCIL INDIC&TOU
NOW Ailfbugh l datsa m dawnit m mum gpnrllyjudped hb mit atomus med nerUeable. It boM aWm ke noed thdaty mayn  he lumAlonaly
-mPMWb be    of the bck d sma.durdl  delales ma e ncou ue by delm  aemm   Is olhenug *A d. Td e dw    netauhdail.e.    w
dumb o rdereof magtude i1mma.and uamrmam u     mjodi  -ne  betwe counaa
The  re ipawn pf r iI I Ike em county go  of tile eu11t country and 12 a meauy go  with mbwham Nohr awrp im1m than b e_ry
Stomp of_hembjtcrryt_ teepr -Hlgb lnm    l Obpoer  proup wre -Mld u tdd e In ae h AflAcad Mdl KW Is ch.esbe_ _due ofeWor
Issmhubd afImt [a Lbe  bmfcr vnp dwa dwc 6"r    an pepWul uen   d mgnic _sm for siel MdM    ad     e oly whl amprwy
n  munartewo   m   a vngroup daa or that lmOlemr. Enneetcoverpae fomseangmIne lndlaoends on aewmalltyordtaand 1et uniform
I creIon mlUm te ebre m relsungsinru ete o ne Isdlmzor to maletr. ibm avaae aeonly useul in toapnlrng th v1m ou oder Idlcarate a elm mntng
! e coutry ad 0r re m
AREA (thousad sq.kmH                                          Cruder hi Ra  (per hoisad)-Numbar of live births in the year
rasaI-Total surfacama compnsifng lad ara and inland watem    per tbound of mkid-yar popuatiOI 10. IM0 and I9  dat
1960. 1970 and 19S3 datL                          .          Cmd DOet Aso (pr rhowasil)-Number of daft in th yer ,.
Apkiebral--Estimate of aricultural      usd empomrily o       per thousad of mid-year popplaonw IffO,M  and 1913 data.
PEimnMy  for cropL pastures. market and kihen grdens or to    Grm  rpAdu  A _-Averge number of daugh              mn
lie filow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data,                          wi bear n bar   mal  productive piod if dh expaien
present ag4pecilk fentility rae: usually fiv-yar averages ending
GCP PER CAPITA (USS)-NP per capia etmat  at curnt             in 1960.1970. .d 1913.
market prices, calculated by same convemson method as World   Fmg   A.... I   1 qts A.me, asiailr--Anal numn-
Batn Atlas (19B143 basis)j 1983 datL                          b     c        ofbirb-controldevices under auspicesornational
LNERGY CONSUMPIMON PER CAPITA-Annual appart                    mulv planing proanm
consumption of commcdil primary enry  (coal and lignite.      Fib Pbssmhr      ws (p,eajfavkd mwaee-Thc peren-
petroleum. natural ps and hydro-. nuclear and geoemal luc-    tage of male wmef childbering age who ane pnrtiin or
trcty) in kilom   or oil equivalent per capita 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practiig any form ofconttaedo. Women
1982 data                                                    of child.bearing age ar gnmely women aed 15-49. although for
some countrie contaceptive usae is meaured for otkr age
POPUATION ALND VITAL STATSTCS                                grouLps
Tota Pt983a des.Md-Yar ftieasasj-As of luly 1: 1960. 197.    FOOD AND ZNUITRION
and 1933 data.
UrSa Ayaamua(perear  f taaf)-atioof uban o toai  IdezfFbaedivedaeie  wmCapiea(1969-71 -160)--Idex of per
Urhw Popmhdi      fintin of  uRaaro of urban to total        capita annual productuon of all food commodities. Prod euon
epndatior: dHint dchtions of urban areas may affect emepar-  xcludes animal reed and sed for agriculwc. Food commodites
abilky of data among counrines  60. 1970. and 1913 data.      ichlde pnrmay commodities le. sugarcane intead of supri
popatd  p                                                    which are edible and contain nutuients tes. coffee nd te  are
Popdarfoa in yea 2000-WThe projection of population for 2000.  xuludedl. rhey comprise cereals. root Crop5. puLes. oil secds.
made for each economy separatelv. Startng with information on  vegetables friis, nuts suparcane and suipr beet livestock. and
total populaion by age and sex. fcrilit ras mortaity mrs. and  livestock products Aggega  producton of each country is based
interaiona migration n the base year 1980. thee pameters     on national average producer price weighs: 1961-65. 1970. and
wer projected at five-year intervals on the basis of geneaized  1912 dat.
unprs undl the population bacame  sonar.                   P  C-pit- S&pp  of CalaDias (pwrcet qfeqeir- ni-Cosput-
Sonayvpopulton-lIs one in which ay  and sex-specific nor-    ed from calorie quivale  of net food supplis available in countr
taliy r   have not changed over a long priod. wle age-specifc  per capia per day. Available supplies compnse domtic produc-
feblity rats have smultanously remined at replacement lve    tion. imports less exports and cAage in stok Net supolies
(net reproduction rate-;). In such a populaion the birth rae is    xclude animal feed. seeds for use in agricultur quanti  ued in
constant and equal to the death rae the age structre is also  food processg. and losses in distribuion. Requirements wer,
constant. and the growth rae is zero. The staonary populaion  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal aczivitn
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperatur  bodv weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decine of fertility  age and sex distribution of populationL and allowing IO percent for
rate to replacement lkvd.                                    waste at household level: 1961. 1970 and 1912 data.
PopsJd. Mom -ts the tendency for population growth to        Pfr Capmr Sapply of FPora (pane pef dAy -Protein content of
continue beyond the tiut tha replacement4evel retity has been  per capit net spply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved: that is. even after the net reproduction rate ha reached  as above. Requirements for all countries esablished by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the yaw t is measured as  provide for minimum alowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ulima  stationary populaion to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year r. given the assumption that ferility remain at replae-  should be animal proein. These standardsarc lower than those of
ment tevel from year r onward. 1915 data                     75 grams of tot  protein and 23 gams of aimal protein as an
Pwopar.. Djjsi;j                                             averag for the wordd, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqJkm.-Mid-ycar population per squac Idtometer I 100 bec-  Supply: 1961. 1970 and 19S2 datm
tares) of total arca 1960. 1970. and 1913 data.              Ar Came hwrm Supply Flam Ami ad hire-Protein supply
Per sqkm agrkcrdhrltu rd-Computed as above for agrcultural   of food derived from animals and pulses in grams perday. 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 dat.                          1970 and 1977 dat.
Poplari.n Ag Stuciwe (p5rert)-Children (0-14 yars). work-    Ch  (geg -4j Dath Re(pe r_adj-umber of deaths of
ing age (15-64 years). and retired l65 yesrs and over) as percncage  chiltdrn aged 14 years per thousand children i the same age
of mid-year populaton 1960. 1970. and 1913 data               group in a givt year. For most developing countries data derived
P &palkrien Growth Rate (pereenri-rowea--Annua1 growth razes of  from life tabies 1960. 1970 and 1913 dat.
tota mid-yr population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.     HEALTH
PIpaSae  Growt Rate (percrst)-.rtaw--Annual growth rates      Life Expecramcy at Birt fewsj-Number of years a newbom
of urban popuation for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data    infant would live if prevailing pattems of mortlity for all people



-26-                                                 Annex I
Page 4 of 7
at mb tini of of its birth wem to stay the sae throughout its life  Pup-.eacher rtati - primy. mid secondary-Toal students, en-
1940. 1970 and 1983 daa.                                      roled in pnmsry and secondary kvels divided by numbers of
liuf  a,mEt RAm (pff thaamd).-Number of infants who die    teace  in the corresponding level.
before reaching one yr of ae per thousand live births in a given
year; 1960.197 ad 1913 dat.                                   CONSUMFrION
Ace  Re Si*  Wow (puce  of jepold1eu-4etld. wha,  ad vJser                 C's Imr amswd peJindea)-Pssenger car com-
rual-Number or people itote!. rbui and rural) with reasonable  piw motor can  ating 1s than cight persmo: excludes ambul-
accsSto sae water supply IXciddes treated surrfc wae  or      accs. hearses and mdiniry vhcles.
untreated but uncontmnted wsier such as tha tfm protcted      Rado RAeivers rpmr ths dpepuladonj-A tllypes aof reeivers
borhole sprins and sanimry weils) as percentages of their repec-  tor radio broadcasts so general public per thousand of population:
tive populions In an urban arma a public fountin or tpost     excludes un-licnsd remvmrs in countrie, and in yern  when
logmed not more than 200 mc-rs from a house may be  c     o      istration of raaio sets was in effec data for recent years may
a being withio rceonable acces of that house. In rural  es    not be compaable sin  most countries abolished licensing.
reuomabic le    would imply that !e housewife or member of the
houseihold do not have to spend a diproportionate pan of the lay  TYVRret lVr(pr r  _pepu     -T    n reeives for broadcast
m f ching the funily waur ueea.                               to gcneral public per thousamn population: esclud   unlicensed TV
fething the   ly              f                              rtetd. urban raeceiven in counts and in yea  when registration of TV sem wa
Amcsi to Exuam Disposa (Percenrt of pou d.jtel  ra,           in enfecL
md ma l-Number of people (total. urban. and rnal) serwved by
esenea disposal as paeensgo of their respective populations.     "Ppuer O dl  (p  tosadpopularap-Shows the aver-
Excrm  dipsl may include the collection and disposal. with or  age ciculation at dally genral interest newspae"  defined as a
without tement, of human excreta and waste-water by water-    peridical publinaton devoted primarily to recording general news.
borne sysm  or the use of pit privies ands rinlai             It is conerd wo be -daily' ifit appeas at ls ftour tmes am we.
Auph_a. pr Physiiaw-_Popatiton  divided by number of prac-    CGemaa Ama! Aaendau  per Capia eo Yea-Based on the
oing phyins qualfied from amdil school at univity level,    number of ti    sold dunng the yean including admisions wo
hpakria  per Narsq Pawso-Population divided by number of      drive4mn cnemas and mobile units
practn  male and female graduate nurscs. assistant nOrses
practcal nurses and nusing auxiliarie.BOR FORCE
kp.Iuiu. pa-r Hsital Bmi-wa!. -ab. and rar -Popalation        Tot Labor Frc (hoadsi-Econorrcally acive person  in-
(totaL urban and rual) divided by their respective number of  eluding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
hbsptal beds availai in pub&iic and pate geeral and           scedents. etc-. covering population of all ags  Definitions in
hospitals and rehabiltation centes Hospit  are lvaus countses am                   z comprabl; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
permanendy staffed by at least one ph l    Fs        prov-    Fasaalk t(prcenu-Female Labor force as percentage of total labor
icing prin lly cusodial cae am not included. Rural hospitals,    force
howeve incde h alth and medce    not pemanenty saffed    A4guca*    (pacrm)-Labor force in famng forestry. hunting
by a physician (but by a meic;-al stat:. nurse, midwife. etc.)    and fishing as permae of totl labor forcez 1960. 1970 and 1930
which offer iwpatient accommoda_on and provide a limimed rang  data.
of wAdical fadlit                                              idsry (prciart)-Labor force in mining consruction. manu-
Adndrshn per Hospa BRd-Total number of admisions to or        factunng and electricity. water and gPs as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds       foree 1960. 1970 and 1980 dat.
Piurticoatki Rate (jecet)-total au. aadfeaa-Participatzon
HOUSING                                                       or activity razes ar computed as totalm  and female labor force
A.We Se of How%M (pera   p- pkw household)-eotal -han,        as percentages of ttal male and femal populaion of all ags
_drww-A husehold consists of a group ofindividuals who share  respectiveiy 1960. 1970, and 1983 data. These are based on [LOas
hiving quartrs and thir main  eals A boarder or lodger may or  partcipation rtes reflecting age-sex structure of the populaton and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposL  long time trnd A few estmaes are from national sources
AvenFg Number of Pawoas pa Ro.,-toraL n_b. and rural-         Emonu Depedency Ratio-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons pc room in all urban, and rua      65 and over, to th working age population (those agd 1544).
occupied conventional dwelings respectively. Dwellings exclude
oon-pemanent strucnues and unoccupied parts.                  INCOME DISTREIETION
P     anrge of ODu r mfb ESw&icity-war4 urb, and ruwa-        Percammage of Tota Disposabk lcu (both   cas and kind)-
Conventional dwdElings with eectncity in lving quarters as percen-  Accrung to prentile groups of households ranked by total house-
sage of totaL urban, and rural dlling respectively.           hold income.
EDLCATIOiN                                                    POVERTY TARGET GROlUPS
Admid E        i  2se ,, Rat-                                 The followmng estimates arm very approimate measures of poverty
Pmbar shovol - road. ma  mid female-r    totaL  r   and       levels. and should be Uinreted with considerable caurion.
femak enment of all ages at the primary l-vel as perentages of  Eruated Absohite Povrty inco   Leve (I'S par cap -al  rant
rpe pve pmtary schoo-age populations. Wile many counnies      and nawl-Absolute poverty income level is that income levd
cosider primary school age to be 6-11 years. others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate dit plus essential
differences in country practices in the age and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are releted in the ratios given. For some counlrieS with universal  ui,maed Rel.v PIbea  Incore Lord f G   per capiak-war
educatio  gros erollment may exceed 100 pe smt since some     a   rzr&l-Rural relative poverty incom  klvel is one-tdird of
pupils arc below or abowe the countsis sandard prmary-school  avergc per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age.                                                          derived from the rual level with adjustmen for higher cost of
Secondnuy shool - towi, mae aid femak-Computed as above       living in urban areas
secondary education requires at Least four years of approved pr-  Eummed Popeuk   Belw Absolwte Pfvrty bwsco   Levl (per-
mary instrucsi: provides geeraL vocionaL or teacher trauning  cnr)-arhan  nd rural- Percent of populaion (urban and rural
insuctions for pupils  ually of 12 to 17 year of age correspond-  who arm -absolurc poor.-
once course ac generaly cxdclded
Vocanowla Enroent (percent of secondary)-Vocational insitu-             Comparative Analysis and Data Division
uons iclude technicaL indusuiaL or other progams which operate        Economic Analysis and Projecions Department
independently or as deparctents of secondary instutions.                              June 1985



- 27 -
27~~~~~~~~~~~~~
oa---f    7
ONALA COID DAM
ECOMOC Zadicatord
QG Per Caplta - US$266 (1982) 11
Aml Note of Gawth of GOP
GsS NATWIOI PRODCT MT is  I/l                                         at Constt Factor cost ()
(Plmeal YTm)
lS$ Ms18.          2                   1977-1        1         1982
GP at !lket Pries              1339.1          100.0                    -3.0        4.4       8.5
Znwestment                      267.5           20.0
Resource Blanc                 -292.6           21.9
Ixport of Goods and MS          152.4           11.4
Ipowt of Goods -d BFS           484.2           36.2
OUTPU IN F1f982
Value Added
usmu    - 
Agriculture                        595.4        49.9
Industry                           133.4        11.2
services                           462.8        38.9
1249.6       100.0
CE         GOVEMWI PMONCE
1979       1980       1981       1982       1983       1984
(Mllo1 I          So. Sh.)         (Ra. Est.)
Total Revenue                        1526        1421       2263       2760       4075       3971
current KZPeMdture                   1573       1670        2295       2750       4470       7965
Currait Surplus or Deficit (-)        -47       -249         -32         10       -395      -3994
Other EpqgcoIituzPi 21               1684       1462        1425       2616       2097       3299
Overall Defliit                      1731       1771        1457       2626       2492       7293



-28-                                   Anex Z
Pap 6 of I
1979     130D 11   1961     19      1if       13g B
_boduif          CfU (10-b)       O    ' 133        114       LT      10        so
Niufata, mv1m                    -12       -6        -1         9       4      .43
ad finm 1S, Mt
kdu um ,                          36       57        64        11      19        2
n                                  -        -         - A               -     -
.a  = mmlm                                 X    UD                               m U
OUU:d a1        Md                5       143       10         57     146      177
z   ssse                 ~~~4      -         -         _       _  
ofl1a.t                           64       ay        79       123    lC         46
anc at pad     t-                           4        30        34      44       .4
z    adds1   dm                   19 V                3        -3    -14        10
om]1 h1-d-2                                          1        -10    .4       -101
nu~~~~ wu ,masin                                                      -a
1z  1973 to Jo  30, 33    * 5.00 -  b. 6.295
July Is M6-3m 309 LSU      A d6.1 =&V    oId
s o.. 6.5 (for m_a   Sqmu)
w-   6 2L2590 (fwarU oP    fado
Ju17 1, L92-Oct. 22, L9U   - 9Sa. 15.W2
-O ct. 23, L904opt. 14, L964  -  o.%. 17.55
S4pt. 1, 1961-. 31, 1911  - s.ab. 26.0
Jm. 1, 195 2J             - So.a 36.00
7tw  ip-MOMfcw 179-Si ad 1964 lInltI=  P  Valia lepam.
2fgsfor abinut aU lva~ts temot     Is datnad in a fzm  fmtip
- -



- 29 -
Annex I
Page 7 of 7
mmED,        t ND PR=I5
Dec.      De.       DE.       DW.      De.         Dec.
1979      1980      1981     192       193 
(it h ITion    o.-Sh.)
_a* Claim cn Guezt (net)         1,231     1,9w      2,250     2,100    1,809      4,378
Bwk  dal   n Prdute Setor
ad *:buC ateprli               1,726     1,977     2,296     2,924    3,456      5,238
muy  awly                        2,335     2,783     3,674     4,108    4,309      6,933
(Nt- . of T1M  Nahmr)
ki    Prloe 1     (1977-100)   136.2    217.1         33.4      384.2    54.O    1,007.0
Auml Perimtap Qw4 In
Gmral Pu    m                    23.8      59.4      64.4      22.6     36.6       92.0
Buk calm      Priv   Sec
ad PRbbllcx 'tpzu               22.9      14.6      16.1      27.3     18.2       21.5
NMIy 14pp1y (MI)                   35.1      19.2      32.0     u1.8       4.9       6CL9
AuE L977-79                LM                              19
Ms ZL      I       U$ Pan   i       in $n    I    s
U'veuto                     n71.2    74.5      101.6   76.2      98.0    85.8    106.0   mOLg
9.8   1W.3         8.1    6.1       6.0     5.3    14.0   13.7
!e ad Mac Piv&mu              2.1     2.2        1.0    0.7       0.3     0.3      0.2     0.1
anadSdn                 5.8     6.0        6.6    5.0        2.0     1.7      4.0     3.1
PI  aid Fis Picts            1.5      1.6        0.3    0.2       1.0     0.s      2.5     1.9
odowS                        5.2      S.4      1S.6 11.7          6.9     6.1      4.3     33
Ibtl                         95.6   10.0       133.3  100.        4.0   100.0    131.0   10M.0
Pblic 1D   (De. 31, l9B3)/f           1,513.9
,of kieh dimbmd)                    1,149.1
t     V SIM RA=D 
Ptubl  DebtL983 (estinte)
(aft   w db rUef)                      17.2
mL WVD  (Mh  31, 1985)
Qtstamli       DLasb11a                164.5
Undfabarsed                  ~~~~~~71.1
~sadn  iui. Isbu.                       235.6
3/ __Iz   --sbzmd                 f     M  E ZcO,sin Cmtdes, cocmlZzg  1S. u1llaa, Iiddd3 am1no
ez;ect:to be dlahzud m  famber.
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h 1955



Annex II
-30 
STATUS OF BANK GRDUP OPERATIONS IN SOMALIA
A. Statement of IDA Credits (a. of September 30, 1985)
IDA Undisbureed
No.         Year    Borrower      Borrower                     (US$ Million)
less cancellations
Fifteen Credits have been fully disbursed                     97.32
635-SO       1976    Somalia    North-West Agriculture       10.0    0.06
821-SO       1978    Somalia    Technical Assistance          3.0    0.35
905-SO       1979    Somalia    Agriculture Extension        10.5    2.66
906-SO       1979    Somalia    Central Rangelands            8.0    1.18
972-SO       1979    Somalia    Bay Agriculture              12.0    7.18
1043-SO      1980    Somalia    Petroleum Exploration
Promotion                    6.0    0.10
1105-SO      1981    Somalia    Fourth Education             10.2    3.94
1236-SO      1982    Somalia    Second Mog. Water Supply    15.0    2.28
1324-SO      1983    Somalia    Fourth Highway               23.0   13.63
1464-S0      1984    Somalia    Afgoy Gas Delineation        18.0    8.69
1465-S0      1984    Somalia    Fisheries Explo. Prom.       13.5   10.99
1538-S0      1985    Somalia    NW Region Agric. Dev.        10.6   10.97
1612-SO      1985    Somalia    Agricultural Input
Program                     10.0    6.87
TOTAL                                 247.12  68.90
of which has been repaid     2.27
TOTAL now held by IDA      244.85
TOTAL Undisbursed                   68.90
B. Statement of IFC Investments
(As of September 30, 1985)
Fiscal          Obligor                             (Amount in US$ Mlllion)
Year
Outstanding
Loan     Equity  Total
1981            Somali Molasses Co. Ltd.            0.186      -     0.186
1985            Polypropylene Bag Co.               0.605      -     0.605
Total now held by IFC               0.791      -     0.791



- 31 -
Annex III
Page 1 of 2
SOMALIA
L.IVESTOCK HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:  24 months
(b)  Project prepared by          : FAO Investment Center
(c)  Identification mission       : October 1982
(d)  Appraisal mission            : November/December 1984
Ce)  Negotiations                 : November 7-8, 1985
Cf) Planned date of effectiveness:  July 1, 1986
Section II - Special IDA Implementation Action:
A PPF of US$200,000 is being processed to finance project start-up
activities (para. 56)
Section III - Special Conditions:
Conditions of Effectiveness:
(a) The fulfillment of the conditions precedent to the IFAD loan
agreement. (para. 58);
(b) The deposit by the Government into the Project Account of an amount of
So. Sh. 2.5 million (para. 73).
(c) A Project Management Unit shall have been established and a Project
Director with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA shall
have been appointed, (para. 60) and contractual agreements concluded
for the employment under the project of at least six consultants
(para. 53);
(d) The Government has allocated the land for the central laboratory and
for housing of consultants (para. 49); and
(e) The Government has established the Project Committee within MLFR, to
be headed by either the Minister, Vice-Minister or the Permanent
Secretary of MLFR (para. 62).



- 32 -
Annex III
Page 2 of 2
Other Conditions
(a)   The PMU will submit to IDA not later than September 30, 1989,
a report on its Disease Investigation and Livestock Health Services
Planning activities during Phase I of the project.
(par&. 78);
(b)   The PKU will submit to IDA, not later than November 30,
1986, a plan of action for the organlzation and involvement
of livestock owners and traders in the Project Area
(pars. 63);
(c)   The Government will establish, not later than September 31 1986, an
Inter-Regional Committee to be headed by one of the Governors of the
three regions in the project area (para. 61); and
(d) The Government will carry out a Mid Term Review, not later
than December 31, 1989 (para. 65).



- 33 -
Annex IV
PROCUREMENT METMOD
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Procurement Methods a/
Total
Project Element                   ICB     LCB     Other     N.A.      Cost
(US$ M)
Part A:
1.  Vehicles and Equipment        .26      -       .46 bl    .11 eJ      .83
-    s(.11       (.11)
2.  Civil Works including         .75     .10       -          -         .85
pre-fabricated bldgs.
3. Operating Expenses &                            .25 b/    .74         .99
Veterinary Drugs
4. Technical Assistance                           4.10 Ce    .09 el    4.19
Services and Staff
Training                                    (4.10)      (.09)     (4.19)
Sub-total              1.01      .1C     4.81       .93        6.85
(4.10)     (.20)     (4.30)
Part B:
5. Expenses Under Vet. Field                      4.78 d/               4.78
Services Dev. (Ph. II)
Total                   1.01      .10    9.59        .93      11.63
(4.10)     (.20)     (4.30)
a/  Figures in parentheses are amounts financed by IDA.
bJ International shopping for equipment and drugs.
c/ Items for IDA financing (expatriate advisory services and overseas
training) will be procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
d/ Procurement methods to be determined as part of Mid-term Review.
e' Refinancing of PPF.



K E N Y A                 ,                      
faTt~~~~P
z~~~~~~~m
-~~~~~



