CREDIT NUMBER 1647 SO
Development Credit Agreement
(Livestock Health Services Project)
between
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                , 1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1647 SO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        -    A, 1986, between
the SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from International
Fund for Agricultural Development (the Fund) a loan (the Fund
Loan) in ao amount equivalent to five million nine hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 5,900,000) to assist in
financing the lroject on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the Fund Loan Agreement) to be entered into between
the Borrower &ad the Fund;
(C) the   Fund   intends  to  appoint   the  Association  as
Cooperating Institution to administer the Fund Loan and the
Association is prepared to accept such appointment; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;


﻿-2-
(b) "MLFR" means the Borrower's Ministry of Livestock,
Forestry and Range;
(c) "PMU" means the Project Management Unit;
(d) "AHD" means the Animal Health Department in MLFR;
(e) "Project Area" means the administrative regions of
Galbeed, Awdal and Togdheer in northwest Somalia; and
(f) "Project   Preparation   Advance"  means   the  project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated November 2, 1985 and
December 24, 1985 between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to four million one hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 4,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule I to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a Special Account in its Central
Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit


﻿-3-
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1993 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association  shall  reasonably  request;  (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 1
and November 1 commencing 'May 1, 1996 and ending November 1,
2035. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on November 1, 2005 shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
Geneial Conditions.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
its MLFR with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate animal health, scientific and financial practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
(b) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the
Project, the Borrower shall employ veterinary, agricultural and
other consultants whose qualifications, experience and ter-as and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Associa-
tion.
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon its obigations under
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall, for the
purposes of the Project, open and thereafter maintain in the
Central Bank of Somalia, a Project Account, depositing in such
account an initial amount of Somali Shillings two million five
hundred  thousand   and  replenishing   such  account  quarterly
thereafter so as to maintain it at that level or such other level
as the Association may reasonably request until completion of the
Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall establish and there-
after maintain until the completion of the Project, a Proje,t
Management Unit located at Hargeisa to be responsible for: (i)
planning in detail and implementing a program of disease investi-
gation and livestock health services planning leading to the
formulation of a Disease Control Program in the Project Area;
(ii) subsequent implementation of the Disease Control Program;
(iii) drawing up plans for monitoring and evaluation of the
Disease Control Program; (iv) establishing and maintaining a data
base covering epidemiological, economic and other information on


﻿-5-
disease investigation and livestock health services planning; and
(v) planning and implementing project-related training programs.
(b) PMU shall be headed by a Project Director whose quali-
fications and experience shall be satisfactory to the Associa-
tion.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause PMU to submit to the
Association not later than September 30, 1989 a Report on its
Disease Investigation and Livestock Health Services Planning
activities. The Report shall cover subject matters and contain
proposals specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause PMU to (a) submit to
the Association not later than November 30, 1986 for review and
comments a plan of action for the organization and involvement of
livestock owners and traders in the Project Area in the execution
of the Project; and (b) implement such plan of action taking into
account the Association's views.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause PMU to submit to the
Association quarterly progress reports in a format acceptable to
the Association.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause PMU (a) not later
than November 1 of each year to submit to the Association for its
review and approval the detailed Annual Work Plan and Budget
showing for each subsequent year details on work to be performed,
a schedule of activities, equipment requirement, staff deploy-
ment, training plans, capital and recurrent expenditures and a
financing plan with cash flow projections; and (b) implement such
Work Plan taking into account the Association's views.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall establish a Project
Committee within MLFR to be headed by either the Minister, Vice
Minister or the Permanent Secretary of MLFR and whose other
members shall include the Director of AHD and representatives
from the Planning, Resear,:h and Training Department of MLFR, the
National Range Agency, and other appropriate Agencies.
(b) The   Project   Committee   shall  be   responsible  for
supervising and monitoring PMU in Project implementation and
shall review the quarterly progress reports prepared by PMU.


﻿- 6 -
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall, not later than
September 30, 1986, establish an Inter-Regional Committee, headed
by one of the Governors in the Project Area with the Project
Director as the Committee's Secretary, and whose other members
shall be the regional representatives of the National Range
Agency, a representative of the Animal Production Department,
MLFR, AHD's Regional Veterinary Officers in the Project Area, the
Technical Director of PMU, and represenLatives of livestock
owners and traders.
(b) The Inter-Regional Committee shall be responsible for
securing the cooperation of other government and non-government
institutions represented in the Project Area in executing the
Project.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than
December 31, 1989, carry out in consultation with the Association
a Mid-Term Review of the progress of the Project taking into
account the Report submitted to the Association pursuant to
Section 3.05 of this Agreement; (b) formulate a detailed plan,
including   objectives,  activities,   costs   and   institutional
arrangements for the implementation of a Disease CGntrol Program;
and (c) implement the Disease Control Program as recommended
under (b) above.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section including the Special Account for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;


﻿-7-
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the said accounts and the audit thereof
and said records as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until    at  least   one  year  after  the
completion of the audit for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was   made,   all  records   (contracts,   orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable   the   Association's   representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of
such expenditures were used for the purposes for
which they were provided.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. (a) Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified,


﻿-8-
namely, that subject to paragraph (b) of this Section: (i) the
right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any loan made
to the Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms of the agreement providing therefor, or (ii) any
such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the agreed
maturity thereof.
(b)  Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(i) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement,
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of para-
graph (b) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the   Association   shall  have   received  satisfactory
evidence that the Borrower has (i) established PMU in a manner
specified in Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement; (ii) appointed
the Project Director referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of this
Agreement; and (iii) entered into contractual agreement(s) for
the employment of at least six consultants under the Project;
(b) the   Borrower   shall  have   established  the  Project
Committee as specified in Section 3.09 of this Agreement;


﻿- 9 -
(c) the Borrower shall have opened a Project Account in the
manner specified in Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
(d) the   Association   shall  have  received   satisfactory
evidence that land has been allocated for the construction of the
central laboratory and for housing for consultants; and
(e) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Fund Loan (other than the effectiveness of this Agreement) have
been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The date one hundred fifty (150) days after
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for Finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Government of Somali Democratic Republic
Mogadishu
Somalia
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINFIN                             612 MINFIN
Mogadishu                          Mogadishu
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 10 -
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
By jt5ll                  tl
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By       v
Regional Vice President
Eastern and Southern Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Consultants'             3,660,000          100% of foreign
services under                             expenditures
Part A of the
Project
(2) Training under              75,000          100% of foreign
Part A of the                              expenditures
Project
(3) Refunding of               190,000          Amount due under
Project Prepara-                           Section 2.02 (c)
tion Advance                               of this Agreement
(4) Unallocated                175,000
TOTAL              4,100,000
2.   For  the purposes   of this Schedule, the      term  "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied
from the territory of any country other than that of the
Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
establishing a comprehensive and economically justifiable Animal
Disease Control Program in the Project Area, to test such a
Program on an operational scale and to contribute towards the
long-term reduction of economic losses in the livestock sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Disease Investigation and Livestock Health Services
Planning
1.   Laboratory Services
Strengthening of AHD's veterinary laboratory services in the
Project Area through: (a) the provision of a central laboratory
at Hargeisa; (b) the rehabilitation of the laboratory at Burao;
(c) financing of incremental local staff and other recurrent
costs of laboratory services; and (d) the provision of technical
assistance.
2.   Field Services and Disease Investigations
Strengthening of AHD's planning capability and ability to
carry out veterinary disease investigations through the provision
of: (a) vehicles; (b) equipment; (c) supplies (including drugs);
(d) the strengthening of a limited number of veterinary field
facilities; (e) financing of incremental staff costs; and (f) the
provision of technical assistance.
3.   Training
Provision of overseas and local training to MLFR staff in
veterinary science, economics, epidemiology and animal health
planning.
4.   Project Management Unit
Provision of: (a) housing for internationally recruited
experts; (b) offices and office equipment; (c) furniture;


﻿- 13 -
(d) vehicles; (e) incremental local salaries for PMU staff; and
(f) technical assistance,
Part B:   Disease Control Program
The implementation of a Disease Control Program consisting
of the strengthening of veterinary field services through the
provision of vehicles and equipment, rehabilitation of veterinary
field office buildings, technical assistance and financial
support for the establishment of private sector, veterinary and
drug distribution services, all to be carried out following the
mid-term review.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1992.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ veterinary, agricultural and other
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 4
The Report to be submitted to the Association pursuant to
Section 3.05 of this Agreement shall cover subject matters and
contain proposals for the following:
(i) identification of animal diseases causing major
economic losses to the sector, i.e. negative
impacts on livestock production, incomes to live-
stock owners and export earnings to the country;
(ii) recommendations    for   cost  effective   delivery
systems for veterinary services including drugs
for controlling economically important diseases
and for monitoring and evaluating the implementa-
tion of such systems;
(iii) proposals    for  an   appropriate   allocation  of
responsibilities between the public and private
sector, including the livestock owners themselves,
for implementing proposed delivery systems;
(iv) preparation   of   a  public   investment  program,
including detailed cost estimates, to support AHD
and  private   sector   agents  in  the   form  of
facilities, equipment, supplies, drugs, training,
technical assistance and financial resources to
enable them to implement the disease control
strategy, identified under (ii) above;
(v) recommendations for an appropriate system of cost
recovery, given the public sector expenditure
program proposed in (iv) above;
(vi) recommendations for an appropriate organizational
structure   and  staffing   of   AHD's  veterinary
services in the project area; and
(vii) an economic and financial analysis of the invest-
ment program proposed under (iv) above.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the   term  "Authorized   Allocation"  means  an  amount
equivalent to US$50,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the


﻿- 17 -
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by
the Borrower from the Credit Account in accor-
dance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories, minus the
amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered  into  by   the  Association  pursuant   to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with
respect to the Project, shall be equal to the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Autborized
Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Associa-
tion shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice have been or will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any


﻿- 18 -
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into
the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the     -Lday of
198 .
FOR SECRETARY


