Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21356
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-24130)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDRs 14.6 MILLION
TO
THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A FINANCIAL AND LEGAL MANAGEMENT UPGRADING PROJECT
JANUARY 4,2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 4, 2001)
Currency Unit = Tanzania Shillings (T.Sh.)
1 Tanzania Shilling = US$ 0.00125
US$ 1 = T.Sh. 803
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGO           Attorney General's Office
BRELA         Business Registration and Licensing Authority
CPA           Certified Public Accountant
CTB           Central Tender Board
DANIDA        Danish International Development Agency
DCA           Development Credit Agreement
DFID          Department for International Development
FILMUP        Financial and Legal Management Upgrading Project
GOT           Government of Tanzania
IAA           Institute of Accountancy Arusha
IDA           International Development Association
IFM           Institute of Finance Management
IISC          Inter Institutional Steering Committee
LRC           Law Reform Commission
LSCC          Legal Sector Component Committee
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
LRC           Law Reform Commission
LSRTF         Legal Sector Reform Task Force
MOF           Ministry of Finance
MTR           Mid-Term Review
NBAA          National Board of Accountants and Auditors
NORAD         Norwegian Agency for Development
OCAG          Office of the Controller and Auditor-General
PER           Public Expenditure Review
PSRP          Public Sector Reform Program
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SDR           Special Drawing Rights
SIDA          Swedish International Development Agency
TAC           Tanzania Audit Corporation
UNDP          United Nations Development Programme
Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager/Director:    James W. Adams
Sector Manager/Director:    Brian D. Levy
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Denyse E. Morin



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Tanzania
Financial and Legal Management Upgrading Project
CONTENTS
1. Project Data                                                                 1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry      2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                         6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                          14
6. Sustainability                                                              15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                               16
8. Lessons Learned                                                             18
9. Partner Comments                                                            21
10. Additional Information                                                     21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                     22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                     24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                     25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                     26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components     28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                        29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                    30
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR                              32
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P002817           Project Name: FINANCIAL & LEGAL MANAGEMENT
UPGRADING
Team Leader: Denyse E. Morin         TL Unit: AFT12
ICR Type: Core ICR              Report Date: January 4, 2001
1.  Project Data
Name: FINANCIAL & LEGAL MANAGEMENT    L/C/TF  IDA-24130
UPGRADING                            Number:
Country/Department: TANZANIA                             Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: BI - Institutional Development
Key  Dates                                                            ________
Osidnal       RevisedlActtual
PCD:        09/30/1991                Effective:    12/04/1992       10/15/1992
Appraisal:      02/20/1992                   MTR:    06/30/1995          10/13/1995
Approval:       07/09/1992                 Closing:    12/30/1998        06/30/2000
|Borrower/Implementing Agency: I GOVT. OF TANZANIAIGOT
Other Partners: ISD
Saff              X       Current    .                At Aip7ral[
Vice President:            Callisto Madavo              Edward Jaycox
Country Manager:           James Adams                  Stephen Denning
Sector Manager:            Brian Levy                   David Cook
Team Leader at ICR:        Denyse Morin                 Uche Mbanefo
ICR Primary Author:        Peter Morgan
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likelv. UN=Unlikely,
|HUN=Highly, Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome:     S
Sustainability:  L
Institutional Development Impact:  S
Bank Perfornance:     S
Borrower Performance:    S
QAG (if availabtle)             ICR
Quality at Entry:                                   S
Project at Risk at Any Time:      No



2
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Project Introduction and Background.
The Financial and Legal Management Upgrading Project (FILMUP) was appraised in
March 1992 and became effective on October 1, 1992. It was the first Bank-supported
investment in Tanzania to focus on the upgrading of accounting and auditing capacities in both
the private and public sectors and the first credit in the history of the Bank to make an investment
in the legal framework of a member state. As such, the FILMUP was intended to strengthen
both the institutional and organizational infrastructure of the new open market economy in
Tanzania that was slowly emerging since the mid- 1 980s under the Economic Recovery Program
of the Government of Tanzania (GOT).
The key design aspects of FILMUP on the financial side can be traced back to a
commission established by the GOT in 1989 to look at issues to do with financial management in
the public and private sectors. During the FILMUP discussions, the Government designated three
parastatals- the National Board of Accountants and Auditors (NBAA), the Institute for Finance
Management (IFM) both located in Dar es Salaam and the Institute of Accountancy in Arusha
(IAA) as implementing organizations. The Office of the Controller and Auditor General (OCAG)
was selected as the only implementing organization in the public sector. Most of the preliminary
discussions between the GOT and the Bank in 1991 were based on the assumption that the
FILMUP would focus solely on improvements to auditing and accounting.
Both the GOT and the Bank, however, had also come to accept the critical need for legal
as well as financial reform if the Economic Recovery Program was to be effective. The GOT and
the Bank therefore agreed late in the design stage to include some attention to legal reform in the
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) provided it would not slow the pace of overall project
development. The implementing organizations on the legal side selected by the Government for
participation in the FILMUP were the Attorney General's Office (AGO), including the Civil and
International Law Division, the Legislative Division, the Administrator General's Division, the
Judiciary, the Law Reform Commission (LRC) and the Registrar of Companies (now the
Business Registration and Licensing Authority or BRELA).
The objectives of the FILMUP as set out in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA)
were to improve (i) accounting and auditing; (ii) the legal and regulatory framework; and (iii) the
administration of justice. These broad objectives were to be achieved by strengthening the
NBAA, the IFM, the IAA and the OCAG on the financial side and the AGO, the Judiciary, the
Law Reform Commission and the Registrar of Companies on the legal side. The project was also
to carry out a series of studies including a legal sector study, a cost recovery study and a review
of the role of the Tanzanian Audit Corporation (TAC).
3.2 Revised Objective:
(not applicable)



3
3.3 Original Components:
Part A: Financial Management:
1. NBAA: (a) Strengthening of NBAA to improve the quality of accounting and. auditing in the
Borrower's territories through the provision of training and technical support, preparation of
study manuals, and the acquisition of office equipment and vehicles; and (b) Construction of
office accommodation for NBAA.
2. OCAG: Strengthening of OCAG to enable it to carry out its functions of auditing all civil
service accounts, through the provision of staff training and acquisition of comnputers, office
equipment and vehicles.
3. IAA: (a) Strengthening IAA to enable it to better train students for the final stages of the
CPA examinations, through the provision of overseas and local training for trainers,
acquisition of library books, periodicals and other library equipment, computers, other office
equipment and vehicles; and (b) Extension and remodeling of IAA buildings.
4. IFM: (a) Strengthening of IFM, to enable it to expand its curriculum to introduce computing
courses and update other courses, through the provision of local and overseas training,
acquisition of library books, periodicals and essential library equipment, as well as computer,
office and classroom equipment; and (b) Acquisition of furniture for classrooms, a cooling
system for their library and assembly hall and other equipment and vehicles.
Part B: Legal Sector
i. Attorney-General's Office: (a) Strengthening and upgrading the capabilities of the staff in
the Civil and International Division, Legislative Division and Administrator-General's
Department in the Attorney-General's office, through the provision of training; (b)
Acquisition of library books, legal journals, shelving, office equipment and other materials,
and the printing of forms for the Administrator-General's Department; (c) Revision and
printing of the Laws of Tanzania; and (d) Review of commercial and related laws, including
laws that impact on private sector development.
2. Judiciary: (a) Strengthening the judiciary in the area of commercial law developments, and
streamlining procedures to ensure speedy disposal of cases, through the provision of training
for High Court Judges, Resident and District Magistrates, Registry Assistants and Registrars
of the Court of Appeal and High Court; (b) Upgrading of the High Court Library through the
streamlining of procedures, training of library assistants and the acquisition of books, legal
journals and materials, some shelving and library equipment; (c) Acquisiticon of typewriters
for the most busy magistrates courts and computers for the High Court Registries in Dar es
Salaam and the eleven zonal centers; and (d) Publication of the Tanzania Lawo Reports.
3. Law Reform Commission (LRC): Strengthening the LRC through the provision of staff
training and acquisition of computers and other office equipment.



4
4. Strengthening of the Registrar of Companies and streamlining of its systems, to enable it to
provide accurate and timely information about companies and businesses through staff
training, acquisition of computers and other equipment.
Part C: Studies
1. Legal Sector Study: Carrying out of several in-depth studies of various aspects of the legal
sector and the development of strategy to improve its performance.
2. Cost Recovery Study: Carrying out of study of methods of increasing cost recovery in the
institutions, both financial and legal, benefiting under the Project.
3. TAC Study: Carrying out a study designed to recommend specific ways of giving effect to
the decision to remove TAC's monopoly on the auditing of parastatals.
3.4 Revised Components:
Component                      Cost            Rating
(USD million)
NBAA (Financial Component)                  3.7               S
IAA (Financial Component)                   6.4               U
OCAG (Financial Component)                  0.5               S
Institute of Finance Management             2.7              HS
Legal Component                             5.6               S
Project Coordination                        0.9               S
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The design and structure of the FILMUP had, from the outset, a number of characteristics
that would shape its implementation and outcomes over the next eight years including the two
extensions. These were the following:
a) Both the financial and legal components- 80% and 20% of the total allocations
respectively- were housed together under the FILMUP structure but were managed as
separate activities. This 'double' structure of the FILMUP was a reasonable decision at the
time given the skepticism within the Bank in 1992 about the appropriateness of separate
investments in the legal sector.
b) The absorptive capacities of the implementing organizations were quite different in the two
sectors. Three of the four organizations in the financial component (except the OCAG) were



5
parastatals reporting to the Ministry of Finance. As such, they had a good deal more
operational autonomy in terms of procurement and compensation policies. They were also
relatively small and manageable in size. All the organizations on the legal side were within
the public sector in 1992 and only one- the Registrar of Companies became an executive
agency within the Tanzanian public service during the course of the FILMIJP. Two of the
legal organizations- the Attorney General's Office (AGO) and the Judiciary- were large
complex systems with a national reach. Coordination amongst the implementing
organizations on the legal side was to be much more complex and less coherent, than on the
financial side.
c) The design of the FILMUP was relatively simple, an approach that served the project well
over much of the course of implementation. It involved the supply of a variety of inputs
ranging from office equipment to consulting services. The supply of most of the inputs in
both components- with the exception of training on computers- was non-sequential
meaning that work in the NBAA or the IAA on the financial side or in different parts of the
AGO could proceed independently without affecting the overall pace of activities or progress
in other units. The FILMUP was not designed as a complex program that had to follow a
predetermnined and integrated plan of action.
d) Virtually all the implementing organizations in both components had minimal experience in
working with international funding organizations. Tanzanian staff knew little about
international procurement, contracting, the management of consultants or request for
proposal writing. Similarly, the Bank had little experience in working on rejorm programs in
accounting, auditing and especially the legal sector.
e) Each of the two major components- the financial and the legal- had two (Listinct parts. An
immediate package of assistance was to be used to build the physical and institutional
infrastructure of the implementing organizations. On the legal side, these infrastructure
needs were particularly pressing. But the FILMUP was also intended to help senior
Tanzanian officials think through and learn about the key strategic issues facing their
respective sectors. In both sectors, this process of leaming and strategy formulation followed
rather than preceded the infrastructure assistance. On the FILMUP, the interrelationships
between implementation and strategy formulation were more complex than the conventional
'plan then implement' approach. The project was not intended to be a systematic effort in
the implementation of comprehensive reforms. Its role was more one of agenda-setting,
direction 'finding' and facilitation.
It may be useful at this stage in the ICR to make a judgment on the quality at entry issue.
As mentioned earlier, neither the Government nor the Bank had much experience in designing
projects to do with accounting, auditing or legal affairs. As a consequence, few participants on
either the Bank or the Borrower sides were aware of the logistical implications of working in
specific activities such as legal revisions. It is not therefore surprising that the quality at entry of
the initial FILMUP design proved in hindsight to have been uneven. On the plus side, the
strategic decision to invest in the financial and legal sectors in 1992 proved to be a far-sighted
one by the end of the 1990s. The value of the FILMUP contributions became irtore relevant and
accepted as time proceeded. The FILMUP design also provided sufficienit flexibility and



6
decentralized authority to the implementing organizations to allow their commitment and energy
to drive project operations. The non-sequential nature of its activities served to isolate delays to
individual components, a characteristic that was critical later in the implementation process. The
simple design was also an appropriate one given the lack of absorptive capacity and the
inexperience of the participants. It proved to have sufficient relevance over time to provide a
framework for action over the decade of the 1990s.
But the FILMUP design also contained a series of gaps and omissions, some of which were
never rectified during the life of the project.
a) The SAR, not surprisingly, underestimated many of the constraints to implementation
especially those dealing with procurement and the provision of services. The Mid-Term
Review (MTR) in late 1995 was later to describe the implementation timetable as "totally
unrealistic" and a "basic defect" in the original appraisal. The SAR process also did not help
to create a common understanding of the implementation issues that were to follow. Nor did
it help to create much in the way of actual capacity to deal with implementation issues. The
result was a series of delays in the first three years 1992-1995 that led eventually to two
extensions in 1999 and 2000. A good part of the eventual success of the FILMUP stemmed
from the shared ability of both the Tanzanian participants and Bank staff to learn and adapt in
an effort to recover lost time.
b) The SAR focused on the description of inputs rather than an analysis of potential outcomes,
an approach common in the early 1990s. Few performance indicators accepted by all the
implementing organizations emerged from the original design. Some were added later but
never provided a shared way for both the implementing organizations and the Bank to assess
performance at either the organizational or project levels.
c) Finally, the SAR did not contain much systematic thinking with respect to a series of project
themes including strategies for training, computerization or organizational change. No
training needs assessment was ever done on the legal side. The implications of introducing
information technology into the legal sector organizations were never clear from the outset.
The SAR design paid no attention to gender. And it lacked a long-term view of either the
development of the two sectors or the proposed Bank involvement.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Two factors affect the assessment of the development objectives of the FILMUP. First,
the project achievements varied mainly according to the quite different conditions in the
financial and legal sectors. Absorptive capacity was much greater in the financial sector
especially in those organizations located in Dar es Salaam and faster progress was to be
expected. The potential impact of the FILMUP's work, however, appears to have been as great
on the legal side as on the financial. Second, both components had the potential to make equally
useful, short-run contributions and important longer-run development impacts. The former are
already apparent on the ground in Tanzania. The latter are not yet measurable but should begin



7
to show themselves over the course of the next three to five years. Reasonable chances for
sustainability make this prospect more likely.
Two indicators of development outcomes appear from time to time in the FILMUP
documentation. Much was made in the original SAR in 1992 of the issue of stuclent pass rates on
the NBAA examinations as an indicator of FILMUP's effectiveness. Pass rates, in fact, did
increase in the period 1992-2000 with success rates of Certified Public Accountants (CPA)
students at professional levels III and IV rising from less than 20% in both categories in 1992 to
26% and 28% respectively in 1999. These increases in pass rates are generally felt to be rough
indicators of steady, if modest, progress and are generally in line with the slow improvement in
most educational organizations that undertake reform prograrns, including some more arnbitious
than those of the FILMUP. But it is also true that the pass rate issue conceals as much as it
informs in the Tanzanian case and by itself, should be taken as only one limited indicator of
development effectiveness.
A second indicator that emerges from the studies on the accounting profession carried out
during the extension period is the total number of Tanzanian graduates with certified skills in
accounting and auditing. At the start of the work in 1992, Tanzania had a ratio of accountants to
GDP which was 15% below the regional East African average and 60% below that of Kenya.
The FILMUP does not appear to have dramatically shrunk this gap given the rmodest progress to
date on graduation levels and the expanding needs of the Tanzanian economy since the mid-
1 990s. Tanzania remains short at least of 2000 fully-qualified and 5600 semi-qualified
accountants as well as over 15,000 accounting technicians both in the private and particularly the
public sector. The demand in the private sector is now about 160 per annum against the current
supply of 70. Shortages in the public sector remain dramatic with only 15 CPAs at present on
staff at the national level. Throughout the period 1992-2000, Tanzania also has to contend with a
high rate of out migration of accounting and auditing skills. In the short term therefore, the
FILMUP prevented the skills gap from widening even further as Tanzania began to outpace other
countries in East Africa after the mid-1990s. In the longer term, it is anticipated that the growth
in capacity of the implementing organizations will have laid the foundation for a diminution in
the gap between demand and supply of accounting and auditing skills.
The FILMUP design did not address gender issues in 1992 and the project did not
generate desegregated information in its reports. But some analysis carried out during the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) mission indicates that women did get reasonable
access to training opportunities provided under the FILMUP. On the legal side, women received
almost 52% of all short-term individual training awards, 56% of all short-term group training
awards and 46% of the individual long-term awards. No detailed figures were available on the
financial side but estimates of both student intakes and opportunities for training awards appear
to be in the neighborhood of 25-30%. The OCAG also began to carry out gencder-based audits of
government operations.
Financial
In the longer term, the legacy of the FILMUP should help to induce a series of useful
development contributions. First, it did help to strengthen the organizational infrastructure



8
underlying the accounting and auditing industry in Tanzania. The country now has at least five
organizations working in the sector including the NBAA, IFM, IAA, the Institute for
Development Management at Mzumbe and the Business School at the University of Dar Es
Salaam. This growing educational system should be able to work towards producing the
graduates who can meet the more sophisticated demands of the market economy now emerging
in Tanzania including those of international investors. These include activities such as value-
added tax administration, the accounting needs of capital markets and international audit
standards for resident firms. In addition, a number of private educational organizations are now
coming on stream that can help to meet the demand.
Second, the presence, influence and reach of such organizations will be critical in the
continuing effort to strengthen the transparency of financial transactions in Tanzania.
Institutional development in the form of general rules of the game such as honesty and ethical
dealings plus the dissemination and enforcement of acceptable accounting and auditing standards
can help to devise and require appropriate standards of behavior. The FILMUP was part of a
broader effort by the Government to instill more financial discipline and enforceability including
having all parastatals bring their accounts up to date by 1993 and by insisting on the certification
of audits in most private firms.
Legal
Only a provisional judgment can be made on the development outcomes on the legal side.
The size of the credit ($6.40 million) was minuscule when compared to the needs in the sector.
But the Government of Tanzania's contribution to the ICR does make a considered case for
genuine development outcomes coming out of the FILMUP. Most senior Tanzanian officials
interviewed for this ICR pointed in particular to the value of the policy work. The six year
process both clarified a series of issues to do with legal reform and greatly increased the capacity
of both individuals and organizations to think through strategies to promote further legal reform
and enhanced accountability. Some initial projects coming out of the Medium Term Strategy
have now been taken up such as the Danish assistance to the establishment of the Commercial
Court Division. Other international funding agencies are presently considering ways to make a
'quick start' on implementing the Medium Term Strategy.
No systematic evaluation has been carried out of the impact of the over 1100 training
awards made under the legal component of the FILMUP. And it would be unrealistic to assume
dramatic increases in personal and organizational performance given the pervasive constraints
that Tanzanian officials still face in their daily working lives. The Borrower's contribution to the
ICR also points to the future difficulties in sustaining the personal gains in professional skills
made to date. But all the Tanzanian officials interviewed for this ICR attested to the value of the
training in terms of building skills, broadening outlooks and creating motivation in organizations
that had begun to lose hope of getting access to any professional training opportunities. Few
Tanzanian staff had been given much international exposure and even fewer had had training
opportunities in more specialized topics such as intellectual property law or in more operational
topics such as legislative drafting.



9
The provision of the office equipment likely led to modest irnprovements in
organizational performance, a trend that is normal in circumstances such as thDse in Tanzania.
The FILMUP resources were simply too small and widely distributed to have a dramatic impact.
The FILMUP resources on the legal side were much less targeted in support of a systematic
strategy of organizational development compared to the financial. The four- implementing
organizations on the legal side also had less absorptive capacity especially with respect to
information technology and library resources than did their counterparts on the financial. But
these modest gains should not obscure the underlying significance of the supply of equipment.
For the first time in modem Tanzanian history, the Government began to invest in the physical
and logistical infrastructure of its legal system, a trend that now seems likely to continue.
In summary, the main development outcome on the legal side was the: emergence of a
broad consensus, both inside and outside the legal profession, of the developmental value of an
effective and equitable legal system. The FILMUP acted as both a platform and catalyst for this
change. It helped to shift issues to do with the law and the judiciary on to the main development
agenda of both the Goverrnment and other international funding agencies for the first time. And it
provided an injection of resources in the form of training, equipment and books into six
organizations that had long been severely underfunded.
4.2 Outputs by components.
Implementation Experience
The pace of implementation on the FILMUP was uneven over the first three years. The
date of effectiveness was postponed by three months to October 1, 1992. Progress was slow
from that point to late 1995 with considerable delays in equipment procurement, contracting with
consultants, the design and construction of the civil works and account. replenishments.
Disagreements amongst the Ministry of Justice and Constitutional Affairs (MJCA), the Central
Tender Board (CTB) and the Government Printer halted procurement on the legal side in late
1995. The MTR noted in October 1995 that only $11,047 of the budgeted amount of $580,000
for legal office equipment had been spent. Only $7,741 out of $1,800,000 had spent on the
production of the law revisions. International price fluctuations, changes irn needs and gaps
between initial budget projections in the SAR and tender offers led to a series of budget revisions
and shifts in procurements. The price estimates in the SAR on the civil works and training
proved too low. Prices on computers were overestimated. GOT shortfalls ir. the provision of
counterpart funds delayed progress on items such as the NBAA staff houses. In the end, these
were never built. Some activities, however, such as the training programs and the procurement
of vehicles proceeded more or less on schedule.
In 1996, a new Coordinator on the financial side and a growing faniiliarity with the
various procurement procedures enabled the FILMUP implementing organizations to accelerate
progress. The pace of equipment supply accelerated. The NBAA building complex was
completed, albeit three years behind schedule in late 1997. Much of the previous work on
strategy development began to show itself. Additional training awards were made with
unallocated funds. During the latter years of the project, the Borrower and the Bank also agreed
to carry out a series of studies on accounting and auditing that had not been part of the original



10
SAR but that would help take stock of the status of the accounting and auditing profession and
would also give indications on the way forward for the profession. It was agreed to extend the
closing date of the FILMUP DCA from December 31, 1998 to December 31, 1999 for two
reasons: to complete key activities that had not been implemented in the previous six years, and
to undertake the above-mentioned studies. A second extension was later negotiated to extend the
project to June 30, 2000. By the end of the second extension, the FILMUP had largely made up
the implementation gaps that had arisen early in the work.
Financial Component
Most of the FILMUP inputs on the financial side were focused on improving the human
and logistical capacities of the four implementing organizations. This objective was to be
achieved by carrying out the following activities: (i) Enhancing staff teaching, research,
management and consulting skills; (ii) Upgrading the administrative and training buildings;
(iii) Improving library facilities; and (iv) Acquiring modem office and training equipment to
improve service delivery.
The lead agency was the NBAA based in Dar es Salaam. The Executive Director of the
NBAA filled the role of the Chairman of the Inter Institutional Steering Committee (IISC) which
coordinated the work on the financial component during the eight years of the project. Under the
FILMUP, NBAA received financial support for the construction of a new office complex in
central Dar es Salaam including a standby generator, water borehole, cooling system, library,
function hall and cafeteria. The FILMUP also provided the NBAA with a broad array of training
opportunities (16 long-term and 47 short-term), technical assistance for activities such as the
study manuals and office equipment including computers, vehicles (7) and books (1211
volumes).
The FILMUP supplied the other organization located in Dar es Salaam--the IFM--with
civil works including a new elevator, cooling system, generator, water supply system and
cafeteria, training awards (30 long-term and 43 short-term), books (2145 volumes) and journals,
technical assistance to fill in behind IFM staff on long-term training, vehicles and office
equipment including computers and furniture. At the IAA located on the outskirts of Arusha, the
FILMUP funded extensive civil works including an extension of the administrative block, a new
cafeteria, a transformer and borehole, all of which were completed in November 1997. In
addition other repair work was undertaken during the project extension. IAA also benefited from
an in-depth study to help it overcome some of its institutional shortcomings. Even though the
quality of the study was only average, its recommendations were not fully implemented. The
FILMUP also provided, training (30 long-term and 43 short-term), 2 technical assistance
personnel to replace IAA staff on full-time training leave, books and journals (3540 volumes)
and computers.
The portion of the FILMUP used by the OCAG went towards staff training (58 long-term
and 54 short-term out of a total staff of 420), computers, 9 vehicles and office equipment. The
FILMUP also sponsored senior staff of the OCAG to attend a study tour to review the practices
of the Auditor General of South Africa.



11
Finally, the FILMUP supported a series of studies, analyses and workshops on
accounting, auditing and organizational development. The FILMUP supported a study in March
1995 on the role of the Tanzanian Audit Corporation. It also funded a study on cost recovery in
the four implementing organizations in late 1995 that proved influential in shaping their
strategies for growth and sustainability. Beginning in 1998, using unallocated funds, the
Borrower and the Bank decided to carry out seven studies on subjects ranging from The Issuing
and Enforcing of Accounting and Auditing Standards by a private consulting firm to a Review of
the Effectiveness of OCAG in Fighting/Preventing Fraud and Promoting Inde endence by the
Swedish National Audit Office. The FILMUP also sponsored a workshop in February 2000
which brought together a wide range of stakeholders and participants to discuss the results of the
studies and to chart the way forward for the accounting and auditing sector.
Legal Component
The general FILMUP approach to the supply of inputs on the legal side was roughly
comparable to that on the financial but differed somewhat in terms of a smaller ilow of financial
resources, the absence of civil works, the greater importance of policy formulation and the
greater operational constraints of the public service context. The supply on inrults on the legal
side was designed to meet two objectives: first, to inject some badly needed resources into some
key organizations such as the Judiciary and the AGO in the form of training., equipment and
books that had long limited their effectiveness. Second, the Government, from the outset, wanted
to use the FILMUP resources to undertake a systematic policy review of the key strategic issues
facing the sector over the medium and long-term.
The overall supervision and coordination on the legal side were carried out by the Legal
Sector Component Committee (LSCC), a group that met much less frequently than did the IISC
on the financial side. The FILMUP supplied many of the same type of inputs including 3
vehicles, equipment (4 faxes, 360 manual and 50 electronic typewriters, 50 personal computers
and related accessories). The FILMUP also supplied books and journals to most of the
implementing organizations including the High Court, AGO and the Law Reform Commission,
all of which lacked adequate law library systems. Registration forms and certificates were
printed and supplied to the Office of the Administrator General. The training supplied under the
FILMUP consisted of a variety of both local and foreign training, individual and group and short
and long term. Course content included subjects as diverse as judicial administration, white
collar crime, prevention of fraud and corruption, legislative drafting, capital nmarkets and word
processing. Over 1100 Tanzanian officials received training including 60 D primary court
magistrates.
Three of the most important FILMUP inputs centered around the law revisions from
1965, the updating of the Case Law Reports from 1983 and the review of commercial and related
laws. The original schedule for the law revisions called for their completion in July 1993. The
current completion date for the work ( 28 volumes, 407 chapters and 28,000 pages) is July 2001
being supported by SIDA. Lack of staff time and skills, irregular donor financing, disagreements
over staff emoluments and the terms of reference of external consultants all served to delay the
work. The production and updating of the Tanzania Law Reports 1983-1992 for the High Court
and the Court of Appeal encountered some of the same constraints which delayed their



12
publication for four years until May 1998 at which time they became available in both book and
CD-ROM formnats. The Govermment has plans to produce CD-ROMs to bring publication up to
1997. A continuous updating from 1998 will be undertaken by the Tanzanian Law Reports
Board.
During the discussions in Tanzania for this ICR, senior staff in the AGO cited the
FILMUP support of the strategy formulation process as the most important input of the project
despite it using only 1% of the total FILMUP credit. The Legal Sector Reform Task Force
(LSRTF), a group of Tanzanian legal experts began its work in July 1993, supported by a series
of eleven donor-funded studies on particular issues including Legal Aid and Dissemination of
Legal Information, Legal Education in Tanzania and the Administration of Justice and others.
The Report of the LSRTF was issued in January 1996 and was followed by extensive official and
cabinet deliberations, and approval of its main recommendations, a donor conference in October
1997 on a program arising out of the report, further work on the strategy and the recrafting of
another more strategic document entitled the Legal sector Reform Program, Medium Term
Strategy and Action Plan, 2000-2005 worth $44.0 million which was presented to and well
received at a second donor conference in December 1999.
Most of the inputs to the legal sector originally scheduled under the FILMUP were
eventually provided with a couple of exceptions. The original design had contained plans to
introduce modem management information systems into some legal sector organizations such as
the Office of the Administrator General's and the Registrar of Companies. But the complexities
involved in such technological innovation turned out to be severely underestimated. Modest
efforts to introduce computers and microfiche in support of improved records management were
soon abandoned in the face of mounting costs, lack of space and trained staff and the prospect of
a long period of implementation which the FILMUP could not accommodate.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return.
not applicable
4.4 Financial rate of return:
not applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Financial
In the short term, the most obvious development objective achieved was the
demonstrable strengthening of all of the four implementing organizations. To achieve this goal,
three of the four organizations, namely NBAA, IFM and IAA underwent some retrenchment and
restructuring in the mid to late 1990s as part of their own efforts to adjust to new stakeholder
demands and market conditions. NBAA reduced its total staff from 83 in the mid-I 990s to 42 by
June 2000. During that same period, GOT reduced subsidies and training awards. This had a
serious effect on both IFM and IAA. Their intake fluctuated but IFM's intake overall increased
during the project period. The IFM became a more diversified and capable educational
organization under the FILMUP. Student intake rose from 455 in 1992/93 to 805 in 1998/99. Its
overall student pass rate rose to about 75% in 1999 from 68% in 1994. The level of its subsidy



13
fell from about 40% to 30% by the end of the project. As for IAA, it faced a. more difficult
situation. It did not meet its projected intake of 300 by 1995 or even by late 1998. This lead to a
decision to defer FILMUP-supported construction of some of the projected civil works. In
addition, it became evident that IAA would be unable to provide the required local funding for
construction and the downstream maintenance costs associated with the civil works. All three
organizations adapted, albeit at different speeds, by offering new services, focusing on core
functions and outsourcing certain aspects of their operations such as cafeteria services.
The NBAA and the IFM made the most rapid progress. Both became much more capable
organizations with improved capacities and performance in strategic management,
computerization, outreach, staff teaching and research skills and policy dialogue. The Tanzanian
contribution to the ICR analyzes these gains in organizational performance in somrue detail, all of
which were visible on the ground in Dar es Salaam. The NBAA, for example, reduced its
dependence on government budgetary support from 52% in 1991 to 21% in 1999. Its objective
now is to be self-financing by 2005.
The IAA faced a more difficult set of operating conditions compared to those of NBAA
and the IFM, both of which were located in Dar es Salaam. It should not therefore be surprising
that it achieved fewer of its original objectives compared to the other two parastatals. Founded
as a project of the NBAA in 1987, the IAA was a much younger, less experienced organization
when the FILMUP began in 1992. Its location on the outskirts of Arusha- a high-cost area
compared to Dar es Salaam- seemed to complicate the recruitment and retention of both staff
and students. The non-competitive emoluments offered by IAA made it difficult to retain high
quality staff, which in return affected the quality of training provided and the ability to attract
new students. It remains unclear whether IAA has positioned itself to attract new students and
increase its intake to the point of sustainability. Twenty five per cent of the IAA staff that
received long-term training under FILMUP left IAA by 1999, mainly for higher salaries in the
private sector. The IAA also had to contend with interruptions in the flow of FILMUP funds
from Dar es Salaam for its civil works component and comparatively higher costs of its
participation in the FILMUP. The focus of its mandate - training at the CPA level - also made it
more vulnerable to government cutbacks in training awards in the period 1995-1997 and less
able to diversify its course offerings rapidly. Nevertheless, the IAA did manage to make some
progress under the FILMUP. The new physical plant in the form of buildings, office equipment,
generators and boreholes allowed the IAA to function for the first time as a modem teaching
organization. The IAA indicated that it lowered its dependence on governmenrt funding from
about 100% in 1992 to 67% in the mid 1990s to 40% in 1999. The pace of institutional growth at
the IAA did not meet the original projections of the SAR but it still represented reasonable
progress given the constraints to implementation the IAA encountered.
The direct developmental impact of the FILMUP on the OCAG is more difficult to assess
compared to the other three organizations. The OCAG received proportionately less support
through the FILMUP compared to NBAA, IFM and the IAA. And it also received support from a
number of other donors including the Department for International Development (DFID) and the
Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA), both of whom made substantial
contributions to its capacity. But it seems reasonable to conclude that the FILMIJP contributed to
OCAG's capacities in terms of staff skills, outreach at the regional and district levels and perhaps



14
most important, assistance to the OCAG to increase its performance in information technology.
60% of its transactions and accounting records are now processed on computers. Annual audit
reports are now current. Time taken to complete the annual audit has declined from 24 months
to less than 15 months. A more detailed evaluation would have to be undertaken to assess the
broader impact on public financial accountability.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency.
The FILMUP responded to, and was shaped by, a series of dramatic economic and
political policy changes in Tanzania over the period 1992-2000. In 1992, the country had still not
resolved a series of key public policy questions centering on the role of the state in economic
development and the pace and nature of democratization. The use of information technology was
virtually nonexistent in most public agencies. The country still restricted private investment both
domestic and foreign. By the mid-1990s, most of these debates had been concluded in favor of a
greater emphasis on market forces. The new government elected in 1995 began to privatize
rapidly. By 1999, over 400 public enterprises had been privatized including seven large
parastatals. Annual private sector investment rose from US$ 20.0 million in 1995 to US$ 170.0
million in 1998. The Dar Es Salaam Stock Exchange opened in April 1998. A value-added tax
was introduced in July 1998. The use of information technology expanded rapidly particularly in
Dar es Salaam changing many of the work processes on the FILMUP. By the end of the decade,
the efforts of the Government were focused on building the institutional infrastructure to support
an open market economy, an objective that FILMUP had been pursuing since 1992. The
domestic accounting and auditing professions came under pressure to adopt regional and
international standards. In many respects, the FILMUP was a timely supply response to the
emerging demands of globalization.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control.
The particular state of the legal sector in Tanzania in the 1990s needs to be understood in
order to make judgments about the pace and quality of the FILMUP implementation. As is now
widely accepted within Government, this sector faced a pervasive crisis of to do with poor
incentives, information and institutions. It had, for example, been grossly underfunded over
virtually its entire history. Its approved and actual expenditures in 1997/98 and 1998/99, almost
all on the recurrent side for personal emoluments, made up less than 1.5% of total Government
outlays. Sector organizations such as the Judiciary and the Law Reform Commission lacked
vehicles, suitable buildings, office supplies such as stationary and desks, library materials and
modern systems of record keeping. The justice system, particularly in the rural areas, suffered
from poor access, delays, corruption, lack of transparency and legitimacy. Staff lacked even
basic skills let alone those in more advanced subjects such as international commercial law,
white collar crime and capital markets. Organizations involved in law enforcement such as the
police and prisons knew little about the law. Staff recruitment had been halted in 1996/97 due to
financial constraints and had been lifted for replacement purposes only. As a result, the legal
system experienced pervasive staff shortages such as the gap of about 700 magistrates at the
primary court level. Salary levels were set at derisory levels with for example, High Court



15
judges earning less than 25% of their counterparts in Uganda. Lawyers at the Law Reform
Commission received less than half the salary of messengers at the Tanzanian Revenue
Authority. Other than personal integrity and a dedication to the rule of law, both the
organizations and the individual staff had few incentives for performance. In 1999, Government
accepted the need to begin investing in the legal system and made it a priorit y under the Medium
Term Expenditure Framework.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
see above
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
not applicable
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating.
Judgments about the sustainability of the FILMUP contributions valy both according to
the particular sector and according to the short and the long term. On the legal side, most of the
key organizations are likely to be sustainable given their unique function and mandate within the
Tanzanian public sector. The challenge for the FILMUP was to help make these organizations
relevant, effective and productive as well as sustainable. In the short andl medium term, the
Government will need continued external assistance to achieve this more complex set of
objectives. By itself, it will not be able to sustain the supply of training and equipment that has
been forthcoming under FILMUP, an issue that is discussed in the Borrower's contribution to the
ICR.  Further outside support for these activities will likely be discussed between the
Government and interested donors in the context of the next steps on the Medium Term Strategy
and Action Plan 2000-2005.
In the longer term, continuing reform in the legal sector and retairnig the performance
gains made under the FILMUP will depend upon domestic pressure for charLge within Tanzania,
the implementation of Government's public service reform program and the capacity of the
financial management organizations to generate enough income to become self-reliant. The
prospects for such pressure and internal support look promising. Background analysis prepared
in support of the first phase of the new programmatic structural adjustment credit for Tanzania
has identified the existence of a solid domestic constituency, including many in the private
sector, arguing for continued legal reform including the further entrenchmeint of property rights,
the enactment of bankruptcy laws, the enforcement of the new companies ordinance, the
effective operation of the new Commercial Court and many others. A consensus has now
emerged in Tanzania on the importance of creating a legal and regulatory framework that can
underpin both the rights of individual citizens as well as the economic activities of local and
foreign investors. This trend, along with the prospects for continued international involvement
in the legal sector, should help sustain the gains made to date under the FILMUP.



16
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Sustainability in the legal sector will also depend on the impact of other initiatives of the
Government and number of international funding agencies including the Bank. The Government
has agreed to designate the legal sector as a priority sector under the Medium Term (2000/2001-
2002/2003) Expenditure Framework and to pursue broader legal sector reforms that include an
examination of the terms and conditions of employment for the sector. The Public Sector Reform
Program will help the Government to address the broader issue of salary and emoluments
including those on the legal sector. The legal sector will also benefit from the work of the
National Anti-corruption Strategy and Action Plan including diagnostic surveys in the Judiciary
and the AGO. The Government is also making efforts to enter into a dialogue with civil society
on a number of legal issues.
Prospects for sustainability on the financial side need to be assessed differently. All three
of the parastatals- the NBAA, the IFM and the IAA- moved at different speeds towards
greater cost recovery under the FILMUP. All three have plans to offer a variety of services to
members, students and clients in the Tanzanian and East African market places. Given the
growing demands for skills in accountancy, auditing and information technology, all three have a
reasonable chance to sustain themselves in the years ahead. However, it is anticipated that this
will be more difficult to achieve for IAA that has been lagging in terms of reducing its
dependence on Government financing and becoming more attractive to the market. The
operation of the OCAG will also need to be looked at more carefully. It continues to be a subject
of discussion between the Government and the donors, particularly as Government strives to
bring more accountability to its operations.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
The Bank decision to invest in both the financial and legal components was a prescient
one that generated development benefits in the short term and has the potential to lead to a
stream of useful outcomes over both the medium and longer term. Project preparation and
quality of entry were uneven as discussed in par. 3.5 above. The misjudgments on the
implementation issues were to be expected in a series of activities where both the Government of
Tanzania and the Bank had little operational experience. The overall rating is thus set at
satisfactory.
7.2 Supervision:
The level of Bank supervision is rated as fully satisfactory. Part of the reason lay in
minimal Bank staff turnover on the FILMUP. The Principal Legal Counsel remained in place
over the entire life of the project. The core project team remained in place from 1995 until the
completion of the project in June 2000. A total of 15 supervision missions were undertaken,
most of which left behind useful aide-memoires and schedules of follow-up activities. Most
important, virtually all the Tanzanian officials interviewed for this ICR commended Bank staff



17
on their willingness to listen, learn, collaborate and provide a balanced mix of support, trust and
pressure for performance. Tanzanian officials also noted the willingness of Bank staff to provide
the flexibility needed for a project that required constant adjustments over much of its eight-year
life as it endeavored to regain lost time. This flexibility took the form of bNdget reallocations,
project extensions and equipment changes. In many ways, the Tanzanian participants and Bank
staff succeeded in combining their respective roles into a coherent approach to project
management- the Tanzanian officials taking the lead role in policy formulation, technical
analysis and implementation and Bank staff providing facilitation, technical support and external
monitoring and supervision. The effectiveness of this partnership explains much of the ability of
the FILMUP to recover from its initial delays and go on to make substantial progress.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Overall Bank performance is rated as satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The effectiveness of borrower preparation varied by sector. Officials on the financial
side were able to draw on a background of policy analysis in Tanzania calTied out in the late
1980s and early 1990s. Choices concerning the overall strategic direction and the needs of the
implementing organizations built on this legacy. On the legal side, officials were at an earlier
stage of diagnosing issues and devising operational strategies for reform. Preparation and design
on the legal side were therefore much more experimental and improvised. The overall rating has
been judged as satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Project coordination especially from late 1995 onwards, was fully satisfactory. On the
financial side, the IISC met over 40 times during the course of the FILMUP and provided
consistent leadership to the work. The daily coordination on the financial side was inadequate
during the period 1992 to late 1995 but improved noticeably from 1996 until project completion
after the Bank's MTR mission identified problems with the coordination arrangements. The
focal points in the NBAA, IFM, IAA and the OCAG remained stable, effective and committed
over the life of the project.
Performance on the legal side varied greatly as might be expecte(d given the limited
absorptive capabilities of the implementing organizations, the lower level of inter-institutional
connections and the lack of experience in dealing with international funding requirements. The
LSCC met much less frequently than did the IISC as the analysis in the Government contribution
to the ICR makes clear and provided less direction and overall supervision. 'I'he focal points for
the implementing organizations were also less involved and effective than wiere their financial
counterparts. The Coordination Office on the legal side, however, performed well over the entire
course of the project and in many cases ended up carrying out functions that normally should



18
have been the responsibility of the LSCC, the implementing organizations or even other donors
participating in the FILMUP. At one stage, the Project Coordination Office was contending with
seven or eight different procurement and contracting systems. Tanzanian commitment and
ownership were evident on the legal side but the greater organizational complexities and
constraints of adhering to government procurement and contracting regulations made it more
difficult to translate these qualities into daily operational performance. Reporting on the
FILMUP activities has generally been efficient and timely. The submission of audit statements
improved considerably over the years and can be rated as satisfactory overall with the final
accounts having been submitted in October 2000.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
see above
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Judgments on borrower performance vary given the complex roles and capacities of the
eight implementing organizations plus those of other occasional Tanzanian participants such as
the Central Tender Board. On balance, borrower performance was satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Tanzanian commitment and focus, generated independently of the Bank, were the key
factors in achieving the outcomes of the FILMUP.
* The need for borrower ownership and commitment to ensure program effectiveness is now
conventional wisdom in the international development community. But how does such
ownership come about and why? Under what circumstances? And how can it be sustained
over the life of a long program? Multi-organizational programs such as FILMUP can have
difficulty in getting and keeping ownership and commitment in a way that makes an
operational difference. FILMUP did achieve this objective and it is useful to understand the
reasons behind this achievement.
* The FILMUP was a Tanzanian initiative from the outset and was driven by national
"champions"- a new generation of professionals in Dar es Salaam including accountants,
auditors and lawyers- who had both strong personal and organizational incentives to see it
work. Most of this new generation were committed to organizational performance rather
than political ideology as the key to development progress.
*  Ownership was, in the FILMUP's case, also a function of continuity. The groups and
officials mentioned above provided the energy and direction during the appraisal stage and
then continued their involvement over most of the implementation phase of eight years. No
handover between design and implementation groups broke the continuity of Tanzanian
involvement and ownership.



19
Finally, both the Government and the Bank agreed to a delegation of authority that created
an operating space for the Tanzanian implementing organizations to take action. The Bank
also reinforced the value of this operating space by having a less intrusive policy agenda than
normal and being content to play a more facilitative role.
Supply-driven organizational development can work under certain circumstances.
* The supply-driven approach to organizational development on the FILMUP was a
conventional one whose results have often been disappointing on Bank projects in the past.
Its characteristics usually include an emphasis on the supply of equipment:, training and civil
works, a vague strategy of organizational change and few demand pressures from customers
or citizens. And yet the FILMUP, using this approach, made a significant contribution
toward strengthening a number of the implementing organizations especially on the financial
side. Why did this approach work in this case when it has failed so often before?
* The answer appears to come out of the context of Tanzanian commitment described above.
Too many supply-driven approaches are expected, by themselves, to create and induce a
dynamic for organizational change. In the FILMUP's case, many of the participating
organizations by the early 1 990s had already begun to generate their own internal
momentum. They were responding to, and contributing to, a drive for modernization that
had Tanzanian roots. This dynamic which was independent of the work of the FILMUP,
provided the energized process into which the FILMUP resources could. be fitted. In this
scenario, injections of resources such as buildings, computers, short-term training courses
and vehicles accelerated but did not create or control the process of organization change.
Simply put, supply-driven approaches to organizational and institutional development can
work when they are a key missing link. But they cannot supply the energy, direction and
incentives that the overall process of change requires.
Implementation and strategy formulation have a complex set of interrelationships that go
far beyond the sequential 'plan then implement' approach on many programs and
projects.
* The progress of FILMUP provides useful insights into the process of pro ject planning under
conditions of uncertainty and unfamiliarity combined with urgent needs in. a new sector. The
experience in the legal sector is particularly relevant. During the discussions around the SAR
in 1992, the Government and the Bank considered the conventional relationship of strategic
formulation and implementation--that is, an initial exercise in up-front analysis and policy
work followed by a longer period of program implementation. The FILMUP, mainly at the
urging of the Government, reversed this approach. Implementing organizations were given
quick access to resources in the form of training and equipment in an effort to help them
function and to encourage their collaboration. This 'piece-meal' to project implementation
came first. Sorting out the bigger strategic issues at an appropriate pace and style for the
country was seen as a much longer-term effort at organizational and even societal leaming
that needed to be carried out and owned by Tanzanian participants. Analysis had to be
combined with consensus building, complex learning and legitimization. Including the work
of the Legal Sector Reform Task Force (1 993 -1995), senior official and Cabinet deliberations



20
(1995 and 1996) and the reformulations of the initial strategy (1997-1999) in the form of a
new Medium Term Strategy and Action Plan 2000-2005, the process took about six years
and is still ongoing. Senior Tanzanian officials consider the investment in time and learning
to have been worth while in terms of building support for legal reform over the longer term.
On the finance side, the policy studies in the late 1990s focused on issues that had arisen
from or been unresolved by the previous six years of implementation and were useful to
formulate a cohesive strategy for the further development of the accounting and auditing
profession.
More deliberate efforts must be made at the appraisal stage to build project
implementation capacity.
* The pace of implementation of FILMUP proceeded slowly during the first three of its
scheduled five-year life. At certain times during 1992-1995, work ground to a halt
particularly on procurement. The Government and the Bank need to find ways to cut dow~'n
on such delays in the first two or three years of programs. Separate implementation units are
no longer an option. The FILMUP experience thus points to the need for both the
Governnent and the Bank to spend much more deliberate effort before, during and
immediately after appraisal, building the implementation capacity of the structures both
within and between the implementing organizations. In the FILMUP's case, the project
coordinators did attend a course on procurement at the East and Southern Africa
Management Institute (ESAMI) in Arusha. A project launch workshop was held in late
1992. Both of these preparatory activities were necessary but not close to being sufficient.
The level of effort to be required from the coordination offices was also grossly
underestimated at appraisal. Most of the implementing organizations did not have a clear
sense of the amount of work involved or their own role in carrying it out. Some of the
implementing organizations, particularly on the legal side, were only marginally involved
during appraisal. The respective roles of the organizational focal points, the various boards
of directors and the project coordinators were not widely understood. Project coordinators
needed more training on subjects such as proposal writing, project procurement management
and consultant management. They needed more familiarity with the unique constraints of
procuring and contracting suppliers for civil works and computers. And they needed more
capacity to deal with the varied procedures of as many as eight funding organizations, most
of whom expected the project coordinators to manage contractors and suppliers on their
behalf. The need for more systematic effort would appear to apply particularly to
inexperienced organizations in new sectors trying to deal with administratively-intensive
activities such the procurement of goods and services. The presence of greater Bank support
for procurement and financial management out of the decentralized Country Office should
also help improve the pace of implementation.



21
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
*  The GOT has provided two comprehensive reports on both the financial and legal
components of the FILMUP. The full report is in the files and Annex 8 provides a summary
of the report. Main comments are as follows:
* The detailed procedures of the World Bank were new to all the implementing organizations
and the two coordination offices. This lack of experience was the major reason for the delays
and slow implementation of the FILMUP in the first two years. After 1995, the procedures
and regulations of the World Bank became more familiar leading to accelerating
implementation. Better preparation, especially on the procurement side, would have been
useful.
* Flexibility, both on the part of the Borrower and the Bank, was crucial for effective project
implementation. For example, activities budgeted for in a particular year were allowed to be
carried forward to the next year.
* Constructive supervision by the Bank helped the GOT to coordinate the funding from other
donors, focus attention on key issues and support those officials within the GOT pushing for
faster action and implementation. Effective supervision can be a part of an effective
Borrower-Bank partnership.
-  Some sort of quality control mechanism should be established on the supply of funds and
consultancy services that are provided by a wide range of different funding organizations.
From time to time, the FILMUP had to coordinate the inputs of up to eight different donors.
- To be effective, the implementation of a training program should be preceded by some sort of
needs assessment. Attention also needs to be paid to the incentive system, especially salaries,
that governs eventual job performance and staff retention.
(b) Cofinanciers:
no comments
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
no comments
10. Additional Information
none



22
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome/Impact Indicators
Office of the Controller & Auditor General:  60% of the transactions and accounting
increased number of audit reports processed;  records of the OCAG are now processed on
quality audits for individual ministries.  computers. Annual audit reports are now
current.
NBAA: increased number of students      Pass rates, in fact, did increase in the period
passing; introduction of quality reviews;  1992-2000 with success rates of CPA
accounting and auditing standards and  students at professional levels III and IV
guidelines issued; study manuals published;  rising from less than 20% in both categories
financial viability and cost recovery measures in 1992 to 26% and 28% respectively in
put in place.                           1999. By the end of the project, the NBAA
has issued 21 new accounting standards and
16 new audit standards. It had also reduced
its dependence on government budgetary
support from 52% in 1991 to 21 % in 1999.
Its objective now is to be self financing by
2005.
IAA: increased number of accountants    Due mainly to declining student awards from
trained; increased pass rates in NBAA   the public sector, the IAA only managed to
examinations; financial viability and cost  maintain its production of trained accountants
recovery measures implemented.          but it did maintain its leading position in
Tanzania in the NBAA pass rates. It also
lowered its dependence on government
fanding from about 100% in 1992 to 67% in
the mid 1990s to 40% by the end of 1999.
IFM: increased number of accountants    Student intake at the IFM rose from 455 in
trained; increased pass rates (both NBAA and  1992/93 to 805 in 1998/99. Its overall student
internal examinations); financial viability and  pass rate including those at the diploma level
cost recovery measures put in place.    rose to about 75% in 1999 from 68% in 1994.
Its level of subsidy from the government fell
from about 40% in the mid 1990s to 30% by
June 2000.
Legal sector study: recommendations of the   The government has now issued its medium
study translated into an action plan and  term strategy and action plan 2000/05 for the
donors willing to support implementation.    legal sector and has discussed it with the
donor community in a workshop in December
1999. A donor group has been formed to
review quick interventions which could be
taken in support of this plan.



23
Output Indicators:
Inoaicator/Matrix                    Projtd in last SR lf   |   A 4itaLumatet EstimateF7
Not applicable                   I~
1/ End of project
The SAR did not define specific indicators of performance



24
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Category     __        NCB               Other2 Nl  ,   X: .    Total cost
1. Works              6.85                                   -          6.85
(5.95)        -            -            -         (5.95)
2. Goods              5.50         0.64        0.30          -          6.44
(5.25)      (0.58)       (0.27)         -         (6.10)
3. Services                                    7.55         0.22        7.77
(7.55)        -         (7.55)
4. Miscellaneous                               0.40         1.12        1.52
-           -          (0.40)        -         (0.40)
Total              12.35        0.64         8.25        1.34        22.58
(11.20)     (0.58)       (8.22)                  (20.00)



25
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
(not applicable)



26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Implementation   Development
Month/Year   Count            Specialty             Progress        Objective
Identification/Preparation
Nov. 1991               1      Team Leader/Financial
Analyst
1      Lawyer
1      Consultant
Appraisal/Negotiation
Mar. 1992               1      Team Leader/Financial
Analyst
1      Lawyer
1      Architect/Procurement
Specialist
1      Consultant
Supervision
Oct. 1992               1      Architech/Pro/Specialist        HS               HS
1     Lawyer
1    Financial Analyst
Feb. 1993               1      Lawyer                           HS              HS
2      Financial Analyst
Nov. 1993               1      Lawyer                           HS               S
2     Financial Analyst
Jul. 1994               1      Lawyer                           S               HS
May 1995                1      Task Manager                     S                S
1     Lawyer
Oct. 1995               1      Task Manager                     S                S
1     Lawyer
1     Economist
1    CB Specialist
Feb. 1996               1      Task Manager                     S                S
1     Lawyer
1     Economist
1     CB Specialist
Dec. 1996               1      Task Manager                     S                S
1     Lawyer
1     Financial Analyst
Jun. 1997            '  1      Task Manager                     S                S
Feb. 1998               1      Task Manager                     S                S



27
_1    Operations Officer         __I
Stage of Pr*Ject Cycle                                             Performance lating
Implemerntation   Development
Month/Year   Count            Specialty             Progress       Objective
Supervision (continued)
June 1998               1     Task Manager                     S                S
1     Lawyer
Jan. 1999               1     Task Manager                     S                S
Jun. 1999               1     Task Manager                     S                S
I     Lawyer
1     Operations Officer
Oct. 1999               1     Task Manager                     S                S
1     Financial Analyst
1     Procurement Analyst
Mar. 2000               1     Task Manager                      S               S
1     Financial Specialist
1     Procurement Analyst            _
ICR
Oct. 2000              1       Task Team Leader
1      Financial Specialist
1      Consultant
(b) Staff:
;tage of--rojec Cycle                         Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks        US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation                             27.5                  86,000
Appraisal/Negotiation                                  19.1                  56,000
Supervision                                           116.1                 498,700
ICR                                                      10                  40,000
Total                                                 127.5                 680,700



28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                                  NA
Sector policies                                 H
Physical                                        SU
Financial                                       SU
Institutional Development                       SU
Environmental                                   NA
Social
Poverty Reduction                         NA
Gender                                    M
Other (Please specify)                    NA
Private sector development                      SU
Public sector development                       SU
Other (Please specify)                          NA



29
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                               Rating
Lending                                           S
Supervision                                      HS
Overall                                           S
6.2 Borrower Performance                           Rating
Preparation                                       S
Government implementation performance            HS
Implementation agency performance                 S
Overall                                           S



30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Government of Tanzania
* Financial Component, Implementation Completion Report
* Legal Component, Implementation Completion Report
* United Republic of Tanzania, FILMUP Project, Report on the Workshop to Review Seven
Studies on Strengthening The Finance, Accounting and Auditing Functions in Tanzania,
Final report March 14, 2000
* Office of the Auditor General and Controller General, Institutional Framework for Financial
Management, undated
*  Office of the Auditor General and Controller General, Independence, government,
accountability and the prevention of corruption, Identification Study, Draft Final Report,
prepared by the Swedish National Audit Office, July 19, 1999
* Office of the Controller and Auditor General, Project Design Consultancy, Preliminary
Report, October 1997
* Submission by OCAG, NBAA, IFM, IAA, Proposal on Tanzania Financial Management
Upgrading (TAFIMU) Project, March 2000
* Legal Sector Component: Project Completion Report Input, FILMUP, submitted by Ministry
of Justice and Constitutional Affairs, August 2000
* Financial Component, Implementation Completion Report, submitted by Institutional
Steering Committee, FILMUP Project, August 2000ement,
* Speech on Vision and Strategy for the Legal Sector Reform Programme, given by Hon.
Andrew Chenge, The Attorney General, August 26, 1999
* Public Financial Management Reform, The Strategic Way Forward, technical discussion note
prepared by K. Kiragu, November 1997
World Bank
* Falconer, Brian, Tanzania Financial and Legal Upgrading Project, What Progress in
Accounting and Auditing in Tanzania? internal memo dated May 7, 2000
* World Bank, Staff Appraisal Report, Tanzania: Financial and Legal Management Upgrading
(Filmup) Project, June 1, 1992



31
*  Capacity Building for Leadership, Management and Coordination of Legal Sector Reform,
Request for IDF Financing, undated
* Tanzania: Assessment of the Capacity Building Impact of the World Bank P'ortfolio
* Aide-Memoire: Supervision Mission on the FILMUP Project February 2-13, 1998
*  Supervision Mission May 23-June 3, 1998, Aide Memoire, dated June 3, 1998
* Supervision Mission May 24-June 10, 1999
* Supervision Mission and Aide Memoire, February 12, 1998
* Back to Office Report, March 3, 1998
* Supervision Mission and Aide Memoire, June 3, 1998,
* Pre-Appraisal Mission Aide-Memoire, May 24-June4, 1999, dated June 4, 1999
*  Tanzania: FILMUP Back to Office Report Supervision, dated December 16 , 1999
* Tanzania: Transparency and Accountability Mission Back-to-Office Report, dated December
1, 1999
FILMUP Documents
*  FILMUP Project, NBAA Technical Study of NBAA Work Methods and Computerization,
Inception Report, November 1999
*  The status of accounting and auditing functions in Tanzania and harmonization with
international and regional standards, October 1999
* Financial Management Component Report, May 1, 1998-September 30, 1998
* Transtec, Tanzania Financial and Legal Management Upgrading (FILMUP) Project: Project
Implementation Progress Mid-Term Review, Final Report, October 1995
* Miscellaneous documents
* Shitundu, J.L.M., Mhamba, R.M., Mpuya, J., Ministry of Justice and Constitutional Affairs:
Public Expenditure Review, 2000. Final Report, April 2000



32
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
Two comprehensive reports (financial and legal components) were prepared by the Government.
Details on the activities and outputs presented below can be found in these reports.
Financial Component:
Introduction. The project had two components, the sector and the financial sector components.
Below are the main issues from the accounting and auditing perspective:
a) Identification of the proper role of the National Board of Accountants and Auditors (NBAA)
particularly with regard to its training of candidates for its own examinations, and its relation
with the Tanzania Association of Accountants (TAA);
b) How best to increase the number of qualified accountants in the country;
c) The extent to which staff shortages in the public sector are more the result of poor
remuneration than of the inadequate numbers of accountants in the economy as a whole;
d) The need for NBAA to rapidly issue accounting and auditing standards conforming to
international standards;
e) NBAA' s capacity to enforce the standards it issues;
f) The development of appropriate continuing professional education (CPE) programs for
practicing accountants and auditors;
g) The desirability of introducing a special accountancy syllabus and qualification for practicing
accountants; and
h) Other measures for strengthening NBAA and improving effectiveness.
Objectives of FILMUP Financial Component. The FILMUP project was established to
overcome weakness revealed in previous studies made on the financial and legal sectors and the
need to address the issues pointed out in those studies. The objective for establishing this project
was to improve accountability and promote better governance in the public sector and strengthen
the legal and regulatory framework and administration of justice by:
*  Strengthening key institutions involved in both activities through improvement in their
human and material resources. It was thought that it could be achieved by: (i) Enhancing the
skills of the institutes' lecturers through training; (ii) Attract suitably qualified and
experience lecturers and retain them; (iii) Improve the library facilities; (iv) Complete
administrative and training buildings; (v) Acquire up to date office and training equipment in
order to adopt more modern ways of delivering services.
* Undertake other studies designed to prepare strategy for improving cost recovery, and
increase competition and efficiency in the audit of public sector.



33
Implementation Results. Following are the achievements obtained from the FILMUP for the
financial component:
Civil Works at NBAA, IFM and IAA. The NBAA built the Mhasibu House Complex to
provide office accommodation, educational class rooms, library, function hlall and cafeteria
services. Funds were also used to procure one standby power generator, a bcre hole and minor
repairs for the complex. These facilities enabled the NBAA to provide better service to students,
hold major meetings and earn revenue through rentals. The IFM civil works were comprised of
the rehabilitation of existing buildings including installation of new modelrn lift in the IFM
administration block, rehabilitation of central cooling system in the function hall and conference
room, and installation of five underground water supply tanks. Funds were also used to supply
one standby power generator to IFM. The IAA used FILMUP funds to complete its
administrative block, fund the construction of the cafeteria/recreational complex, purchase a
power generator and bore hole and complete minor civil works to existing buildings. Many of the
same benefits-- better service, organizational pride and rental income- were replicated in the
IAA case.
Office Equipment, Furniture and Motor Vehicles. The FILMUP pro-vided a range of
equipment including modern computers, modern printers, UPS, computer software,
photocopiers, typewriters, fax machines, TVs, overhead projectors, telephone switchboards,
heaters and air conditioners. These additions enabled the implementing organizations to
computerize a good part of their operations including the NBAA database fer its members and
students records, most of the accounting and reporting systems. The vehicles were used for
outreach particularly by the OCAG and the NBAA.
Training. The FILMUP provided training for both long and short-termn in the field of
management, economics, taxation, accounting, financial management, andi computing. The
training was obtained from within the African region and also from outside ihe African region.
FILMUP also provided professional training in specialized studies such as CPA, computing,
librarian courses and other academic qualifications leading to advanced diploma, post graduate
diplomas, and masters degree. The training also enabled IFM and the IAA to introduce a series
of computer courses.
Technical Assistance. The absence of staff away on long-term training necessitated the
engagement of technical experts to perform their duties. Five consultants were engaged two for
IFM and three for IAA, where they imparted appropriate skills to the institutions for example on
areas of research and consultancy and on writing reading materials.
Studies. A series of eight studies were carried out to identify problems and cleficiencies in the
previous operating systems and identification of solutions for better business performance among
the implementing organizations. These included the following:
* Cost recovery
* Effectiveness of NBAA Graduates by PWC Tanzania
* The status of the Accounting and Auditing Function in Tanzania by ACCA



34
*  The Introduction of Audit Quality Review by ICAS
* NBAA Examination System by ICAS
* NBAA's work methods and computerization by PWC Tanzania
*  Issuance of Accounting and Auditing Standards by CORE Securities
*  Effectiveness of the Office of the Controller and Auditor General by the Swedish
National Audit
Also consultancies for training the academic staffs to IAA and IFM on research and consultancy
skills were done.
Library Books And Equipment. Books and reading materials amounting to 9,338 volumes in
the field of accounting, finance, taxation, auditing, social security, computing and English
literature were purchased.
KEY LESSONS LEARNT:
The detailed procedures of the World Bank were very new to the implementing
organizations and to the coordination office. This situation was the major reason for the delays
and slow implementation of the project in the first two years. Afterwards, the procedures and
regulations of the World Bank became familiar to the coordination office as well as to the four
organizations. Operations became smoother than at the beginning.
The implementing organizations have assessed the implementation of the project as
satisfactory. The coordination office located in Dar es Salaam under the Inter-Institutional
Steering Committee played a big role in managing the project activities and in decision-making.
Legal Sector Component:
Introduction. The immediate beneficiaries of the Legal Sector Component (LSC) were the
Office of the Attorney General (AGO), the Judiciary, the Law Reform Commission and the
Registrar of Companies now the Business Registration and Licensing Authority (BRELA). The
overall supervision and monitoring of the implementation of the Project Activities was vested in
the Legal Sector Component Committee (LSCC).
Implementation Experience and Results. Project objectives for the LSC were largely achieved
and project outcomes were generally realized. Although the project objectives were achieved
through improvement of human and material resources of the key Legal Sector Institutions, the
impact cannot be measured since the support was limited pending the outcome of a major sector
study. The second objective has enabled the Government to develop the Legal Sector Reform
Programme Medium Term Strategy and Action Plan 2000-2005 and undertake a public
expenditure review with a view to enhance resources to the Public Legal Sector Institutions. The
implementation experiences and results may be summarized as here below:
Development of a long-term strategy and Action Plan. A legal sector study designed to
develop a sector strategy divided into eleven sub-studies was undertaken from July 1993 to
February 1996. The study was managed by a Legal Task Force (LTF) chaired by Mr. Mark



35
Bomani, former Attorney General of the Government of the United Republic of Tanzania. A
team of law researchers assisted the LTF and the Project Co-ordination Office provided financial
and administrative support. The Study reviewed the entire legal sector institutions and agencies,
identified the major problems, and estimated costs and action plans for implementation of
strengthening measures. The LTF prepared a comprehensive report on eleven sub-studies and
submitted to the Government in February 1996. The Government having considered and
approved the LTF recommendations designed a ten years Programme for refo:rm of the sector at
an estimated cost of US$ 204 million. The Programme was presented to donors in October 1997.
However due to the magnitude of the items and costs involved, the Government was required to
priorities the programme activities and to develop a strategy for implementation. The
Government therefore prepared Legal Sector Reform Programme Medium T'erm Strategy and
Action Plan, 2000-2005 at an estimated cost of US$ 44.5 million. The Medium Term Strategy
and Action Plan was presented at a programme Launch and Donors Meeting on 8th December
1999. The Medium Term Strategy received a good support from the Donor Co:nmunity therefore
is to be funded by the World Bank and a consortium of Donors.
Strengthening the Key Legal Sector Institutions.  The key legal sector institutions
strengthened by the project are the Office of the Attorney General, Judiciary, the Office of the
Registrar of Companies and the Law Reform Commission of Tanzania. The inputs were
reviewed from time to time to ensure that they were effective and matched with technological
development. Most input related to vehicles and office equipment; training and Law Library
materials. The support provided to these offices was restricted merely to the headquarters and
not to upcountry stations of these offices, thus an impact assessment on these institutions cannot
be made. However, strengthening of key institutions was made as follows:
a) Vehicles and Equipment: There were only three vehicles procured for the Legal Sector one
vehicle for the Co-ordination Office, One for the training department of the Judiciary and one
for the office of the Chairman, Legal Task Force. The equipment procured is 4 faxes, 8
photocopiers, 360 manual typewriters, 50 electronic typewriters and 50 personal computers
and related accessories. The procurement of the equipment was delayed to fragmented and
unclear terms of the Central Tender Board. It was also planned to establish a modern
Management Information System for the sector institutions. After analyzing the quantity of
the equipment required and the quality of information system available it was found out that
more resources were required than earlier anticipated. Thus it became necessary to procure
the basic office equipment pending the outcome of the Legal Sector Study.
b) Training: Most of the LSC funds were invested in training activities due to the inadequacy
of skills throughout the sector, especially in areas such as commercial and company law and
post- qualification training facilities. Training has generally been implemented on schedule.
The training initially designed under the project could not be implemented as designed since
the estimation of cost was not properly done and some of the training was no longer relevant.
Most of the personnel were trained individually and in group training abroad or local as
appropriate. The training was done at least once for each group and there has not been a
continuation on the training although the trainees would appreciate to have a follow up
training organized at least once a year so as to provide forums for exchanging working
experiences. Although the training objectives under the project were achieved and its impact



36
was satisfactory, the sector lacks adequate resources for sustainability of the continuity of the
vocational training that would cover all the personnel. It is expected that in future the Legal
Sector Reform that proper and sustainable training programmes are designed and
implemented, including identification of adequate or reliable post- qualification training
facilities.
c) Equipment and publications for Law Libraries: The Law Libraries provided with these
inputs were the Attorney General's Chambers and the High Court libraries in Dar es Salaam.
The needs identified were law reference materials, law textbooks, periodicals, various
Library equipment and furniture. Although, the Libraries have now been updated, no
qualified personnel have been recruited to man the libraries. The management of the Library
services is therefore not satisfactory for the users. This is also not good for the library assets,
as these require intensive and continuous proper updating and recording system.
d) Printing of Various Forms and Certif cates for the Administrator General's Office: The
registration forms and certificates detailed in the comprehensive report were printed in July
1995 to August 1996. These materials were issued to the office of the Administrator General
to alleviate the shortage of registration materials. In order to ensure sustainability of the
availability of the printing materials, Government of Tanzania agreed to provide US$
300,000 annually and allow the department to charge realistic fees for its services. The
amount was accordingly provided in 1993/94 but in the subsequent years due to change in
the Government policy on the service providing departments, the department was allowed to
utilize its revenue collection for its other charges and development expenditures.
Updating & Publication of Revised Laws and Case Law Reports. This included the revision
and publication of the revised laws and publication and printing of Case Law Reports. The
following was accomplished:
a) Revision and Publication of Revised Laws: A Law Revision Programme funded by the
Government of Sweden through the Swedish International Development Agency (Sida)
commenced in January 1993. The objective of the Programme was (i) capacity building in
modem law revision techniques at the department of the Chief Parliamentary Draftsman (ii)
update the Revised Edition of the Tanzania Laws from 1965 and (iii) sustain the continuous
updating of the Revised Edition of Tanzania Laws. At the project identification stage the
Word Bank was to fund the publication costs and the compilation costs were to be met by
Sida. After the second consultancy Sida agreed to finance the publication costs only for the
volumes to be used by the Government. The tendering process started in 1998 but was
finalized in 1999. The bid specified for publishing 600 sets of 21-28 volumes in printed and
electronic format in 20CD ROMs for the Government. The sets to be sold elsewhere were to
be distributed by the publisher and the publisher will be required to remit royalties to the
Government. It is expected that the publication and printing of the Revised Laws 1999
Edition will be finalized in June 2001. The objective of capacity building in the CPD's
department was satisfactorily achieved notwithstanding lack of adequate personnel in the
department. This occasioned delay in the completion of the law Revision Work since there
were no arrangements of filling the gaps of the personnel whom were required to undertake
the work under the programme.



37
b) Publication and Printing of Case Law Reports of the High Court and the Court of Appeal
of Tanzania: The Case Law Reports of the High Court and the Court of Appeal of Tanzania
is known as the Tanzania Law Reports (TLR). The Law Reports for the 19'33 - 1992 printed
in electronic format (CR-ROM) and in printed format. Initially it was targeted to print only
4000 sets for 1983-1992, but due to saving from the publication of revised laws, it was
agreed to extend the contract to include printing 500 sets and of 10 CD-ROMIs for the 1993 -
1997. It was expected that continuous updating of the TLR from 1998 be undertaken by the
Tanzania Law Reports Board (TLRB).
Review of Laws Relevant to the private Sector Development, the Parastatal Reform
Programme and Privatisation. The Contract for the review of Commercial and Related Laws
including Laws that have impact on Privatisation was awarded in July 1993 and completed in
1994. The main objective of the consultancy was to provide advice on modalities on how the
Commercial and related Laws of Tanzania could be aligned with the microeconomic and social
policy changes/developments in the country. The Laws Reviewed included Labour Law,
Companies Ordinance, Banking Law, Insurance Law, Parastatal Corporations Act, 1969, Land
Law, Arbitration Ordinance and the Bankruptcy Ordinance. Following the report of the
consultant on each piece of legislation the Government has so far been able to amend Banking
and Insurance Laws, Parastatal Corporations Act, 1969 and the land Law. At ihe same time, the
Government established Capital Markets Authority, Stock Exchange, Presidential Parastatal
Reform Commission, Private banks and Private Insurance Companies. This also enabled the
Government to review the Companies Ordinance. The draft bill was completed in April 2000
and is now waiting to be submitted to the Cabinet for Approval. The laws that have not been
revised are the Labour Law, Arbitration Ordinance and Bankruptcy Ordinance. The Arbitration
and Bankruptcy Ordinance is now expected to be reviewed under the Public Sector and
Privatisation Programme being co-ordinated by the Presidential Parastatal Reform Commission.
Technical Assistance. The Technical Consultancy procured included the Procurement Advice
on Law Library Equipment and Materials, Review of Commercial Laws (explained above),
Assistance to the Legal Task Force on compilation of a comprehensive summary on the Legal
Sector sub-studies, Assistance to the Working Group on Legal Sector Programme Priorities,
Assistance to the stakeholder participation in designing of the Medium Term Strategy and Action
Plan 2000-2005, and continuous advice on the follow up steps from the Donors conference held
in Dec. 1999.
Establishment of a Legal Component Co-ordinators Office Located in the Attorney
General's Chambers. The establishment of the Legal Component Co-ordinator Office was
made in 1 October 1992 following the appointment of the Project C'o-ordinator. The
Organizational Structure provided for recruitment of a project Co-ordinator, an administrative
assistant and a driver-cum-messenger. The workload of the co-ordination office varied from the
originally planned workload under the project due to the various donors participating in some of
the activities in the Sector. These increased the workload since the various donors had different
financing requirements and conditions. It is important that, where a donor supports a programme
running for a period of not less than one year, they should establish their own office for
managing tasks associated with the project or agree to provide additional funding for expansion



38
of existing co-ordination office.  This was contributed by the fact that, at the project
identification the volume of work at the project co-ordination was underestimated and hence the
resource allocation as well. It was not possible to recruit an assistant to the project co-ordinator
with the World Bank funds since the other donors did not provide for such funds. The legal
Sector Component Committee chaired by the Deputy Attorney General/Permanent Secretary
supervised the Co-ordination Office. The Committee at times could not meet as required since
the members of the Committee were the heads or the accounting officers of the various
beneficiaries who were occasionally busy with their substantive work. This hampered the
effectiveness of the Committee in discharging its obligations under the Programme.
SUMMARY OF KEY LESSONS LEARNT:
*  The Government is generally satisfied with the performance of the legal Sector Component
in achieving the two project objectives of improving legal and regulatory framework and
administration of justice through strengthening of institutions and undertaking a legal study.
The Study on the legal institutions with an objective of examining and making of
recommendations of appropriate improvement measures of improving the status of the legal
sector institutions and of improving the status of the legal sector institutions and services was
designed to assist the Government to design a long term strategy on the improvement of the
sector. All the activities undertaken made a major contribution in achieving the project
objectives. Problems like delays in the starting, were mainly found in incorporating the
Project within the National Budget, differences in the IDA and Government procurement
procedures and lack of timely funding by various donors who had agreed to finance the legal
sector study, were unanticipated factors at the design of the project.
*  The design stage of the project is critical for the implementing Ministry together with the
care ministries such as the Ministry of Finance and the Planning Commission to ensure that
the preliminary procedures are finalized before the beginning of the implementation process.
The Ministry of Justice and Constitutional Affairs should take a key role at the designing
stage of the FILMUP legal sector and thereafter take a central role in monitoring the process.
Some key issues that could have been anticipated at the designing stage could have been
addressed such as continuation of some activities which were undertaken by FILMUP legal
sector, mobilization of funds to meet shortfall of funding especially where donor funds are
inadequate or unavailable.
*  A major contributing factor to the success of the project was a result of the commitment of
and professional guidance rendered to the Management team by the World Bank staff.
Several World Bank review missions to monitor the component progress were made. The
World Bank further played a key role in guiding the Government on how to co-ordinate
funding from other donors for financing the Law Revision Programme, the Legal Sector
Study (11 sub-studies) and legal Sector Reform Programme, Medium Term Strategy and
Action Plan 2000-2005. The relationship between the Government, World Bank and other
Donors was properly managed and co-ordinated with central objective of reforming the Legal
Sector. All in all, the project would not have been able to achieve its objective and
completed its activities without the professional support and guidance of the World Bank
management Team.



39
*  The Local Project Management team executed its responsibility with maximum competence
and professionalism. The major handicap was the low support from Legal Sector Component
Committee, could not secure adequate representation and commitment. This was due to the
fact that, the Committee was composed of heads of the beneficiaries of the Legal Sector
Component, who occasionally were committed with their official duties, thus it was not easy
for them to actively monitor progress, provide effective guidance and feedback. However,
the project management team received guidance and feedback most of the time from the
Deputy Attorney General/Permanent Secretary and in some cases, from the Hon. Attorney
General. These high officials enabled the project component to meet its objectives.
*  The location of FILMUP Legal Sector was within the Ministry of Justice and Constitutional
Affairs. The premise at the Ministry was too limited such that the office of a Project
allocated only one room thus making the premise too small for project activities. This caused
the project to incur costs of holding meetings elsewhere even for small groups of five people.
However, a strong managerial guidance system on the part of the Ministry of Justice assisted
in addressing some of the implementation problems.
*  The experience gained by the local management team is an asset for future legal upgrading
programmes. The Ministry of Justice & Constitutional Affairs will in fuil:ure draw upon this
expertise in its Legal Sector Reform Programme and especially in the Legal Sector Medium
Term Strategy and Action Plan 2000-2005.
CONCLUSION
The overall assessment of the impact of FILMUP project to the beneficiary institutions of
the financial component indicates that it has realized its objectives to a large zxtent. NBAA and
IAA have achieved a lot in terms of building for office accommodation. All the beneficiary
institutions have managed to improve their staff skills through training under FILMUP, and for
the case of training institutions the quality of training has improved and lecturers are highly
motivated as they are working under more conducive working environments.



