Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10625-TA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TANZANIA
FINANCIAL AND LEGAL MANAGEMENT UPGRADING (FILMUP)
PROJECT
JUNE 1, 1992
!Mi &;i.'A,,.-i ';'^
.-ep, rt N>i . 1:t;L h IA   Yy' xs¢  AS-:
1/B.ANEF^^'<. l' X7L:5u.l    v'1 17, AIt',1
Southern Africa Department
Industry and Energy Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offici'al duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CUJRRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit = Tanzania Shillings (T.Sh)
US$1 = T.Sh 245 (at time )f appraisal)
US$1  = T.Sh 291 (April 1992)
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
MEASURES
Metric System
ACRONYMS
Acc.G        -      Accountant-General
AGD                 Administrator-General's Division
CAG           -     Controller and Auditor-General
CID          -      Civil and International Division
CPA          -      Certified Public Accountant
CPE          -      Continuing Professional Education
DPP          -      Director of Public Prosecutions
DSA          -      Dar es Salaam School of Accountancy
FMCC         -      Financial Management Component Coordinator
IAA          -      Institute of Accountancy, Arusha
IDLI         -      International Development Law Institute
IDM          -      Institute of Development Management, Mzumbe
IFM          -      Institute for Finance Management
ILC          -      International Legal Center
LD           -      Legislative Division
LLM          -      Master of Laws
LSCC         -      Legal Sector Component Coordinator
NBAA         -      National Board of Accountants and Auditors
NGOs         -      Non-Governmental Organizations
NIC          -      National Investment Corporation
NORAD        -      Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation
OCAG         -      Office of the Controller and Auditor-General
ODA          -      Overseas Development Administration
RIPA         -      Royal Institute of Public Administration
SIDA         -      Swedish International Development Authority
TAA           -     Tanzania Association of Accountants
TAC          -      Tanzania Audit Corporation
USAID        -      United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FINANCIAL AND LEGAL MANAGEMENT UPGRADING (FILMUP) PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Pages
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY  ............................... I    iii
I. BACKGROUND
A. Introduction  ...................1..................
B. The Accountancy and Auditing Prefessions .......................... 1
C. Public Sector Financial Management & Institutions ......              .............. 3
The Accountant-General  ...........              ......................... 3
The Controller and Auditor-General ............................ 3
The Office of the Controller and Auditor-General .....             ............ 3
The Tanzania Audit Corporation  ........               ...................... 3
Accountancy Education  ...........              .......................... 4
The Institute of Finance Management .......................... 4
The Institute of Accountancy, Arusha ........................... 4
D. The Legal System .............................................. 5
Tlhe Judiciary .............................................. S
Attorney-General's Office ...........            ......................... 5
Law Reform Commission  ...........               ......................... 6
Department of Registration, Commercial Law
and Industrial Licensing  ........           ....................... 7
Training for the Legal Profession .............................. 7
Commercial Laws and Related Legislation  ......              ................. 7
H. SECTOR ISSUES   ..................................................  8
A. Accounting and Auditing Issues ..........              ......................... 8
NBAA role regarding pre- and post - qualification Training  ....          ...... 8
NBAA's issuing of Tanzanian Accounting & Auditing
Standards .............            ............................. 9
NBAA's lack of capacity for enforcement ........................ 9
Increasing the Number of Qualified Accountants  .....             ............. 9
The Shortage of accountants in the Public Service  .....            ............ 9
A special Accountancy Qualification for the Civil Service .....          ....... 9
B. Legal Sector Issues  ................           ..........................  . 9
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Tanzania in March 1992.
The mission consisted of Messrs. Uche Mbanefo (Mission Leader and Financial Analyst), and
Bernard Abeille (Sr. Architect/Procurement Specialist), Ms. Elizabeth Adu (Senior Counsel), and
Ms. Sonia Johnsen (Consultant). The lead adviser for the operation was John Graves and the
peer reviewer for the legal component was Mr. Hans Gruss. Ms. Dotilda Sidibe typed the
reports. Mr. David Cook is the managing Division Chief, and Mr. Stephen Denning is the
Department Director for the operation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



The proper limits of Bank involvement ........                                .................  10
Lack of Knowledge of Modem Commercial Law  ......                                       ........... 10
The Overloading and Inefficiency of the Judiciary  ......                               ...........  10
Lack of Relevant, Up-to-date Legal Materi.'  ..... ..... ..........  10
C. Sector Development Strategies   ....                         ............................  10
Accounting and Auditing .............................. 10
The Legal Sector ............................. 11
Past Role of the Bank and Lessons of Experience   ................  12
D. Rationale  -`r Project Components ................................  12
II. THCE   PROJECT                      .................................................  13
A. Rationale and Objectives  .......................................  13
Objectives         .       ................................................  13
B. Project Components   .............                             .............................  14
Financial Management Upgrading  .................................  14
National Board of Accountants and Auditors  .................... 14
Office of the Controller and Auditor-General   ................... 16
Institute of Accountancy, Arusha   .............................  17
Institute for Finance Management  ............................  18
Upgrading of the Legal Sector  ...................................  19
Attorney-General's Office ...................................  19
Judiciary ................................................ 20
Law  Reform  Commission   ...................................  21
Registrar of Companies   ....................................  21
Studies                  .................................................  21
Legal Sector Study  ............                         ............................  21
Cost Recovery Study .......................................  22
TAC Study .                ............................................. 22
Project Coordination  ..............                          .............................  22
C. Cost Estimates .               .............................................. 22
D. Financing . ................................................. 24
E. Procurement . ............................................... 24
F. Disbursement .              ...............................................  28
G. Accounting and Audit .............                               ............................  29
rV. PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION   ......................................  30
A. Organization and Management  ..................................  30
B. Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting  ............................. 31
C. Mid-term Review . ............................................. 31
V. BENEFITS, RISKS AND SUSTAINABILITY  .... ........ .. ................. . 32
A. Benefits            .................................................  32
B. Impact on the Economic Reform Program and the Environment ....                                           ..... 32
Environmental Aspects  .....................................  33
C. Sustainability  ..................                          .............................  33
D. Risks and Uncertainties ......................................33
VI ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....................                                                           ....... 33



LIST OF TEXT TABLES
Table 1: Project Components Summary
Table 2: Prcject Costs Summary
Table 3: Project Financing Plan
Table 4: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex 1:    National Board of Accountants and Auditors (NBAA)
Annex 2:    O)ffice of Controller and Auditor-General (OCAG)
Annex 3:    Institute of Accountancy, Arusha (IAA)
Annex 4:    Institute for Finance Management (IFM)
Annex 5:    Direct Assistance to the Legal framework
Annex 6:    Terms of Reference for the Legal Sector Study
Annex 7:    Terms of Reference for the Cost Recovery Study
Annex 8:    Terms of Reference for the TAC Study
Annex 9:    Project Cost Tables:
Page 1: Project Cost Summary
Page 2: Project Cost Summary Year by Year
Page 3: NBAA Costs
Page 4: OCAG Costs
Page 5: IAA Costs
Page 6: IFM Costs
Page 7: Attomey General's Office Costs
Page 8: Judiciary Costs
Page 9: Law Reform Commission Costs
Page 10: Studies Costs
Page 11: Financial Component Coordination
Page 12: Legal Component Coordination
Page 13: Calculation of Contingencies - Foreign Costs
Page 14: Calculation of Contingencies - Local Costs
Page 15: Registrar of Companies
Annex 10:   Estimated Schedule for Disbursements
Annex 11:   Project Implementation Schedule
Annex 12:   Supervision Plan
Annex 13:   Selected Documents in the Project File
Annex 14:   Planning For Project Launch Workshop



TAIZANIA
FINANCIAL AND LEGAL MANAGEMENT UPGRADING (lILMIP) PROJECT
CRED1T AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower.          Government of the United Republic of Tanzania
Beneficiaries:     National Board of Accountants and Auditors (NBAA); Offi.e of
the Controller and Au,'itor-General (OCAG); Institute of
Accountancy, Arusha (LAA); Institute of Finance management
(IFM); Attorney-General's Office; the Judiciary; the Law Reform
Commission; and the Registrar of Companies.
Amount:            SDR14.6 million (USDollars 20 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard IDA, with 40 years maturity
Objectives:   The objective of the project is to improve public sector accounting and
auditing on the one hand, and the legal and regulatory framework and the
administration of justice on the other by:
(a)   strengthening key institutions involved in both activities through
improvements in their human and material resources; and
(b)   undertaking studies designed to prepare a detailed strategy for the
development of the legal sector, improve cost recovery, and
increase competition and efficiency in the audit of parastatal
organizations.
Project Description The project would be implemented over a five year
period, and would, for the most part, finance a five-year slice of the long-
term development plans of beneficiary institutions.
Fmancial management. (Specifically accounting and auditing) would be
improved by: reinforcing the professional regulatory institution, NBAA,
the Office of the Controller and Auditor-General (OCAG), the IAA which
trains students for the highest level CPA examinations, and IFM which
prepares them for intermediate level accountancy examination. In addition,
the project would finance a study designed to recommend modalities for
removing TAC's monopoly of parastatal audits, and would also finance a
project financial component co-ordinator to be located in NBAA.



- ii -
Dge.!awA and regulatory framework would be improved by:
-     development of a long-term strategy and implementation program
for the legal sector;
-     strengthening the Attorney-General's Department, the Judiciary,
the Registrar of Companies and the Law Reform Commission,
through the provision of staff training, management information
syste.ns, basic office equipment and publications for law libraries;
-     (i) revision and publication of the Laws of Tanzania, and (ii) review
of laws relevant to private sector development, the parastatal
reform program and privatization; and
-     a project legal component co-ordinator to be located in the office
of the Attorney-General.
The Cost-recovery study would explore ways of recovering more of the
operating costs of all the beneficiary institutions (see above) involved in
both the financial and the legal components of the project.
Benefits: The project is expected to result in both quantitative and
qualitative improvements in the services provided by beneficiary
institutions. The pass rates achieved by IAA and IFM students in national
accountancy examinations are expected to increase. The quality of
accounting practice would improve through the issue and enforcement of
accounting and auditing standards. Many of the country's out-of-date laws
would be revised and made more accessible. Through its impact on
accountability and the legal framework, the project would provide the
practical under pinnings for the policy changes being introduced through
the structural adjustment program.
Risl The only foreseen risk lies in possible inability of the beneficiary
agencies to absorb and put to good use the resources and improvements
being introduced through the project. However, built-in measures, such as
,raining, technical assistance, highly de-centralized yet well-coordinated
project management, and gradual phasing of implementation are all
designed to minimize that risk.



- iii -
L ESTIMATED COSIS AND FNANCING
Project Cost Summary
USS Mfllion
Local Forljo   Total  Of Total
Improvement of Financial Management    2.7    9.6      12.3      64
Improvement of the Legal Framework    1.4     3.9       5.3      28
Studies                                -       0.4      0.4       2
Project Coordination                  0.2     0.2       0.4       2
Incremental Operating Cost            0.8      -        0.8       4
Total Base Cost                       5.1    14.1      19.2     100
Physical Contingencies                0.2     0.6       0.8       4
Price Contingencies                   1.4      1.1      2.5      13
Total Project Costs             6.7    15.8     22.5      117
Flnancing Plan                       USS Milion
Local     Foreign      Total
IDA                                 4.3          15.7       20.0
Government of Tanzania              2.3          0.0         2.3
SIDA                                0.1          0.1         0.2
TOTAL                         6.7         15.8        22.5
2. ESTMA-TED IDA DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(USS Million)
1DA Fscal Year            1993   1994  1995   1996   1997   1998
Annual                   0.8     4.6    7.0    6.4    0.7    0.4
Cumulative               0.8    5.4   12.4   18.9   19.6   20.0
Economic Rate of Return: Not Applicable



1. BACKGROUND
A. Introduction
1.01      This report describes the first attempt by the World Bank to provide direct financial
assistance to two key areas critical to the efficiency of the public service, to the rule of law, and in
particular, to the success of Tanzania's current economic reform program. These two areas are public
sector financial management (specifically accounting and auditing) on the one hand, and the legal and
regulatory framework on the otht!;.
1.02      Public sector financial accoun.ability has been a subject of continuing concern for many
years, not only with the Government, which has created numerous institutions, and issued Presidential
proclamations on the subject, but also with bilateral donors and private organizations, which have
carried out studies, and created or supported several training and other institutions in an effort to
improve it.
1.03      The legal f.amework, dlthough it has not received as much public or doncr attention as
public sector accountability, is nevertheless, equipped with the usual institttions for the legal
framework and administration of justice found in most former British colonies and protectorates.
Like the financial institutions, the legal institutions were designed to serve an economic system based
on extensive public ownership of the means of production. Now that Tanzania is moving away from
that system, there is a need to adapt the institutions to service a libera!ized economy. A successful
economic reform program and the development of an active private sector depend on good
accounting and auditing systems, as well as a system of laws, regulations and administration of justice
which is transparent, easilv accessible, consistently applied but at the same time dynamic and sensitive
to the changing needs of the society. The Economic Recovery program has been underway for
almost six years and has dramatically changed the business orientation of the country. As the
program is proceeding it has become increasingly clear that there are serious weaknesses that need
to be addressed in the financial, legal and judicial systems. In order to increase investor confidence,
it is essential that these reforms be undertaken.
1.04      Government, Bank, and donor interests in public financial accountability are similar and
non-controversial:  good accounting and auditing systems are essential for good economic
management. With regard to the legal framework, however, the Bank approaches issues of legal
reform from the stand-point of economic efficiency, but many bilateral donors, now keenly interested
in the legal framework, approach it from the point of view of human rights and good governance.
The two interests converge in practice, not only because good "economic" laws governing, for
example, rights to personal property, serve as a logical starting point for good governance, but also
because the same legal institutions (e.g. the Ministry of Justice) administer the legal framework for
botb economic and political rights. Nevertheless, as will be discussed further in Chapter II, this
difference of approach has to be taken into account in deciding specific areas of intervention by the
Bank and bilateral donors.
B. The Accountancy and Auditing Professions
1.05      The accountancy and auditing professions in Tanzania have developed along a pattern
which, although it is not unique, is certainly unusual in some important respects. As in most other
African countries, T&_ania's first accountants and auditors were trained abroad, mostly in the United
Kingdom, Canada, the United States, and other English-speaking countries. In most other countries



-2 -
these foreign-trained professionals formed a national Institute of Accountants - a member-owned self-
regulatory body - which later sought and icceived official 'ancticn, generally by being incorporated
through a special Act of Parliament.
1.06      In Tanzania the typical professional evolution descrined above was pre-empted by the
Accountants and Auditors (Registration) Act of 1972, which created ti;e National Board of
Accountants and Auditors (NBAA) as a statutory body, with which all accountants and auditors
practising in Tanzania have to be registered. Its main functions are to conduct examinations, approve
and register accountants and auditors, and generally regulate the activities and conduct of accountants
and auditors. Due to inadequate resources, it is far behind in its program of introducing accounding
and auditing standards in Tanzania. In addition, it has no means of enforcing the few international
standards it has adopted. The NBAA offers an accounting technician qualification as well as a
professional Certified Public Accountant (CPA) qualification. In addition to its student education
program, the NBAA organizes short seminars for practicing accountants. Despite its many
achievements, the NBAA is constrained in the activities it can undertake by both staff capacity and
finance. Its offices are also scattered in three different buildings and locatio.ns  a source of
considerable administrative cost and inefficiency which this project would address.
1.07      About a decade after NBAA was established, Tanzania's accountants and auditors,
frustrated by the problems of having their interests represented by a parastatal body over which they
had no control, formed the Tanzania Association of Accountants (TAA) to represent the interests
of the profession. However, since NBAA, through its enabling legislation, had been endowed with
the power and functions nL mally belonging to a member-owned institute, TAA has had to content
itself with the role of a more informal organization providing the framework for social contacts,
lectures, and other events.
1.08      Despite the situation described in the above paragraph, ar.1 a certain amount of
duplication (e.g. in the area of continued professional education for practicing accountants and
auditors), there is no serious conflict between NBAA and TAA. This is largely because every
member of TAA is also a registered member of NBAA, and practically every Board member of
NBAA is also a member of TAA
1.09      Currently, Government budgetary allocations pay for ab out one-half of NBAA's recurrent
expenditure. The other half is recovered from members. Government also provides TAA with a
fixed annual subvention of TSh2 million. With Tanzanian salaries as low as they are, the fact that
most Certified Public Accountants (CPAs) pay annual subscriptions to both NBAA and TAA means
that neither organization can raise enough money from members to (ully cover its operating costs.
1.10      For all the reasons discussed above, the roles of the 14BAA and TAA need to be more
clearly defined in the future. Eventually, a situation more akin to that in most other countries could
be envisaged, in which TAA would take over all the self-regulatory and professional control and
promotional activities normally carried out by Institutes of CPAs in other countries, and be the sole
recipient of members' subscriptions, while NBAA would limit itself to the issue and enforcement of
accounting standards, and would be financed entirely out of the Government budget. However, the
pace of this evolution cannot be forced, because it will depend on TAA's demonstrated and declared
readiness to take on more responsibilities.
1.11      Pass rates in NBAA examination are around 20%, and the throughput of qualified people
is very slow, leaving considerable gaps in the market place. A 1989 study estimated that Tanzania



-3.
was short of about 2,000 fully-qualified and about 5600 semi-qualified accountants, as well as ovcr
15,000 accounting technicians.
r. Public Sector Fmancial Management and Institutions
1.12      The Accountant-General (AG) of Tanzania ad his staff are responsible for the
maintenance of all Government accounts. The staff are posted to all the Ministries, where they
prepare the accounts of all Government units, which they later consolidate at the Treasury, where
the Accountant-General's office is located. The Acc-G has had difficulty in attracting and keeping
staff, partly as a result of the overall shortage of accountants noted above, and partly because of pooi
salary levels (despite re-classification of accountancy as a rare skill . >-w years ago). The Acc-G's
office has been receiving assistance from several bilateral donors.
1.13      The Controller and Auditor-General (CAG) is the single most important watch-Jog of
public finances in Tanzania. He is required by Section 143 of the Constitution of Tanzania among
other things:
(a) to grant to the Treasury credits on the Exchequer Account and satisfy himself
that all monies appropriated by Act of Parliament and disbursed have been
applied to the purpose for which they were appropriated and that the
expenditure conforms to the authority which governs it; and
(b) at least once in every year to audit and report upon the public accounts of the
United Republic, the accounts of all officers and authorities of the Government
of the United Republic, the accounts of all the courts of the United Republic and
the accounts of the Clerk of the National Assembly.
1.14      The Office of the Controller and Auditor-General (OCAG) has twenty branch offices -
one in each Region. It has on its staff some 100 auditors with different levels of accountancy
qualifications. It shares the Acc-G's problems of recruiting and retaining qualified staff, and for the
same reasons. For several years, the OCAG has received the assistance of the British Overseas
Dwvelopment Administration (ODA), and it is currently negotiating a second phase of that assistance
wl ich is expected to include assistance with the management of audits, training in the audit of
co nputerized audit systems, and the training of trainers. In addition to inadequate staff resources,
the OCAG also lacks office equipment, and enough transportation to cover the entire territo,y of
Tar. zania.
1.15      The Tanzaia Audit Corporation (TAC) is a pa-'statal institution which, until recently,
enjoyed a virtual monopoly of auditing the accounts of I, 400 or so parastatal institutions in
Tanzania. Following the Arusha Declaration in February 1967, the Treasury tried to get the
Controller and Auditor-General to take on the audit of all the parastatals, in exercise of his statutory
duties (para. 1.13 above). The CAG, however, pointed out that his staff of civil service auditors did
not possess the requisite commercial audit experience to audit the accounts of revenue-earning
parastatal entities. This prompted the Goverment to set up TAC under the Tanzania Audit
Corporation Act of February 1, 1968. Although TAC's chairman submits his annual report to the
President of Tanzania, TAC's accounts are submitted to, and audited by, the Controller and Auditor-
General, who stil has the statutory power to appoint any auditor to audit any parastatal.



4 -
1.16      With some 40 CPAs, TAC is by far the largest single auditing firm in Tanzania. Despite
the fact that it is Government-owned, and has been criticized in certain quarters, a review of TAC's
audit reports reveals that it does a tairly thorough job, and is remarkably independent. It has heavily
qualified or issued disclaimers in its audit reports on the accounts of such sensitive Government
institutions as the Bank of Tanzania. The staff is generally well-trained, and TAC has received
considerable foreign assistance, including training and technical personnel, particularly from the
Swedish International Development Authority (SIDA).
1.17      Despite its competence and independence, the monopoly powers gr? ited to TAC have
been criticized as likely to result in over-pricing, inefficiency, and possible stunting of the
development of private firms which might otherwise have audited some of the parastatals.
Consequently, the Government has removed this monopoly, first in the 1991 Banking and Financial
Institutions Act, and, more completely in the Public Corporations Act approved by Parliament in early
1992.
1.18      Accountancy Education has received considerable attention and resources from
Government, bilateral donors, and both local and foreign non-governmental organizations (NGOs).
Nevertheless, the shortage of qualified accountants, and the low pass rates in the CPA examinations,
suggest that these efforts have yet to yield the desired result.
1.19      Tanzania has about 16 public and private accountancy t'3ining institutes, of which the
following offer CPA mourses or their equivalents: the Institute of Finance Management (IFM) and
the Dar es Salaam School of Accountancy (DSA), both located in Dar es Salaam, the Institute of
Development Management (IDM) in Mzumbe, and the Institute of Accountancy in Arusha (LAA).
Accountancy is also taught at the University of Dar-es-Salaam which offers a Bachelor of Commerce
with a major in accounting, resulting in exemption from part of the CPA examinations. The IDM
has been the recipient of considerable support from NORAD, and the DSA received assistance under
the IDA Education VI Project (Cr. 0861). FILMUP would provide assistance to the IFM and the
1.20      The Institute of Fmanoe Management (FM) was established in 1972 to look after the
educational needs of the banking and insurance sector and was laier -xpanded to cover other finance
related disciplines. The IEM is a self-financing parastatal, although it has lately been incurring
deficits. During the 1991-1992 academic year the Institute had 788 full-time and over 600 part-time
students. The IFM offers three year advanced diploma courses in accountancy, banking, financial
management, insurance, social security administration and tax management, and a one year post
graduate diploma in accountancy, financial management and tax management, and a number of short
courses. Over 50% of the full-time students and all of the part-time students are taking accountancy
courses, and the number of students interested in accountancy is increasing every year. The staff
employed by the IFM are very conmitted, but they are few in number, and many are not sufficiently
qualified to be able to effectively teach these advanced courses. The IFM has received some limited
assistance in the form of fellowships from the British Council, Canada, the Netherlands and Belgium,
but this has not been sufficient to meet its needs. The facilities at the JFM are extremely poor; the
Institute has no computers and the library is inadequately stocked, there are few accountancy books,
mostly out-of-date editions.
1.21      'he Institute of Acoauntancy. Arusha (af) which opened in 1987, is a purpose-built
residential college preparing students for the Parts III and IV (i.e., final stages) of the CPA
examinations. Examination pass rates are better than the national average, with 46% of the students



- 5 -
passing the dinal examinations at the May 1991 examination sitting. In addit;on, the Institute runs
short courses in accounting and related subjects, and revision courses for the CPA examination. The
Institute is able to accommodate 180 students, and has plans for an additional hostel which will
increase its capacity to 300. The current hostel capacity greatly restricts the numbers of students that
can attend the courses. The Institute has recently built a new lecture theater, but it does not have
sufficient funds to furnish it. Lack of funds has also resulted in an inadequately-equipped kitchen
and dining room and a poorly resourced library. Staffing is a major problem, and for many subjects
the LAA has difficulty in attracting and retaining lecturers. As with the IFM, the IAA has received
little donor support.
D. The Legal System
1.22      The legal system in Tanzania is based on the common law, with customary and islamic
law influences, especially in the areas of personal and property laws. The body of laws thus includes
legislation from the colonial era, legislation enacted since independence, as well as various customary
and islamic rules. In Zanzibar the islamic influences are stronger, with the existence of Khadis' courts
to try cases according to islamic law. Following the Arusha Declaration in 1967, and the bias towards
the public sector as the provider of gcids and services, there has been very little development of the
private sector and the laws and procedures that would accompany such development. With the bias
against the private sector, commercial and corporate laws have been neglected.
1.23      The Judicily. Tanzania has a long and honorable record of the independence of the
judiciary and respect of the rule of law. The judicial structure on the mainland consists of a system
of 1023 primary courts, 86 district courts, 20 regional courts, the High Court that sits in Dar es
Salaam and 11 zonal centers and the Court of Appeal. In Zanzibar there is a separate court system,
with a structure similar to that described above. There is, however, a dearth of trained legal
manpower at all levels. Magistrates at the primary court level are non-lawyers who are graduates of
a nine-month Certificate in Law course run by the judiciary at the Institute of Development
Management (IDM), Mzumbe. There are plans to upgrade this to a two-year Diploma course. Most
magistrates at the district and regional courts have progressed through the system from the primary
courts and thus are not lawyers by training. Judges of the High Court and the Court of Appeal are
all holders of a law degree. The administration of justice is slow and inefficient. Even though there
are a number of magistrates at the different levels, they are not adequately trained, do not have the
necessary support systems, and operate under very poor and difficult conditions. There is a serious
lack of court accommodation. There are very few courts which sit in court buildings designed for the
purpose. For the most part, courts use rented premises which do not have adequate facilities for
conducting cases, maintaining proper registries, etc. In addition, the paralegal and other support staff
are not adequately trained. The court system has to rely on whatever staff is available, without access
to the necessary training. To function properly, the judiciary requires a professional and well trained
cadre to run the support services, assisted by the necessary equipment.
1.24      Attorney General's Offlce: The Attorney-General is the legal advisor to the Government.
The office is divided into several dirisions, namely, the Civil and International Division (CII)), the
Legislative Division (LD), the Directorate of Public Prosecution (DPP) and the Administrator-
General's Division (AGD). The CID advises the government on all civil and international matters,
including the defence of suits brought against the government, representing the government in all
negotiations with local as well as international interests as well as other matters on which their advice
is sought. CID is understaffed and under-trained, partly because of the incentive system in the civil
service, but also because of the fact that the department has for some time now been unable to send



- 6-
its staff abroad for further training and exposure. LD comprises the office of the Chief Parliamentary
Draftsman who is responsible for the drafting of all legislation in Tanzania. In addition, the office
is entrusted with the task of publishing regular revised Laws of Tanzania as well as annual
supplements. Again, the office is Hi-equipped to do this, and there are not enough trained legislative
draftsmen to keep up with the regular workload. There has not been a revision of the Laws of
Tanzania since 1965. This makes it impossible for practitioners and judges alike to know at any point
in time what the law on any give subject is. It makes relying on precedent difficult, especially as the
Tanzania Law Reports have not been printed since 1982. AGD is responsible for the registration
of births, marriages and deaths. It is also responsible for administering estates of persons who die
intestate. DPP is in charge of all prosecutions at the senior courts namely the High Court and
regional courts. Again most the counsel are fresh out of law school, with very little experience, and
normally do not stay long in the department.
1.25      Law Reform Commission: The Law Reform Commission (LRC), which was established
pursuant to the Law Reform Commission of Tanzania Act, No. 3 of 1980, is charged with the
function of taking and keeping under review all the laws of Tanzania with a view to their systematic
development and reform. The functions are set out in more detail in Section 4(2) of the Act, namely
to:
(a) review any law or branch of the law and propose measures necessary for:
(i)   bringing the law or branch of the law into accord with current
circumstances of Tanzania;
(ii)   eliminating anomalies or other defects in the law, repealing obsolete
or unnecessary laws and reducing the number of separate enactments;
and
(iii)  the proper codification and simplification of that law or branch of law;
(b) consider and advise on proposals for the adoption of new or more effective
methods for the administration of the law and the dispensation of justice;
(c) from time to time, prepare and submit to the Attorney-General programs for the
examination of different branches of law with a view to reforming those laws,
including recommendations as to the agency, whether the commission or another
body, by which any such examination should be carried out;
(d) at the request of the Attomey-General, prepare comprehensive programs for the
consolidation and revision of laws, and undertake the preparation of any draft
bills pursuant to an such program approved by the Attorney-General; and
(e) at the instance of the Attomey-General provide advice and assistance to any
ministry or department or any public authority or institution by undertaking the
examination of any particular branch of the law and making recommendations for
reform so as to bring it into accord with current circumstances.
1.26      The LRC thus has a major role to play in the legal reform process. In this regard its role,
particularly at this time, is crucial, in order to put in motion a review of laws which impact, inter alia,



- 7 -
on the private sector and its activities. The LRC is however currently ill-equipped to undertake this
task. It has neither the staff, equipment nor resources. Since its establishment LRC has carried out
or is in the process of carrying out reviews in several areas, e.g. Private legal practice, delays in the
disposal of civil suits, personal laws etc. As with the other agencies the needs of the LRC are in the
areas of training, access to reference and research materials, equipment, and the establishment of an
appropriate data storage and retrieval system.
1.27      Registrar of Companies. This is the law department of the Ministry of Industries and
Trade. The Department is responsible for the following:
(a)   Commercial and Industrial Laws, registration of companies, business names,
industrial licenses and hire purchases;
.q   Intellectual Property Laws, registration of patents, trade marks, industrial designs,
etc.; and
(c)   Administration of Copyright Laws.
The department is also responsible for giving legal advice to government, parastatals and the private
sector on commercial and intellectual property matters. The office is operating under very difficult
conditions with very little office space, poor filing space, poorly trained staff, and poor equipment.
The department has about four hundred thousand files, but has no computers. The information
retrieval system is manual and inefficient. There is no library. This office should be efficiently run
with an information management system which makes it easy for companies to obtain information that
they need in a timely fashion.
1.28      Training for the Legal Profession: Tanzania has a long record of training of lawyers.
The Law Faculty at the University of Dar es Salaam (UDS) is the only institution in Tanzania
offering formal legal education at the degree level. It has been training lawyers for decades. A
number of East African lawyers trained in the 1960s and 1970s were trained there. The Law Faculty
offers LLB and LLM courses. The UrS generally and the Law Faculty in particular were in the
forefront of the activism following the Arusha Declaration, consequently the content of the law
taught was biased. For example, company law was not taught as a subject for a long time, but as part
of a course on public enterprise law. In addition, the training unit in the judiciary and the Institute
of Development Management (IDM), Mzumbe, run a nine month certificate of law course for
Primary Court Magistrates. Further training for the legal profession is undertaken outside the
country on an ad hoc basis, as and when there is money available, usually from donors.
1.29      Commercial Laws and Related Legislation: For some of the reasons which have been
mentioned above, the existing laws dealing with commercial matters have been neglected. Apart from
very few changes, the Companies Ordinance, bankruptcy and other commercial laws date from the
colonial era. The Companies Ordinance is based on the 1938 English companies legislation and is
thus totally outdated. This and other legislation have to be revised and consolidated where necessary.
It is also necessary to ensure the legislation meets the needs of modem commercial transactions.
There is the recognition of the need to update the laws governing the entry, governance and exit of
companies. In addition, there are various other laws dealing with tax, foreign exchange, licensing,
bankruptcy, land tenure etc., which need to be reviewed by the Government. Some steps have
already been taken in this regard. A Banking and Financial Institutions Act was enacted in 1991, and
a new Public Corporations Act and Foreign Exchange Act have already been enacted. What is now



- 8 -
needed is a thorough review of existing commercial and related legislation starting with the
Companies Ordinance and associated regulations, which would be undertaken under the Project.
IL SECTOR ISSUES
A Accounting and Auditing Issues
2.01      In addition to the problems discussed in Chapter 1, the main issues in accounting and
auditing have to do with:
(a) the proper role of the National Board of Accountants and Auditors (NBAA),
particularly with regard to its training of candidates for its own examinations, and
its relation with the Tanzania Association of Accountants (TAA);
(b) how best to increase the number of qualified accountants in the country;
(c) the extent to which staff shortages in the public sector are more the result of
poor renumeration than of the inadequate numbers of accountants in the
economy as a whole;
(d) the need for NBAA to rapidly issue accounting and auditing standards
conforming to international standards;
(e) NBAA's capacity to enforce the standards it issues;
(f) the development of continuing professional education (CPE) for practicing
accountants and auditors;
(g) the desirability of introducing a special accountancy syllabus and qualification for
public sector accountants; and
(h) other measures for strengthening NBAA and improving its effectiveness.
2.02      Most, but not all, of the above issues relate to the NBAA, its role, capacity and
effectiveness. Given the pivotal role of that institution in the sector, those issues are discussed first
below, followed by discussion of the other issues.
2.03      NBAA's role reigarding prequalification and postqualification training  has been
discussed in a number of reports. Many observers see a possible conflict of interests in NBAA's
training of students for its own pre-qualification examinations. NBAA is therefore withdrawing
completely from this activity. IAA has become an independent state-owned institution instead of one
owned and directed by NBAA There are numerous training institutions in the country and NBAA
is encouraging the creation of more, particularly privately-owned, and in areas not adequately served
by state-owned schools. NBAA continues to provide continuing professional education along side
the TAA, but this is an activity from which NBAA should probably withdraw as soon as the TAA
demonstrates its capacity to provide it adequately.



-9-
2.04      NBAA's issuing of Tanzanian accounting and auditing standards has lagged well behind
the publication of international standards which NBAA is trying to adopt after adapting them to
Tanzanian laws and conditions. This is largely a result of inadequate staff and financial resources -
one of the main problems this project is designed to address. Even for those standards it has issued,
NBAA lacks the capacity for enforcement again largely because it does not have enough staff with
the requisite qualifications and experience. Other inadequacies hindering NBAA's effectiveness
include its difficulties in organizing and moderating examinations and maintaining a members' register,
and the fact that it operates from three different offices in Dar-es-Salaam, and needs to move into
one location. All these issues are being addressed through a broad-based sector development strategy
in which several donors are now participating with the Government, and of which this project forms
an integral part (see Section C below).
2.05      Increasine the number of qualified accountants in the country has been a primary
concem. NBAA has so far successfully resisted suggestions that it should lower its examination
standards in order to improve the pass rates in its examinations (currently about 20% nationwide).
There is now a consensus that the right way to increase the number of accountants is to improve
training quality, not to reduce examination requirements. NBAA (in common with most Tanzanians)
is concemed to ensure that a Tanzanian-qualified Certified Public Accountant (CPA) should be seen
to be in every way as well-qualified professionally as a CPA from any other country.
2.06      The shortage of accountants in the public sector is seen by many as resulting, not just
from the national shortage, but also from the poor salaries paid in the civil service. As of March 1992
the most highly-paid accountants in the civil service were eaming less than TSh25,000 (about
US$100) a month. This is after a decision by the Govemment a few years ago to pay a salary
premiumn to accountants by classifying their skill (along with medicine and engineering, for example)
as rare. Although free housing sometimes adds ten times the cash salary to the total remuneration,
the cash part of the package is still too low to attract and keep CPAs in the civil service. A policy
based on eliminating free housing but paying a much higher cash salary would save money for the
Government while providing the employee with a much larger discretionary income to spend on
either private housing or something else. This issue needs to be tackled in the context of the overall
civil service reform, as it goes beyond the accounting, auditing and legal professions. It is, in fact,
being addressed by the Public Sector Adjustment Credit currently rinder preparation.
2.07      The question of a special accountancy qualification for the civil service is related to that
discussed in the preceding paragraph. Tanzania's CPA training (as with such training in most
countries world wide) although commendable efforts have been made to broaden it, is still heavily
biased in favor of commercial or private sector accounting. Part of the 'iew strategy on which NBAA
is currently embarking, therefore, involves the introduction of a new qualification: the Advanced
Diploma in Government Accounting and Auditing. NBAA has approved a detailed plan for
introducing this qualification, and has applied to the ODA for financing to implement it. Apart from
the hope of making this qualification more relevant to the needs of the civil service, it is also hoped
that it will result in Government being able to retain more qualified accountants in its service.
B. Legal Sector Issues
2.08      The major issues include:
(a) the proper limits of Bank involvement;



- 10-
(b) the legal profession's lack of knowledge of commercial and corporate matters;
(c) the inadequate capacity of the judiciary to cope with its workload; and
(d) lack of relevant up-to-date legal material in Tanzania.
2.09      'he proper limits of Bank involvement constitutes an issue. The Bank's mandate has to
do primarily with economic development, rather than with human rights, the police force, or prison
services. It will be necessary, therefore, in designing assistance to this sector, to clearly define where
the Bank's mandate ends, but that of its bilateral partners continues. Already there is clear evidence
that many donors are keenly interested in pursuing human rights aspects of the rule of law and
related matters in which the Bank would not normally be involved. This crucial issue would be dealt
with in the proposed study.
2.10      Lack of knowledge of modem commercial law and practioe poses some danger for the
economic liberalization program now underway in Tanzania. There is a shortage of lawyers
conversant with commercial and corporate matters in the various government agencies (including the
judiciary), as well as in private practice. This problem would be directly addressed through this
project.
2.11      The overloading and inefficiency of the judiciarg constitute a much bigger problem which
can be addressed directly by this project only in part, but would be examined in depth during the
sector study. Skill levels are generally poor. Lower level personnel (primary court magistrates and
court registry staff) in particular are inadequately trained. The project would begin to address these
training needs.
2.12      There is a lack of relevant. uv-to-date legal material to enable lawyers and judges to
undertake their tasks. The Tanzanian Law Reports have not been printed since 1982, and there has
not been a revision of the Laws of Tanzania (as required by statute) since 1965. This should be done
at least every ten years. In addition, the law libraries are totally inadequate. This issue would also
be directly addressed by the project.
C. Sector Development Strateces
2.13      Accounting and Auditing. During the last ten years numerous inquiries have been
conducted into the state of the accountancy and auditing professions and many recommnrldations put
forward for their development. In 1991, under the auspices of the IDA-financeL Financial
Adjustment Credit, ODA financed the latest and one of the most comprehensive of these studies,
which came up with proposals for a strategy for the developmeLt of the sector. Most of these
recommendations have been accepted by the NBAA and the donor community, and many are already
being implemented.
2.14      Following is a summary of the main elements of this strategy:
-  NBAA is to withdraw from training students for its own examinations;
-  NBAA should take on the new function of accounting and audit review -
monitoring the performance of practising accountants and auditors to ensure that
it is up to acceptable standards, and disseminating best practises;



- 11 -
- NBAA should intensify its program of issuing accounting and auditing standards,
and take on the new responsibility of enforcing those standards;
- NBAA should introduce continuing professional education (CPE) to keep
practising accountants up to date with the latest best practice;
- NBAA should be strengthened with training, technical assistance, and its own
office building, to enable it to carry out the responsibilities described above;
- TAC's monopoly of the audits of parastatal companies should be removed;
- A new syllabus and qualification should be introduced to deal with the accounting
needs of the civil service;
- The roles of NBAA and TAA should be more clearly defined with NBAA
focussing more on the setting and enforcement of standards, and TAA on
member-related services and professional promotion; and
* The Accountant-General, the Controller and Auditor-General, and TAC should
all be assisted with staff training and technical assistance.
2.15      Actions to implement the above strategy have been taken, not only by the Govermnent
of Tanzania and NBAA, but also by the donor community. Most of NBAA's actions in pursuit of
the strategy have been described in Section A above. Proposed donor activities fitting into the
strategy include the ODA-financed training and technical assistance project to the Accountant-
General's office, the OCAG, and the Institute of Development Management (IDM), Mzumbe. They
also include continuing SIDA assistance to TAC, and NORAD assistance to IDM.
2.16      This project would represent the single most comprehensive attempt to date to implement
the new sector strategy. It would include not only provision of material assistance to key sector
institutions targeted by the strategy, but also policy actions, such as NBAA Schedules for introducing
accountinc and auditing standards, action plans for removing TAC's monopoly, a cost recovery study,
and othei measures detailed in the next chapter.
2.17      The Legal Sector. Government, the Bank, and bilateral donors have agreed on a two-
part strategy for assisting the development of the legal sector in Tanzania, namely:
-  a limited direct assistance to alleviate some of the more pressing needs identified
in Section B above under 'Issues"; and
-  a major sector study with Government, Bank, and bilateral donors' participation
designed to diagnose the sector problems, and prepare an action plan (including
indicative project briefs) for its development.
2.18      There is at present no clearly articulated Government strategy for the development of
the sector. There is, nevertheless, a recognition that there are major problem areas within the legal
profession, the judiciary, and the support services. Some of these needs are so obvious and non-
controversial that they can be immediately addressed. However, it is important that a strategy for the
sector be developed, which takes into account the various needs and expectations of the sector.



- 12 -
Under the Project, assistance would be provided to the Government to enable it to develop such a
strategy and a program for the implementation of the strategy.
2.19      There is intense interest, on the part of donors active in Tanzania, in supporting activities
in this area, in pursuance of the good governance theme. The Nordic Governments (particularly
DANIDA and SIDA), ODA, the Canadian Government, and USAID have shown interest. However,
this is an area where there is very little expertise, and all bilateral donors are looking to the Bank to
play a coordinating role. The donors are interested in participating in the development of the
strategy for the sector, and have indicated that they have the necessary resources to support the
various studies that will go into developing the strategy.
2.20      Past Role of the Bank and Lessons of Experience  The Bank has never financed a
project to assist either accounting and auditing or the legal sector. However, the Bank has had direct
experience of the inadequacies of accounting and auditing in the public sector. This has taken the
form of poor compliance with the auditing covenant on many IDA-financed projects in Tanzania.
It was largely this experience that alerted the Bank to the existence of a problem in that area. It is
hoped that the successful implementation of this project would improve public sector accounting and
auditing in the medium to long term, while more intensive supervision and focus on this specific issue
should improve the situation in the short term.
D. Rationale for Project Components
2.21      The main factors responsible for low accounting and auditing standards in Tanzania have
been identified in many studies, as well as in Chapter I and this chapter, and may be summarized as:
(a)   inadequate dissemination and enforcement of acceptable accounting and auditing
standards; and
(b)   inadequate numbers of qualified accountants and auditors in the country in
general, and in the public service particular.
2.22      The problem in 2.21 (a) (inadequate dissemination and enforcement of accounting and
auditing standards) above has been funher diagnosed as due primarily to (i) inadequate staff skiDls,
inexperience, inadequate and fragmented office accommodations and poor equipment at the NBAA--
the sole institution in Tanzania responsible for setting and upholding accounting and auditing
standards; (ii) the inadequate supply of accountancy text-books; and (iii) the inadequate human and
material resources available to key public sector institutions, such as the office of the Controller and
Auditor-General, which is responsible for auditing all civil service accounts.
2.23      The inadequate supply of accountants to the country as a whole is largely a result of poor
pass rates in professional accountancy examinations due to problems in key accountancy training
institutions, particularly the institute of accountancy, Arusha (IAA) and the Institute for Finance
Management (IFM) which are currently receiving no foreign assistance. These problems include:
(i) inadequate skills of trainers, particularly in such subjects as advanced financial
management, quantitative analysis and computer science;
(ii) difficulty of attracting and retaining staff due to poor salaries and inadequate staff
housing;



- 13 -
(iii)  poor library facilities everywhere;
(iv) the incomplete development of the LAA's administrative and training facilities;
and
(v) poor office and training equipment, e.g., computers.
2.24      In the legal sector the most pressing problems have also been identified in Chapter I and
this chapter as:
(i) the absence of a long term strategy for the development of the sector;
(ii) the inadequacy of skills throughout the sector, especially in such areas as
commercial and company law;
(iii) the absence of up-to-date laws, due to the long neglect of law revision and long-
delayed publication for the laws of Tanzania;
(iv) inadequate library facilities for judges and legal practitioners who need access to
up-to-date legal decisions and precedents;
(v) poor office equipment and informatioan systems; and
(vi) inadequate post-qualification training facilities.
IIL THE PROJECT
A. Rationale and Objectives
3.01      Implementation of the Economic and Social Reform Program in Tanzania is placing
heavy demands on public sector accounting, auditing, financial management, legal management, and
administration of justice in Tanzania which are outstripping the laudable efforts the Government has
been making to meet them. The reasons for this state of affairs are manifold, but underlying the
inadequate level of services is a number of problems cutting across several other public sector services
and activities, including, for example, an inadequate supply of trained staff, poor equipment, and
inadequate performance incentives. This capacity building project is designed to address these
problems.
3.02      The issues in public sector accounting and auditing have been reasonably well-analyzed
in many studies over the years, and a strategy for developing the sector has recently evolved. In the
legal sector, however, the issues require considerable further analysis and a detailed strategy for full
development still has to be prepared. For these reasons, a cautions two-pronged approach is adopted
of providing limited and obviously-needed assistance, while financing a study designed to remove, or
at least reduce, the uncertainties described above.



- 14 -
Objectives
3.03      The objectives of the project are to improve accounting and auditing standards on the
one hand, and the legal regulatory framework and the administration of justice on the other.
B. Project Components
3.04      Table 1 shows the five p3roject components, the beneficiary institutions, and the type of
assistance each institution would receive under the project. Unless where specified otherwise, all
costs (both in Table 1 and the rest of this Section) are base cost (i.e., without provision for physical
or price contingencies). Project incremental costs (Component V in Table 1) represent estimated
maintenance costs of buildings, additional rental for NBAA staff housing, vehicle operating costs and
other incremental expenses which project institutions would incur, as a result of project investments.
Government would be expected to finance these as well as any part of local procurement not
financed 100% by IDA, as explained in Section E below.
Fiancial Manai-ement Unpirading USS12 million)
3.05      The problems highlighted in paragraphs 2.21 to 2.23, would be addressed through (a)
better dissemination and enforcement of acceptable accounting and auditing s.andards by the National
Board of Accountants and Auditors (NBAA) and the Office of the Controller and Auditor-General
(OCAG); and (b) increasing the national output of CPAs by strengthening the two most relevant
training institutions, IAA and IFM.
3.06      The National board of Accountants and Auditors (NBAA) would be assisted under the
project through training, technical assistance, the preparation of study manuals, office equipment,
vehicles, and office accommodation. In-service traiing would be provided to upgrade technical and
professional skills of the NBAA staff. Staff need to be trained in modern accounting and auditing
techniques to enable NBAA to complete its program of issuing accounting and auditing standards,
and to expand its activities to include computer training for students and members, and to introduce
practice review. The subcomponent would provide for NBAA staff to take masters degree courses
in accounting, business, and public administration as well as short term courses relevant to their work.
Details of the training program are in Annex 1 and the Project File.
3.07      Technical assistance for NBAA would be provided to help to introduce a practice re"iew
system whereby NBAA would review whether an auditor is complying with relevant standards. This
subcomponent would provide the NBAA with an expert for four weeks in the first year, and two
weeks each in the second and third years of the project to assist in drawing up guidelines for practice
review, and monitoring the work of the NBAA reviewers, and an expert for similar periods to assist
the NBAA in reviewing and updating its examination syllabus. In addition, the project would finance
short-term consultancy to teach information technology and the latest techniques in accounting,
auditing and costing in NBAA's program of continuing professional education (CPE) aimed at
practicing accountants and auditors. NBAA brought to negotiations a schedule of accounting and
auditing standards it plans to issue, with target issue dates, and assurances were obtained at
negotiations that NBAA would implement that schedule.
3.08      In addition, the project would finance NBAA's preparation of studv manuals. Pass rates
in the NBAA examinations are very poor. Textbooks in Tanzania are in very scarce supply, and there
are no books covering Tanzanian accounting, auditing and taxation. To improve examination pass



- 15 -
rates and increase the number of accountants and auditors in the country, the NBAA has recruited
authors to write 30 study manuals over the next two years. These manuals would be sold to students
at prices designed to recover fuli production costs. The project would finance initial production and
printing expenses. Thereafter manual production is expected to be self-financing.
TABLE I
PROJECT COMPONENTS SUtMMAU
Compnuter&                            Office&
t ohnbal   Study                Ofc                                 Reidential
h rn                                   Training Astnoe  Manuab            j      Equlpment   Printing Vehice,    Accommod.          Total
1. Flnianl Msnagemmnt
NBAA                                       487         108        168         -         174          -       146          2661      3e24
OCAG                                       163            -         -         -          74          -       111              -       338
IAA                                        69         1260          -       614          79          -        78          3466      6085
IFM                                        668         720          -       166         626          -       160             -      2320
StJB-TOTAL                              1997         2088       168       680          963         0       486           6008     12387
11. LSee10
Attorney-General's Offie
-Clvll&lntematinalDivision                 179         200          -       176         200         -          -             -       764
- Chief Parimntary Draftsman               284         180          -         -           -      1800          -             -      2264
- Administrator-General's Offloe           100           -          -         -           -       360          -             -       460
Judciary                                   801           _          _       176         200       370         30             -      1376
Law Feform Coimlmalon                      180          60          -         -          60         -         -              -       260
Regletr rofCompane                         111i          -                    -          84         _         _              _       196
SUB-TOTAL                               1436          430         0       360         634       2620        30                     6299
Ill. STUDIES
Legal etor Strategy                          -           -          -         -           -         -         -              -       260
oCt Roo-eyStudy -SI1
TAC Study                                    -           -          -         -           -         -          -             -        so
SUB-TOTAL                                  _90
IV. PROJWECt OOOROINATION:
-Financel                                    -           -         -          -           -         -         -              _       18e
-Lagal           -            -         -         -           -          -         -~~~                  ~ -  188
- Prjeot Launch Workshop                     _           _         _          _           _         _                                  7
SUB-TOTAL                                  -           -         -          -           -         -         -              -       3603
V. ICNtEMENTAL OPERATION COSTS               -           -          -         -           -         -          -             -       793
TOTAL BASE COST                           3432        2618        168      1030        1487      2620       615           6006     19212



- 16 -
3.09      The project would also finance computers and office equipment for the NBAA whose
equipment is heavily over-utilized and does not meet the demands of running a growing professional
body. The NBAA currently has a manual system for members and students records, and an
accounting system which is time consuming to use and does not enable the NBAA to easily analyze
data. A computerized database for members and students and a computerized accounting system
would help alleviate these problems. There is an urgent need to train accountants in computer skills,
so that they can effectively use and help design the computer systems currently being installed in
Tanzania. This includes not just familiarization with basic computer programs, but also training in
the use of accounting software. The NBAA can play a very useful role in enabling members and
working students, who do not have access to college facilities, to gain hands-on computer experience.
This subcomponent would provide the NBAA with computers, peripheral equipment and software,
as well as other office equipment detailed in Annex 1 and the Project files.
3.10      The project also provides for five vehicles to enable NBAA to meet its transportation
needs, particularly for conducting its professional oversight role and for arranging and conducting
examinations simultaneously in different parts of the country.
3.11      NBAA offices are currently scattered in three different locations in Dar-es-Salaam: NIC
House, which is its headquarters and main office; Mavuno House which houses its Education,
Research and Training, and Examinations Division; and Mhasibu House where three temporary
classrooms have been built for training and to house the printing unit. This attempt to operate out
of three locations is not only an administrative nightmare, but also a great waste of managerial time
and fuel, especially given telephone and other communication problems, as NBAA managers
commute between these three sites in an effort to co-ordinate NBAA activities. To make matters
worse, none of the three offices is really adequate for the purpose for which it is intended.
3.12      NBAA's efforts to rent consolidated offices in Dar have proved futile, not only because
of the shortage of office accommodation in the city, but also because NBAA is not in a financial
position to compete with businesses for commercial space. A recent ODA-financed study has
therefore recommended that NBAA be provided with a grant to enable it to construct its own office
building.
3.13      The NBAA holds the title to the Mhasibu House plot of land. The plot covering 1.614
acres, is large enough to accommodate all NBAA's office requirements. The project would finance
the construction of the NBAA headquarters in Dar Es Salaam which would include: (i) civil works
and external works (estimated at US$4.4 million equivalent) comprising about 900 m2 for office space,
and 1,900 m2 for training, library, and other facilities; (ii) related equipment and furniture (estimated
at US$1.1 million); and (iii) technical fees (estimated at US$0.4 millions equivalent) for
design/supervision of civil works and procurement of goods. Construction is expected to be
completed in Project Year 2. Details of space areas in square meters, room occupancy and costs are
given in Annex 1. To promote close collaboration and eventual integration of NBAA and TAA (the
CPA member organization), assurances were obtained at negotiations that NBAA would provide
three offices for TAA in the new building. Government also brought to negotiations a statement of
its future policy for the development of the accountancy profession, with particular reference to the
future relationship between NBAA and TAA
3.14      The project would also finance for the Office of the Controller and Auditor-General
(OCAG) (Annex 2) training, computers and office equipment and vehicles. The OCAG needs to



- 17 -
train its staff in three new areas crucial for the propoi exercise of its audits of all civil service
accounts, namely, contract audit, value for money audit, and computer accounting and auditing. The
project would provide financing for these courses. The project would also finance the local trainig
of already-identified OCAG staff for the CPA examination. In addition, the project would finance
computers, typewriters, and vehicles foi OCAG's twenty offices located in all the twenty provinces
of Tanzania.
3.15      As explained in paragraph 3.06 above, cfforts to increase the national output of CPAs
would center on strengthening IAA and IFM, two key institutions responsible for training students
for CPA examinations. The IAA, located on the outskirts of Arusha, is a residential campus for full-
time students, producing better examination results than the national average. IFM is in Dar-es-
Salaam, and has a large number of part-time anoi day students.
3.16      For the Institute of Accountancy. Arusha (IAA) (Annex 3) the project would finance
staff training, technical assistance, library support, computers and office equipment, vehicles, and
office and residential accommodation. Training of trainers is necessary because, although the
examination pass rates at the IAA are over twicc the national average, there is still considerable room
for improvement. To improve student performance, the lecturing staff at the LAA need to be better
informed in modern accounting and auditing techniques. The subcomponent would provide for a few
masters degree courses, and several short update courses in financial accounting, cost and
management accounting. Technical assistance would consist mostly of two substitute lecturers, each
for 2 years, to temporarily replace staff who would be going away on training, plus short-term
consultancy to provide seminars for LAA staff, particularly in computer literacy. Details of training
courses and consultancy arrangements are in Annex 3 and the Project Files.
3.17      The poor condition of most libraries in the count±y has been noted earlier in this report.
In both MAA and IFM - two important training institutions for the CPA examinations - there are very
few text books, and what exists is mostly out-of-date. Accordingly, the project would finance librazv
support for IAA in the form of already-identified and necessary text-books, periodicals and library
equipment.
3.18      The equipment and vehicles that IAA has are insufficient to meet the needs of a growing
teaching establishment. Although it plans to teach computer applications, it is now completely devoid
of computers. Therefore, in addition to some basic library equipment, this subcomponent would
provide LAA with a limited number of computers, photocopiers, duplicating machines, overhead
projectors, electric typewriters, power bank, audio-visual equipment, and a public address system. The
IAA would cover the costs of installation. In addition, given that the LAA is located a considerable
distance from a town which has little public transportation, and most of the administrative personnel
live in town, the project would finance one car and two mini-buses to transport staff and students.
3.19      All the buildings on LkA's campus have been fmianced by the Government of Tanzania -
one of the many practical examples of the importance the Government attaches to the development
of competent accountancy skills at the highest level. The buildings already completed and currently
in use include classrooms, two students' hostels, 18 staff houses, a kitchen/cafeteria attached to one
of the residential blocks, a theater, and part of an administrative block housing all the offices as wvell
as the library.
3.20      Construction of the administrative block was not completed due to lack of funds. LAA
clearly will not have enough offices or library space unless the administrative block is completed.



- 18 -
Moreover, the half-completed structure, not properly roofed, is deteriorating fast. So the already
considcrable investment in it would bc lost il the building was left uncompleted. Also the cafeteria
is so poorly-designed as to constitute both a health and a fire hazard. In addition, there is not
enough housing for staff or for the expected future student expansion. During project preparation,
both the administrative block and the proposed new cafeteria were re-designed to more modest (and
less costly) standards than the original buildings. The project proposes to finance these specific works
designed to complete the development of the institute to a more modest design than was originally
intended.
3.21      Accordingly, the project would finance the extension and remodeling of the LAA which
would include: (i) civil works and external works (estimated at US$3.4 million) comprising an
administration block with a library for students and teachers, a board room and offices (2,000 m2),
boarding facilities (1,100 m2), a cafeteria (910 m2), and 12 additional staff houses (1,740 m2); (ii)
related equipment and furniture (estimated at US$0.6 million equivalent); and (iii) technical fees for
design/supervision of civil works and procurement of goods (estimated at US$0.4 million equivalent).
Construction is expected to be completed in Project Year 2, with the exception of civil works for the
staff housing and extension of boarding facilities. The signing of the contract and disbursement of
IDA funds for staff housing and boarding facilities will be subject to confirmation that the student
population has increased to 150 and is likely to increase to 300 within 2 years thereafter. Details of
space areas in square meters, room occupancy and costs are given in Annex 3.
3.22      In a further effort to increase the output of CPAs by improving the quality of training,
the project would provide the Institute for Finance Management (IFM) with financing (US$2.3
million) for staff training, technical assistance, librarv support, computers and office equipment, and
vehicles. As regards staff training, the IFM wishes to expand its curriculum to introduce computing
courses and extend the coverage of its finance and business courses, but for the purpose will have
to upgrade skills of faculty members. Under its training budget the IFM will be able to finance some
40 man-years of training in Tanzania over the coming five years. The IFM however, does not have
sufficient money within its recurrent budget to finance external training. The project would provide
financing for IFM staff to participate in degree and non-degree courses in accountancy,
banking/insurance, taxation, financial management and busir.ess administration/computing. These
courses are for both academic and administrative staff. The project would also finance 3 consultant-
years of technical assistance: two for a Professor in Finance and/or Accounting, to teach advanced
courses in accounting, and one for a Lecturer in Computer Science, to help set up facilities and the
teaching of computer courses. Library support would include identified text-books and periodicals,
as well as essential library equipment listed in Annex 4. There is a growing need for accountants to
be able to use computers. In addition there are no diploma courses in computing in Tanzania. T:he
IFM wishes to introduce computer courses not only for accountants, but also for students who wish
to specialize in computing. This subcomponent would provide IFM with a computer lab consisting
of a mini computer networked to 20 PCs with appropriate software, five heavy duty printers, simple
air conditioning and wiring, as well as visual aids and equipment for desk-top publishing.
3.23      Through sponsorship by the Tanzania banking and insurance community, IFM has been
able to construct a six story building comprising hostel accommodation and six classrooms. The
Institute's sponsors who had pledged financial support to furnish the classrooms are now unable to
provide the funding. The classrooms are needed if the IFM is to cope with the ever increasing
demand for its courses and IFM is to provide the right learning environment. The project would
therefore provide the IFM with classroom equipment and fittings, the replacemen: of a central



- 19-
cooling system in the lecture theater, library and function room, and other essential equipment and
vehicles.
Upgrading the Legal Sector (USS5.0 million)
3.24      As explained in Chapter II, project assistance to the legal sector would be in two parts:
(i) immediate direct assistance to alleviate some of the pressing needs of the sector; and (ii) a study
designed to produce a long-term development strategy for the sector. Project direct assistance would
be provided to the Attorney-General's office, and, more specifically, to three divisions in that office,
namely, the Civil and International Division, the Office of the Chief Parliamentary Draftsman, and
the Administrator-General's office; the Judiciary; the Law Reform Commission and Registrar
Companies. The Attorney General's office would also oversee the formulation of the development
strategy for the legal sector.
3.25      At the Attomey-General's office. the project would finance training, technical assistance,
library support, and the first stage of a management information and legal database system. Staff
ahiinr would include participation by staff members of the Civil and International Division in
courses offered by the International Development Law Institute (IDLI) and the International Law
Center (ILC). These involve development lawyers courses, courses on negotiation skills, privatization,
procurement, capital markets, etc. One or two masters level courses would also be included. The
training for the office of the Chief Parliamentary Draftsman concentrates on legislative drafting, a
very specialized skill. The training for this involves a combination of short - and longer-term training
courses spread over three years. This includes the diploma in legislative drafting run for British
Commonwealth countries in Barbados, as well as shorter curses run in India, and by the Royal
Institute of Public Administration in England. About three of the more senior staff members would
pursue LLM courses in legislative drafting. In addition, law revisers would undertake two month
attachments with the legislative departments of neighboring Commonwealth countries where the
legislative departments function well. As the new laws being drafted are increasingly in the
commercial and corporate law areas, there is included in the project the opportunity for some of the
draftsmen to attend some of the short courses on relevant areas being offered by IDLI and ILC. The
training needs of the Administrator-General's Office are somewhat different, involving mostly study
tours to other Commonwealth countries which have good registration programs, e.g., the U.K, Kenya,
Pakistan, etc. In addition there would be some short-term training in demographic data collection.
3.26      The project would also finance for the Attorney-General's Office some technical
assistance to develop a management information and legal database system, revise the laws of
Tanzania (a general and continuing exercise), and undertake a review of laws dealing with commercial
matters, starting with the Companies Ordinance. Government brought to negotiations a statement
of areas of law to be reviewed, with indications of approximate completion dates and assurances were
obtained from Government that it would adhere to that schedule during project implementation.
Other project support to the Attorney- General's Office would involve the acquisition of legal books,
legal journals, shelving, equipment and other materials. The project would als. finance the printing
of forms for the Office of the Administrator-General. Assurances were obtained at negotiatioais lh it
the Administrator-General would be allowed to charge realistic fees for services rendered and that
Govermment would provide that office with a minimum annual budget equivalent to US$300,000
adjusted for inflation.
3.27      For the JudiciaI the project would finance training, library support, typewriters, and
computers and other office equipment needed for a first-stage management information system.



- 20 -
3.28      The training needs of the judiciary are immense and the project can only make a modest
start at meeting them, especially in the absence of a strategy for the development of the sector.
There are, however, some very basic needs that this project can begin to address, especially with
regard to the exposure of Judges and magistrates to new developments in the law which are
increasingly relevant to the work that they are doing, especially in the area of commercial laws. The
project therefore provides for a series of local seminars and workshops for High Court judges,
resident and district magistrates. These seminars, which would be organized locally with some outside
expertise, especially at the high court level, would be as follows:
(a) High Court Judges. This would involve annual two week seminars for groups of
about 15 judges at a time on new developments in commercial law, as well as
aspects of the efficient administration of justice.
(b) Resident magistrates. Local seminars would be organized for groups of about 35
magistrates at a time. As there are 137 resident magistrates, these training
courses which would be organized twice a year, would cover all the magistrates
in two years. Again this training would be partly refresher courses as well as
exposing the magistrates to new developments in relevant areas of the law,
especially in the commercial law area. In addition, there would be courses on
techniques for speeding up the administration of justice.
(c) District magistrates. Again local seminars covering areas similar to those for the
Resident magistrates would be organized for the 134 district magistrates. They
would be divided into six groups of about 30 each. The plan is to hold these
workshops three times a year at the Institute of Development Management
(IDM) at Mzumbe.
(d) RegistTy assistants. Under the Project the most senior Registry Assistants (court
clerks, registry staff, etc.) attached to the High Court and those in charge of the
registries at some of the other busy court centers would participate in two-week
workshops covering subjects relevant to the efficient running of a court registry,
i.e., standard registry procedures, documentation and reporting requirements.
These workshops would have 50 or fewer participants. About three seminars
would be organized each year.
(e) Registrars The Registrars of the Court of Appeal and of the High Court, as well
as the Senior Deputy Registrars would attend at various times an 8 week course
offered by the Royal Institute of Public Administration (RIPA) on the
comparative study of the administration of justice. This course is a comparative
study of commonwealth and British systems through lectures and an exchange of
participants' own views and experiences. In addition, it examines different
records, techniques of archive management, use of advanced technology in the
administration of justice, etc.
3.29      Other project support for the Judiciary would include upgrading of the Hiig-h]Cur
library in Dar es Salaam involving the acquisition of books, legal materials and journals, as well as
some shelving and other library equipment. In addition 400 typewriters would be acquired for the
magistrates courts. They would be distributed to those courts where there is no typewriter at present.
Some basic computer equipment for the management information system would be acquired. The



- 21 -
project would also finance the printing of Tanzania Law Reports (for about US$370,000) during the
first two project years.
3.30      The Law Reform Commission would receive project support for staff training, technical
assistance, and computers necessary fer a iirst stage management information system. Training would
involve, for the senior staff, sbhJrt attachments and study tours ,as well as courses run at the
International Develonment Law Institute (IDLI), Rome, and short research methodology courses run
by the Eastern and Southern Africa Management Institute (ESAMI). In addition, there would be
computer training for some of the support staff.
3.31      The Registrar of Companies would be assisted by the project through staff training and
supply of equipment. The project would finance on the job training of four identified staff of the
Department at courses not exceeding six months each on intellectual property and other job-related
subjects. In addition, the project would finance the attendance of five other senior staff at short
courses on intellectual Property or the Lawyers Development Courses. The project would also
provide photocopiers, computer work stations, and microfilm, duplicating, air-conditioning, and
voltage stabilization equipment. Further details of this component are in Annex 9, Page 15.
Studies (US$390.000)
3.32      The project would finance three studies:
(a) a study to prepare a detailed strategy for the development of the legal sector
(legal sector study);
(b) a study of means of recovering directly from beneficiaries as much as possible of
the operating costs of project beneficiary institutions (cost recovery study); and
(c) a study of practical steps necessary to implement the Government decision to
open up the audit of parastatal organizations to registered auditors other than the
Tanzania Audit Corporation (TAC study).
3.33      Legal Sector Studs. Given the extent of the legal sector problems described in Chapter
1, and the lack of either a rigorous analysis of these problems, or a strategy for the sector's
development, there is a need for Govemment to undertake an in-depth study of the various
institutions and actors iri the sector, and to devise a strategy to improve its performance. The studies
that need to be undertaken in the development of the strategy would be wide-ranging and
comprehensive. They would deal with the judiciary and the administration of justice, the role of
lawyers both in the private sector and in govemment, legal education at the university as well as post
university, and in-service training for the sector (both professional and paralegal), the role and
develo ment of legal information systems, building up of a legal database for use by the sector, and
pos-. .e roles and sources of bilateral and multilateral assistance. The project would finance the
various studies needed to assist the Government in developing this strategy. The terms of reference
for the overall development of the strategy and the supporting components are in Annex 6. Expertise
in various areas would be recruited by the Government to assist in undertaking this task. In addition,
the Project would finance various workshops to discuss the studies and work of the experts. At the
conclusion of the study the Government would hold a donors meeting to present the strategy, as well
as the action plan and timetable for the implementation of the strategy. Assurances were obtained



- 22 -
during negotiations that Government would complete preparation of the strategy and hold the
donors' conference not later than December 31, 1993.
3.34      Cost Recovery Stud:. The project would finance about three consultant-months of
technical assistance and associated costs of studying methods of increasing cost recovery in the
institutions (financial and legal) scheduled to benefit from this project. The study would be managed
by NBAA. Terms of reference are in Annex 7. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
Government would submit to IDA a report on this study not later than December 31, 1993.
3.35      TAC Study. The project would also finance about two consultant-months of time and
other costs of a study designed to recommend specific ways of implementing the Government's
decision to remove TAC's monopoly of the right to audit all parastatal organizations in Tanzania.
Under the Public Corporations Act, the Minister of Finance can appoint any registered auditor to
audit the accounts of any parastatal in which Government holds more than 50% of the voting shares.
Where the Government shareholding is less than 50%, the Board of Directors can appoint any
registered auditor for the corporation. However, the exact modalities for implementing this decision
are unclear. For example, further legislation may be necessary to remove TAC monopoly in those
parastatals which were set up by special Acts of Parliament. The study would focus on the practical
implementation of this provision, with a view to its facilitation. Terms of reference for the study are
in Annex 8. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that Government would submit to IDA a
report on the TAC Study not later than June 30, 1993.
Project Coordination
3.36      The project would finance during the five-year project period, salaries, secretarial,
transport and office expenses of two co-ordinators for the project - one to be located in NBAA co-
ordinating the financial management component and two financial studies, and the other in the
Attorney-General's Office, coordinating the legal component and legal sector study. Further details
of this component are in Annex 9, Tables 11 and 12.
C Cost Estimates
3.37      The project is estimated to cost US$22 million (Table 2) of which about US$16 million
(70%) would be in foreign exchange. These costs include physical contingencies of US$0.8 million
(4% of base costs) calculated on the civil works and hardware components only, and price
contingencies of US$2.5 million(13% of base costs). The latter have been calculated for local costs
at the rates of 14% for 1992, 12% for 1993, and 10% thereafter; and on foreign costs at 3.5% for
1992, through 1995, and 3.9% thereafter. Base costs have been estimated as of March 31, 1992. The
first project year is assumed to run from July 1, 1992 to June 30, 1993, and the completion date is
expected to be June 30, 1998. The costs exclude all taxes and duties from which the government
project beneficiaries are exempt. Project costs are sumimarized in Table 2 below, shown year by year
in Annex 9, and fuither detailed (showing quantities, unit cost, etc.) in the individual component
annexes (Annexes 1 through 5), and in the Project Files.



- 23 -
TABLE 2
TANZANIA
FILMUP PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
T. Sh. Million             =     USS 000
Item                                  Local  Foreign     Total    Local  Foreign    Total Forelgn % % of Total
Base Cost
I. Financial Management
NBAA                                  293.0    595.0    888.0   1196.0   2428.0   3624.0      67.0      19.0
OCAG                                   38.0     47.0     83.0    145.0    193.0    338.0      57.0       2.0
IAA                                   328.0   1163.0   1491.0   1339.0   4746.0   6085.0      78 0      31.0
IFM                                      -    568.0    568.0         -   2320.0   2320.0    100.0       12.0
Sub-Total                           657.0   2373.0   3030.0   2680.0   9687.0  12367.0       78.0     64.0
II. Legal Sector
Attorney-General's Office
-Civil & International Division          -      93.0     93.0        -    379.0    379.0    100.0        2.0
-Chief Parliamentary Draftsman           -      70.0     70 0        -    284.0    284.0    100.0        1.0
-Administrator-General's Office        44.0     66.0    110.0    180.0    270.0    450.0      60.0       2.0
-Techn"cal Assistance                    -    105.0    105.0         -    430.0    430.0    100.0        2.0
-Printing                             220.0    221.0    441.0    900.0    900.0   1800.0      50.0       9.0
-Ubrary Support                          -      43.0     43.0        -    175.0    175.0    100.0        1.0
Judiciary                              77.0    260.0    337.0    313.0   1063.0   1376.0      74.0       8.0
Law Reform Commission                    -      51.0     51.0        -    210.0    210.0    100.0        1.0
Registrarof Companies                           47.0     47.0        -    195.0    195.0    100.0        1.0
Sub-total                           341.0    956.0   1297.0   1393.0   3906.0   5299.0      72.0      25.0
Ill. Studies:
Legal Sector Strategy                    -      61.0     61.0        -    250.0    250.0    100.0        1.0
Cost Recovery Study                      -      20.0     20.0        -      80.0     80.0    100.0       0.4
TAC Study                                -      15.0     15.0        -      60.0     60.0    100.0       0.3
Sub-total                             0.0     96.0     98.0       0.0    390.0    390.0    300.0       2.0
IV. Project Coordination:
- Financial                            21.0     25.0     46.0     85.0    103.0    188.0      55.0       1.0
- Legal                                16.0     25.0     41.0     65.0    103.0    188.0      60.0       1.0
- Project Launch Werkshop               2.0        -      2.0       7.0       -       7.0      0.0       0.0
Incremental Operating Costs           194.0       -    194.0    793.0         -    793.0       0.0       4.0
Sub-total                           233.0     50.0    283.0    950.0    206.0   1156.0       18.0      6.0
TOTAL BASE COST                      1231.0   3475.0   4706.0   5023.0  14189.0  19212.0      74.0
PHYSICALCONTINGENCIES                  65.0    137.0    202.0    264.0    561.0    825.0      68.0       4.0
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                   355.0    238.0    623.0   1450.0   1094.0   2544.0      43.0      13.0
TOTAL COST INCLUDING ALL
CONTINGENCIES                       1651.0   3880.0   5531.0   6737.0  15844.0  22581.0      70.0    117.0



- 24 -
D. Fmancing
3.38      Proposed project financing is summarized in Table 3 below:
Table 3
Project Financing Plan
(US$'Q0)
Item                              IDA      Government      SIDA    Total
Direct Support to Accounting
Auditing and Legal Sector     19,152     1,213          226     20,280
Studies                           439          -            -        439
Project Co-ordination
- Financial                     212          -            -        212
- Legal                         189          -                     189
- Project Launch                  8          -            -          8
Incre. Operating Costs          ------       122            -      1.122
TOTAL                          20000       2 55           226     22581
Percentages                        88.6%      10.4%       1%       100%
3.39      The project would be financed as to US$20.0 million (89%) by IDA, US$2.3 million
(10%) by Government, and US$226,000 (1%) by SIDA. Government financing would pay for
incremental operating costs including incremental costs of providing housing to entitled NBAA staff
not currently housed, and proportions of costs of goods and civil works procured locally. SIDA
financing would pay for all costs of revising and printing Tanzanian laws, under parallel financing
arrangements. IDA financing would pay for all project costs not covered by either Government or
SIDA financing. IDA funds would be a credit to the Government of Tanzania on standard IDA
terms. SIDA financing would be a grant to the Government of Tanzania. All project financing
(IDA, SIDA and Government) would be passed on to beneficiary project institutions as grants from
the Government of Tanzania to those institutions.
E Procurement
3.40      The table below summarizes the project elements and their estimated costs and proposed
methods of procurement. Disbursement and implementation Schedules, allowing sufficient time for
various procurement steps, are given in Annexes 10 and 11 respectively.



- 25 -
Table 4
Summary of Proposed procurement Mraffaments
(US$ million equivalent including Contingencies)
Procurement Modeods
Tdai
Prolect Elements                                      ICB        LCB       Other      N.B.F.        CoOt
1. CivilWorks Contracts (buildings)                    6.85       -          -          -           8.85
(Excluding Part B)                                   (6.96)     -          -          -           (5.95)
2. GOODS
2.1 Vehicles                                         0.58       0.10       -    -    -            0.05
(Excluding Part B)                                 (0.62)    (0.00)      -    -    -           (0.81)
2.2 Office Equipment& Computers                       1.00      0.54       0.20       -           1.74
(0.98)    (0.49)     (0.18)      -          (1.85)
2.3 Printng of Law books & Reports                   2.83       -          -          -           2.83
(Excluding Part A)                                 (2.89)     -          -          -           (2.89)
2.4 Ubray Books & Ubrary Equipment                   1.12       -          0.10       -           1.22
(1.08)     -         (0.09)      -          (1.16)
3. CONSULTANCIES
3.1 Oesign/Engineering/Supervision                   -          -          0.72       -           0.72
(Excluding Part B)                                 -          -         (0.72)      -          (0.72)
3.2 Technical Assistance                             -          -          2.92       0.22 /a     3.14
-         -          (2.92)      (-)        (2.92)
3.3 Editng of StudyManuais                           -          -          0.18       -           0.18
(Excluding Part B)                                 -          -         (0.18)      -          (0.18)
3.4 TrainIng                                         -          -          3.73       -           3.73
-         -          (3.73)     -           (3.73)
4. MISCELLANEOUS
4.1 ProjectCoordination (Salaries)                   -          -          0.13       -           0.13
_ -       (0.13)     -           (0.13)
4.2 Project coordination (Operation & Malnt.)        -          -          0.27       -           0.27
-         -          (0.27)     -           (0.27)
4.3 incrementalOperatingCosts                        -          -          -          1.12 /d     1.12
_         _          -           (-)         0.00
Total Costs                       12.35       0.64       8.25       1.34       22.58
Total Fnancec by the IDA credit           (11.20)     (0.58)     (8.22)      (-)       (20.00)
.-SU    SMu mma=                 Si
Note:' Figures In parentheses are the respectIve amount financed by the iDA credIt.
N.B.F.: Not Bank-Financed.
The foilowing capital letters show the project components
Part A Financia Management
Part B: Legal and Judicial Framework
* Footnotes with small letters indicate amounts financed by Government and SIDA
procured under their procedures:
(a): US$0.22 financed by SIDA
(b): US$0.06 financed by SIDA
Figures may not add up due to rounding



- 26 -
3.41      The civil works included under the project are for: (i) the construction of the NBAA
headquarters in Dar Es Salaam comprising offices, and training facilities estimated at about US$3.2
million equivalent; and (ii) the extension and remodeling of the library, offices, boarding facilities
and staff housing at the LAA in Arusha, estimated at about US$3.6 million equivalent. Construction
is expected to be completed in Project Year 2, with the exception of civil works for the extension of
boarding facilities and staff housing at the IAA. The signing of the contract for boarding facilities
and staff housing and IDA financing thereof will be subject to confirmation by IDA that the student
population has increased to 150, and is likely to increase further to 300. All civil works contracts
financed by IDA and totalling US$6.8 million equivalent, would be grouped into three packages,
estimated to cost more than US$2 million each. These items, which are suitable for International
Competitive Bidding, (ICB), would be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits issued in May 1985. "Instructions to Bidders"
would clearly determine presentation of updated critical information on the bidder's financial and
technical strength, and indicate the minimum requirements for bidders to be qualified. A preferential
margin of 7.5% would be given to domestic contractors, in accordance with IDA's Guidelines.
3.42      Goods financed under the project would include vehicles, furniture, computers, printing
of books, library books and equipment, office equipment and supplies, for a total value of US$6.4
million equivalent including contingencies. Most of the goods would be procured in Project Years
1 and 2. They would be grouped into about 5 packages of at least US$100,000 each to be procured
through Intemational Competitive Bidding (ICB), in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, issued in May 1985. Where ICB procedures are
used, a preferential margin of 15%, or the applicable customs duty, whichever is less, over the c.i.f.
prices of competing goods wouk'r. r v given to domestic manufacturers in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines. Contracts for goul, .,rocured through ICB would total US$5.5 million, representing
about 85% of the total value o'fgo s Is financed by IDA.
3.43      Other contracts for the purchase of one or two urgently-needed cars, office furniture, or
supplies, estimated to cost less than US$100,000 each, for which there is not enough time to group
into packages of at least US$100,000 equivalent, and which are not likely to attract foreign bidders,
would be awarded through local competitive bidding (LCB), in accordance with procedures acceptable
to IDA, provided that the aggregate amount of such procurement does not exceed US$0.6 million
(equivalent to 9% of the total value of goods financed by IDA).
3.44      The remaining 5% of the total value of goods, mainly office supplies, journals and paper
products, which cannot be grouped into bid packages of at least US$30,000 equivalent each, would
be procured on the basis of prudent international and/or local shopping based on price quotations
obtained from at least three reliable suppliers to ensure competitive prices, provided that the
aggregate amount of such procurement does not exceed US$0.3 million equivalent.
3.45      Consultants financed by IDA, totalling US$7.5 million equivalent would be contracted
in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants issued in August 1981. The
nature of these consulting services would be mostly for training activities, preparation of manuals and
technical assistance, but they also include architectural services for the design and supervision of the
construction program, and for procurement services. The consultancies for preparation of NBAA
manuals for each subject would be contracted directly with individual specialists selected on a sole
source basis and resulting in contracts not exceeding US$20,000 each. The cost estimates for
consultancies are net of taxes. Consultancy services to be financed by IDA would total about 380



- 27 -
man-months, most of these being for training services. Terms of reference for major consultant
services and details of training and other consultancies (including description of services, local/foreign,
estimated time of completion and costs, and selection process) are given in Annexes 6, 7 and 8, and
in individual annexes dealing with project components (i.e. Annexes 1 through 5).
3.46      Procurement status of ongoing Projects in Tanzania. The disbursement lag under certain
ongoing IDA-funded projects is partly the result of poor procurement practices, i.e., poor planning
and slow progress in civil works due to inadequate supervision, and the Government's cumbersome
procurement procedures. The capacity of project units to plan and closely supervise IDA-financed
procurement has been also a major constraint to the timely execution of project activities. However,
recently, resulting from closer supervision and an emphasis on solving the problem, major
improvements have been observed in some projects.
3.47      Procurement arrangements under the propoged project. For the proposed project a
number of actions are planned in order to strengthen the Project Coordinators and others involved
in the implementation process:
(a)  Two project coordinators would be recruited -- one for financial management
component and the other one for the legal sector component. Past experience
in project management and procurement would be taken into consideration in
the selection process. They would participate in a four-week training course in
procurement, organized jointly by the International Trade Center (ITC) and
ESAMI, in Arusha, Tanzania, from July 3 to 31, 1992;
(b) A detailed implementation schedule for works, goods and services to be
procured under the project was prepared at time of appraisal; it was reviewed
and updated during negotiations. This would contribute to ensuring timely
processing of all actions required. During implementation, all bid evaluation
reports transmitted to IDA for review would contain an updated copy of the
implementation schedule;
(c)  Design, preparation of bidding documents, and supervision of civil works are
being contracted out to a local consulting firm selected in accordance with IDA
Guidelines. Based on the scope of the construction program agreed at
appraisal, schematic designs and specific accommodation requirements have
been prepared by another consultant;
(d) Project coordinators would be in place before credit or grant effectiveness.
3.48      The two Coordinators within the NBAA and the Attorney-General's Office would be
responsible for procurement. They would have periodical access to support from internationally-
recruited procurement specialists, as required, (two man-months per year during the first three years
of the project). fhe two coordinators would be responsible for the preparation of bidding documents
prior to credit effectiveness.
3.49      The coordinators would also develop a capacity to collect and record procurement
information, as follows: (a) Prompt reporting of contract award information; (b) Comprehensive
monitoring of reports to IDA (on a semiannual basis and at time of submission to IDA of each bid
evaluation), indicating: (i) revised cost estimates for individual contracts and the total project,



- 28 -
including best estimates of allowances for physical and price contingencies; (ii) revised timing of
procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract award, and completion time for individual
contracts; and (iii) compliance with aggregate limits cn specified methods of procurement.
3.50      A Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) has been completed in 1987. For
this project, findings of the CPAR remain valid. In general, Tanzania's current procurement laws and
regulations do not conflict with IDA Guidelines. Regarding ICB, no special exemptions, permits or
licenses need to be specified in credit documents because Tanzania's procurement practices allow
IDA's procedures to take precedence over any contrary provisions in the local regulations. With
IDA's assistance under the IDA-financed Integrated Roads Project, a consultant is being selected to
assist the Government in reviewing current Government supply and management procedures, and in
preparing standard bidding documents. Proposals would also oe made for the issuance of new
comprehensive procurement regulations.
3.51      Review by IDA  IDA-financed contracts for works above a threshold of US$1 million
equivalent and contracts for goods above a threshold of US$100,000 equivalent each would be subject
to IDA's prior review procedures. The review process would cover 100% of the total value of the
amount contracted for works, and about 86% of the total value of the amount contracted for goods
financed by IDA. Selective post-review of awarded contracts below the threshold levels would apply
to about one in three goods contracts.
3.52      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the proper monitoring of the
procurement, as well as the use of Bank Sample Documents and standard procurement documents
in Tanzania to be developed by the Ministry of Public works. The Government gave assurances at
negotiations that it would apply the procurement procedures and arrangements outlined above.
F. Disbursement
3.53      IDA funds would be disbursed as indicated in the table below. Government would
finance project incremental costs (building and equipmental maintenance, incremental rent for staff
housing at NBAA, fuel, etc.), except the operating costs of project coordinators' offices. Government
financing also includes Government shares of any civil works, goods or printing procured locally.
SIDA financing for law revision would be disbursed 100% against that item, and to the extent that
it fails to cover all the law revision scheduled during the project period, IDA funds (if available)
could be applied for this purpose.
USS Million Proposed Disb. %
(a) Civil Works                 5.37            100% of foreign and 85% of local costs
(b) Vehicles and Equipment      2.06            100% of foreign and 90% of local costs
(c) Training                    3.36            100%
(d) Technical Assistance        2.92            100%
(e) Library books and equipment    1.05         100% of foreign and 90% of local costs
(f) Printing                    2.42            100% of foreign and 90% of local costs
(g) Studies                     0.38            100%
(h) Project Coordination        0.39            100%
(i) Refunding of PPF            0.25
(j) Unallocated                 1.80
20.00



- 29 -
3.54      Disbursements for all IDA-financed expenditures would be against full documentation,
except for the operating costs of the project co-ordinators' offices and orders with values below
US$20,000 (or its equivalent in local currency), which would be based on statements of expenditure.
Supporting documents for statements of expenditure should be retained by the borrower for IDA
review during project supervision. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that Government would
abide by the disbursement procedures described in this and the preceding paragraph.
3.55      The project activities and commitments would be undertaken within five years, but
disbursements are expected to trail into the sixth year, according to the following schedule, which is
detailed in Annex 10.
Estimated IDA Disbursements in USS Thousands
FLscal Year             1993     1994    1995   1996      1997      1998
Annual                  810     4,614    7,025   6,440     744      367
Cumulative             810      5,424   12,449  18,889   19,633   20,000
3.56      The rate of disbursement indicated in the above paragraph is quite conservative, given
that 72% of project costs (mostly for buildings) are expected to be incurred in the first two years of
the project, and 94% in the first 3 years. The conservative schedule assumed here, especially in
project years 1 and 2, allows for the inexperience and learning curve of project coordinators and
others who would be involved in the procurement and disbursement processes.
3.57      To ensure that funds for the project would be readily available when needed, and to
reduce the number of disbursement claims to be processed, two special accounts in US$ would be
opened by the Central Bank in the name of the Project in an off-shore commercial bank, one for the
financial management component and its coordinator at NBAA (handling ali the financial
management-related components, studies and coordination), and the other for the legal framework
component and its coordinator at the Attorney-General's Office (for the legal sector component, legal
sector study, and coordination). Upon credit effectiveness, US$0.5 million would be deposited by
IDA in each of these accounts, to pay for IDA-financed expenditures. Further deposits to replenish
the Special Account wou!d be made against withdrawal applications supported by appropriate
documentation. Assurances would be sought at negotiations that the borrower would implement the
rules described in this paragraph for the opening and operation of the special accounts.
G. Accounts and Audit
3.58      All project beneficiary institutions already maintain accurate and up-to-date accounts
which are audited by auditors acceptable to IDA. The appraisal mission obtained on demand audited
accounts (all with clean audit reports) for the five immediately preceding years, for NBAA, and IFM.
3.59      The Financial Management Component Coordinator (FMCC) and the Legal Sector
Component Coordinator (LSCC) would each maintain records adequate to account for all project
funds for which they are responsible. For each coordinator, these records would take the form of
(i) a Cash Book to record all funds received and paid out in respect of the project; (ii) a Special
Account Cash Book to record Special Account transactions; (iii) an Order Book to record all orders



- 30 -
placed on behalf of the project, (iv) a Bills Payable Book to record all unpaid charges (e.g., unpaid
engineers or architects certificates for civil works); (v) a Bills Receivable Book to record any credits
received by the project; (vi) Bank Statements for all project bank accounts (including the Special
Accounts); (vii) monthly Bank Reconciliation Statements for all project bank accounts; and (viii)
receipts, invoices, and similar evidence of transactions. All project implementation transactions
(including procurement orders, disbursements, receipts, payments, etc.) would pass through the
coordinator for recording purposes before reaching their destinations, even though coordinators have
no executive power for project implementation, except for their office budgets. On June 30 each
year, each coordinator would prepare: (i) a Receipts and Payments Account; (ii) a list of Unpaid
Commitments; (iii) a list of Credits Not Yet Received. These three documents are the "annual
accounts" to be submitted to IDA annually.
3.60      The annual accounts referred to in the above paragraph, and the Special Accounts and
Statements of Expenditures referred to in para. 3.57 would be audited annually by an auditor
acceptable to IDA. The Receipts and Payments Account, list of Unpaid Commitments, list of Credits
not Yet Received, Special Accounts and Statements of Expenditures, together with the auditor's
report on each of them, would be submitted to IDA within nine months following the end of each
project year. Project years would run from July 1 to June 30.
3.61      Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the borrower would implement the
provisions described in para. 3.59 and 3.60 above with regard to project accounting and auditing.
IV. PROJECI IMPLEMENTATION
A. Oreanization and Management
4.01      No new institution would be created under this project. Instead, project beneficiaries
would apply the enhanced human and material resources supplied by the project in the improvement
of the quality of their services. In view of the large r.umber of beneficiaries involved, and to facilitate
project implementation and supervision, a Financial Management Component Co-ordinator (FMCC)
to be located in and answerable to the National Board of Accountants and Auditors would co-
ordinate and report on the implementation of all accounting and auditing components, including
assistance to firnancial training institutions, while a Legal Sector Component Coordinator (LSCC) to
be located in the Attorney-General's office, and answerable to the Deputy Attorney-General, would
similarly co-ordinate and report on the implementation of all components concerned with the up-
grading of the legal framework and administration of justice.
4.02      Within the broad project management arrangements described in the preceding
paragraph, each of the nine agencies listed in the matrix in Chapter Im, Table 1, would be responsible
for implementing its own project components in accordance with procurement and disbursement
guidelines described in Chapter HI. However, as also stated in the Chapter III, all project
transactions and related documents would pass through the coordinators, since they would be
effectively the project accountants.
4.03      Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the two project coordinators:
(a) would be appointed before effectiveness of the IDA Credit; and



- 31 -
(b) would be sent to ESAMI with PPF financing to participate in a Procurement
Seminar not later than October 31, 1992.
4.04      During Project preparation a committee was established to undertake the preparation
of the legal component. This committee would be continued under the Project. The Lg!al
Component Committee (LCa) would be chaired by the Deputy Attorney-General and consist of
members from the Civil and International Division, the Legislative Division and the Administrator-
General (all of the Attorney-General's office), the Secretary of the Law Reform Commission, the
Registrar of the Court of Appeal and the Registrar of Companies. The LCC would meet at least
quarterly, and would review progress and resolve any outstanding issues.
4.05      For the legal sector study, the Government would by December 31, 1992, establish a Task
Force. to be headed by an eminent Tanzanian lawyer, with representation from the judiciary, the
Attomey-General's Office, the Law Society and the University of Dar es Salaam. The Task Force
whose secretary would be firnanced by the project would supervise the work of the various specialists
undertaking the studies and would prepare the necessary reports. The Task Force would also
organize, not la er than December 31, 1993, the Donor's conference at which the strategy would be
discussed. The IDA allocation for this component (US$281,000 including contingencies) would pay
for Tanzanian consultants and domestic travel costs of the task force. There is a high donor interest
in participating in this study and several donor countries have agreed to cofinance it, at least by
financing the costs of participation of their nationals on the task force.
4.06      Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Borrower would retain the LCC,
appoint the Task Force, and hold the donors' conference as described in paragraphs 4.04 and 4.05
above.
B. Monitoring. Evaluation and Reporting
4.07      On the borrower's side the project would be monitored by the two project co-ordinators.
T-hey would prepare not later than June 30 of each fiscal year (except for 1992/93 when the relevant
date would be September 30, 1992) a budget of the amount of project work (i.e. in terms of physical
implementation), procurements and disbursements expected during the project year. On December
31 and June 30 each year, they would prepare and send to IDA Progress Reports comparing the
actual with budgeted physical implementation, procurements and disbursements. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations regarding these budgeting and progress reporting arrangements. A Project
Supervision Plan is in Annex 12.
4.08      A Project Launch Workshop will be held in Tanzania within three months following
credit effectiveness, and financed from the project, to acquaint staff of beneficiary institutions, IDA
and cofinanciers w1th problems likely to be encountered during project implementation, and work out
possible solutions. In addition, IDA would endeavor to field project supervision missions every six
months during the project period.
C Mid-term Review
4.09      Approximately two and a half years following credit effectiveness (i.e. not later than June
1995) there would be a formal mid-term review of the project mounted jointly by Government, IDA
and SIDA to assess not only the progress of implementation, but also the continued relevance of the
project's assumptions and provisions for the rest of the project period. The review mission would



- 32 -
produce an 'Aide Memoire" recording its conclusions and recommending any action it considers
necessary in order to improve project implementation. To the extent that this has not already been
confirmed by IDA supervision missions, the mid-term review would, among other things, assess
whether IAA's student population has increased to 150 and is likely to increase within the following
two years to 300 - the trigger point at which construction of the additional student hostel and staff
housing provided for in the project would be justified.
4.10      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that Government would appoint
participants and fully collaborate with IDA and SIDA in the mid-term review.
V. BENEF1TS. RISKS. AND SUSTAINABILTY
A. Benefits
5.01      Although the institution building nature of this project makes most of its benefits hard
to quantify, a few can be quantified, and would be carefully monitored during the project. For
example, the pass rates of iAA students in the national CPA examinations (currently about 40%
compared with the national average of 20%) would be monitored. Pass rates of both IAA and IFM
would be established in the first project progress report (probably due as of December 3 ', 1992).
Thereafter, changes in these pass rates would be reported in each progress report as one quantitative
index of training improvement.
5.02      Tanzania's standards of accounting and auditing are also expected to show considerable
improvement as a result of the project. Government brought to negotiations:
(a) a schedule of accounting and auditing standards to be issued during the project
period, with the approximate issue dates; and
(b) a statement of areas of Tanzanian law scheduled for review during the project
period, indicating expected dates of completion. Each annual budget for the
project would show that year's work, and each progress report would include
progress achieved in the implementation of both (a) and (b) above.
5.03      In addition to the quantitative benefits described in the two preceding paragraphs, every
progress report and every supervision mission report would also endeavor to present an assessment
of qualitative improvements observed in the performance of each of the ten project beneficiary
agencies.
B. Impact on the Economic Reform Prram and the Environment
5.04      The improvements expected to result from this project are a pre-requisite for the
realization of many of the benefits anticipated from Tanzania's economic reform program. For
example, revision of the Companies Ordinance is a pre-requisite for the success of the parastatal
reform and privatization program. Private investment also requires a reliable and transparent legal
framework, as well as good accounting and auditing systems. To a large extent, therefore, this project
provides the practical underpinnings for the policy changes being introduced under Tanzania's
structural adjustment programs.



- 33 -
5.05      Enviromnental AsDect   This technical assistance and training project raises no
environmental issues. Contracts for buildings would require contractors to rectify any environmental
disturbances caused by their activities.
C Sustainability
5.06      The project is easily sustainable for several reasons. As noted in Chapter IV, no new
institution is to be created under the project. Existing agencies would basically carry on with their
normal functions. They are not even being required to carry on any major activity in which they are
not already engaged. However, they would be receiving funds to complete the next phase of their
already-planned expansion, as well as training, and technical assistance designed to improve their
efficiency. In the case of NBAA and the training institutions, the permanent increase in their
recurrent costs resulting from the project would be more than compensated by the increased revenues
expected to result from their improved quality of service, increased clientele, and greater cost
recovery. For the institutions involved in the legal sector, no significant increase in recurrent costs
is anticipated.
D. Risks and Uncertainties
5.07      The only foreseen risk is the possible inability of beneficiary agencies to absorb and put
to good use the resources and improvements being introduced through the project. However, built-in
project measures, such as training, technical assistance, highly decentralized project management, but
close coordination, and gradual phasing of expenditures are all designed to minimize that risk.
VL ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      The following would be a condition of effectiveness of the IDA credit:
- appointment of the two project coordinators, FMCC by the NBAA, and LSCC
by the Attorney-General's Office (para. 4.03).
6.02      The following would be conditions of disbursement of specific portions of the IDA credit:
(a) the offer by NBAA of three offices to TAA in the proposed NBAA office
building would be a condition of IDA financing of the office building (para. 3.13);
(b) satisfactory evidence being furnished to IDA that the regular student population
at the IAA has increased to 150 would be a pre-condition for disbursement of
IDA funds for the financing of the student hostel and the staff housing (para.
3.21).
6.03      Assurances were obtained at negotiations that:
(a) Government would abide by the schedules agreed at negotiations for issuing
accounting and auditing standards, and reviewing laws (para. 3.07);



- 34 -
(b) the Administrator-General would be allowed to charge realistic fees for services
rendered and Government would provide his office with a minimum budget
equivalent to US$300,000 annually, adjustedr for inflation (para. 3.26);
(c) procurements would be in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.47
through 3.52;
(d) disbursements of the IDA Credit would be in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 3.53 and 3.54;
(e) two off-shore Special Accounts would be opened by Government and operated
as described in paragraph 3.57;
(f) Government would send the two project co-ordinators to a procurement seminar
in ESAMI, Arusha, not later than October 31, 1992 (para. 4.03);
(g) Government would retain the LCC, appoint the legal sector strategy Task Force
not later than December 31, 1992 (paras. 4.04 and 4.05);
(h) annual budgets and work programs would be prepared and sent to IDA not later
than June 30 each year (September 30 in Year 1), and compared with actual
performance in each progress report (para. 4.07);
(i) Government would by June 30, 1995, undertake jointly with IDA and SIDA a
mid-term review (para. 4.10);
(j) Government would submit the report of the cost recovery study to IDA not later
than December 31, 1993 (para. 3.34);
(k) Government would submit the report of the TAC study to IMA not later than
June 30, 1993 (para. 3.35); and
(l) Government would prepare the legal sector strategy and hold the donors'
conference not later than December 31, 1993 (para. 3.33).
6.04     Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the project is suitable for an IDA Credit
of SDR14.6 million (US$20.0 million equivalent) to the Government of Tanzania on standard IDA
terms with 40-years maturity.



- 35 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 9
TANZANIA - FILMUP PROJECT
THE NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCOUINTANTS AND AUDITORS
A. Baskground
1. NBAA was established under the Accountants and Auditors (Registration) Act of 1972, which
requires all accountants and auditors practicing in the country to register with the Board. The main
functions of the NBAA are to conduct examinations and regulate the activities and conduct of accountants
and auditors. The NBAA offers an accounting technician qualification plus a professional Certified Public
Accountant (CPA) qualification. In addition to its student education programme the NBAA organizes
short seminars for practicing accountants. Despite its many achievements, the NBAA is constrained in
the activities it can undertake by both staff capacity and finance.
B. Training
2. The objective of this sub component is to develop NBAA staff so that they are capable of running
an effective and efficient body with high accounting and auditing standards. To be able to do this staff
need to be trained in modem accounting and auditing techniques. In particular, NBAA wishes to
complete its program of issuing accounting and auditing standards, and expand its activities to include
computer training for students and members, and to introduce practice review. Under this Project
funding would be provided for seven masters degree courses in accounting, public
administration/management, financial management, management and computer science, five diploma
courses, one CPA course and 13 short update courses in financial accounting, manpower management
and administration, records management, computer studies and examination administration.
C. Technical Assistance
3. A problem in Tanzania is lack of compliance with accounting and auditing standards. It is very
important therefore that auditors maintain the highest standards. NBAA would like to introduce a practice
review system whereby it would review whether an auditor is conforming to NBAA's standards. NBAA
staff have not had experience of operating such schemes. In 1991 NBAA introduced a new examination
syllabus. Until NBAA staff receive additional training they lack the experience to be able to review the
syllabus to ensure that standards are being maintained and where necessary improvements are being made.
This sub component would provide NBAA with an expert for eight weeks over the life of the project to
assist in drawing up guidelines for practice review and monitoring the work of NBAA reviewers, and an
expert for eight weeks over the life of the project to assist NBAA review its examination scheme.
D. Other Assistance - Study Manuals
4. The objective of this sub component is to improve the pass rates in the NBAA examinations. Pass
rates in NBAA examinations are very poor. Textbooks in Tanzania are in very scare supply, and there
are no books covering Tanzania accounting, auditing and taxation. To improve NBAA's pass rates and
increase the number of accountants and auditors in the Tanzania NBAA has recruited authors to write 30
study manuals over the next two years. These manuals would be sold to students at a price they can
afford, and which would cover the cost of the printing. NBAA needs assistance with paying the authors
and editors, and for typesetting and pasting. Funding would also be provided to cover the initial start
up costs of the printing, thereafter the manuals would be self financing.



- 36 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 9
E. OMce Equipment. Computers and Computerized Information Systems
5. NBAA has been fortunate in receiving some equipment financed by the British Council and Irish Aid.
The equipment is however, heavily over-utilized and does not meet the demands of running a growing
professional body. NBAA currently has a manual members and students record system, and an
accounting system which is time consuming to use and does not enable NBAA to easily analyze data.
A computerized database for members and students and an accounting system would help alleviate these
problems. There is an urgent need to train accountants in computer skils, so that they can effectively
use and help design the computer systems currently being installed in Tanzania. This includes not just
familiarization with basic computer programs, but also training in the use of accounting software. NBAA
can play a very useful role in introducing members and working etudents, who do not have access to
college facilities, to gain hands-on computer experience. This sub v . nponent would provide the NBAA
with seven typewAiters, six duplicators, one heavy duty photocopier, one telex, one facsimile machine,
fifteen personal computers, software and three printers.
F. Transport
6. NBAA is required to travel around Tanzania to conduct examinations, give seminars, inspect teaching
institutions and visit companies. The activities of the NBAA are limited due to few vehicles it possesses.
This sub component would provide NBAA with an additional three four wheel drive vehicles and two
minibuses to enable it to offer a better service to its members and students.
G. Ofice Accommodation
7. NBAA occupies three sites: NIC House, which is its headquarters and main office; Mavuno House
which houses its Education, Research and Training and its Examinations Divisions and Mhasibu House
where three temporary classrooms have been built for training and to house the printing unit. This
fragmentation causes NBAA administrative problems. In addition NBAA has been advised that from
1992 its rent for NIC House will increase to a level it cannot meet. NBAA holds the title to the Mhasibu
House plot of land. The plot covers 1.614 acres, and the NBAA would like to build some additional low
level buildings so that all its activities can be located on one site. NBAA does not have the financial
resources to do this. This sub component would provide office accommodation for NBAA.



- ~37 -
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 9
TANZANIA - FILMUP PROJECT
THE NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCOUNTANTS AND AUDITORS
TRAININQ - US$'000
cou                                      TAR I      TEAR S    TEAR                T TEA 4  ARS    TO_AL
A. LONG TERM
m|u                                                            23       22                   45
| Dj_ is Tb                              27                                                 27
D4i- is ButM P                                                22                            45
Dq3  i PP6i.s                            27                                                  27
MSG 241,sv o eT.dr                                  23        22                            45
M.| Acmbas                               27                                                  27
M &BA                                    23         23                                      45
MS Aamodia                                          27                                      27
US, Opti.~ R....&                                                                  22       45
I4PA                                                 2                                       27
CPA M GO IV                                                    2.       is                   4 6
ADCA                                      is         1 .        s                            69 9
ADBA                                                 is        2.    _ 3            6         9l
SUBTOTAL                                 10)$      1326       73.9     49.6       22        3784
3 SHORT TERM
33 isff wu 1. &        3                 X 30       24        24      *10         20        to
TTl.                    =34                          3      3     i 5iii0.6  97.9  596    4 2  4144



!N B
_3~~~~           I i |
S0000gg~~~~~~~  jS  E~ s26
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ p22UH !  v



Eojectd Cost Comparisons for Civil Works
(All areas are gross in2. Other figures are T.Sx1000)
NEMA                                 Brief Cost Projection                               Design Cost Projection
1. Office Building                886m2   @ 140 =    124,000                      900m2   0 140 =   126,000
2. Other facilities
New Construction               1448m2  @ 140 =   202,720                       1380m2 @ 140 =   193,200
Repovation                     379m2  @  35 =       13,265                     460m2  @  35 =    16,100
3. Housing                         23xt 16m2 @ 130=   34.840                      24x121nm2 @ 130      377.520
Total NBAA                      5380m'              686,713                                         712,820
1. Admin. Building
New Building                 1481m2  @ 120        177,720                   1256m2 x 120 =       150,720
Renovation                    541m2  @  30 =      16.230                     614m2 x 30 =         18.420
Sub-totals                   2022m2               193,950                    1870m2              169,140
2. Boading Facilities
Housing                       569m2  @ 120 =   68,234                        960m2 x 120 =       115,200
Cafeteria                     911m2  @  80 =    72,882                       900m2 x 80          72,000
Recreation                    23m2  @ 120 =        2,754                      50m2 x 120 -        6,000
Sanitary                      518m2  @ 120 =   62208                         178m2 x 120 =       21
Sub-totals                   2021m2              206,078                    2088m2               214,560
3. Staff Housing
Bungalows                    12 x 146m2 x 100 =   174.9                     12xl26.25m2xl00 = 151.
Total IAA                                        574,988                                         535,200
PROJECT TOTALU                                       1,261,700                                      1,248,020



ANNEX 1
A land-swap (or exchange of equal pieces of land), with the  Page 6 of 9
neighbouring secretarial school, could result in an increase of 5 or 6 parking
spaces at no extra expense.
Expansion to the facility can take place in the front car park area.
3.    Net and Gross Areas
No     S&a=                                 Brief Area             DesigLn Area
Office Block
1.      Board Room                             48 m2                 48 m2
2.      Office for Board Room                  17                    12
3.      Registrar                              24                    24
4.      Secretary                              12                    12
5.      Waiting                                12                    12
6.      Directors         (4 @  17 m)          68    (4 @  18 m)    72
7.      Secretaries       (4@  12 mi           48    (4 @ 13.5m2)    54
8.      Managers          (14 @ 12 m2)        168                    168
9.      Secretaries       (7 @  l0in)          70                    84
10.     Staff            (12 @  12 mi         144                   144
Net                                  611 e2                630 m2
Gross                                 886 m2               849 m2
Other Facilities
11.     Library                               440m2                540 i2
12.     Periodicals                            48                   48
13.     Seminar
Rooms            (3 @ 42 im2)         126                  126
14.     Multi Purpose
Rooms            (2 @42 rn)            84                  84
15.     Storage                                87                  150 2
16.     Cafeteria                             348                  200
17.     Kitchen                                -                   120 2
18.     Lobby                                 174                  100
19.     Desktop Publishing                     35                   40 2
20.     Printing                               74                   80 2
21.     Toilet                                 61                   48
22.     Toilet                                 -                    302
23.     Maintenance Room                       35                   402
Net                                  1259                  1606
Gross                                1826                1748



ANNEX 1
- 41 -                                Page 7 of 9
24.      Caretaker's House (Existing and not included in net or Gross Areas)
I Includes Library Office, Reference Area & check out desk.
2 Area is in an existing structure



- 42 -
AN NEX I
Page 8 of 9
TANZANIA
FILMUP PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
THE NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCOUNTANTS AND AUDITORS
Background
1.         NBAA was established under the Accountants and Auditors (Registration) Act of 1972,
which requires all accountants and auditors practicing in the country to register with the Board. The main
functions of the NBAA are to conduct examinations and regulate the activities and conduc; of accountants
and auditors. The NBAA offers an accounting technician qualification plus a professional Certified Public
Accountant (CPA) qualification. In addition to its student education programme the NBAA organize short
seminars for practicing accountants.
Accounting and Auditing Standards Expert
2.         To date NBAA has produced - Tanzanian Accounting and Auditing Standards. Currently
proposed Tanzanian Accounting and Auditing Standards are drafted by members of staff in conjunction
with the Research and Standards Committee, and are approved by the Board of NBAA before they are
issued to members. NBAA has established a five year program to update existing standards and introduce
new accounting and auditing standards. NBAA has not had any formal training in standard setting, and
it would like assistance in the standard setting process to ensure that its standards are of a high quality
and reflect the needs of Tanzania.
3.         A problem in Tanzania is lack of compliance with accounting and auditing standards. To
be able to enforce compliance NBAA would like to introduce a practice review system to examine the
professional standards of auditors. NBAA staff however, have not had experience of operating such
schemes. The role of the expert would therefore be twofold; to monitor NBAA's program of accounting
and auditing standards and to assist the NBAA in establishing a practice review scheme. In particular
the expert would:
-     review all draft accounting and auditing standards, and provide written comments
on the technical content and relevance of each standard;
-     provide guidance to members of NBAA staff, the Research and Standards
Committee and the Board on how to write accounting and auditing standards; and
-     assist NBAA in establishing its practice review program through advising on the
terms of reference for the program, training NBAA staff to carry out reviews,
and undertaking a specified number [to be determined] of reviews with NBAA
staff.
The expert would visit Tanzania three times over the life of the project in 1993, 1994 and 1995. The
first visit wold be for 4 weeks, and subsequent visits for 2 weeks. The expert will report to the Registrar
of NBAA.
Oualifications Required
-     membership of a recognized professional accounting institute;
-     an honors degree in accounting or related discipline;
-     experience of setting accounting and auditing standards;



- 43 -
ANNEX I
Page 9 of 9
experience of practice review programs;
training and writing skills;
experience of working in a developing country would be an advantage;
fluency in English.
Examination Expert
4.         In 1991 NBAA introduced a new examination syllabus. NBAA requires assistance with
reviewing the syllabus to ensure that standards are being maintained and where necessary improvements
are being made. The expert would assist NBAA to:
-     review the role of the examinations committee in relation to the entire
examination process;
-     review the examination scheme to ensure that the progression between levels in
appropriate;
-     assess the practical relevancy of the CPA qualification through a survey of
employer needs;
-     review the syllabus content to ensure that it reflects current developments in
Tanzania, and where applicable worldwide; and
-     ensure that examination standards are being maintained through a review of the
examination papers and a sample of marked ,cripts.
The expert would visit Tanzania three times over the life of the project in 1993, 1994 and 1995. The
first visit would be for 4 weeks and subsequent visits for 2 weeks. The expert will report to the Registrar
of NBAA.
Oualifications Required
-     membership of a recognized professional accounting institute;
-     an honors degree in accounting or related discipline;
-     an in-dept knowledge of examination processes and practices;
-     training and writing skills;
-     experience of working in a developing country would be an advantage;
-     fluency in English.



-44                            ANNEX2Z
Page 1 J 6
TANZANIA - FILMUP PROJECT
OFFMCE OF THE CONTROLLER AND AVDITOR GENERAL
A. Background
1.  The Office of the Controller and Auditor General was set up under an Ordinance in 1961, and the
post of Controller and Auditor General (C&AG) is established in the constitution of the Republic of
Tanzania, which requires the President to appoint a C&AG, and provides safeguards against arbitrary
dismissal from office. The Ordinance directs that all government accounts must be submitted to the
C&AG within four months of the end of the financial year, and must be audited by the C&AG within
nine months of the end of the financial year. The C&AG must submit an annual report on all accounts
audited to the President, who is required to lay the report before the National Assembly.
2.  The Office of the Controller and Auditor General has an established staff of 563 (99 in the audit
cadre and 464 in the examination cadre). It is however, understaffed, and there are only 65 auditors and
320 examiners currently in post. In addition to the staff located in the Office of the C&AG in Dar-es-
Salaam staff are also stationed in some of the larger ministries undertaking continuous audit, and in 20
branches throughout Tanzania. A five year programme of assistance to improve the effectiveness and
efficiency of government internal audit (the responsibility of the MOF) and government external audit
is being financed by the UK Overseas Development Administration (ODA) ('Tanzania Public
Administration Training and Institutional Development Programme (PATID): Government Audit'). The
program which has been running for one year involves bringing audit skills up-to-date and helping build
local capacity, with the aim of increasing the audit cadre to establishment. The project consist of two
long term advisers, two short term advisers, three study visits and attachments and 12 study fellowships
and a programme of in-country training.
B. Assistance under FILMUP
3.  The assistance provided under this Project will build upon and complement the work of the ODA
by filling gaps not financed by the ODA project. In particular assistance for staff to complete their CPA
examinations at the Institute of Accountancy Arusha, and for the financing of 13 typewriters, nine PCs
and six 4 wheel drive cais will be provided.



- 45 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 6
TANZANIA - FILMUP PROJECT
OFFICE OF THE CONTROLLER AND AUDITOR GENERAL
TRAINING - USS'00_
TTVLB          QUALmCATICM      D1Ulls                    .BQWRZD           PROY01 3D   DUJATIO      V3OMON      can
_____________    ___________________        QUALI  CATIOM     Io rmE lT                 DAT3
& A.±          ADCAI/            Had RO&W O9me            CPA m U. IV       uA          2 Ye           9          4
AWk-           ADCA              OW.1 Adis D.O.           CPA mK .4IV      IAA          2 Ye0         19     _   4
A,diW          ADCA              11_I Mijg.1 Al& Usk      CPA IV            MA          I Ye          £993      2
A.&W           ADCA              OMM.1 AsAtl Dii          CPA m me IV       LAA         2 Yen         1993        4
_.&M           ADCA              Rodl RqIc  OIE           CPA m VW IV       MA          2 Ye          £19         4
AM&"           D Co.             Oeol A o1  Ddi4          CPA K Se IV       LAA         2 Yon         199$        4
A              MADI              0wa AU.a DW!w            CPA M od IV    U   A          lYen          199_        4
& A&,L         ADCA              Hld MtiidA£ A.& Us       CPA m e IV        MA          2 Y.          1991        4
Avow           M AD, ACA         T.d AeS11og 0            CPA m e IV       MAA          2 Yet         1993        4
Ae&M           ADCA           O| ei AWAI.g D41,           CPA IV            UA           IYe          1991        2
Audkm          NAD. CPA I        £l MieaI A.* U.i        CPA IV            MAA          I Y          1994         2
.A            tUMAD       _      0_.1 A.i Dii.            CPA m ee IV       MA          2 Ye          1994        45L
A.dw           MAD               01 A4o Di.               CPA m ed IV      MAA          2Ye           £994        4.5
A.&M       HMAD              Oee.1 A.9$iat Di.6       CPA KU se? IV     MA           2y Ye.        99          435
Avw            MAD               Oeal A.MM D34.           CPA mV            MAA          a Ye         199$        2
An*wm          ADCA              0.1l Amfoc Dodo          CPA KU ee IV     MAA          2yo Y..        94          .
Aursug         ADCA              O_ed AJt Di.             CPA KU  IV       LMA          2I Y994 4Y$
Ae~ ADCA                         Oeml A4WW. Dii           CPA m ed IV       MA          2 Y           1994        i3
ADCA             O_.l Atiq Die            CPA m .4 IV        MA          2 Ye         1994         4.3
ADCA              O01 A      Due          CPA m ae IV        MA          2 Ye         1991         43    |
ADCA              Oee  A,d1 D-.            CPA m ud IV       MA         2z Y994                   43
A.&=           HAD               Oe.1 A.Atws Do"          CPA m N4 IV       MA          2 Ye          £9f4         45
AeiL           MAD. ADCA          0mi A.EMf D.            CPA m .d IV       MA          2 Y.          1993         $
HAD              Oe, Aea Di.              CPA m .4 IV       LMA          2 Ye         19"£ _
-As            DC= _             Oee. Atia Die            CPA K ed IV       MA          2 Y                       3
A&w            MAD               Oeeul Adb  Den           CPA K ee IV       MA          2 Yen         1993   _
Aw*            ADCA              Oe.  ARq be              CPA m .d IV       MA          lYI Y£999 9
AdilS          ADMA              OsW AbA Dift             CPA m s IV        MA           lYe          993 
A.             ADCA              O_w1 A  di Dd,           CPA K ee IV       MA           2 Ye         3999      j 3
I/Advanced Diploma in Certified Accountancy
a/National Accountancy Diploma



-46 -                                                       2
Page 3 of 6
TInT         QuLWCATI  OU DVr                      REQUMED         PBOPWZD   DURATION    VKOPOSD   COnT 1
QUALIIICATIOU    £Trlvru              PAIN
1-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ OD u,                                          £Y 991    1 2
ABA I        NABOCBV         Osumi AnSim£ D)d£.    ACAO            RPM        3 Yea       £99        27
ABA I        NAEOCQ          O_a1 AIMWS D,s        ADCA                       S Yen       1993       &7
ARA I        NABOCB          O1nl A.q Dii.         ACA             IDM        S Ye        199£       2
Masmb.
ABA 1        NABOCB          Om" A$q  Di.          ACA             ID"        S you       1993       2_7
ABA I        NASOCS          Diawi A%MM D.         ADCA            IWM        S Yft       193    _ 7
ABA 1        NABOCB _£ A0_              Dii.       ADCA            IDM        I Yon       199        2
.~~~~~~~~Mib
ARA I        NABOCS     0_ -i A_ieq Ddw            ADCA            1PM        S Y         1993       27
AM I         NABCB OOsui A.i Di.                   ADCA            3PM        S Yen       1993       17
AM I         NA_OCS          O.m A.itlua DDli      ADCA            IFPM          Y        1993       2.7
AMA I        KABOCS          0..., A.Wa~ Ddii      ADCA            IRA        S Yfta      £993       2.7
AR I        tABOCI          0-al A*MDd            ADCA           lItM        ITan        190        17
OS.    !      aen£  en4    Smay toC&Ao        _     mmi    E SAU       I      6Ib         1993 
-      ~    ___             __ __                                                 _ _
_          jwm lDw.ae        goth _Dm              M    _-p         n,A       6           ICX        3.
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3.
2/National Bookkeeping Certificate
°fTe Government of Tanzar;a is considering the introduction of an Advanced Diploma in Government
Accountancy end Audit. Funding for the introduction of this three year diploma is being sought from the UK
ODA. If the course is established those members of staff currently identified for the ADCA wil transfer to this
course.



- 47 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 6
TANZANIA - FILMUP PROJLECT
OFFICE OF THlE CONTROLLER AND AUDITOR GENERAL
TRAING - USS'OOO
COURSES           YEA    YEA    YEA    YE,AR   YE       TOT
RI    R2       R3    4        RS     AL
A. LONG TERM
CPA UandlV         2      2                              4
CPA IU SW IV       2      2                              4
CPA IV             2                                     2
CPA M BW IV        2      2                              4
CPA m d IV         2      2                              4
CPA m and IV       2      2                              4
CPA M N~W IV2             2                              4
CPAMUadIV          2      2                              4
CPA M NW IV        2      2                              4
CPA TVndI          2                                     2  
CPA mIV                   2                              2
CPAIMNWIV                 2       2.5                    4.5
CPA IandIV                2       2.5                    4.5
CPA M nd IV               2       2.5                    4.5
CPA IV             2                                     2
CPA M Nd IV               2       2.5                    4.5
CPAMazndTV                2       2.5                    4.5
CPAIMIV                   2       2.5                    4.5
CPA m NW IV               2       2.5                    4.5
CPA M and IV              2       2.5                    4.5
CPA M Md IV               2       2.5                    4.5
CPA M md IV               2       2.5                    4. 5
CPA M II   IV                     2.5    2.5             5
CPA M nd IV                       2.5    2.5             5
CPA mNW IV                        '.5    2.5             5
CPA M nd NV                       2.5    25             5
CPA M  id NIV                     2.5    25             5
CPA M nd IV                       2.5    2.5             5
ADCA                .6    .6    .8                       2
ADCA               .9    .9    .9                        2.7



- 48 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 6
COURSES'                 A      YA       Y        YEAR    Y         TOT
RI       R2       R3       4        RS        AL
ADCA                    .6       .6       .8                          2
ADCA                   .6       .6        .8                          2
ADCA                   .9        .9       .9                          2.7
ADCA                    .6       .6       .8                          2
ADCA                   .6       .6       .8                          2
ADCA                   .9        .9       .9                          2.7
ADCA                   .9        .9       .9                          2.7
ADCA                   .9        .9       .9                          2.7
ADCA                   .9        .9       .9                          2.7
SUB TOTAL             30.4     46.4      51.9     17.5              146.2
D. SHORT TERM
managmcmt              3.5                                            3.5
Dveciopmeat
Madiiii              _3.5         _                                   3.5
TOTAL                 37.4     46.4      S19      17.5              153.2



- 49 -
ANNEX 2
Page 6 ot 6
TANZANIA - FILMUP PROJECT
OFFICE OF THE CONTROLLER AND AUDITOR GENERAL
COMPUTERS AND OFFICE EOUIPMENT - USS'OOO
_    _        =       -    =           =T   -                  =     M  T E=
OM-CE OF THE CONTROLLER AND AUDITOR GE,N,ERAL
-VEHICLES - USS'OOQ
I TR    I   TIR         l                   IiA  I  TIa   Iis4  TOTAL
QWMW  U&  T401 Q.¶iA   - .J  U.a.a  -- .,d                              I  TWA
4_11b.d  4  111.4   0-                      4 __4-
*d.  4). 0    t                                                                  4 1
~~~   *~~~S  L06                                                          IL4   , 10.a
E   E,~~~~~~~.                                                             U,E



- 50 -
ANNEX3
Page 1 of 15
THE INSTITUTE OF ACCOUNTANCY. ARUSHA
A.    Backgound
1.    Tanzania suffers from a poor education system, lacking the necessary basic facilities and teaching
staff. As a result of this students are not very successful in the examinations, particularly at the
professional level. Examination pass rates are around 20%, and the throughput of qualified people is
very slow, leaving considerable gaps in the market place to be filled. It has been estimated that in order
to meet the immediate demand for accountants a further 500 CPAs are needed. The shortage of
accountants is most acute in the public sector, with many vacancies remaining unfilled. IAA, which
opened in 1987, is a purpose built residential college preparing students for the Parts III and IV of the
CPA examinations. Examination pass rates are better than the national average, with 46% of the students
passing the final examinations at the May 1991 examination sitting.
B.    Training
2.     The main objective of this component is to improve the pass rates of students at IAA, by
increasing the technical capabilities of the teaching staff. Although the examination pass rates at IAA are
over twice the national average there is still room for considerable improvement. To increase students
performance the lecturing staff at IAA need to be better informed in modem accounting and auditing
techniques. This sub component would provide for eight masters degree, and 40 short update courses
in financial accounting, cost and management accounting. On completion of this training all staff would
be able to teach more than one subject, and would be able to provide cover for absent colleagues when
required.
C.    Technical Assistance
3.    LAA wishes to introduce students to new techniques such as computing for which they have no
skills. In addition there will be staff shortages when staff are abroad training. This sub component
would provide an expert for one month to introduce staff to computing, and two experts in accountir,
and auditing, and costing and quantitative techniques for 24 man months each to cover for staff when they
are receiving training abroad.
D.    Lbrarv Books
4.    IAA has a shortage of books. This sub component would provide IAA with financial support for
books and journals.
E.    Office Equioment and Computers
S.    The equipment that IAA has is insufficient to meet the needs of a growing teaching establishment.
In addition to some basic library equipment this sub component would provide IAA with six PCs and two
printers for staff and student use, three photocopiers, two duplicating machines, two overhead projectors,
three electric typewriters, a facsimile machine, a public address system for the lecture theater, a video
camera, recorder and monitor, cassette recorder and amplifier, two slide projectors and a slide making
machine. The Project would also finance the cost of installation.



- 51 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 15
F.    Transport
6.    IAA is located seven kilometers from Arusha town. There is no public transport to the area, and
IAA has to provide transport for its staff and students and their families to and from the campus. The
current fleet of seven vehicles are very old, and need to be replaced. This sub component would provide
for one 60 seater bus, one 30 seater bus and one car.
G.    OMce Accommodation
7.    The Government of Tanzania (GOT) financed the building of two hostel blocks, one classroom
building, the first phase of the administration block, a lecture theater and housing for eighteen members
of staff. This sub component would provide the additional financing needed for completion of the
administration block, and building of staff housing, a student hostel block and a cafeteria. In addition
the component would provided for chairs for the lecture theater, and equipment for the cafeteria.



-52 -                                 ANNX a
Page 3 of 1S
TANZANIA - FILMUP PROJECT
THE INSTITUTE OF ACCOUNTANCY ARUSFfA
SHORT-TERM COURSES
TITLE               QUALIFICATION    COURSES                                      DURATION
Principal           BA, MA, PhD           Management                              1- 3 months
Institutional Development            __ _
Burar               B Com, MSe, CPA    Computer Science                           3 months
Research Methodology
Financial Management
Principal Librarian   Diploma Library     Library Information                     3 months
Science              Information Technology
Documentation Workshop
Consultantl/        ADCA, PODA,           Training of Trainers                    3 months
MBA, CPA             Financial Planning
Research Methodology
Consultant          BA, MA                Training of Trainers                    3 months
Research Methodology
Teaching English as a Foreign
Language                                             ||
Consultant          B Com, MBA            Training of Trainers                    3 months
Management Information Systems
Research Methodology
Consultart          BA, MBA               Management Information Systems         3 months
Computer Science
Research Methodology                                 ||
Consultant          ACCA                  Financial Management                   3 months
Computing
Research Methodology
Consultant          ADCA, CFM,            Computer Auditing                      3 months
CMA                  Resarh Methodology
Training of Trainers
Consultant          PGDFM, ADTM           Public Finance                         3 months
Taxation
Research Methodology
Consultant          B Com, CPA            Computing                               3 months
Current Issues in Accounting
Training of Trainen
Consultant          ADCA, CPA             Fnancial Planning and Control           3 months
Data Processing
Training of Trainer
Consulkant          ADCA, MBA             Statistical Analysis                   3 months
Management Information Systems
Research Methodology
Consultant          M Com, PhD            Training of Trainers                   3 months
Current Issues in Aocounting
I-AN,ANIlA - FILMUP IKU0.ICT
L/IAA lcctrrs are called consultat



- 53 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 1S
INSTITUTE OF ACCOUNTANCY ARUSHA
LONG-TERM TRAINING - US$'000
TITLE                        PRESENT                REQUIRED               DURATION          START DATE    COST
QUALIFICATIONS        QUALIFICATIONS
Management Accounting       Dip Ed, BA, MIPS,    MSc Computer Science   1 Year               1993              27
Consultant                  MBA
Financial Accounting        B Com, CPA             MSc Computer Science   1 Year             1994              27
Consultant
Quantitative Techniques     ADCA, CFM, MBA    MSc Operations               1 Year            1994              27
Assistant Consultant                               Research
Auditing Consultant         ADCA, CFM, CMA    MSc Accounting               1 Year            1994              27
Financial Management        ACCA                   MBA Finance             2 Years           1993              45
Consultant
Financial Accounting        ADCA, CPA              MSc Accounting          1 Year            1994              27
Consultant
Assistant Consultant        B Com                  MSc Finance             1 Year            1995              27
Assistant Consultant        B Com                  MA Accounting           1 Year            1995              27
TOTAL                                                                                                         234



- 54 -
ANNEX3
Page 5 of 15
TANZANIA - FILMUP PROJECT
THE INSTITUTE OF ACCOUNTANCY ARUSHA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE - USS'000
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                 YEAR 1   YEAR 2   YEAR 3   YEAR 4   YEAR 5   TOTAL
A. L' 'G TERM
Substi   Lecturer in Costing and     240        240                                       480
Quantit, , e Techniques
Substitute Lecturer in Accounting and  240      240                                       480
Auditing
B. SHORT TERM                                                                                       l
Architect/Engineer for building plans  80                                                 80
and bidding documents 4 m/m
Computer Training for Staff                    20                                         20
Other TAneds as they arise 2 m/m pa   40        40        40         40         40        200
TOTAL                                600        540       40         40         40         1260



iiX!ll-54           
i a     
a   -Rw             -  
_     BM-B__T     
'4                    p                   
AX  2  M __ _     __  10       g
r _ _ _ e _  _ _ _ _ [A 



-56 -                                          ANNEX3
Page 7 of 15
TANZANIA FILMUP PROJECT
INSTITrTE OF ACCOUNTANCY ARUS8A
TRAININCG USS'000
TRAINEES AND COURSES                    YEAR 1   YEAR 2   YEARS   YEA 4   YEAR S   TOTAL
A. LONG TERM                           _
MSc Cpmt sc.                             27                                             27
MS. Cpwot S&k                                     27                                    27
MS& 0petkm Rcssdi                                 27                                    27
MS& Aooimng                                                27                            27
MBA FImm                                23        22                                    45
MS& Aeommt                                        27                                    27
MS. FbPua                                                  27                            27
MA A.oomuing                                               ___   ___   ___   234
SUB TOTAL                               50        103      81=
B. SHORT TERM
14 Smlrwsuffforfc pwio& n excoeding 3 niIu  150 I IC       10        6D                 410
Sqpad 9Staf Tmlng                        11       it        l l           11  it        55
TOTAL                                   211       214     I         71        It       699



-    wm                        go                    op                     tP                      of                      ofI
o.        I       I       I       II                                                                                                                 --o
*   MI                         I                                                                                           III 1 1 1 
at    e.g                 I. I' I                                                                                                            I      "
- nS                                                                                                                        SI __  _             -
_ '   01                                                                                                                    ii      on       a                a m
a.    r.                                                                                    r~~~~~            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eV  Is  'w
ON            =       =       =      =                                                                                                                     ___i
a  e.g                                                                                      ft~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  -  I    Of
M     n                                                                                                                                                      " as _
a     W.                                                                                                                   gm      ri        SA"
_   =    =    =   =    =    =   =    =    =   =    =    =   =                   =      -   ~~~             ~ ~~~~~~~~~~n   _  __"
-   -   -             -     -                -     -                       -        -       -     -        a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  Wmbpp
5  I                                                                                     P      ft        S ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -Sw
St  0                                                                                    I      Si       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I-A
5.     0                                                                                                                            * 
PU   PU                      PU                     PU                     PU~~~~~~~~~~o           Po
s             II                       ggjpyjswu                                                             a                     ugga
ST Jo 9 vc
__ _x __



- 58 -                                       ANNX 3
Page 9 of 15
TANZANIA - FILMUP PROJECT
THE INSTITUTE OF ACCOUNTANCY ARUSHA
VEHICLES
fl~~~      TER I                TER" a               TAR a                To"R 4               TEAR $              TOTAL
Qo.*k   Va    T4   Q..at    U*   TM&  Quw    Uo    T.W   Q.-          U~   71d   0 ..       1*Ud    T1w  Omgfp   a    T*M
-~ ~ ~~C C, ." . =                                                                                   _.!..                  . 
*~~3w  1       40    40                                                                                        I       40   40   to
3mu.     I                                                                                                       I             M      ISI s  J   1O0
|__n    I        CIY )    U                                                                                          I       I)  U     |  S<U  I |U|_  
*Al= I              I X    C  l          l      |   |   -      -     - _  l        l    l    l.      l            l       l



Projected Cost Comparisons for Civil Works
(All areas are gross M2. Other figures are T.Sx1OOO)
NBAA                                 Brief Cost Proiection                               Design Cost Projection
1. Office Building                886m2   @ 140 =    124,000                      900m2   @ 140 =   126,000
2. Other facilities
New Construction              1448n2  @ 140 =   202,720                       138Dm2 @ 140 =   193,200
Renovation                     379m2  @  35 =       13,265                     460m2  @  35 =    16,100
3. Housing                        23x 16m2 @ 130=   346.840                       24x121m2 @ 130 =  377.520
Total NBAA                      538Dm2              686,713                                         712,820
IAA
1. Admin. Building
New Building                 1481m2  @ 120 =   177,720                      1256m2 x 120 =       150,720
Renovation                    541m2  @  30 =      16230                      614m2 x 30 =         18.420
Sub-totals                   2022m2               193,950                   1870m2               169,140
2. Boading Facilities
Housing                      569m2  @ 120 =   68,234                         960m2 x 120 =       115,200
Cafeteria                     91 Im2  @  80 =    72,882                      900M2 x 80 =        72,000
Recreation                    23m2  @ 120 =        2,754                     50m2 x 120 =         6,000
Sanitary                      518m2  @ 120 =   62208                         178m2 x 120 =       21.360
Sub-totals                   2021m2              206,078                    2088m2               214,560
3. Staff Housing
Bungalows                    12 x 146m2 x 100 =   174.960                   12x126.25m2xIO0 =   151,500
Total IAA                                        574,988                                         535,200
PROJECT TOTALS                                       1,261,700                                       1,248,020



- 60 -
ANNEX 3
Page 11 of 15
4.                           NeAreas (see attached drawings)
No.   Space                               BriefArea    Design Area
1     Board Room                              24m2        55m2
2      Principal's Office                      24         28
3      Secretary                               16          16            *
4      Waiting                                 -           14
5      Public Relation                         17          17
6      Secretary                               -           14
7      Director of Studies                     17          17
8      Secretary                               -           14
9      Administrative Director                 17          17
10    Secretary                                12         14
11    Financial Director                       17         17
12    Secretary                                12         14
13    Accountant                               17         17
14    Cashier                                  12         14
15    Facility Manager                         12         17
16    Procurement                              12         14
17    Staff Officers (13 @ 12)                156  13@14)182             *17m2
18    Staff Common Room                        -          18
19    Conference room                          -          18
20     Maintenance Office                      12          14
21    Clinic
a. Waiting
b. Exam
c. Medical Assistant
d. Nurses
e. Medical Store
f. Rest Room/W.C.
22     Staff Room (5)                         420  (2@16)  150
(4435)  140
23     Reference Room                          42         28
Reference Room Store                    42
24     Library                                140         154
25     Library Offices (3@12)                  36         48
26     Library Reading Room                   140         140
27     Library Periodicals                     -          28             8
28    Library Workshop                         -           30
29     Dean of Students                        -           17
30     Student Affairs Office                  -           17            *



- 61 -                                        ANNEX3
Page 12 of IS
31     Computer Room                            -           34             *
32     Photocopy                                90           14
33     Duplicating                              -            14
34     Storage                                  101         95                 M
35     Men W.C.                                 45          32             *16m2
36     Women W.C                                45          40             *20m 2
37     Tea Room                                 -            8             *4m2
38     Cleaner Store                            -            8              4m2
39     Registry                                _             14
Total net area                   1498m2      1620m2
Total gross area                 2022m2      1866m2
These functions are in renovated spaces. Total renovated space is 534m2



- 62 -                                        ANNX3
Page 13 of 15
4. Boarding Facilities (Dormitory & Cafeteria Complex)
Schdule of Spaces in BriefQ
1. Double
Bedrooms            39@ 11 m2    421 m2           569 m2
2. Cafeteria                          675            911
3. Recreation                          17             23
4. Sanitary            8 @ 48 m2      384            518
Totals:       1497 m2        2021 m2
Recommended Schedule of Soaces
1. Double
Bedrooms            40 @ 20 m2      800 n2         960 m2
Bathrooms            8 @ 16 m2       128           128
2. Cafeteria
(incl. serving area)                 500           700 *
Kitchen                              160           200
Recreation                            50            50
Toilets                               50            50
1688 m2        2088 m2
Includes Arcade at 200 m2



- 63 -
ANNEX 3
Page 14 of 15
TANZANIA
FILMUP PROJECT
THE INSTITUTE OF ACCOUNTANCY ARUSHA
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Background_
I1.       IAA, which opened in 1987, is a purpose built residential college preparing students for the
Parts IH and IV of the CPA examinations. Although the pass rates at IAA are better than the national
average, (46% of the students passing the final examinations at the May 1991 examination sitting) there
is still room for considerable improvement. Under FILMUP funding will be provided for staff to
undertake master degree courses overseas. While staff are away on training there will be staff shortages
and two experts, one for accounting and auditing, and one for management accounting and quantitative
techniques are needed to provide cover. As instructed by the Principal the experts will:
-     teach accounting and auditing/management accounting and quantitative
techniques courses;
-     set and mark class assignments;
-     set and mark examination papers;
-     provide short update course for staff;
-     provide guidance for staff on new teaching methods; and
-     produce a written monthly report.
Qupalifications Required
a degree in accounting, business studies or related discipline;
membership of a recognized professional accounting body;
a minimum  of five years experienc'b of teaching accounting and
auditing/management accounting and ',uantitative techniques at degree
level to business studies/accountin . students;
thorough conversance with PCs, the MS-DOS operating system,
spreadsheet programming and word processing;
excellent writing skills;
experience of working in a developing country would an advantage;
fluency in English.



- 64 -
ANNEX3
Page 15 of 1S
the experts will report to the Principal, with copies of all communications of the Director of Studies. The
assignments will be for two years.
Computer Expert
2.        IAA wishes to expand its curriculum to introduce computing courses, so that its accounting
students are better prepared to meet the increasing demands of the Tanzania workplace. Under FILMUP
provision has been made for two members of staff to obtain masters degrees in computing. The other
staff have no computer expertise, and need to be exposed to the basics of computing. The expert will:
design and run training courses to familiarize all teaching staff in the use
of basic wordproces ing, spreadsheets and accounting packages.
)ualifications Required
-     a degree in computer studies;
-     thorough conversance with PCs the MS-DOS operating system,
spreadsheet programming and word processing;
-     a minimum of five years experience of teaching computing to business
studies/accounting students;
-     excellent writing skills;
-     experience of working in a developing country would be an advantage;
-     fluency in English.
The Expert will report to the Principal of IAA. The assignment will be for one month.



- 65 -                           ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 6
THE INSTYTDTE OF FINANCE MANAGEMENT
A. Background
1.  IFM was established in 1972 to look after the educational needs of the banking and insurance sector
and was later expanded to cover other finance related disciplines. IFM is a self-financing parastatal.
This academic year the Institute has 788 full-time and over 600 part-time students. IFM offers three year
advanced diploma courses in accountancy, banking, financial management, insurance, social security
administration and tax management, a one year post graduate diploma in accountancy, financial
management and tax management, and a number of short courses. Accountancy courses account for over
50% of the full-time students and all of the part-time students, and the number of students interested in
accountancy is rising every year. The staff employed by !FM are very committed, but they are few in
number, and many are not sufficiently qualified to be able to effectively teach these advanced courses.
B. Training
2.  IFM wishes to expand its curriculum to introduce computing courses and update its other courses,
so that it students are better prepared to meet the increasing demands of the Tanzania workplace. This
sub component would provide IFM with 15 master degree courses in accountancy, banking/insurance.
taxation, financial management and business administration/computing, one bachelor degree in library
science and two diplomas in college administration. In addition the sub component would provide for
25 short update courses in accountancy, banking, financial management, insurance/social security,
taxation management and computing.
C. Technical Assistance
3. There will be staff shortages when staff are abroad training. This sui) component would provide
for an expert in accounting and auditing for two years to cover for staff when they are abroad. In
addition this sub component will provide for a an expert in computing for one year to help establish the
computer facility, prepare computer courses for accounting students md train staff in the use of the
computer.
D. Library Books
4. IFM is very short of books, and most of its titles are out-of-date. This sub component would
provide EFM with financial support for books and journals.
E. OMie Equipment and Comnputers
5. As mentioned above there is a great need for accountants to be able to use computers. In addition
there are no diploma courses in computing in Tanzania. IFM wishes to introduce computer courses not
only for accountants, but also for students who wish to specialize in computing. This sub component
would provide IFM with a computer lab consisting of a mini computer networked to 20 Pcs with
appropriate software, five heavy duty printers, simple air conditioning and wiring. IFM wishes to update
its teaching techniques and make use of visual and other training aids. It also wishes to produce handouts



-6-                              AX4
Page 2 of 6
and other materials for students. This sub component would provide IFM with the necessary training
aids, three PCs and printers for office management, and three photocopiers.
F. Transport
6.  IFM has five vehicles which it uses for staff transport to and from home. The Institute's 1979 bus
has become uneconomic to run. In addition the lecturing staff have no vehicles to provide training or
to undertake research or consultancy in the regions. This component would provide IFM with two staff
mini buses, four 4 wheel drive cars for staff use, and two saloon cars for the experts.
G. Ofrice Accomodation
7.  IFM through sponsorship by the Tanzania banking and insurance community has been able to build
a six storey building comprising hostel accommodation and six classrooms. The Institute's sponsors who
had pledged financial support to furnish the classrooms are now unable to provide the funding. The
classrooms are needed if IFM is to cope with the ever increasing demand for its courses. As IFM had
assumed that financing would be provided for furnishing it did not make budgetary provision for
furnishing, and is unable to meet the costs out of its budget. This sub component would provide IFM
with 206 desks and chairs, 6 writing boards, 6 tables and 18 blinds. This sub component would also fund
the replacement of the central cooling system in the lecture thdeater, library and function room. This
system is very old and the cost of repairs is substantial. In particular the high temperatures in December
to July are causing problems in the library where the books are beginning to deteriorate.



iF   I   l'[if     -T---  0i  
r    Ti
E~~~~~~                                   V Q              VV   __        _  ___  
S  VV   V V~~~~~~~~~~~~V ~



L1L iR
~~~  z ~o v



- 69 -                           ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 6
INSTITUTE OF FINANCE MANAGEMENT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR
COMPUTER EXPERTr AND A LECTURER IN ACCOUNTANCY
Background
1.  IFM was established in 1972 to look after the educational needs of the banking and insurance sector
and was later expanded to cover finance related disciplines. IFM is a self-financing parastatal. This
academic year in Institute has 788 full-time and over 600 part-time students. IFM offers three years
advanced diploma courses in accountancy, banking, financial management, insurance, social security
administration and tax management, a one year post graduate diploma in accountancy, financial
management and tax management, and a number of short courses. Accountancy courses account for over
50% of the full-time students and all of the part-time students, and the number of students interested in
accountancy is increasing every year.
Computer Expert
2.  IFM wishes to expand its curriculum to introduce computing courses, so that its accounting students
are better prepared to meet the increasing demands of the Tanzania workplace. The expert will:
- assist in the design and running of computer courses of accountancy students;
- install the computers and check that they are funct; ir.g properly;
- design and run training courses for familiarize all teaching staff in the use of basic
wordprocessing, spreadsheets and accounting packages;
- provide on-the-job training and support to the designated counterpart to enable him/her
to take over responsibility for computer training when the expert has departed; and
- produce a written monthly report.
Oualifications Required
- a degree in computer studies;
- thorough conversance with PCs, the MS-DOS operating system, spreadsheet
programming and word processing;
- a minimum of five years experience of teaching computing at degree level to business
studies/accounting students;
- excellent writing skills;
- experience of working in a developing country would be an advantage;
- fluency in English.



-70 -                            AN 4NEX4
Page 6 of 6
The Expert will report to the Principal of IFM, with copies of all communications to the Director of
Studies and the designated counterpart. The assigmnent will be for one year.
Accounting and Auditing Expert
3.  Under the project funding will be provided for staff to undertake master degree courses overseas.
While staff are on training there will be staff shortages and an expert is needed to provide cover when
staff are away. As instructed by the Director of Studies the Expert will:
- teach accounting and auditing courses;
- set and mark class assignments;
- set and mark examination papers;
- review the curriculum, and assist with updating courses;
- provide short update course for staff in new accounting techniques;
- provide guidance to staff on modem teaching and examining methods; and
- produce a written monthly report.
Oualifications Reouired
- a degree in accounting, business studies or related discipline;
- membership of a recognized professional accounting body;
- a minimum of five years experience of teaching accounting and auditing at degree level
to business studies/accounting students;
- thorough conversance with PCs, the MS-DOS operating system, spreadsheet
programming and word processing;
- excellent writing skills;
- experience of working in a developing country would be an advantage;
- fluency in English.
The Expert will report to the Principal, with copies of all communications to the Director of Studies.
The assignment will be for two years.



- 71 -
ANNEX 
Page I of 4
TANZANA - FILMUP PROJECT
ATTORNEY GENERAL'S DEPARTMENT (CIVIL AND INTERNATIONAL DWISIONM
TRAINING - USS'OOO
COURSE                YEAR 1   YEAR 2   YEAR 3   YEAR 4    YEAR S    TOTAL
LONG TERM                                                       ___
LLM                    30                                                   30
Advanced Diploma in   I1                                                    18
International Law
SUB TOTAL              48
SHORT TERM
12 Senior Staff for    67        46         18                              131
periods not exceeding 3
months
TOTAL                  115        46        18                              179
TANZANIA -FILMUP PROJECT
ATTORNEY GENFRAL'S DEPARTMIENT (CHFEF PARLLAMFENTARY DRAFISMAN)
TRAIN1NCG USS'OOO
COURSIES                 YEAR I   YEAR 2    YEAR 3   YEAR 4    YEAR 5    TOTAL
LONG TERM                         ___
Diploma in Legislative   28.5                                                  28.5
Drafting                _
Diploma in Lqislative              28.5                                        28.5
Drafbing
LLM                                30.5                                        30.5
ILM                                            ;j.5      29                    30.5
LLM                                            30.5                            30.5
SUB TOTAL                28.5      59          61        29
SHORT TERM
8 Senior Staff for periods  35.5    8          62.5                            135
not exceeding 3 months
TOTAL                    64        67         123.5                            283.5



- 72 -
Page 2 of 4
TANZANUA - FILMUP PROJERCT
ADMINSTRATOR GENERAL'S OFFICR
TRAINING - USS'OOO
COURSES                 YEAR      YEAR      YEAR      YEAR      YEAR      TOTAL
1        2         3          4         S
LONG TERM
I.id                _                                                      5
_UB TOTAL
SNORT TERM
11 Senior Staff for     21.1      42.4      14.5                          78
periods not exceeding 3
monthr.
Seminan for District              16                                       16
Registrs (Total of 57
TOTAL                   26.1      58.4      14.5                           99



- 73 -
ANNEXf
Page 3 of 4
TANZANIA . FILMUP PRO.ECT
LAW REFORM COMMISSION
TRAINNG - US$SOO
COURSES                            YEAR 1    YEAR 2    YEAR 3    YEAR 4    YEAR S    TOTAL
SHORT TERM                                                _
9 Senior Staff for periodis not    70          48                                               118
exceeding 3 months
5 Senior Support Staff for          8.7        26           7                                   41.7
computer/informatiootechnology
courses
TOTAL                              78.7        74           7                                   159.7
TANZANIA - FILMUP PROJECT
UDICIARY
TRAEIING - USs'oo
COURSES                          YEAR   YEAR   YEAR3  YEAR   YEAR   TOTA
I         2                      4          S         L
SHORT TERM
Seminar for 37 High Court         41         41                                          82
Judges
Seminasn for 137 Resident         55         55                                         110
Magiatnte.
Semin for 184 Disrict             50        50         50                               150
Magistates
7 Senior Staff for periods not    64         60                                         124
exceeding 3 toonths
Local Seminas for Senior          45        45         45                               135
Regisy Assisnts
TOTAL                            255        251        95                               601
Added at Negotiations:
One 4-wheel drive vehicle           30                                                    30



- 74 -
Page d of 4
TANZANIA - FMMUP PROJECT
LAW REFORM CONMMISON
TECHNICAL AS9STANCE
TECHNnCAL ASSISTANCE    YEAR I   YEAR 2    YEAR 3   YEAR 4   YEAR   | TOTAL
SHORT TERM
Expert to examine systen of    50                                          50
opemtion of Coission
TOTAL                    50                                                50
TANZANIA - FM4UP PROJECT
A^TTORNEY GENERAL'S DEPARTMENT
TECHNICAL ASSSTANCE - US'OOO
TECENICAL ASSISTANCE   YEAR 1   YEAR 2   YEAR 3   YEAR 4   YEA S   TOTAL
SHORT TERM              _         T       1___ T1
Expert to undertake revision    180                                       180
of Laws of Tanzanii 
Expert to undertake revision   200                                        200
of commercial and related
lawsL_380__ _                                            _______
TOTAL                   38038



- 75 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 16
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
STRATEGY FOR THE LEGAL SECTOR
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Introduction
1.    The Governmeuit of Tanzania (GOT) has for the last several years been engaged in a far
reaching economic reform program, focussing on broadening the role of market forces in guidling
economic decisions and improving or strengthening major policy instruments and institutions that
would support markets and private economic activity. These reforms affect all sectors of the economy
and involve, inter alia, reforms in the foreign exchange regime, the trade policy, the agricultural
sector, the financial sector and the public sector. One of the results of the program has been the
need to encourage the private sector to play a greater role in the economy. It has become
increasingly clear that one of the areas of weaknesses has been the legal sector which includes, inter
alia, the judiciary, the various arms of the govemment that provide legal services, private practitioners
and the Law Faculty at the University of Dar es Salaam. All these institutions and agencies have
suffered from neglect over the last decade and are ill-equipped to meet the challenges of the evolving
market economy. In addition, the legal and reguiatory framework for most commercial activities are
inadequate to deal with modern business transactions.
2.    In this context, GOT has sought assistance from the World Bank and other donors to remedy
the situation, enhance capacity within the sector at all levels and provide a conducive legal and
regulatory framework. GOT has sought some immediate and urgently needed assistance to the
sector, however it intends to undertake a comprehensive and thorough review of the sector with a
view to developing a strategy for the sector, for the medium to long term.
3.    A Task Force (TF) has been established to oversee the work that will go into preparing the
strategy and shall present to GOT, a strategy for the sector. The TF is chaired by an eminent
T.-nzaman lawyer and includes one representative each from the judiciary, private practitioners, Law
Faculty, Attorney-General's Office and the Law Reform Commission. There shall be the secretary
to the TF assisted by one full-time researcher. The task of the TF is to coordinate and supervise the
work various consultants and experts who will be examining the different aspects of the legal sector.
It is expected that the work of the various consulkants will be completed within eight months, at
which time the TF shall present the strategy to GOT and assist it in organizing a conference to
discuss it, with the World Bank and donors.
ObJectiwes
4.    The overall objectives of tnese terms of reference is to examine the various institutions and
activities of the legal sector in mainland Tanzania and Zanzibar and to develop a strategy and
implementation plan to make its operations more efficient, and with 'he intention of recommending
changes that will be more consistent with the evolving economic and policy environment.
S.    For the purpose of the development of the strategy, the legal sector is defined in the widest
possible sense. It includes legal institutions and activities both on the mainland and in Zanzibar. The
review of the sector wil! involve an examination of, inter alia, the following:
(i)   legal education, both professional and paralegal, pre - as well as post - qualification;



- 76 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 16
(ii)   the administration of justice, including qualification of magistrates and judges, the
structure and administrative arrangements of the court systems and organization and
adequacy of support systems;
(iii)  administrative law procedures and alternative dispute settlement mechanisms;
(iv)   the legal profession, its qualification requirements, its organization, management, role
of the Law Society, etc.;
(v)   the role and organization of the Attorney-General's office, and other government
legal and quasi-legal offices;
(vi)  the Law Reform Commission;
(vii)  the Permanent Commission of Enquiry (the Ombudsman);
(viii)    the role of the various registries - companies, intellectual property, births, deaths,
marriages;
(ix)   the Tanzania Legal Corporation;
(x)   dissemination of legal information through the publication and availability of the
Government Gazette, legislation, law reports, as well as legal education for the
general public;
(xi)  role and organization of law libraries at the university, in the judiciary and at the
various government agencies; and
(xii)  development of a legal information system and database.
Daclkround Information
The Lepl Svstem:
6.    The legal system in Tanzania is based on the common law, with customary and islamic law
influences, especially in the areas of personal and property laws. The body of laws thus includes
legislation from the colonial era, legislation enacted since independence as well as various customary
and islamic rules. In Zanzibar the islamic influences are stronger, with the existence of Khadis' courts
to try cases according to islamic law. Following the Arusha Declaration in 1967, and the bias towards
the public sector as the provider of goods and services there has been very little development of the
private sector and the laws and procedures that would inevitably follow. With the bias against the
private sector commercial and corporate laws have been neglected.
The Igal Profession:
7.    Tanzania has a long record of training of lawyers. The Law Faculty at the University of Dar
es Salaam (UDS) is the only institution in Tanzania offering formal legal education at the degree
leveL Primary Court Magistrates undertake a two year certificate course at the Institute of
Development Management, at Mzumbe.



- 77 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 16
The Judiciari.
8.    Tanzania has a long and honorable record of the independence of the judiciary and respect
of the rule of law. The judicial structure on the mainland, consists of a system of 1023 primary courts,
86 district courts, 20 regional courts, the High Court that sits in Dar es Salaam and eleventh zonal
centers and the Court of Appeal. In Zanzibar there is a separate court system, with a structure
similar to that described above, there is however a dearth of trained legal manpower at all levels.
Magistrates at the primary court level are non lawyers who are holders of a nine month Certificate
in Law course run by the judiciary at the Institute of Development Management (IDM) Mzumbe.
Ministry of Justice:
9.    The Attorney General is the legal adviser to the government. The office is divided into several
divisions, namely the Civil and International Department (CID), the Legislative Department (LD),
the Directorate of Public Prosecution (DPP) and the Administrator-General's Department (AGD);
(i) the CID advises the government on all civil and international matters, including the defence of
suits brought against the government, representing the government in all negotiations with local as
well as international interests as well as other matters on which their advise is sought; (ii) the LD
comprises the office of the Chief Parliamentary Draftsman who is responsible for the drafting of all
legislation in Tanzania. In addition the office is entrusted with the task of coming out with regular
revised Laws of Tanzania as well as annual supplements. There has not been a revision of the Laws
of Tanzania since 1965. This makes it impossible for practitioners and judges alike to know at any
point in time what the law on any give subject is; (iii) the AGD is responsible for the registration of
births, marriages and deaths; (iv) the DPP is in charge of all prosecutions at the senior courts namely
the High Court and regional courts.
Law Reform Commission:
10.   The Law Reform Commission (LRC), which was established pursuant to the Law Reform
Commission of Tanzania Act, No. 3 Of 1980, is charged with the functions of taking and keeping
under review all the laws of Tanzania with a view to its systematic development and reform. The
functions are set out in more detail in Section 4(2) of the Act, namely to:
(i)   review any law or branch of the law and propose measures necessary for --
(A)      bringing that law or branch of the law into accord with current circumstances
of Tanzania,
(B)      eliminating aiiomalies or other defects in the law, repealing obsolete or
unnecessary laws and reducing the number of separate enactments, and
(C)      the proper codification and simplification of that law or branch of law;
(ii)    consider and advise on p;oposals for the adoption of new or more effective methods
for the administration of the law and the dispensation of justice;
(iii)   from time to time, prepare and submit to the Attorney-General programs for the
examination of different branches of law with a view to reforming those laws,
including recommendations as to the agency, whether the commission or another



- 78 -
ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 16
body, by which any such examination should be carried out;
(iv)    at the request of the Attorney-General, prepare comprehensive programs for the
consolidation and revision of laws, and undertake the preparation of any draft bills
pursuant to any such program approved by the Attorney-General; and
(v)    at the instance of the Attorney-General provide advice and assistance to any ministry
or department or any public authority or institution by undertaking the examination
of any particular branch of the law and making recommendations for reform so Ps
to bring it into accord with current circumstances.
Assinment lmglementation:
11.   The work on the various aspects of the legal sector are expected to be undertaken
concurrently by groups of consultants and specialists (both local and foreign) working on the various
components. With regard to each component, an examination will be undertaken of the present state
of the institutions or activities concerned, and proposals for the needed changes the detailed TORs
for the various areas mentioned above will be attached as appendixes to these TORs. In each of the
areas, persons in the particular area, with experience both of the Tanzanian situation and
developments in other countries, will work together to develop the necessary strategy for that
component.
12.   In order for the work on developing a strategy and implementation programs to be effective,
the work of the consultants and specialists is to be operationally oriented, with the reporting process
and types of reports designed to facilitate the work of the TF in presenting to GOT an action
oriented strategy for the sector. This will require frequent interaction with the TF which will manage
the work of the consultants and review their reports (in which alternative approaches,
recommendations and the implications would be set on). Thereafter, the consultants would produce
a series of working papers which would form the basis for the donors meeting to be organized by
GOT to develop the strategy with the World Bank and other interested Donors.
13.   In the early stage of the consultancies, each zonsultant will prepare and present to the TF,
a detailed work program proposal for each assignment, outlining the approach to the work. The
proposal will outline any decision making that would be needed to implement the findings of the
review. Once submitted, the proposal will be evaluated by the TF and adjusted as deemed necessary.
Under their work program, the various consultants will be expected to report their findings and
recommendations according to a schedule to be set by the TF. The work program for each of the
parts to the terms of reference for the development of a strategy for the legal sector are set out
below.



- 79 -
ANNEX 6
Page 5 of 16
Appendix A.1
(I)    Legal Education
Scope of the Assignment:
In considering the status of legal education in Tanzania, the consultant will consider and examine
the following aspects:
(a) The purpose and objectives of legal education in Tanzania:
(b)    Given (a) above, the necessary qualifications required prie to beginning a law
degree;
(c)    The present state and quality of legal educatio at the University, what should be
the quality and types of courses taught;
(d)    The skill mix needed to achieve this, examining critically what exists;
(e)    Post-graduate education and requirements to practice as a professional;
(f)    Training for paralegals - requirements needed.
(g)    Examine the modalities for the establishment and operation of an institute to cater
for the training needs of the judiciary and the legal profession.
The consultant will determine, what the LLB degree should consist of as a minimum. The
consultant will examine critically the existing situation and make recommendations to improve legal
education and make it more relevant to present conditions, and more responsive to changing
circumstances.
The consultant will also examine what is required of lawyers after qualification and shall liaise
with the consultants examining the legal profession and the administration of justice [as far as the
qualification of magistrates and judges].



- 80 -
ANNEX 6
Page 6 of 16
Appendix A.2
II.   The Leaal Profession
ScoRe of the Assignment:
In examining the legal profession, the consultant will examine and consider the following
matters:
(a)    The organization of the legal profession, internal mechanisms for control and
discipline of its members, legal ethics, quality control, governance, professional
standards;
(b)    Organization of continuing legal education, as well as minirrum requirements for
entry into the profession;.
(c)    Role and input into the administration of justice, law reform, etc.
The consultant shall, inter alia, examine critically the present status of the Law Society of
Tanzania as against the role that such an or' nization should play in the Tanzanian context.
Recommendations should include how best   organize the profession to enable it to manage
practitioners in the evolution to a market economy, examining critically the role of lawyers in the type
of economy, and what is needed to enable them to fulfil this taslk
The consultants should make recommendations on how best to organize the Law Society, the
skills needed to do so, and devise an implementation program to achieve this.



- 81 -
ANNEX 6
Page 7 of 16
Agpendix A3
HI.   Administration of Justice
Scope of the Assignment:
In examining the administration of justice in Tanzania, the consultants will, inter alia, examine
the following:
(a)    Organization of court system in Tanzania examining critically its structure and
administration, looking at system or lack thereof;
(b)    qualification and needed skills of magistrates, judges, registry staff and the paralegals
- requirements for continuing education, in service training, upgrading of skills, etc;
(c)    effects of justice system on citizens - both with regard to civil and criminal law;
(d)    examination of other actors impacting on justice system --- police, prisons, etc.
The consultants will examine these various aspects critically, making radical recommendations
to revamp the system of justice in Tanzania to enable it to perform, looking for the causes of delay
in cases, (justice delayed is justice denied) and devising practical suggestions for overcoming these
problems. The recommendations should form an action program with proposals to be implemented
over the short, medium and long-term.
The consultants should also examine and make recommendations on the resources and
facilities required to enable the judiciary to perform, looking at inter alia recommendation for
magistrates, judges, etc.
It is crucial that the review be action oriented. The result will be the development of an
action program to be implemented over a period. The various components of the review should be
critical as well as constructive, taking a fresh look at institutions and organizations, with a view to
coming up with an efficient, effective and productive sector, which responds positively to the demands
of the various interests that it serves. The end result of this will be a detailed implementation
program which will be discussed by the Government, the World Bank and other donors, at a
conference.



- 82 -
ANNX 6
Page 8 of 16
Agnendix A.4
IV.   Administrative Law Procedures/Alternative Disgute Settlement Mechanisms
Scope of the Assignment:
In considering the existing administrative law procedures and alternative dispute settlement
mechanisms, the consultant should examine:
(a)    Fxisting administrative law provisions and arrangements;
(b)    administrative law -quasi-judicial institutions and the personnel and skills needed to
efficiently run these institutions;
(c)    examination of alternative dispute settlement mechanisms now existing in Tanzania,
and developments in other countries which could be relevant to the situation in
Tanzania.



- 83 -
AM=z 6
Pago 9 of 16
Auendlx A.5
V.    Attornev-Generars Office and other Government Legal Offiees
Scope of Assfrment
In eamining the role of the Attorney-General's office and other government legal offices,
the consultants should examine the following:
(a)    the role of the A-G as specified in the constitution;
(b) whether the organization and skills mix of the office enables the A-G to fulfill this
role and provide the services required of it.
The consultants will examine these aspects critically, making recommendations as needed on
a suitable and streamlined organization for the office. The review should also look at the
resources and facilities necessary to enable the office to perform this task.



- 84 -
ANNEX 6
Page 10 of 16
Appendix A.6
VI. Law Reform Commission (LRC)
Scoge of Asslgnment
In examining the role and functions of the LRC, the consultants should examine the
following:
(a)    the functions of the LRC as defined in the Law Reform Commission of Tanzania
Act, 1980, which inter alia includes taking and keeping under review all the laws of
Tanzania with a view to its development and reform;
(b)    re-examine whether the mechanisms set out in the Act for doing so are adequate or
need to be adjusted to the changing circumstances;
(c)    examine the system under which LRC operates, especially with regard to legal
research methods;
(d)    propose improvements aimed, inter alia, at raising LRC's research capacity;
(e)       in line with the changes suggested above, examine the organization of LRC to see
how it can best fulfill its mandate, as well as its relationship with the Attorney-
General, the Law Faculty of the University of Dar es Salaam etc.



- 85 -
ANNEX 6
Page 11 of 16
Appendix. 7
ViI. Permanent Commission of Enquiin (Ombudsman)
Scopg of Assiament
In examining the role of the Ombudsman, the consultants should examine the following:
(a)    the role of the ombudsman as provided for in the constitution.
(b)    the present organization and resources of the ombudsman.
(c)    whether the office is presently fulfilling its mandate, and if not what should be done
to enable it to do so.



- 86 -
JUlU 6
Page 12 of 16
Appendix A.
VII. Registries
Scoge of AssigmeLt
(a)    The consultants should examine the various Registries in Government, namely, the
Registry of companies, business names, industrial licenses, trade marks, patents,
copyrights, the Administrator-General (for births, deaths, marriages, etc.).
(b)    Examine the requirements of these tegistries to enable them to function efEciently
and provide the necessary information and services to the public in a timely manner.
(c)    Identify security and organizational problems that affect or may affect the integrity
of information kept and recommend solutions.
(d)    Prepare a computerization strategy, including detailed specifications of user
requirements, defining the system's main functions, inputs, information to be
maintained, outputs, controls and security.
(e)    Develop or acquire and amend software selected.
(f)    Identify staff training needs, data inputting requirements and document procedures.



- 87 -
An6
Page 13 of 16
Agpendix A. 9
IXL Tanzania Legal Corporation
ScoNe of Assiggment
The Tanzania Legal Corporation (TLC) is a statutory corporation established pursuant to the
Tanzania Legal Corporation Act, No.- of _. to provide legal services to the parastatal
sector.
The consultant shall examine TLC's role in the present economic climate.



- 88 -
ANNEX 6
Page 14 of 16
Appendix A. 10
X Dissemination of Legal Information (Legal Literacl)
Scope of Assignment
Examine the requirements for making the general public aware of their legal rights and
responsibilities, including:
(a)    an assessment of the impact, so far, of the mass media programs introduced by the
Judiciary, in creating the necessary awareness among members of the public
concerning their legal rights;
(b)    an examination and recommendations on methods and modalities to be used in
direct mass literacy classes on legal rights;
(c)    an examination of modalities for extending legal services (legal aid) to those unable
to meet the cost of legal services.
Examine methods to be used in achieving this and draw up a program for implementation
over the short- to medium-term.



- 89 -
ANMIEX 6
Page 15 of 16
Aggendix A. 11
XM. Law Libraries
Scoge of Assienment
Building on work already undertaken under the Financial and Legal Management Upgrading
Project, the consultant will:
(a)    examine critically law library requirements of the Ministry of Justice, judiciary, Law
Reform Commission, University of Dar es Salaam and the various other users of
such services;
(b)    examine the aims and objectives of the libraries, their structure, management and
organization, finance and budget, users and their needs, various services required,
manpower and staffing, and the information resources needed.
(c)    examine space requirements, layout, furniture and equipments requirements;
(d)    provide a vision for the future of the library services, examining the feasibility of
centralized services, networking and other linkages;
(e)    identify training needs and requirements for the staffing of the libraries;
(f)    with regard to acquisitions, design a development acquisition policy to act as a guide
for future acquisitions.



- 90 -
ANll 6
Page 16 of 16
ARpendlx A.12
XII. Leal Database/Information System
Scope of Assignment
The assignment is to design an information system for each of these agencies which provides
easy and efficient access to storage, management and retrieval of information as well as to
design a flexible, efficient and cost effective system which can easily be expanded as needed
in the future. In addition there should be identified the soft and hardware requirements for
the setting and running of such a system.
The agencies to be covered are the following:
The Attorney-General's Office
The Judiciary
Law Reform Commission
Registrar of Companies
The consultants will be required to work with the various agencies to carry out the following
tasks:
(a)    Define and specify the information needs and reporting requirements at the various
managerial and operational levels within the agencies. These requirements should
relate specifically to the majc. database and analytical applications to be developed,
while recognizing future developments of a computerized law retrieval system.
Adverse effects if any and any potential problems in computerizing these systems
should be identified.
(b)    In conjunction with the agencies concerned specify the output formats for the
management reporting and control of a law retrieval system, together with
procedures for reviewing and acting on them.
(c)    Prepare a technical specification for a total hardware and software solutio's for the
agencies, including estimated costs, recogniizing the need for full system support, and
for maintenance, simplified training requirements, and information exchange
compatibility.
(d)    Specify manpower resources that will be required to implement the systems and to
ensure their operational efficiency after installation.
(e)    identify and report on the full training needs and estimated training costs for the
system users and computer staff
(f)    recommend a series of individual on-site training courses for staff, required to
provide the appropriate information technology for the agency concerned.



- 91 -
ANNEX7
Page I of 2
TANZANIA
FILMUP PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE COST RECOVERY STUDY
,Objective
l.    The aim of the Cost Recovery Study is to explore with the managements of the institutions
benefiting from the Financial and Legal Management Upgrading Project (FILMUP) ways in which these
institutions can recover more of their operating costs directly from their clients. For the purpose of this
study, "operating costs" include depreciation of fixed assets.
2.    The concerned institutions are listed in the schedule attached to these terms of reference. Some
of these institutions (e.g. NBAA, IFM, and IAA) already recover substantial proportions of their annual
operating costs from their clients. For exarnple, NBAA is currently (1991/92) dependent on Treasury
budgetary subventions for only about 50% of its annual cost (including depreciation). Others, such as
the Administrator-General's Office, recover only a small fraction of their costs, while relying on the State
budget for the quasi-totality of their financing; and yet others are totally dependent on the Government
budget.
3.    It is clear that the scope exists for greater cost recovery than is currently practised. The
Administrator-General's Office for example, has indicated (and this is a condition of the FILMUP project)
that, if it was allowed to charge realistic fees for its services, it could recover enough money to buy or
print most of the forms and other materials needed for its work, thereby reducing its dependence on the
Government budget.
Study Methodology
4.    The consultant is expected to study the operations, cost, clientele, and current charges (if any)
of each of the institutions listed in the attached schedule. Based on this study, the consultant should
propose to managements of the concerned agencies how they could recover an increased proportion of
their costs directly from their clients. These suggestions could take the form of cost reduction on certain
services, new charges on clients, increases in existing charges, or any other cost reduction or revenue
raising measure that seems appropriate to the consultant.
Study Tim
5.    The study is expected to last approximately three consultant months, including all phases of
reporting discussed below.
RepRrting Arrangements
6.    The consultant, who must be acceptable to both NBAA and the World Bank, would be appointed
by the NBAA. During his field work he would report to the Financial Management Component
Coordinator located in the NBAA.



- 92 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 2
7     At the end of his field mission the consultant should distribute and discuss with all the concerned
institutions, the Treasury and tf.ie World Bank an Aide Memoire and action plan summarizing his main
recommendations. On his return to his headquarters he should prepare a final report based on conclusion
and recommendations he/she has agreed in the field with the Tanzanian authorities and the World Bank.
The report shotild end with an action plar agreed with all the interested parties at the end of his/her field
mission.
TANZANIA
FILMUD PROJECT
Institutions to be Studied for Cost Recovery
1.    National Board of Accountants and Auditors (NBAA).
2.    Office of the Controller and Auditor-General (OCAG).
3.    The Institute of Accountancy, Arusha (IAA).
4.    The Institute for Finance Management (IFM).
5.    The following Divisions of the Attorney-General's Office:
- The Civil and International Law Division,
- The Legislative Division (Office of the Chief Draftsman); and
- The Administrator-Generai's Division.
6.    The Judiciary.
7.    The Law Reform Commission.
8.    The Department of Registrations, Commercial Laws and Industrial Licensing (Registrar of
Companies).



- 93 -
ANNEX S
Page 1 of 2
TANZANIA
FILMUP PROJECT
Terms of Reference for the Tanzania Audit Corporation (TAC) Study
Objective
1.    The objective of the TAC Study is to recommend specific measures to implement the
decisior of the Tanzania Government to open up the audit of the accounts of parastatal institutions
to auditors other than the Tanzania Audit Corporation (TAC).
Background
2.    The TAC was created by the Tanzania Audit Corporation Act (No. 1) of 1968, Section
4 and 4A of which require the TAC to carry out audits of all parastatal institutions and such other
institutions as the President may direct. As of June 1991, TAC audited the accounts of about
96% all parastatals in Tanzania. This virtual monopoly was criticized for many years, not only
on account of the lack of choice for parastatal managements, and possible inefficiency and lack
of independence on the part of TAC, but also because the monopoly was seen to militate against
the emergence of strong private Tanzanian audit firms which could have been bolstered by having
some strong parastatals as clients.
3.    In response to these criticisms, and in line with Tanzania's economic liberalization under
the structural adjustment programs, Government has removed the monopoly, first in the 1991
Banking and Financial Institutions Act, and, more completely in the Public Corporations Act
passed by Parliament in 1992. The latter Act allows the Directors of any parastatal in which the
Govermnent owns less them 50% of the shares to appoint any qualified auditor to audit the
accounts, and the Minister of Finance to have similar rights with regard to those parastatal
companies in which Government owns more than 5196 of the shares.
Reason for the Study
4.    Neither of the Acts cited in paragraph 3 above spells out precisely how this new freedom
should be exercised in practice, nor whether or not it is nP>essary to formally repeal the TAC
Act of 1968. In addition, there are a few parastatals set up by individual Acts of Parliament in
which the TAC monopoly of the audit is enshrined. The purpose of the present study is to come
up with specific recommendations regarding these and any other uncertainties, as well as specific
actions designed to facilitate the implementation of the two Acts described in paragraph 3 above.
Study Methodology
5.    The study should involve discussions with TAC, NBAA, tle Treasury, selected key
parastatal institutions (e.g. the Electricity Corporation, Posts and Telecommunications, and Bank
of Tanzania), the legal authorities, and any other organizations considered appropriate by the
consultants and agreed with IDA and NBAA. The objectives of such discussions would be to:
(a)    develop fairly authoritative views regarding:



- 94 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 2
what specific actions (including further legislative actions, if any)
need to be taken before the intent of the two Acts can be
realized;
the intentions and views of the major parastatals regarding their
ability and freedom to change their auditors, should they so
desire;
perceptions of selected private Tanzanian  auditing firms
approved by NBAA and IDA regarding their access to parastatal
audits, as a result of the two Acts.
(b)   recommend specific actions based on (a) above that would facilitate the
realization of the intent of the two Acts, i.e. to make it possible for all
parastatals to appoint as auditor any qualified auditor of their choice
Study Period
6.    The study is expected to last a total of two consultant-months, including all report
preparation.
Report:g
7.    During his field visit, the consultant with report to the Financial Management Component
Coordinator (FMCC) located in NBAA. He will be appointed by NBAA after IDA approval of
his C.V. At the end of his field visit, he will submit an "Aide Memoire" containing his main
recommendations to the FMCC, the NBAA, the Treasury and IDA, discuss it with these
institutions, and based on their comments, prepare and dispatch to them a final report.



- 95 _
TANZANIA                                       ANNEX 0
FILMUP PROJECT                                    Page 1 od 15
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
T. Sh. Million  -        __S_000
item                                   Loca   Foreln     Total    Local  Foreign      Tota  Forelan     of Total
Base Codt
I. Financial Management
NBAA                                   293.0    695.0    888.0   1196.0   2428.0   3624.0        87.0      19.0
OCAG                                    36.0     47.0      83.0    146.0    193.0    338.0       57.0       2.0
IAA                                    331.0   1155.0   1486.0   1352.0   4716.0   6068.0        78.0      31.0
IFM                                       -      6e8.0    668.0        -   2320.0   2320.0    100.0        12.0
Sub-Total                            660.0   2365.0   3025.0   2603.0   9657.0  12350.0         77.0     64.0
II. Legal Sector
Attorney-General's Office
-Civil & IntemaRional Division            -      93.0      93 0        -     379.0    379.0    100.0        2.0
-Chief Parliamentary Draftsman            -      70.0      70.0        -    284.0    284.0    100.0         1.0
-Administrator-Generale' Office         44.0     66.0    110.0    180.0    270.0    450.0        60.0       2.0
-Technical Assistance                     -      81.0      81.0        -     330.0    330.0    100.0        2.0
-Printing                              220.0    221.0    441.0    900.0    900.0   1800.0        50.0       9.0
-UbrarySupport                            -      43.0      43.0        -     176.0    175.0    100.0        1.0
Judiciary                               75.0    212.0    287.0    305.0    866.0   1171.0        74.0       6.0
Law Reform Commission                     -      64.0      64 0        -    260.0    260.0    100.0         1.0
Regiutrarot Companles                            47.0      47.0        -     195.0    195.0    100.0        1.0
Sub-total                            339.0    897.0   12360    1385.0   3659.0   5044.0        72.0      26.0
III. Studies:
Legal Sector Strategy                     -      61.0      61.0        -     260.0    260.0    100.0        1.0
Cost Recovery Study                        -     20.0      20.0        -      80.0      80.0    100.0       0.4
TAC Study                                  -      16.0     15.0        -      60.0      60.0    100.0       0.3
Sub-total                              0.0     96.0      96.0      0.0    390.0    390.0    300.0         2.0
IV. ProdectCordination:
- Financial                             21.0     26.0      48.0     85.0    103.0    188.0       56.0       1.0
- Legal                                 16.0     26.0      41.0     65.0    103.0    168.0       60.0       1.0
- Project Launch Workshop                2.0        -       2.0      7.0         -       7.0      0.0       0.0
Incremental Operating Costs            194.0        -     194.0    793.0         -     793.0      0.0       4.0
Sub-total                            233.0      50.0    283.0    950.0    206.0   1156.0       18.0       6.0
TOTAL BASE COST                       1232.0   3408.0   4840.0   6028.0  13912.0  18940.0        76.0
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                  58.0    138.0    196.0    238.0    565.0    803.0        68.0       4.0
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                    373.0    241.0    614.0   1621.0    986.0   2507.0        43.0      13.0
TOTAL COST INCLUDING ALL
CONTiNGENCIES                        1663.0   3787.0   6450.0   6787.0  15463.0  22250.0        72.0    117.0
The foliwing changes were Introduce to the above table during negotiations to
arrive at the figures In Tables I and 2 In the text:
lln                             Net Increased In base Costs
i-1Dailors)
IAA equipment oods                   17000.0
Attorney Generals Off. C&i Div.
T/A                                 20000.0
Ubray                              175000.0
-Chief Parliamentary
Draftsman
TIA                                30000.0
JudIciry
- Motor vehicle for training sup.   30000.0
Total incrase In base costs       272000.0
Both phycal and price contingencies were adjusted appropriately.



- 96 -
TANZANIA
FILMUP PROJECT               ANNEX O
PROJECT COST SUMMARY              Page 2 of 16
(US$1000)
Item                                 Year I   Year     Year 3    Year 4    Year5    Total Foreign %
Financial Management;
NBAA                                  886.0   2167.0    451.0     79.0      52.0   3824.3     68.0
OCAG                                  238.0     39.0     43.0     18.0        -    338.0      67.0
IAA                                  1705.0   2197.0   1467.0    382.0    327.0   6068.J      7S.0
IFM                                  1400.0    476.0    414.0     20.0       4.0   2320.0    100.0
Sub-total                          4234.0   4868.0   2385.0    499.0    383.0  12350.0
Legal Framework
Attornoy General's Office:
-Civil & International Division       216.0    14U.0     18.0        -        -    379.0    100.0
-Chief Parliamentary Draftsman         64.0     67.0    124.0     29.0        -    284.0    100.0
-Administrator-General's Office       37e.0     59.0     16.0        -        -    450.0         -
-Technicol Aneistance                 330.0                                         330.0    100.0
-Printing                                     1800.0                               1800.0     60.0
-Library Support                       75.0     50.0     50.0                       175.0    100.0
Judiciary                             530.0    496.0    145.0                      1171.0     74.0
Law Reform Commission                 154.0     99.0      7.0                       260.0    100.0
Registrar of Companles                 66.0     90.0     33.0        -       6.0    195.0
Sub-total                          1810.0   2807.0    392.0      29.0      6.0   5044.0
Studies:
Legal Sector Strategy                 150.0    100.0                                250.0     90.0
Cost Recovery                          80.0                                          80.0     90.0
TAC Study                              60.0                                          60.0    100.0
sub-total                           290.0    100.0      0.0       0.0      0.0    390.0    100.0
Project Coordination:
- Financial                            68.0     30.0     30.0     30.0      30.0    188.0     66.0
- Legal                                64.0     26.0     26.0     26.0      26.0    168.0     60.0
- Project Launch                        7.0       -         -        -        -       7.0
incremental Operating Costs           156.0    158.0    159.0    159.0    161.0    793.0
Sub-total                           296.0    214.0    216.0    215.0    217.0   1156.0
TOTAL BASE COST                      6629.0   7900.0   2972.0    743.0    606.0  18940.0



- 97 -
ANNEX O
Page3 do 1
TANZANIA
FILIMUP PROJECT
NBM COSTS I,
(USSO000)
Item                                 Year I    Year 2    Year     Year 4    Year 6    Total Forelitg
Long-term training                    100.0    127.0      74.0     60.0      22.0    379.0     96.0
Short-term training                    41.0      37.0     10.0     20.0        -     108.0    100.0
Technical Aeustance                    65.0      44.0      9.0        -        -     108.0    100.0
Study Manuals                         168.0        -        -         -        -     168.0       0.0
Computers an(1 Office Equipment       126.0      36.0      3.0      9.0       2.0    174.0    100.0
Motor Vehicles                         69.0      31.0     28.0        -      28.0    140.0    100.0
Buildings
-Office                               341.0   1883.0    327.0         -        -   2561.0       60.0
TOTAL BASE COST                       885.0   2167.0    461.0      79.0      62.0   3624.0
1/ Details of training. T/A. quanthies. unit costs. etc. are In Annnex 1.



- 98 -
ANNEX
Ppag 4 of 15
TANZANU
ILMLUP LPDO
OCA CO8T 11
YtK1  YZY  Y.wa X4Y  X1    TaI Faembn %
Training                                83.0      26.0      43.0     18.0         -     183.0       6.0
Cornputerg& Offoe Equipment             74.0         -        -         -         -      74.0    100.0
Vehicles                                111.0        -        -         _         -     111.0    100.0
TOTA BASE COSTS                        238.0      30.0      43.0      18.0        -     33d.0
1/ Dotils of ps. .,A  to be trained, training locaftons, periods and costs are
te Project File.
Details of othe oosts and quantiies are In Annex 2.



- 99 -
ANNEX 9
Poo6dof16
TANZANIA
FILMUD PROJECT
IAACO8TS 1!
(US$000)
Nem                                 Yea I   Year 2   Yew 3   Yea4   YerS     Toal Foretnm %
Training - Long-term                  60.0    103.0     81.0        -        -    234.0    100.0
- Short-term                     181.0    111.0    111.0     71.0      11.0    486.0    100.0
Techncl Aeitance
- Long-term;                     480.0    480.0        -        -        -     MA0    100.0
- Short-tenn                     120.0     60.0     40.0     40.0     40.0              100.0
Ubrary:
- Equipment                        40.0     17.0     12.0      7.0     11.0     87.0    100.0
- Books                           177.0       -        -        -        -    177.0    100.0
- Peroicals                        64.0     64.0     64.0     54.0     64.0    270.0    100.0
Sub-total Ubrary                   271.0     71.0     00.0      01.0     65.0    534.0    100.0
Computer & Office EquIpment           40.0      2.0        -        -        -      42.0    100.0
Vehbles                               78.0        _        _        _        -      78.0    100.0
CMI Works                            606.0   1370.0   1150.0    210.0    211.0   3466.0      60.0
TOTAL IM BASE COSTS                 1706.0   2197.0   1467.0    382.0    327.0   6068.0
11 For detils of training and T/A periods. quantlWes and unit codte
of gocods. etc.. we Annex 3.



- 100 -
ANNEX 0
Page e d 16
TANZAIA
,9LMUP PROJECT
IFM COST I1
(USfOOO)
KM                                  Year I   Yeu2g   Ye__   Yer 4   Year 5         Total Foreign *
Training:
Long-term                           131.0    171.0    110.0     16.0        -    428.0    100.0
Short-erm                           110.0      0.0    60.0        -         -    230.0    100.0
Technloal Aeuiano.                   240.0    240.0    240.0        -        _    720.0    100.0
Lalbrary
- Reference boole                     12.0        -        -        -        -      12.0    100.0
- Perdodlol                           4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0       4.0     20.0    100.0
-Text-books                          118.0        -        -        -        -    118.0    100.0
- Equipment                           16.0      1.0        -        -        -      16.0    100.0
0.0    100.0
Computers & Offioe Equipment         6.0          -                 -        -    e26.0    100.0
Ve'i;iole                            160.0        -        -        -        -    160.0    100.0
TOTAL BASE COST                     1400.0    470.0    414.0     20.0       4.0   2320.0    100.0
I/ Detailed quantites, unit oots book lids, etc. are In Annex 4 and Project Fis1.s



- 101 -
ANNEX 0
Page 7 df 15
TANZANIA
FILMUP PROJECT
ATTORNEY-0 NE 4RAL'8 OFFdE 0g-fj Mg
(UwooVj)
Rem                                  You 1    Yeaw 2    YearS    Yw 4    Y"r6 5        1    Foreign
Civil & Intemational Division
Training                              116.0      48.0     18.0        -        -     179.0    100.0
Computers and related software        100.0    100.0                                 200.0    100.0
Sub-total                            215.0    148.0      18.0      0.0      0.0    379.0    100.0
Chiot Parilamientary Draftsman
Training                               64.0      6'.0    124.0     29.0              284.0    100.0
Administrator-General's Office
Tralning                               28.0      50.0     15.0        -              100.0    100.0
PrInting of forms                     350.0                                          360.0    100.0
Sub-total                            376.0     50.0      15.0      0.0      0.0    450.0    100.0
Technical Asistance:
- Revision of the Laws of Tanzania    1160.0       -        -         -        -     150.0    100.0
- Revision of Corporate and
Commerclal Laws                      160.0       -         -        -        -     180.0    100.0
Sub-total                           330.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0    330.0    100.0
Prirting of Revised Laws                  -   1800.0        -         -        -    1800.0    100.0
Ubrary Bovks and Shalves               75.0      50.0     50.0        -        -     175.0    10G.u
I/ For details of training and T/A periods, unit costs, quantitles, etc. see Annex 6 and project Files.



- 102 -
ANNEXO
TI~~A                      PegeSd 16
FILMUP PROJECT
l'JDICIARY COSTS I1
Item                              Year I   YearO 2   Year    Ye ar4    Year 6   TOal    Forelhn %
Training - all Short-term             266.0    261.0     96.0        -        -      01.0     80.0
Typewriter and Computers               76.0     76.0     50.0        -        -    200C      100.0
Printing nf Tanzania Law Reports     200.0    170.0                  -        -    370.0      60.0
TOTAL BASE COST                       630.0    486.0    145.0      0.0      0.0   1171.0
11 Detaill of training periods, unit costs, quantitles, etc. are in Annex 6 and Project File.



ii~~~~~~~ I
o       o  .   
I~    88
U      og  W1
I~~        o  o 



- 104 -
ANNEX 9
Page 10 of 16
TANZANIA
FILMUP PROJECT
STUDIES COSTS
(US$000)
item                                 Year 1   Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year    Total Foreian
Legal Sector Study 1/                 150.0    100.0       -         -        -    250.0      90.0
Cost recovery Study 2/                 80.0       -         -        -        -      80.0    100.0
TAC study 3/                           60.0       -         -        -        -      60.0    100.0
TOTAL BASE COST                       290.0    100.0       -         -        -    390.0    200.0
11 Costs of foreign and local consultants (not financed by bilateral donors) Including fees.
travel within, to, and from Tanzania, per diem etc.
2/ Estimated at 3, staff-months of consultants. international and local travel
and per diem.
3/2 consultant-months plus intemational and local travel, and per diem.



- 105 -
ANNEXO
PaOe 11 of Is
TANZANIA
FILMUP PROJECT
FINANCIAL COMPONENT COORDINATION COST
(US$OOO)
Item                                 Year I   Year2    YearS    Yer 4    YearS      Totl Forelan6
Co-ordinator's Salary 1/               12.0     12.0     12.0      12.0     12.0     60.0      0.0
Motor Vehicle                          30.0       -         -        -        -      30.0    100.0
Personal Computer with
printer, programs & software          4.0        -        -        -        -       4.0    100.0
Ineremental fuel, lubricants
etc. 2/                               3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      15.0    100.0
Air fares 3/                            1.0      1.0      1.0       1.0      1.0      5.0      0.0
Per diem on Arusha visits 4/           3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0       3.0     15.0      0.0
Driver, Secretary & Office
expences                               1.0      1.0       1.0      1.0      1.0      5.0      0.0
Procurement Seminar and Advice 6J      14.0     10.0     10.0      10.0     10.0     54.0    100.0
TOTAL BASECOST                         68.0     30.0     30.0     30.0      30.0    188.0
1/ US$12.OOO/Yr.
21 Fuel. lubricante, maintenance and spares, say, $260/mth.
3 4 visits a year to Arusha for projct co-ordination purposes ($250 x 4).
4/4 days each dsIt at $150/day.
8/Seminar in ESAMI In year 1, plus 4 weeks of consultant's advice, travel
and per diem each year. to be shared equally with the legal
component coordinator.



- 106 -
ANNEX0
Pae120116
TANZANIA
FILMUP PRO IECT
LEGAL COMPONENT COORDINATION COSTS
(UnoOD)
KM                                  Year I   Ye  r2 Year3   You 4    Year6         Ttal Foreign%
Coordinator's Salary 1/               12.0     12.0     12.0      12.0     12.0     60.0      0.0
Motor vehicle                         30.0        -        -        -        -      3.0    100.0
Personal computer with printer,                                                      0.0    100.0
programs, software                   4.0        -        -        -        -
0.0    100.0
Incremental fuel, lubricants,          3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0       3.0
etc. 21                                                                            0.0    100.0
Procurementseminar&Advice3/           14.0     10.0     10.0      10.0     10.0     54.0    100.0
Dtver Secretary & otflce expenses      1.0      1.0      1.0       1.0      1.0      5.0    100.0
TOTAL BASE COST                       64.0     26.0     26.0     26.0      26.0    168.0
i/ US$12.00O0Year.
21 Fuel.lubricants, spares and maintenance, say $250/month.
3 Procurement seminar at ESAMl, Arusha: Airfares (S250), tuitUon and per diem (3,760).
Seminar In ESAMI In Year 1, plus 4 weeks otoonsultant's advice, trawl and per diem each
year, to be shared equally with the Financial Component Co-ordinator.



- 107 -
ANNEX 9
Paeg 13 of 15
TANZANIA
FILMUP PROJECT
CALCULATION OF CONTINGENCIES - FOREIGN COSTS
(USSOOO)
Im                                  year 1      Yewr 2   Year     Year 4   Year 5  TOtal
TOTAL BASE COST                     6629.0   7960.0   2972.0    743.0    06.0  18040.0
LESS: LOCAL BASE COST               928.0   2680.0    848.0    293.0    276.0   4926.0
FOREIGN BASE COST                   5701.0   5410.0   2124.0    450.0    330.0  14016.0
FOREIGN COST OF:
- Buildinpe: NBAA                   205.0   1130.0    106.0        -        -   1831.0
IAA                           303.0    822.0    725.0    126.0    127.0   2103.0
- Hardware (Vehicles & Equlpment)  1585.0    286.0     93.0     16.0    41.0   2021.0
2003.0   2238.0   1014.0    142.0    168.0  566.0
PHYSICAL CONTIGENCY:
10% of Buildings and Hardware      209.0    224.0    101.0     14.0     17.0    656.0
SUB-TOTAL (BASE COST & PHYSICAL
CONTINGENCY)                       5610.0  5634.0   2225.0    464.0    347.0  14680.0
PRICE CONTINGENCIES (Year 1
.1902193)                          207.0    401.0    242.0    eo.0      67.0    986.0
Peroentages                          3.5      3.6      3.5      3.7      3.9
TOTAL FOREIGN COSTS. INCLUDING
ALLCONTINGENCIES                  6117.0   603.0   2487.0    633.0    414.0  1566.0



-  108
ANNEX9
Pai 14 of 15
TiAZAN
RiLMUP PROJECT
CACULATION OF CONTINGENCIES - LOCAL COSTS
(USt000)
iten                                Y.i t        AY    Y*sr 3   Yer 4   X.wA 6     Lal
LOCAL COSTS
NBAA
- Buildings (40%)                   136.0    783.0    131.0        -        -   1020.0
- Long-ten . training (5%)            5.0      6.0      4.0       3.0      1.0     19.0
Sub-total                           141.0    789.0    138.0      3.0      1.0   1039.0
IM
- Building. (40%)                   202.0   6548.0   463.0       84.0     84.0   1381.0
OCAG
- Training (06%)                     60.0     37.0     41.0      17.0       -    148.0
Atorney-General 'Off
- Adminlitrator-Genral
- Training (6%)                       1.0      3.0       1.0       -        -       8.0
- Printing (60%)                    175.0        -        -        -        -    175.0
Sub-totai                          176.0      3.0       1.0      0.0      0.0    180.0
Printing of Revised Law
of Tanzania (80%)                      -    900.0        -                  -    900.0
Judiciary
- Training (20%)                     51.0     60.0      19.0       -        -    120.0
- Prnting of Law Reports (50%)      100.0     85.0                                185.0
Sub-total                          151.0    135.0      19.0       -        -    305.0
Sudies-Legal Seotor (10%)             15.0     10.0        -        -        -      25.0
Project Coordination
- RlnanoW                            17.0     17.0      17.0     17.0     17.0     85.0
- Lega                               13.0      13.0     13.0     13.0     13.0    06.0
Sub-total                           30.0     30.0      30.0     30.0     30.0    150.0
ProJeotLaunch&OperatgCosts           163.0    166.0    159.0    189.0    161.0    800.0
TOTAL LOCAL BASE C0ST                928.0   2860.0    848.0    203.0    276.0   4925.0
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES:
10% ON BUILDINGS& HARDWARE           34.0    131.0     67.0      8.0       8.0    238.0
SUB-TOTAL
BASE COST & PHYSICAL CONTiNGENC    02.0   2711.0    905.0    301.0    284.0   5163.0
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                  128.0    m.0    344.0    160.0    207.0   1521.0
(YEAR I * 1SOMS)                    190       11.0     10.0     10.0     10.0
TOTAL INCLUDING ALL CONTINGENCIE  10t7.0   3400.0   1249.0    457.0    491.0   664.0



TANZANIA
FllIJ 9OIECT
COST OIP WARTXnI OFREWGIUDNINS
COMMIAL LAWS. ANDUDWDMAL SLHNO
kmw                                                        YOUI           Tk *2                      YS3                          Yr4                          Yet S                        Tod             Fogd S
ggf          LhliCad AO       ,AMO        U( Cl,a*   Avo     i      lb CMG Amm    QAti A_ C0    AWmtC Qo                    UnilCe  AmA    0w_            W D
Tn :                                  1- 34.00                      -         -        -                                                                                     -         -        -     34.00
6 mu                                   -         -     14.00        -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -     14.00
Sinetb                                                    -         -         -     14.00        -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -     M4.00
6                                                                                   MOD4.00      -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -         -        -    14.00
eo m  ba do
koeq  or Lmy
n          Cwa                        -         -        -         -        -    27.00          -        -    28.00         -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -    55.0O
S&ITadubm"                         0.00      0.00    28.tO      0.00     0.00    55.00       0.00     0.00    28.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     1.00 I00D.O
nfm    m                             3.00     4.60     4.60      3.00      4.70     4.70      1.00     4.70      4.70        -         -        -         -        -         -      3.00     4.70    34.00 t
_           ( a2001)                                             I.tO      9.00     9.00        -         -         -        -         -        -        -         -         -      1.00     9.00     9.00                    %0
6 C    _ Waok  _m3                   5.00     5.00    25.00         -        -         -         -                           -         -        -         -                         5.00     5.00    25.00
U      ml9Eqd ()                       -         -        -               2.00    23.00    2-.00- -       -         -        -         -                                            1.00    21.00    21.00
D       4m   _                       1.00     6.00     6.00         -        -         -         -        -         -        -                         3 .00    6.00      6.00      2.O     12.00    12.00
Ak-Jnkr                                8      0.60     0.00                  -         -        -         -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -      1.00     0.60      0.60
v     a"_3m                          1.00     0.30      2.00        -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -      7.00     0.30      2.00
b4 1m  Eqdp_                                           39.20                       34.70                         4.70                                                     6.00                         3.60    300.00
66.20                       89.70                        32.70        -         -                                  6.00                       194.60   300.OD
TOTAL MA CM
0



- 110 -
ANNEX 10
TANZANIA
FILMUP PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Dlsbursements
IDA             Semester              DLsbursements           Cumulatlve
Fiscal Year    EndLna                                         Dlsbursements
-----------US$°00O -------------
1992/93         Decemeber 31, i992           250                   250
June 30, 1993                560                   810
1993/94         December 31, 1993          1,521                2,331
June 30, 1994              3,093                5,424
1994/95         December 31, 1994          3,131                8,555
June 30, 1995              3,894               12,449
1995/96         December 31, 1995          3,753               16,002
June 30, 1996              2,687               18,889
1996/97         December 31, 1996            377               19,266
June 30, 1997                367               19,633
1997/98         December 31, 1997            367               20,000



- 1.11 -
Annex 11
TANZANIA
Financial and Legal Management Upgrading Project (FILMUP)
Imnlementation Schedule
Estimated Annual Contractual and Other Payments
(USS million equivalent)
Project Year                Total   ICs          Remarks
Pre-       .....                                        Payment  LCB
Project    1993     1994      1995     1996     1997             OTH
. . . ..     . ..    .     . . . . .. . .. . . . . . . ...   NSF
Project Elemants\Quarters             1 2 3 4  12 34  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4               (a)
....... ....... ... ......... ...........  ........    ......... ........    ......... ........    ......... ........ ....... ........ ......... ...... ........ ...................... .
Credit Timimg
...... ....... ............... ....
Sign/Effec/Close                        **       **                                     **
Works
....... ........... .... ...... .... .........
Signing of Contract for Design        xx
Design/Bid Docs. ready for review       xxxx
Bid/Award submitted to tDA                   xx
Construction contract Signature                xx
Construction:                                    xxxx xxxxxxxx
* NBAA                                          1.0      2.2                                3.2    ICB
- IAA                                           0.7       1.5                               2.2    ICB
- IAA (Boarding Facilities)                     -                  0.6                      0.6    ICS  Subject to Condition
* IAA  (Staff Housing)                                             0.4      0.2      0.2    0.8    NSF  Subject to Condition
Goods
..................................... ............. .
Signing of Contract of Proc.Spec.    xx
Bid Docs ready for review               xxxx
Bid/Award submitted to IDA                   xx
Contracts Signature                            xx
Vehicles                                         0.4       0.2          -                    0.6    ICB  0.1 (LCB)
Office Equipment & Comuters                      0.4       1.0      0.3                       1.7    ICB  0.5 (LCS) & 0.2 (OTH)
Printing of Law Books & Reports                  2.5       0.3                                2.8    ICS
Library Books & Library Equipment                0.8      0.2                                 1.1    ICa
Consultancies
.....................                                                                             .  ......
LOt/TORs/Short List for approval        xxxx
Bid/Award submitted to IDA                   xx
Contracts reviewed by IDA                      xx
Contracts Signature                            xx
Selection of Archftect/Engineer    xxxxxx
Construction Design/Supervision                  0.4       0.2      0.1                      0.7    OTH  Already Selected
Techn. Assistance                                1.0       1.0      0.9                      2.9    OTH  0.3 financed by SIDA
Edf ting of Study. ManuaLs                       0.2                                          0.2    OTH
Training                                         1.0       1.4      0.8      0.5             3.7    OTH
Miscellaneous (Operating Costs)
~~~~~~....... ........... .........
Salaries and Consumables                         xxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx   0.2    OTH  0.2 financed by SIDA
Incremental Operating Costs                      xxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx Axxxxxxx xxxxxxxx  1.12    NBF  Financed by Government
. ....... .............. ........     .......Non.Sa.k.
(a): Procurement Methods: NX.F. Non Bank-Ffnanced



- 112 -
ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 3
TANZANIA
FILMUP PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
1.    Borrower's Contribution to Supervision would primarily take the form of full-time project
management by the two project coordinators:  The Financial Management Component
Coordinator (FMCC) and the Legal Sector Component Coordinator (LSCC). Their supervisory
functions would include:
(a)   review, initially and recording of:
'i)       all project procurement orders
(ii)      all disbursement requests
(iii)     all cheques drawn on the Special Accounts;
(iv)      all other documents evidencing project transactions of
whatever nature;
(b)    preparation of annual project implementation budgets;
(c)    preparation of bidding and other project contract documents;
(d)    preparation  of half-yearly  reports on  all aspects of project
implementation, including comparisons of actual with budgeted
procurements disbursements, etc.;
(e)    maintenance of project books and records, and preparation of bank
reconciliation statements;
(f)    preparation of annual project accounts;
(g)    arranging for the audit of annual project accounts;
(h)    maintaining surveillance over project assets;
(i)   forwarding all procurement and disbursement requests, to and from IDA,
and all accounts and audit reports to IDA; and
(j)    arranging and accompanying Bank SIDA supervision missions.



- 113 -
ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 3
2.    In addition to special supervision missions to be mounted by IDA in accordance with the
schedule set out in Annex 12, Schedule (attached), IDA staff would need to spend time at IDA
Headquarters on dealing with correspondence, reviewing and commenting on procurement
documents, disbursement requests, half-yearly reports and audited accounts. The amount of time
likely to be involved is estimated as follows:
Project Year 1            6 staff weeks
Project Year 2:           6 staff weeks
Project Year 3:           5 staff weeks
Project Year 4:           4 staff weeks
Project Year 5:           3 staff weeks
Project Year 6:           2 staff weeks
3.    Not earlier than September 1994, and not later than September 1995, there would be a
Mid-Term Project Review by Government, IDA, and SI 'A participation. Terms of reference
for the review would be prepared by IDA and cleared with Government and SIDA in advance
of the review date. In general terms the review would involve an examination of the status of
implementation of the project, including not only progress on procurement, disbursements, and
construction, but also review of quantitative and qualitative benefits anticipated from the project.
4.    To the extent possible, IDA and SIDA should undertake joint supervision missions of the
project.



- 114 -
Page 3 of 3
TANZAN
FILMUP PROJECT
BAK  SUPERVISION INPUT INTO KEY ACTITES
AgDOXmt            Activity                      EXDeted SklC                      Wff1
PXAW                                                                               (hfft-Week
Septenber 1992     First Supervision Mission     - Chartered Accountant (or CPA)    8
(Project Launch Workshop     - Counsel
- Disbursement Expert
- Procurement Expert
March 1993         2nd Supervision Mission       - Chartered Accountant (or CF&)    8
- Construction review        - Counsel
- General progress review    - Architect
- Work on Legal Sector Study   - Training
with Legal Study Task Force
EY9
Spteber 1993       3rd Supervision Mission       - Chartered Accountant (or CPA)    6
- General Progress Review    - Counsel
- Preparations for Donors
Conference on Legal
Sector Report
March 1994         4th Supervision Mission       - Chartered Accountant (or CPA)    4
- General Progress Review    - Counsel
Septenber 1994     5th Supervision Mission       -Chartered Accountant             4
- General Progress Review    - Counsel
March 1995         6th Supervision Mission and   - Chartered Accountant            8
Mid-Tenn Review (including    - Architect
decision on new students'    - Counsel
hostel and staff housing at  - Trainer
IAA)
September 1995     7th Supervision Mission       - Chartered Accountant (CPA)      4
- General Progress Review    - Counsel
March 1996         8th Supervision Mission       - Chartered Accountant (CPA)      4
- General Progress Review    - Counsel
Em
September 1996     9th Supervision Mission       - Chartered Accountant (CPA)      4
- General Progress Review    - Counsel
10th Supervision Mission
- General Progress Review    - Chartered Accountant
March 1997                                       - Counsel                         4
fm                                                                                 8
September 1997     11th Supervision Mission      - Chartered Accountant
- Preparation of PCR         - Counsel
- Architect



- 115 -
ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 2
TANZANIA
FT,MUP PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMEJNTYS IN THE IpROJECT DUL
1.    Original FILUMP Project Proposals from NBAA, IFM, IAA, the Attorney-General's Chambers,
the Judiciary, the Law Reform Commission, and the Department of Registrations, Commercial
Laws and Industrial licensing (Registrar of Companies).
2.    Dar es Salaam School of Accountancy-Prospectus for the Academic Year 1991/92.
3.    Institute of Development Management, Mzumbe,
- Prospecrus 1990/91 -1991/92
4.    Institute of Accountancy, Arusha
- Prospectus 1992/92
5.    Institute of Finance Management
- Prospectus 1989/90 - 90/91
6.    Report of the Controller and Auditor-General for the Financial year ended 30th June 1989
(Published in 1991).
7     Architect's (Charles Egbert) Report and Draft Engineers' Contract for proposed Project Buildings
for NBAA and IAA - April 1992.
8.    Consultant's (L.B. Fumbuka) Report on Legal Information Systems dated March 18, 1992.
9.    NBAA Annual Report and Audited Accounts for Years Ended June 30, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989
and 1990.
10.   IFM Annual Report and Audited Accounts for Years Ended June 30, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989
and 1990.
11.   The Auditors and Accountants (Registration) Act No. 33 of 1972.
12.   NBAA Report No. B.P. 67.8 NA Report on the State of accounts in Government and Parastatal
Sectors in Tanzania Max land" - 18th January 1989.
13.   TAC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30th June 1990.
14.   Tanzania Statements of Standard Accounting Practice
- an NBAA Publication.
15.   NBAA - Tanzania Statements for Auditing Standards and Guidelines Feb. 1989.
16.   NBAA - OTanzania Statements of Accounting Guidelines' - November 1989



- 116 -
Page 2 of 2
17.   NBAA - Tanzania Statements of Accounting Guidelines - December 1990
18.   NBAA - Examiners' Report and Pass List for the 34th examination session - November 1991.
19.   IAA Proposed Budget for the Year 1992/93.
20.   'Advanced Diploma in Government Accountancy and Audit"'
- Submission to the National Board of Accountants and Auditors, August 1991.
21.   Consultant's (.E. Mlaki) Report on Law Libraries
- March 1992
22.   NBAA List of Authorized Auditors and Authorized Accountants Registered with NBAA.
23.   Advanced Diploma in Government accountancy and Audit - Final Development and Evaluation
Report - International Management Consultants Limited - March 1992.
24.   Strengthening the Accounting and Auditing Function - Final Report by International Management
Consultants Limited-December 1991.



- 117 -
ANNEX 14
TANZANIA
FILMUP PROJECT
PIANNING FOR PROJECT LAUNCH WORKSHOP
DATE:                     First half of October 1992, shortly after effectiveness.
AGENDA:                   Procurement; Disbursements; Accounts and Audits; Budgeting and
Reporting; Planning for all studies; Construction Plans; other
Project Implementation Issues; Professional Orientation of IAA and
IFM.
DURATION:                 3 full working days (3 nights).
LOGISTICS:                Residential, with own transport arrangements to and from hotel.
PARTICIPATION:            Project Coordinators                                2
-     Other Government representatives:
One from each of project institutions i.e.          10
+ Deputy-Attorney General                           1
+ Registrar of NBAA                                 1
+ One trom Treasury                                 1
13
SIDA  One representative                            1
IDA: 4 professionals from Washington (specialized in
accountancy, law, procurement, disbursement)       4
+ One from Resident Mission                         1
5
Total number of participants                                     21
COST Y: Hotel rooms and per diem for Tanzanian participants (2 + 13 above)
i.e., 15 persons x 3 rights x $150/day                   US$6,750
Rental of hotel meeting room 3 days x $100                  300
Estimated Cost included in Project                         7.050
I1 IDA and SIDA participants would pay all their own costs.



