CREDIT NUMBER 2413 TA
Development Credit Agreement
(Financial and Legal Management Upgrading Project)
between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                    4      1992


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2413 TA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  JPYdOA w6eV         , 1992, between UNITED
REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)   the Borrower intends to obtain a grant from the Kingdom
of Sweden (Swedish Grant) in an amount equivalent to $225,000
pursuant to an agreement (the Swedish Grant Agreement) to be entered
into between the Borrower and the Kingdom of Sweden; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section  1.01.   The  "General  Conditions   Applicable  to
Development   Credit  Agreements"   of  the   Association,  dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Project  Preparation  Advance"  means   the  project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to a letter dated April 3, 1992, from the Association to
the Borrower and confirmed by the Borrower on April 16, 1992;
(b)   "Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;


﻿-2
(c)   "NBAA" means National Board of Accountants and Auditors,
a statutory body established pursuant to the Accountants and
Auditors (Registration) Act No. 33 of 1972;
(d)   "IAA" means the Institute of Accountancy, Arusha, a
statutory body established pursuant to the Institute of Accountancy,
Arusha Act, No 1 of 1990;
(e)   "IFM" means the Institute of Finance Management a
statutory body established pursuant to the Institute of Finance
Management Act, No. 3 of 1992;
(f)   "OCAG" means the Office of the Controller and Auditor-
General; and
(g)   "TAC" means the Tanzania Audit Corporation, a statutory
corporation established pursuant to the Tanzania Audit Corporation
Act, No. 1 of 1968.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-
ment, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fourteen million
six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 14,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars two special deposit accounts in its
central bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account


﻿-3-
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each March 1 and September 1


﻿-4-
commencing September 1, 2002, and ending March 1, 2032. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on March 1,
2012, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
(b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due con-
sideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and North Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end:


﻿-5-
(i)    shall carry out Parts A.2, B and C of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative and
financial practices and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for such Parts of the
Project; and
(ii)   without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under this Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause NBAA, IFK and IAA, to carry
out their respective parts of Part A of the
Project and shall take or cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds,
facilities,  services   and  other   resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable NBAA, IAA and
IFM to perform such obligations, and shall not
take or permit to be taken any action which
would   prevent   or    interfere  with    such
performance.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out Parts A.2, B and
C and cause NBAA, IFM and IAA to carry out Parts A.1, A.3 and A.4 of
the Project, respectively, in accordance with the Implementation
Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit for
Parts A.1, A.3 and A.4 of the Project, available to NBAA, IAA and
IFM respectively, as grants.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (a) ensure that the
Administrator-General's Department charges realistic fees for the
services rendered by the department; and (b) provide in its annual
budget, a minimum amount equivalent to $300,000 each year, adjusted
for inflation, for the Administrator General's Department.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those
for the Special Accounts for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)   furnish  to   the  Association,  as   soon  as
available, but in any case not later than nine
months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as  the   Association  shall  have   reasonably
requested; and
(iii)   furnish   to   the  Association   such   other
information concerning said records, accounts
and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain  or   cause  to  be   maintained,  in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
records    and   accounts    reflecting    such
expenditures;
(ii)    retain, until at least one year after the
Association has received the audit report for
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal


﻿-7-
from the Credit Account or payment out of the
Special   Accounts  was   made,   all   records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and    other   documents)    evidencing    such
expenditures;
(iii)    enable  the Association's  representatives to
examine such records; and
(iv)    ensure  that such records   and accounts are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion
by said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that NBAA, IAA or IFM will be able to
perform their respective obligations under the Project.
(b)   The various Acts referred to in Section 1.02 (c), (d)
and (e), shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of NBAA,
IAA or IFM to perform any of their respective obligations under the
Project.
(c)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of NBAA, IAA or IFM or for the suspension of their operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that any event specified in paragraph (b) and (c) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60


﻿-8-
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of this Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely,
that the Borrower has appointed the two Project Coordinators
referred to in paragraphs A.2 and B.1 of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Minister at the time responsible for Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam
Tanzania
Cable address:                 Telex:
TREASURY                  41329
Dar es Salaam


﻿-9
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                 Telex:
INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By /   g kQA
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
/By/i    Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works                                100% of foreign
for:                                      expenditures and
85% of local
(a) NBAA                                  expenditures
1,660,000
(b) IAA
(i)                   1,160,000
(ii)                  1,100,000
(2) Vehicles and                               100% of foreign
equipment                                 expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(a) for Part A of         1,070,000
the Project
(b) for Part B of          440,000
the Project
(3) Training
(a) for Part A of
the Project           1,430,000


﻿- 11 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(b) for Part B of
the Project            1,030,000
(4) Consultants'                                100%
services
(a) for Part A of          1,850,000
the Project
(b) for Part B of            280,000
the Project
(5) Printing for               1,770,000       100% of foreign
Part B of the                               expenditures and
Project                                     90% of local
expenditures
(6) Library books                              100% of foreign
and equipment                               expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(a) for Part A of            500,000
the Project
(b) for Part B of            260,000
the Project       -
(7) Studies                                    100%
(a) for Part C.1 of          180,000
the Project
(b) for Parts C.2 and        100,000
and C.3 of the
Project


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(8) Project Coordina-                          100%
tion
(a) for Part A of           150,000
the Project
(b) for Part B of           130,000
the Project
(9) Refunding of                 180,000       Amounts due pur-
Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
tion Advance                               2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(10) Unallocated               1,310,000
TOTAL                14,600,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
(c)   "Project Coordination Costs" means expenditures for the
following activities with respect to Project Coordination:
incremental salaries, office expenses, transport, costs of running
the Project Coordinators' offices and costs involved in launching
the Project Workshop.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 13 -
4.    No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered
into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect
of:
(a)   expenditures under Category 1 (a), unless evidence
satisfactory to the Association has been furnished to the
Association that NBAA will make available to TAA at least three
offices in the new NBAA building; and
(b)   expenditures under Category 1 (b) (ii), unless the
Borrower has furnished to the Association evidence satisfactory to
the Association that the number of students at IAA has increased to
150.


﻿-14-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to improve: (i) accounting
and auditing; (ii) the legal and regulatory framework; and (iii) the
administration of justice.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Financial Management
1.    NBAA
(a)   Strengthening of NBAA   to improve the    quality  of
accounting and auditing in the Borrower's territories through the
provision of training and technical support, preparation of study
manuals, and the acquisition of office equipment and vehicles.
(b)   Construction of office accommodation for NBAA.
2.    OCAG
Strengthening of OCAG to enable it to carry out its functions
of auditing all civil service accounts, through the provision of
staff training and acquisition of computers, office equipment and
vehicles.
3.    IAA
(a)   Strengthening IAA to enable it to better train students
for the final stages of the CPA examinations, through the provision
of overseas and local training for trainers, acquisition of library
books, periodicals and other library equipment, computers, other
office equipment and vehicles.
(b)   Extension and remodeling of IAA buildings.
4.    L-
(a)   Strengthening of IFM4, to enable it to expand its
curriculum to introduce computing courses and update other courses,
through the provision of local and overseas training, acquisition of


﻿- 15 -
library books, periodicals and essential library equipment, as well
as computer, office and classroom equipment.
(b)   Acquisition of furniture for classrooms, a cooling
system for their library and assembly hall and other equipment and
vehicles.
Part B:     Legal Sector
1.    Attorney-General's Office
(a)   Strengthening and upgrading the capabilities of the
staff in the Civil and International Division, Legislative Division
and Administrator-General's Department in the Attorney-General's
office, through the provision of training.
(b)   Acquisition of library books, legal journals, shelving,
office equipment and other materials, and the printing of forms for
the Administrator-General's Department.
(c)   Revision and printing of the Laws of Tanzania.
(d)   Review of commercial and related laws, including laws
that impact on private sector development.
2.    Judiciary
(a)   Strengthening the judiciary in the area of commercial
law developments, and streamlining procedures to ensure speedy
disposal of cases, through the provision of training for High Court
Judges, Resident and District Magistrates, Registry Assistants and
Registrars of the Court of Appeal and High Court.
(b)   Upgrading of the High Court Library      through  the
streamlining of procedures, training of library assistants and the
acquisition of books, legal journals and materials, some shelving
and library equipment.
(c)   Acquisition of typewriters for the most busy magistrates
courts and computers for the High Court Registries in Dar es Salaam
and the eleven zonal centers.
(d)   Publication of the Tanzania Law Reports.


﻿- 16 -
3.    Law Reform Commission (LRC)
Strengthening the LRC through the provision of staff training
and acquisition of computers and other office equipment.
4.    Strengthening of the Registrar of Companies and streamlining
of its systems, to enable it to provide accurate and timely
information about companies and businesses through staff training,
acquisition of computers and other equipment.
Part C:     Studies
1.    Legal Sector Study:
Carrying out of several in-depth studies of various aspects of
the legal sector and the development of strategy to improve its
performance.
2.    Cost Recovery Study:
Carrying out of study of methods of increasing cost recovery
in the institutions, both financial and legal, benefitting under the
Project.
3.    TAC Study:
Carrying out a study designed to recommend specific ways of
giving effect to the decision to remove TAC's monopoly on the
auditing of parastatals.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for civil works shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$2,000,000 or more and contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more.
Part_B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Tanzania may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $600,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.


﻿18 -
2.    Items or groups of items for goods to cost the equivalent of
$30,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $300,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more and goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Accounts, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Accounts in respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Accounts, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.


﻿- 19 -
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Part A of the Project
1.    Project Coordination
The Borrower shall appoint and maintain until Project
completion a Project Coordinator (FMCC) in NBAA to coordinate the
financial management component of the Project. The FMCC shall
coordinate and report on Project implementation and supervision, as
well as acting as liaison with the Association with respect to all
documentation. The FMCC shall prepare, by June 30 in each year, a
detailed Annual Work Program for Part A of Project including
budgets, financial and physical targets, procurement, disbursements,
and training targets all in accordance with a form and context
acceptable to the Association.
2.    NBAA, IFM and IAA shall each be responsible for implementing
its respective Project components.
3.    NBAA  shall  issue accounting and auditing standards     in
accordance with a schedule acceptable to the Association.
Part B of the Project
1.    Project Coordination
The Borrower shall appoint and maintain until Project
completion a Project Coordinator (LSCC) in the Attorney-General's
office to coordinate on the implementation of all components
concerned with the legal sector. The LSCC shall prepare, by June 30
in each year, a detailed Annual Work Program for Part B of the
Project, including budgets, targets for procurement, disburse- ments
and training, all in accordance with a form and context acceptable
to the Association.
2.    The Borrower shall maintain, until Project completion, a Legal
Component Committee (LCC), chaired by the Deputy Attorney-General,
and consisting of representatives from the Civil and International,
and Legislative Divisions, Administrator-General's Department, Law
Reform Commission, Judiciary and Registrar of Companies. The LCC
shall meet at least once every quarter and shall review progress in


﻿- 21 -
carrying out Part B of the Project and resolving any outstanding
issues.
3.    The Borrower shall, by May 31, 1993, complete the review of
the laws referred to in Part B.1 (d) of the Project and furnish to
the Association for its review and comments the recommendations of
such review.
4.    The Borrower shall complete the revision of the Laws of
Tanzania by March 31, 1993.
5.    The Borrower shall, not later than October 31, 1992, take
measures to ensure that the LSCC and FMCC attend procurement
training at the Eastern and Southern Africa Management Institute
(ESAMI).
Part C of the Project
1.    Legal Sector Study
(a)   The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1992, establish a
Task Force to coordinate activities for the legal sector study. The
Task Force shall be headed by an eminent lawyer, with representation
from inter alia the Judiciary, Attorney-General's Office, Law
Society, and the Law Faculty of the University of Dar es Salaam. The
Task Force shall supervise the work of the various specialists
undertaking the studies and organize workshops to discuss the
studies.
(b)   The Borrower shall furnish to the Association and
Donors, the strategy for the sector and organize a Donor's con-
ference to discuss the strategy no later than December 31, 1993.
2.    Cost Recovery Study
The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1993, furnish to the
Association for its review the report of the cost recovery study.
3.    TAC Study
The Borrower shall, by June 30, 1993, furnish to the
Association for its review and comments the recommendations of the
TAC Study, and promptly thereafter implement such recommendations
taking the Association's comments into account.


﻿- 22 -
Mid-term Review
The Borrower shall, no later than June 30, 1995, carry out
jointly with the Association and Sweden a mid-term review of the
Project. The review shall, inter alia, review progress in imple-
mentation, continued relevance of Project assumptions, the need for
expanded student and staff residential accommodations at IAA,
actions needed to start implementation of the various aspects of the
legal sector strategy, including the review of various laws.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) (a),
(1) (b)(i) and (ii), (2) (a), (3) (a), (4) (a), (6) (a), (7) (a) and
(8) (a) for the Financial Special Account, and Categories (2) (b),
(3) (b), (4) (b), (5), (6) (b), (7) (b) and (8) (b) for the Legal
Special Account set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $500,000 for the Financial Special Account, and
$500,000 for the Legal Special Account to be withdrawn from the
Credit Account and deposited in the Special Accounts pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Accounts have been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Accounts shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the respective Special Accounts such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)   For replenishment of the respective Special
Accounts, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association requests for deposits into a Special


﻿-24-
Account at such intervals as the Association
shall specify.
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the respective Special Accounts such amount as
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall
have been shown by said documents and other
evidence to have been paid out of that Special
Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Accounts, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding  the provisions of paragraph    3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Accounts:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once the   total unwithdrawn  amount of   the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
Parts A and B of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.


﻿- 25 -
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories for the Project shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice  will   be  utilized  in  making   payments  for  eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Accounts: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request, or (B) deposit into the Special Accounts
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Accounts shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Accounts will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Accounts.
(4)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


