Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C^iZ .Zo7 1- H A
Report No. 8013-HA
STArF APPRAISAL REPORT
HAITI
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NOVEMBER 2, 1989
Trade, Finance and Industry Operations
Country Department III
Regional Office for Latin America and the Caribbean
Thi doument has a restdcted ditribto and may be used by recipknts only in the perfonmance of
their officil duti  Its contens may not otherwi   be dicosed wthot World Ebnk authorizaion.



CURRRNRCY EQUIVALENT UNITS
Currency Unit - Gourde (G)
G 5.00 = US$1.00
(The Gourde has, since 1919, been pegged to the U.S. dollar,
at the rate of G 5 = US$1.00
UNITS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha) 1=0000 square meters (m2) - 2.47 acres (a)
1 kilometer {km) = 0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (kmZ) = 0.39 square miles - 100 ha
ABBREVIATIONS
AID         -    U.S. Agency for International Development
BCA         -    Banque de Credit Agricole [Agricultural Credit Bank)
BCI         -    Banque de Credit Immobilier [Mortgage Credit Bank]
BNDAI       -    Banque Nationale de Developpement Agricole et Industriel
(National Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank]
BRH         -    Banque de la Republique dl'Haiti
(Bank of the Republic of Haiti (Central Bank)]
BUH         -    Banque de l'Union Haitien (Haitian Union Bank]
CBI         -    Caribbean Basin Initiative
CMCID       -    Consultative Mixed Committee for Industrial Development
EEC         -    European Economic Community
ERR         -    Economic Rate of Return
FDI         -    Fonds de Developpement Industriel
[The Industrial Development Fund]
FHD         -    Fondation Haitienne de Developpement
(Haitian Development Foundation]
FIs         -    Financial Intermediaries
FIRR        -    Financial Internal Rate of Return
GPT         -    General Preferential Tariff
GSP         -    General System of Preferences
IDA         -    International Development Association
OFATMA      -    Public Medical Insurance Program
SHODECOSA   -    Public Industrial Park
SONAPI      -    Private Industrial Park
SOFIHDES    -    Societe Financiere Haitienne de D6veloppement
(Haitian Financial Corporation for Development]
TA          -    Technical Assistance
UNDP        -    United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFFY APPRAISA RIPOR
T DiSTRiL                -  DIVDORIT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Pase No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT S UOM RR Y                    . .........      iv
1.  TUE INDUSTRIAL S      E     C TOR ...................................  1
Macroeconomic Framework .................................          1
Industrial Structure  ...................................         2
Growth Trends ...........................................         2
Manufacturing Expot Trends t ....................                  2
Employment in the Formal Manufacturing Sector ...........         3
Industrial Policy Framework              . .                      3
Industrial Sector Adjustment Process ....................         4
1'sort-Substitutlon Industry              ..  S
Export Assembly Sector               ...... 
Performance of Export Assembly Sector         .       .           6
Principal Constraints to Industrial Growth       .     .          6
Environmental Impact          .................                   a
2.   THE FINANCIAL SECTOR ....................................         9
Structure ... ...............................                     g
The Central Bank (IRE) and Banking Regulations    .     .        10
Interest Rate Structure                ..                        10
Tgrm Lending ............................................        11
Development Banks                   . . .                        11
3.   INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTuRiG ................................         12
4.   CREDIT DEMAND ...........................................        13
5.  IDA ASSISTANCE AND STRATEGY .       ............................  14
6.   THE PROJ8CT .............................................        14
Project Objectives and Description ......................        14
PDI and Experience under the First Industrial Credit
(Credit 1131-hA) ......                                        16
PDI Lending and Financial Status .       ......................  17
This report was prepared by Mrs. Kanella C. Vasiliades, LAST? (Mission
Leader); Messrs. Robert Simsolo, James Beresin, Roman Semkow, Consultants,
LA3TFt and Mr. Hassan Fazel, LASC2, and Ms. Constance Bernard. LA31T,
following preparation missions to Haiti In May 1988. Appraisal was
concluded in May 1989.
This document has a striced dtibuonand may be ud by eipsnt oily in the performane
of thir official dutis Its contents may not otherwi  be diced wthout World Bank authodin.



iiL -
Page No.
Portfolio Quality             .... . . ............... .........        18
Guarantees                                                              18.... ...... . ..........  is
Eligible Financial Intermediaries......                                 19
Project Costs, Financing, and Implementation                            19
Replenishment of FDI Resources                       ..                 20
Onlending Terms .........                                               20
Types and Sizes of Subloans        ........                             21
Financial Instruments .. ..       ......      .      .     .22
Haturities and Grace Perer                i.                            22
Subproject Appraisal and Supervision .................,                 22
Project Advisory Committee (PAC)        .       .                       23
Procurement.....        ....     .........                              23
Disbursements. .                                                        24
Accounts, Auditing, and eporting          .       .                     24
7.   BENEFITS. .......   ....... .                         ........           24
8.  RISYS ............ ......                                                 24
9.   AGREEMENTS REACHED .................................... ..               25
ANNEXES
1   Ponds de Developpeme'.t Industriel (FDI)...                              27
2   Tecbnical Assistanc  Components. .....                                   35
3   Industrial Restrucr.uring Plan...                                        39
4   Data on Exnorts
Table 1 - Gross Domestic Product by Sector:
Constant 1976 Pricess....             ..     ....            43
Table 2 - Performance of Local Import-Substitution
Industries        . ......        ........                   44
Table 3 - Industrial Exports to U.S.A. based on
Local Materials ...... * ...     ..     ..........           45
Table 4 - Exports of the Assembly Sector Based on
Imported Materials.... .......                               46
Table 5 - Trends of Industrial Exports to U.S.A                         47
Table 6 - Sunmary of Industrial Exports of the
Assembly Sector to U.S.A.                                    48
Table 7 - Basic Indicators of Assembly Sector .49
5   Data on Haiti's Financial Sector
Table 1 - Pinancial System - Summary of Operations                      51
Table 2 - Money Supply..............                                    52
Table 3 - Distribution of Credit by Economic Activity                   53
Table 4 - Interest Rates..          ........                            54
Table S - Reserve Requirements by Category of Deposits                  55
Table 6 - The Commercial Banking System in Haiti,
Statement of Condition, as of September 30, 1988             56
Table 7 - Distribution of Credit by Banking Institution
and Economic Activity, as of June 30, 1988                   57
6   Data on FDI
Table 1 - Distribution of Operations through FIs, by
Size of Subloans, as of September 30, 1987                   59



- iii -
Pase No.
ANNEXES (continued)
6   Data on FDI (continuation)
Table 2 - Distribution of Operations through Fla,
by Maturity ................................... . .......... 60
Table 3 - Distribution of Operations, by Sector and
Maturity, as of September 30, 1987 ... .....            61
Table 4 - Distribution of the Number of Operations,
by Region, as of September 30, 1987 ...........         62
7   Proiect Data
Table 1 - FDI, Projected and Actual Balance Sheets
PYs1982-88 .................................... . ......... 63
Table 2 - FDI, Balance Sheet, Projections under New
Project ....................... .                       64
Table 3 - FDI, Audited Results of Operations 1985-88 ....          65
Table 4 - PDI, Cash Flow Projections, FY1988189-94195 ...          66
Table 5 - Integrated Cash Flow and Debt Service
Projectior .     . ...... *.. ............ .            67
Table 6 - Estimated Credit Demand ....... ................         68
Talble 7 - Profile of Enterprises to be Restructured .....         69
Table 8 - PDI, Lending Program ................... .......         70
Table 9 - Project Cost Table and Proposed Financing.....           71
8   Estimated IDA Disbursement Schedule, 1990-95 ............          73
9   Project Implementation Timetable...................                75
10  List of Documents Available in Project File.............           77
FDI ORGANIZATIONAL CHART      ..........................               79
IBRD Map No. 21143



- iv -
HIATI
INDUSTRIAL USTUC  UR'   AND DEVELOMPT PROJECT
Credit and Proiect Summary
Borrowers            Government of Haiti
Executina Amencys    Bank of the Republic of Haiti (BRH)/
Industrial Development Fund (FDI)
Beneficiariest       Private Manufacturing Enterprises
Armount              SDRs 9.1 million (US$11.4 million equivalent)
Termss               Standard, with 40 years maturity
Relendina Terms      The Borrower would pass on to fRH for FDI's use US$10.0
million equivalent, of which US$5.0 million would be in the
form of a grant and US$5.0 million at 81 for 20 years,
including 5 years of grace. FDI would pass on the funds to
the financial intermediaries (FIs) at 8SZ for onlending to
the final beneficiaries. For loans financing small-scale
enterprises (below US$100,000 equivalent), FI would be
charged 71, to allow a larger spread, as an incentive to
support small-scale industry. FIs would determine the
lending rate to the final beneficiary within the broad
interest range authorized by the Central Bank. The FIs
would retain an adequate spread in both cases, to cover
administrative costs and credit risks and provide them with
a reasonable return. The nominal foreign exchange risk
would be borne by the Government. However, given that
interest rates are determined within a broad range and as
the Haitian capital market is open, a foreign exchange risk
premium reflected in the interest rates, would be borne by
the final borrower.
Prol:ct              The proposed project would support the private industrial
Descriptions         sector in undertaking the necessary adjustments for the
transition from a highly-protected and inwardly-oriented
sector, to an outwardly competitive one, by improving its
efficiency, competitiveness, and export potential.
Moreover, it would assist the Government in maintaining the
newly reformed trade regime. To achieve the above
objectives, the proposed project would provide:
(i) financial and technical assistance to a number of
private industrial enterprises being restructured,
including financial restruc*uring, improving marketing
strategies, and upgrading product quality and production
facilities; (ii) credit assistance to export-oriented or
efficient import-substitution industrial enterprises that
need financing but no restructuring; and (iII) technical
assistance to strengthen the institutional capacity of the



IDI, FIs, and the Central Bank, strengthen customs
administration, and support ongoing Government efforts to
improve the industrial regulatory framework.
Project Risks         If recent political instability were to persist, project
implementation could be adversely affected. Investment
credit demand is highly sensitive to the current political
situation. Restructuring, as well as neo investments, may
be slow to materialize. Influential, long-protected
industrialists might put pressure on the Government to
reverse the trade liberalization reforms. The above risks
would be mitigated by the strong pipeline of industrial
restructuring proposals and by the Government's efforts tot
(i) broaden the basis for an internal dialogue, through the
revival of a public/private consultative committee; and
(ii) provide adequate financial resources to PDI to support
the restructuring efforts. In addition, the Government has
committed itself, in a policy letter submitted to IDA, to
continue implementation of trade policy reforms.
Another risk is that the banking system may be reluctant to
increase its financial exposure to the industrial sector--
perceived more risky for the provision of term financing--
which in turn might slow down disbursements. The project,
however, is designed in such a way as to encourage its
utilization by the banks, including, for instance, an
adequate spread and, in the case of the restructuring
component, participation by the commercial banks in the
drawing up of the restructuring plans for some important
clients. In addition, the banks have gained experience in
the second-tier-type lending under the first operation.
FDI's rediscounting was reduced in the first credit
operation when its foreign exchazge resources were
depleted, at a time when the banking system was
experiencing excess liquidity. This could be repeated in
the future. However, a commitment by the Government to
exchange accumulated Gourdes for foreign exchange would
reduce this risk.
Proiect Cost                          Local       Foreimn       Total
(US$ Millions)
Credit                                 10.5          12.7        23.2
Technical Assistance                    0.4          1.0          1.4
Total Proiect Cost                10.9         13.7         24.6



- Wi -
Financing Plans                        Local        Forein       Total
(US$ MlIons)
FDI/Government                        5.3           -           5.3
Intermediaries/ 
Final Beneficiaries                   5.2           2.7         7.9
IDA                                   0.4         11.0         11.4
Total Proiect Cost                    12_ 13.7                  24.6
Estimated IDA
Disbursements:       (Based on Average Profile for IDF Bank Loans in Region)
-----------------*------US$ million *--------------------
FYss       1990      1991     1992      1993    1994    1995
Annual         0.4      1.0       3.1      2.9      2.6     1.4
Cumulative         0.4      1.4       4.5      7.4    10.0    11.4
Rate of Return:   Subprojects must have FRRs and Enos of at least 122 in
real terms.



u&rn
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING AND DEVELOPHEWT PROJECT
1. TME INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
11.1     Macroeconomic Framework. Macroeconomi policies and performance have
improved substantially in Haiti from early 1986, following a change in the
country's political regime. The primary focus from March 1986 to November 1987
was on macroeconomic stabilization and improvement of resource allocation and
growth prospects. This was accomplished through reforms of taxes, public
expenditures, public enterprises, industrial and trade policies, and
agricultural pricing. The reforms were extensive and swift, and began to
stabilize and restructure the economy. During the Haitian FYs1986-87, the
public sector deficit averaged an equivalent of 62 of GDP, compared to 92 in
FYs1980-85; the external current account deficit averaged 5? of GDP, compared to
82 per year in FYsl980-85; inflation was brought down to 2Z per year, compared
to 82 per year in FYsl98O-85; and the effective exchange rate depreciated by 142
in real terms, compared to 402 appreciation between PYs1980-85. Economic growth
averaged slightly under 12 per year, compared to the decline of about 1S per
year in 1980-85.
1.2     ziaiti's economic policies during 1986 and most of 1987 drew significant
international support. The pace of economic reforms suffered, however, when,
beginning in the last quarter of FY1987, a series of constitutional crises
compounded the country's economic and financial difficulties. In response to
the changing domestic and external circumstances, strong efforts were made to
limit the size of the budget and external deficits. However, the shortfalls in
budget support grants and in gross aid disbursements proved too big for the
country to deal with. At the end of FYs1988 and 1989, there were fiscal gaps of
over G150 million (nearly 22 of GDP), financed by monetary expansion, and the
nation incurred external payments arrears of about US$20 million. In the same
period, the overall public sector deficit remained at around 62 of GDP.
1.3      The Gourde has been linked to the U.S. dollar at a rate of US$1.00-G5
since 1919. Historically, Haiti's desire to keep the Gourde stable vis-a-vis
the U.S. dollar has disciplined successive Governments to pursue prudent fiscal
and monetary policies. By law, all foreign exchange transactions must be
channelled through the banking system. The banks in turn must sell 50 of these
proceeds to the Central Bank, so that it can service public external debt and
cover petroleum and other essential imports. A parallel market began to operate
in the early 1980s, with a premium ranging between 52 in periods of fiscal and
political stability and 252 in 1987-88 when external budget aupport was
withdrawn. Given the current scarcity of foreign exchange at the official rate,
most importers must rely partially or entirely on the parallel market, which is
currently roughly estimated to account for over 602 of all foreign exchange
transactions.



1.4      Notwithstanding the political, economic, and financial difficulties of
FYs88-89, thus far Haiti has kept in place the basic fiscal and trade reforms
that were implementod in 1986-87. In FY90, moreover, Haiti has undertaken to
implement a financial stabilization program, to be supported vith an IMF Stand-
by arrangement. The key elements of the program in FY90 are to be fiscal
discipline and associated monetary, wage, exchange, and trade policies. It is
expected that provision of IN? resources would relieve budget pressures, as well
as pressures on the parallel market premium.
1.5      Industrial Structure.  Haiti's industrial sector is characterized by
two separate industrial structures that have emerged under two different trade
regimess (i) the import-substitution industries, serving the local market and,
until recently, highly protected from external competition; and (ii) the export
assembly sector, operating under a free trade regime. The overall industrial
structure, including the assembly sector, is dominated by three industrial
subsectors, accounting for over 70? of the industrial value addeds food
products (352); electrical and electronic equipment (22S); and textiles,
leather, and clothing (13X). Thne local industry--dominated by foodstuffs,
beverages, household goods, and building materials--comprises around 500 family-
owned enterprises and a small number of public enterprises partially or wholly-
owned by the State, which are currently being restructured. Small ente:prises
employiug between 5-50 workers make up 57Z of the total and account for 11 of
the industrial labor force; medium enterprises, employing between 51-300
employees, make up 35? of the total and 47? of the industrial labor force; and
the large enterprises, employing over 300 employees, make up 82 of the total and
42? of the industrial labor force.
1.6      Growth Trends.  Haiti's industrial sector experienced its most dynamic
growth in the 19709--at a rapid rate of 10 per annum in real terms--due
primarily to the establishment and expansion of the export assembly sector.
However, this growth has not been sustained, and, with the exception of a brief
surge of activity in 1982183, industry has been in overall decline since 1981
(see Annex 4, Table 1). While GDP at factor cost grew by 1.8? between
FYs1982-83 and FYs1987-88, the manufacturing sector's output declined by 12.5?
and its contribution to GDP went down from 18.5? to 15.9?. In FYsl986-87, the
sector's contribution to GDP went down by 0.5? and its output by 3.8?. In
FYs1987-88, the sector's contribution to GDP remained constant, while its output
declined by 0.8?. This may indicate a slowdown in the downtrend of industrial
growth.
1.7      Manufacturins ExDort Trends.  Annex 4, Table 5, presents a five-year
export trend of four comiodity groups, classified by their relative performance.
The most erratic performance concerns articles in the first group (transformers,
switches, toys, jewelry, optical, and sporting goods). This group experienced
en index growth of 31.6 points in FY1983-84, followed the next year by a
marginal growth of 1.1 points, followed by a drop by 29.1, an upsurge of 54
points, and, finally, another drop of 24.1 points in the last fiscal year.
During the period, the group's share of total exports progressed from 39.2? to
40.2?. The second group, comprising textiles and garments, progressed by 81.3
points, with the only drop of 6.3 points registered in PY1985-86. This group
increased its share of total exports from 31.8? to 44.7Z. The third group,
comprising other articles assembled from imported components, declined steadily
by 79.8 points, while dropping its share of total exports from 18.47 to 11.4?.
Finally, the fourth group, comprising articles assembled from local raw



- 3 -
materials, declined by 44.5 points, while dropping its share of total exports
from 10.61 to 3.72. The last two grcups, however, registered modest increases
in tb.e last fiscal year, ending September 1988.
1.8      Employment in the Formal Manufgcturing Sector.  Unemployment (including
underemployment) estimates in Haiti range from 50S to 602. The main source of
industrial employment is the export assemply sector, currently at a total of
39,000 jobs. This compares with a figure of some 20,000 workers in import-
substitution industries. Employment in the informal, or artesanal, sector has
been placed at as many as 80,000 workers. The industrial sector, including the
assembly sector, employs 72 of the labor force. The assembly sector alone
employs 31 of the labor force in Port-au-Prince.
1.9      Unemployment rose sharply in the aftermath of Duvalier's departure in
February 1986, with an estimated loss of 10,000 to 12,000 jobs in the assembly
sector as a result of 10 factory closings. There is also evidence of a
progressive decline in the level of activity of those industries producing for
the local market, with the result that total industrial employment in the formal
sector is thought to have contracted by more than 20S overall, to only some
55,000 by the end of 1986/87. Employme..t figures by OFATMA, the Government-run
employees' medical insurance scheme, indicate a decrease of 6.52 in the number
of registered employees in FY87. Although there is no way of accurately
assessing its magnitude, employment in the informal economy appears to have
increased.
1.10     Industrial Policy Framework.  Up to mid-1986, industrial activities
operated in a highly protected environment, which allowed industries to survive
ifn spite of low productivity levels and non-competitive prices. Tariffs as high
as 200Z, combined with quantitative restrictions on imports, resulted in
effective protection levels averaging about 1002, with more than 10X of
industrial production enjoying effective protection of over 300S. Excessive
protection led to the manufacturing of over-priced low-quality products and the
extreme variance in effective protection resulted in a bias against technologies
based on labor-intensive processes, thus discouraging job creation.
1.11     In July 1986, the Government of Haiti, with IDA support (Credit
1760-HA), undertook a major trade reform that changed the operating environment
significantly. Import tariffs were simplified, with ad valorem tariffs
substituting for the previous system of specific tariffs and for quantitative
restrictions on imports. Ad valorem tariffs were lowered to an average of 202,
with a maximum rate of 40?. Exemptions allowed by the Investment Code ended in
January 1988. The level of effective protection for existing firms has been
drastically reduced by these measures, from an average of over 100X, to below
40?. The number of products subject to quota or other license restrictions was
reduced from 111 to 35, followed in December 1986 by the effective abrogation of
the Import Licensing and Quota Law. Imports require licenses mainly for
maintaining trade records, and these are granted automatically, except for a
short list of agricultural items still subject to restrictive import licensing.
A new import licensing law, without formal ceilings, has been introduced for
rice, maize, millet, beans, sugar, chicken parts, and pork meat. Exports
require prior authorization from the Ministry of Commerce; this is usually
granted freely, unless there is a shortage of domestic supplies. Commercial
banks maintain records of exports, and exporters must obtain a Central Bank visa
to ensure subsequent repatriation of the proceeds. Price controls in Haiti
traditionally have been applied only to a handful of agricultural items,



-4-
petroleum products, and goods and services sold by the public sector. However,
in the context of rising inflation, legislation was approved in Harch 1989 which
allows the GoverAment to regulate prices of goods falling under the category of
basic necessities. Thus far, the authorities have not announced the
iaplementation regulations. With the exception of public utilities, Haiti does
not have any legal barriers to business investments. Entrylexit into businesses
is quite fluid, and no elaborate licensing Is in force.
1.12     Given the implications of these changes, in terms of the ability of
industry to continue operating in a more open and competitive environment, the
new tariff structure has been subject to extensive consultations between
industrialists and the Ministries of Finance, Industry, and Commerce. la this
consultative process, some anomalies in the tariff etructure have been noted,
regarding treatment of certain products that constitute finishad goods for some
and inputs for others. For example, colored fabric is exempted, while colors
for textiles are subject to a 301 duty. The Government also recognizes the few
anomalies in the New Tariff Code introduced iz 1987, and intends, through the
consultative private/public committee already in place, to resolve them. The
guiding priciple in applying trade tariffs will be transparency and uniform
treatment of cases. The Government provided the appraisal mission with a policy
letter committing itself to maintain the wide-ranging industrial and trade
policy reforms undertaken in Haiti during FYs1986-87. IDA will closely
sapervise adherence to these reforms. During negotiations, agreement was
reached with the Government to maintain the reforms.
1.1     Although the industrialists initially resisted trade liberalization
measures, widespread contraband during the same period caused a shift to
cautious acceptance. Several industrtalists have shifted their efforts to
addressing the Government's lack of control of contraband, which has made the
new lower levels of protection meaningless in many cases. !hile contraband
continues to be a problem, its composition seems to have changed, reducing its
impact on sugar, flour, and rice, where local prices have been reduced, but
continuing in consumer items, such as clothing, cigarettes, and pharmaceuticals.
1.14     IndustriUl Sector AdJustment Process.  Paras. 1.15 to 1.22 below
describe the trends and adjustment of the various subsectors in local industry
and the assembly sector during the last two years. In aggregate, contraband,
and trade liberalization, together with the uncertain politico-economic climate,
have had a negative impact on the overall growth of the industrial sector.
Notwithstanding the above difficulties, some local industries exposed to
competition have internalized market signals, have taken the necessary
adjustments, and are showing signs of recovery. Others have reduced drastically
their production levels. while still seeking alternative solutions. With the
exception of public enterprises, there have been no major factory closings.
Cross-subsidization between industry and trade by several family-owned import-
substitution enterprises seems to have provided a cushion during this period of
adjustment. Irregular supply of raw materials due to a disruption in local
production has affected assembly industries based on local raw materials.
Assembly industries based on imported raw materials have performed relatively
better. In particular, textile exports to the U.S. were at a record high in
1987, while CBI exports to the U.S. ranked second in the Latin America/Caribbean
region. With some Industries of the private sector sustaining reasonable
production levels, Haiti is in a position to achieve ccnsiderable growth, if
social and political stability can be maintained.



-5-
1.15     Imnort-Substitutiom Industry.  According to Central Bank estimates, the
contribution of this sector to GDP has declined, from 4.71 in the fiscal year
ending September 1987 to 1.52 during the fiscal year 1988. In real terms, the
value of manufacturing output dropped within a year from 231 million Gourdes to
71 million Gourdes. Perforr-nce has been uneven (see Annex 4, Table 2). The
production decline of sugar, clinker, cotton textiles, and toilet soap appears
to have been slowing down in the fiscal year 1988s the decline ranged between
0.22-14.3Z, against 16.11-75.O during the previous fiscal year. On the other
hand, the production of matches, synthetic textiles, and detergents, which
increased between 4.62-39.52 the previous fiscal year, declined between
23.0Y-32.82 in the last fiscal year. Among the products processed from local
raw materials and experiencing increases between 2.32-233.92 over the previous
fiscal year were: cement, edible oils, essential oils, laundry soap, and
butter. The increase of 233.91 in edible oils production resulted largely from
bottling of imported bulk, possibly through contraband.
1.16     Significantly enough, a group of local products considered low-cost and
low-income, such as, certain pharmaceuticals, laundry soap, pasta, butter, etc.,
has been so far immune from contraband and, what is wore significant, their
local production has been actually on the increase. These products, adapted to
the lower income market segments, may have a very strong 'brand loyalty' and
above all, the right 'product mix.' In sharp contrast, the second group of
products, concerning essentially certain bulk commodities, such as sugar, rice,
flour, cotton textiles, etc. of substandard quality, infiltrated by contraband
into the physical distribution channels and retailed in bulk at a discount.
However, a very significant slowdown of the local production decline registered
in the last fiscal year could be a plausible indication that contraband may have
reached the limits of its share of the local market of these commodities.
Finally, the third category includes e6sentially 'brand name' products, such as
matches, detergents, synthetic textiles, etc., recently targetted by both legal
and illegal imports. For some of these products, the local production has been
scaled down to 1984 production levels.
1.17     Ernort Assembly Sector.  The assembly sector has been the most dynamic
sector in the Ha±tian economy. Up to 1985, Haiti had been the leader in the
Caribbean Area with regard to free zone development, employing 50,000 workers,
compared to 35,000 in the Dominican Republic. Approximately 10,000-12,000 Jobs
were lost in 1986, of which more than 5OZ are said to have been recovered in the
last few months. At present, the Dominican Republic has assumed the lead,
employing over 80,000 workers, versus 39,000 in Haiti. The essential stimulus
for establishment of the export assembly industry was provided by the various
preferential trade regimes granted by the U.S., Canada, and the European
Economic Community (U.S. Tariff Schedule 806.3 and 807, the U.S. Generalized
System of Preferences, the Caribbean Basin Initiative, the Lome Convention, and
the Canadian and EEC Generalized Preference of Tariffs (GPT) schemes), by the
low cost of labor, and by the image of political stability up to February 1986.
1.18     At the outset, the majority of assembly companies were Haitian-owned.
This situation has gradually changed, as more foreign entrepreneurs, attracted
by concessionary trade regimes, have either established their own companies or
formed joint ventures with Haitian partners. Foreign investments account now
for 662 of the total in the assembly sector, ranging from a low of 132 in the
handicrafts industry to a high of 781 in the sporting goods.



-6-
1.19     The majority of the assembly companies are located in the two
industrial parks in Port-au-Princes SONAPI (public) and SHODECOSA (private).
According to the recent industrial census conducted by PROMINEX (Haitian
Investment and Export Promotion Center), the sector comprises 151 companies,
providing 39,000 jobs. The subsectoral distribution is as follows: clothing
articles, 86 companies with 23,000 jobs; electrical equipment, 2 companies with
8,000 jobs; toys and sporting goods, 15 companies with 4,400 jobs; shoes and
leather goods, 9 companies with 2,700 jobs; and general assembly sector, 13
companies with 700 jobs. SONAPI is operating at 100Z capacity, and has
currently undertaken construction of 10 new industrial buildings, funded by an
IDB credit operation.
1.20     Perfozavnce of ExDort Assembly Sector.   The Central Bank compiles two
separate statistical categories concerning exports of the assembly sector to the
United States: industrial exports to the U.S. based on local raw materials and
those based on imported raw materials (see Annex 4, Tables 3 and 4). The data
input for both series are provided by the U.S. Departdent of Commerce. The
summary of both statistical tables is shown in Annex 4, Table 5. No export data
is available for other destinations.
1.21     According to these statistics, the export assembly sector experienced a
net growth of 29.1? in the five-year period between FYsl982-1983 and
1Ys1987-1988. However, this growth has been erratic, undoubtedly reflecting the
concern of export markets about the risks of doing business with a politically
and socially unstable partner.
1.22     Classifying the products by their relative performance into four
commodity groups, the following picture emerges: transformers, switches, toys,
jewelry, optical articles, and sporting goods in the first group, representing
44.72 of the sector's production output, experienced a production decline of
15.8X; textiles and garments in the second group, representing 41.72 of this
sector's production output, experienced a production increase of 0.1?; other
assemblies from imported components in the third group, representing 10.2? of
the sectc 's production output, experienced a production increase of 10.22; and
finally, other assemblies from domestic raw materials in the fourth group,
representing 3.42 of the sector's production output, experienced a production
increase of 1.7?. It would appear that the sensitivity of foreign investors and
export markets to political risk factors depend more on the marketing
characteristics of the product than on the overall assessment of the uncertainty
of the local environment. For example, the adverse effect on subcontracting of
electrical components can be explained by highly sensitive long-range production
and delivery schedules established by the buyer, whereas the manufacturing of
garments depends on short production runs based on two semiannual marketing
seasons.
1.23     Princilal Constraints to Industrial Growth.  Haiti's industrial sector
has been fundamentally affected during the last two years by the massive
increase in the scale of contraband, trade liberalization, political
uncertainty, and the widespread labor unrest, coupled with the growth of a
militant trade union movement. These events have had an immediate and direct
impact on the operation of industrial enterprises, including: loss of sales,
absenteeism, strikes, irregular supply of raw material inputs, and a lack of
confidence on the part of the banking community and foreign partners.



1.24     While sales have declined over the last two years and investment has
been at a near standstill, some enterprises have been showing signs of recovery
and are beginning to realize investment plans during the first five months of
1989, which had been postponed over the last two years. In this context, the
scarcity of foreign exchange seems to be the most important immediate limiting
factor. Commercial banks suffer from a lack of foreign exchange, while in the
parallel market, foreign currency can be obtained at a premium, fluctuating
between 171-25%. This scarcity, widespread since 1983, has been aggravated over
the last two years by contraband and substantial capital flight, tipified in the
latter case by the increasing external assets of many commercial banks. The
cash flow position of many enterprises appears to be strained by overinvoicing
of imports, underinvoicing of exports, and the retention of funds abroad.
Importers are at a disadvantage vis-a-vis exporters, as commercial banks are
providing them with incentives to attract foreign exchange, with loans at two to
four percentage points below ongoing market rates. The use of deposits abroad
as collateral is a common practice.
1.25     Besides a foreign exchange scarcity, there are serious constraints on
term lending in general, attributed largely to the commercial banks'
conservative attitude and to the fact that most available resources come from
sight or short-term deposits. Consequently, these banks limit themselves to
short-term lending and tend often to concentrate their credit operations among a
relatively small group of clients with good credit records. Many industrial
enterprises are beginning to borrow on a short-term basis to meet long-term
needs, and, even in those cases, are required to satisfy stringent security
conditions for collateral. The following three term-lending institutionst
"Banque Nationale de D6veloppement Agricole et Industriel (BNDAI),' a
Government-owned institution currently being dismantled; 'Societe Pinanciere
Haitienne de Ddveloppement (SOFIBDES),* incorporated in 1983 as a private
development finance company, with financial and technical backing from USAID;
and "Fonds de Ddveloppement Industriel (FDI),* established in 1981 with IDA
support to operate as a second-tier institution, have not been very active in
term lending in the past two years, due to the uncertain investment climate
and/or lack of resources.
1.26     The Investment Code, which was revised and simplified in 1985, needs to
be revised further to bring it into harmony with the recent tariff reforms. The
Code contains excessive incentives for domestic market-oriented industries.
Although the 1985 revision eliminated some of the most onerous protectionist
measures, it still has provisions for temporary protection at the request of
enterprises that can establish that their production is hindered by imports of
similar products. In addition, investment and incentive approval procedures are
complex, lengthy, and inconsistent. The Code also allows too much Government
and administrative discretion. A technical subcommittee of the Haitian Mixed
(Public-Private) Consultations Committee is currently charged to examine the
1985 Code, with a view to harmonizing it with the fiscal and trade reforms of
1986-87, and is receiving financial assistance from US/AID. Its chairman
indicated that IDA technical assistance to the subcommittee would be useful,
especially by informing it of investment promotion schemes deemed to have been
successful in other countries in the region. The mission agreed that IDA/IFC
specialist staff could provide such assistance, once the subcommittee, appointed
on February 24, 1989, starts its work.



1.27     Industrialists have also complained about the lengthy and complicated
formalities governing importation and exportation. Improving the administration
of imports and exports through additional training and establishment of better
control systems is needed in part to speed up the process of customs clearance,
but primarily to reduce the level of corruption which has apparently developed
in relation to contraband trade. The Ministry of Fitnance undertook to develop,
under the ongoing Technical Assistance Credit (Cr. 1786-HA), a simple customs
regime and documentation procedure. The proposed operation would provide
assistance to the Government in establishing a simplified export verification
scheme and providing training for customs staff to implement the new customs
regime.
1.28     The local industry's effi0'ency levels are also affected by the high
cost and inefficiency of utilities, including electricity, international
communications, administrative services in port facilities, cost of sea freight,
and wharfage costs, which are about 602 higher than in Jamaica and four times
t-Iose in the Dominican Republic. Haiti's comparative advantage, therefore, is
centered on its low labor cost. However, this competitiveness is in danger of
being eroded by the likely upward pressure on wages caused by the newfound
militancy of the labor force. Flexible foreign exchange policies followed by
neighbouring countries could further undermine Haiti's current competitive
advantage. However, as real wages fell by 152 in the last six years, the real
effective exchange rate, calculated using relative wages, has not lost its
competitiveness in manufacturing.
1.29     Against this background of broad constraints, there are many
enterprise-specific constraints, including inappropriate technology, inefficient
management, incorrect plant scale, and inadequate accounting procedures. Lack
of production planning and weak flnancial management and marketing are clearly
serious handicaps in the newly competitive environment. Most industrial
enterprises are family-controlled, a factor impeding decisions regarding
reinvestment of funds and the delegation of authority to qualified staff.
Bookkeeping and cost accounting are rarely used as management tools. Most of
these enterprise-specific constraints are addressed in the industrial
restr'wturing component of the proposed operation.
1.30     The combination of the above mentioned factors had a negative impact on
investment activity in the last two years. Normalization of the operating
environment, in terms of both economic and political stability, are essential
prerequisites for building up private sector confidence. The present Government
has stated its intentions to support the economic policy reforms initiated in
the past two years. The Government has also recently revived the public/private
sector Consultative Mixed Committee for Industrial Development (CMCID). As the
Government continues to demonstrate a commitment to work with the progressive
elements of the private sector on major policy issues, including effective
contraband controls, a favorable climate can be anticipated for industrial
recovery.
1.31     &nvironmental Imoact.  Current concern with environmental problems in
Haiti is focused on the alarming rate of deforestation and soil erosion. There
exists little documentation of cases of industry-related environmental pollution
in Haiti. Most of the known cases are in Port-au-Prince and its vicinity, where
air pollution from industrial discharge does not seem to have reached any great



-9-
proportion. However, given the gravity of deforestation and soil erosion and
the fact that the existing legislative and enforcement process for all aspects
of environmental hazards does not function well, the Government has undertaken a
study, under the Technical Assistance Credit (Cr. 1786-HA), that addresses the
complex physical and socioeconomic causes and effects of environmental hazards.
The study has three phases: assessment, evaluation, and strategy development.
A preliminary report of the study is currently under review. The ultimate
objective is to identify a range of feasible economic, social, and institutional
policy interventions and investment programs to address the environmental
problems. An IDA operation for FY1992 on Forestry and Environmental Protection
will support investment programs addressing environmental issues in a
comprehensive manner. Furthermore, under the Health project planned for FY1990,
a pilot program would be instituted for the protection of ground water resources
through supervised latrinization.
2. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
2.1      Structure.  The Haitian financial system, although relatively developed
in size and fairly diversified, is still unsophisticated in terms of instruments
and operations and relatively inefficient, as reflected by high intermediation
margins and the absence of any form of money market instruments, except for an
incipient and small interbank deposit market. The formal banking system
consists of the Central Bank (BRH) and its discount window, FDI; nine actively
operating commercial banks, of which four are foreign-owned; four development
institutions; and two private mortgage banks. An informal sector--consisting of
savings cooperatives, popular savings banks, credit unions, foreign exchange
houses, and money lenders--is of unknown size, but probably growing faster than
the formal sector. A substantial insurance sector, mostly foreign-owned, has
grown significantly in recent years, although with little contribution to the
national economy.
2.2      Total banking system credit amounted to G1,162 million as of September
30, 1987. As in the past, the public sector continues to dominate the financial
system, accounting for about two-thirds of credit from banks and development
institutions as of September 30, 1987. After three years of stagnation in
nominal terms, however, credit to the private sector registered a 6.0? increase
in FYsl986-87, a growth rate slightly higher than the accompanying 5.2Z
expansion in public sector credit. This modest shift in the underlying trend of
public sector dominance and stagnation or decline of credit to the private
sector apparently reflects the Government's current policy of fiscal restraint
and the increased activity on the part of development and mortgage banks, which
accounts for most of the private sector's credit growth. Commercial bank credit
has overwhelmingly focused on the distribution and manufacturing sectors, which
together accounted, in almost equal shares, for close to three-quarters of
commercial bank credit in FYs1986/87 (see Annex 5, Table 3). Excess liquidity
in the commercial banking system measured at G170 million as of September 1987,
declined to G107 million as of September 1988, and to G58 million as of March
1989. An increase in construction activities, as two new housing banks began
operations in the last year, some sporadic investments in the manufacturing
sector, and capital flight is said to account for the decrease in excess
liquidity.



- 10 -
2.3      The Central Bank (BRH) and Bankina Reaulations.  The Central Bank was
established as a separate entity in 1979, and a subsequent decree in 1980
outlined the basic legal banking framework. However, in 1983 another decree
created the Ministry of Economy and Finance, empowering it with responsibil.ty
for determining banking and monetary policies. As a consequence, the Central
Bank has a limited voice in policy formulation, and is mainly relegated to
implementation. Its main interventions in the banking sector are done through:
(a) reserve requirements, as the main instrument of monetary policy;
(b) ensuring sufficient foreign exchange reserves to cater to public sector
needs; and (c) keeping minimum deposit interest rates to limit capital flight in
an open system.
2.4      Reserve requirements have been used mainly to drain excess liquidity
from the system and to contribute to the financing of the public sector deficit.
The level of reserve requirements is high, averaging about 35? (see Annex 5,
Table 5), although some reduction in reserve requirements for term deposits was
introduced in 1987. Reserves can be lodged in non-interest bearing balances
with BRH or in cash-on-hand. At present, banks are aot experiencing any
difficulties in complying with this requirement. Development banks--with the
exception of mortgage banks, which have a special lower rate regime--are not
subject to reserve requirements.
2.5      The current regulatory flamework has been developed in a disorderly and
fragmented fashion, from the initial basic legislation enacted in 1980. This
framework is insufficient, and suffers from an absence of auditing requirements
and adequate reporting. In fact, the entire banking system is for the most part
unregulated and unsupervised.  Both Price Waterhouse and Peat Harwick have
experienced difficulties in auditing the Central Bank's financial statements,
due to the absence of sufficient confirmation of some of the transactions
undertaken. There are no limits on debt-equity, capital-adequacy ratios, or
risk exposure, and no policy regarding bad debt provisions. In addition,
banking laws need to be consolidated and more closely adapted to Haitian
circumstances. At present, the BRH conducts periodic reviews of the formal
banking sector, receives regular financial reports (although these are not
standardized), and undertakes occasional perfunctory audits. However, the
Supervision Department is not adequately staffed to perform even these
functions, and supervision staff are in need of training in bank accounting
practices and supervision. The proposed operation would provide technical
support to the Central Bank, to strengthen and improve its regulatory and
supervisory role.
2.6      The combined effect of the high level of reserve requirements, the lack
of interest-earning financial instruments, and the minimum deposit rate,
aggravated by the low credit demand associated with an uncertain investment
climate, has resulted allegedly in low profitability of banking operations.
Their true profitability remains difficult to ascertain in the absence of
adequate reporting standards. Foreign-owned banks are not attempting to expand
credit operations, and are focusing instead on the lucrative market for foreign
exchange services. Haitian-owned banks, which do not have the same
opportunities, consequently have increased their share of domestic credit
operations.
2.7      Interest Rate Structure.  The Central Bank, closely following
international market interest rate movements, sets a range of maximum and



- 11 -
minimum interest rates on both credit and savings and term deposits. At
present, the minimum deposit rate is set at 6X. On the lending side, a wide
range of interest rates (8Z-182) is permitted. A prime rate appears to be
typically between 13? and 13.5?; mortgage rates, between 13.5Z and 15.5?; and
consumer lending rates, between 15.5Z and 18.02. Loans as low as 92, guaranteed
by U.S. dollar deposits abroad, were also reported. With inflation projected at
102, real interest rates appear reasonable.
2.8      Tenm Lendint.  There is a serious scarcity of term credit in Haiti,
particularly affecting the industrial sector. FDI is actually this sector's
only source of term credit. SOFIHDES is limited to medium-term credit (para.
2.101, and BNDAI has been liquidated (para. 2.11). Most commercial bank credit
is extended as short-term renewable facilities, often on a name basis to a
limited number of clients and supported by promissory notes on sight. The main
recipient sectors are manufacturing industries. trade, services, and the
construction sectors, with agriculture receiving only a small share. The public
sector is only a marginal recipient of credit from commercial banks. A large
portion of the short-term credit is rolled over, and continuously automatically
renewed, thus making it difficult to distinguish between short-, medium-, and
long-term lending. Term lending for productive investment represente only a
fraction of commercial banks' loan portfolios. The concept of term lending
appears to be relatively alien to commercial banks, which are reluctant to take
term commitments, explained bys (i) their risk aversion; (ii) lack of adequate
financial information on companies; (iii) poor enforceability of guarantees; and
(iv) lack of project preparation and project appraisal capabilities.
2.9      Term lending has experienced a greater, albeit limited, expansion in
development banks. Total term lending by development institutions is estimated
to be in the region of US$28 million equivalent as of September 1987, as against
US$12.5 million long-term lending by commercial banks, of which probably no more
than US$5 million was allocated to the industrial sector. Overall credit of
commercial and development institutions did not exceed US$205 million.
2.10     Develoment Banks.   SOFIHDES has a performing portfolio totalling
US$5.7 million equivalent, mainly to modern assembly and export-oriented
agroindustry, for an average of three years. And, although a term-lending
institution, SOFIHDES has been criticized for duplicating commercial bank
functions and taking few credit risks, i.e., it has yet to take an equity
position in an enterprise, although it is empowered to do so. SOFIHDES'
interest rates are a bit higher than average, at about 14.5Z. The company had a
profit of US$169,000 in FY1988, against US$85,000 in FY1987.
2.11     BNDAI, the Government-owned development bank, has essentially relied on
Government subsidies from the onset, as the poor quality of its portfolio led to
major losses. In FY1987, it was forced to declare US$11 million in loan losses,
or 462 of its outstanding portfolio. BNDAI is currently being dismantled. The
portfolio of agricultural loans is likely to be combined with the 'Banque de
Credit Agricole (BCA)."
2.12     Other sources of medium- to long-term lending include the BCA; the
Fonds Haitienne de Developpement (FHD),' an AID-supported facility lending to
small enterprises; and the 'Banque de Credit Imobilier (BCI),* a mortgage bank
established recently. FDI is the only second-tier discount facility geared



- 12 -
exclusively to the industrial sector. The proposed operation would finance a
study to review the development banking sector, with the objective of assessing
the need for restructuring and consolidation.
3.  INDUSTRIAL nESTRUCTURING
3.1      Within the framework of its Economic Recovery Program, supported by an
IDA Economic Recovery Program (Cr. 1766-HA) approved in March 24, 1987, the
Government embarked in July 1986 on a comprehensive program to liberalize trade
and stimulate competition (see para. 1.11).   Following the trade reform, it was
felt that enterprises that would be affected by the reduction of protection
should be assisted to adjust to the new environment. To support this process,
IDA included in its Technical Assistance Credit (Cr. 1786-HA), approved in April
1987, an industrial restructuring component aimed at advising private industrial
enterprises on priority areas for restructuring.
3.2      FDI was given the mandate and resources to promote the process of
restructuring within the private manufacturing sector. To this effect, with the
assistance of consultants, it undertook preparatory work comprising two phases.
The first phase (completed in July 1987) consisted of a screening process of 62
enterprises, designed to assess each enterprise's strengths and weaknesses and
indicate functional areas that merited an in-depth review. In the second phase,
completed in May 1989, PDI designed and signed a standard contract with 24
enterprises identified as possible candidates for restructuring, for which an
in-depth review was carried out.
3.3      Even though only 10 of the 24 firms currently remain in the program,
all firms originally included in the program have received some guidance on
restructuring. Three withdrew immediately when the second phase began; four,
following the guidelines provided by the consult.mnte, managed to convert their
short-term debt into long-term and continued their operations; and seven lost
faith in the program and withdrew, since the waiting period for the delivery of
financial assistance has been far greater than originally anticipated. However,
all seven have carried on some restructuring outside the program.
3.4      The sample of firms its quite heterogeneous, with employment varying
from 25 to 300 and sales and caipital stock from a few thousand to several
million U.S. dollars. They cover the following subsectorst metals,
pharmaceuticals, chemicals, buiLlding/construction materials, and household
goods. These firms share a fev characteristics: they are family-owned, with
the family directly controlling management. Short-term liabilities vis-a-vis
the banking sector go as high as 5-6 times the long-term resources.
Operational, accounting, managerial, and marketing structural deficiencies have
aggravated the firms' vulne:ability to trade liberalization and contraband (see
Annex 3).
3.5      The final restructuring project proposals include financial
restructuring and invtsstment needs, changes in products and/or activities,
changes in production scale, product quality improvements, technical
rehabilitation or upgradlzg of the production process, changes in accounting
systems and management structure, and formulation of new marketing strategies.



Eighty percent (80Z) of the cost of the studies was covered by FDI, and 20Z by
the respective enterprises. Under the proposed operation, the proportion paid
by FDI would be capitalized as part of the restructuring subloan.
3.6      To supplement industrial restructuring efforts in the private sector,
Government policy towards public enterprises has also undergone a radical
change. In early 1986, there were five major public industrial enterprises, all
enjoying trade privileges which protected inefficient operations and allowed
financial procedures inconsistent with sound business practices. To stem
losses, the Government has adopted a policy of market liberalization, closure
(two parastatals--vegetable oil and sugar mill), and restructuring ("Ciment
d'Haitil). It is also taking measures to improve financial monitoring and
performance evaluation of all public enterprises. A unit has been established
in the Ministry of Finance to assist the Government in reviewing the accounting
systems of public enterprises and monitoring the financial aspects. All import
monopolies and licensing requirements affecting any product imported or
manufactured by public enterprises, except sugar, have been removed, and import
tariffs have been placed on the products concerned.
4. CREDIT DRUAMD
4.1      The investment climate continues to be constrained by a series of
factors, including the uncertainties regarding the evolution of national
politics, contraband, and the rising cost of foreign exchange. The industrial
sector has shown, however, a surprising resiliences sporadic investments have
been made and, with the exception of public enterprises, there have been no
major factory closings. Stabilization of the political situation, however,
could result in a rapid improvement of this situation, as investors who have
adopted a 'wait-and-see3 attitude for the last two years are now faced with
investment decisions, if they are to continue and/or improve their operations.
4.2      To overcome the lack of statistical data needed to estimate overall
levels of investment in the next three years and, hence, the projected demand
for term financing, the mission used the results of the industrial restructuring
survey and FDI's project pipeline (see Annex 7, Table 6). On this basis, the
total FDI resource needs for the period 1989-92 would amount to about
US$15.0 million equivalent, of which an estimated US$10.0 million would be
vreign exchange. FDI financing would complement industrial term financing
provided by SOFIHDES, which expects to lend an additional US$9.0 million over
the next three years. The proposed Credit's initial focus would be on the 10
enterprises for which specific action plans have been prepared. Plans of
individual enterprises include a detailed analysis of the demand for financial
assistance, and provide a good basis for determining the size and composition of
the financing package. However, while the initial focus of the proposed
operation would be the restructuring needs of those 10 enterprises, it would be
open to industry as a whole. The Credit would include financing of additional
EDI operations, such as lending for equipment and working capital needs of
companies in the assembly sector and of companies seeking expansion or entry
into new markets, particularly those with outward-looking plans.



- 14 -
S. IDA ASSISTANCE AND STRATEGY
5.1      Haiti's comparative advantage lies in the development of urban
industrial export-oriented production; its internationally competitive wage
structure has already led to the establishment of the export assembly sector,
the most dynamic sector in the economy. IDA's involvement would facilitate the
transition process from a highly-protected industrial environment to a more
dynamic and competitive ecoromy, by providing investment resources and technical
assistance to enterprises that are capable of producing at internationally
competitive prices or are export-oriented. This would contribute to the sound
modernization and expansion of the industrial sector and reduce the social cost
of adjustment to the new incentive framework, by gearing it more to expori.
markets and employment creation. And, through this operation, IDA would assist
the Government to strengthen its ability to maintain the recently implemented
trade liberalization reforms, supported by the IDA Economic Recovery Credit (Cr.
1786-HA). Furthermore, the proposed operation would strengthen the implementing
capacity of the executing agency, FDI, the supervisory and regulatory role of
the Central Bank, and improve the industrial regulatory framework. The
restructuring component would also complement the Government's ongoing
parastatal restructuring efforts.
6. THE PRDJCT
6.1      At the request of the Government, a mission visited Port-au-Prince in
February 1987 to initiate preparation of the proposed Industrial Restructuring
and Development Project. Upon returning to Washington, D.C., the mission
recommendedt delaying further project processing due to the uncertainty of the
overall investment climate created by contraband, trade liberalization, and
civil unrest; and reassessing the situation in four to five months. This
reassessment was carried out in September 1987 by a second mission, which
confirmed the continued existence of the previous climate. It nevertheless
suggested that processing continue, since a number of investors were found to be
slowly internalizing the market signals generated by contraband and trade
liberalization, and looking into ways to improve efficiency, to enable them to
survive in the new environment. Furthermore, the proposed operation was
considered critical in lending assistance to both the private industrial
enterprises--to help them cope with the costs of adjustment--and to the
Government--to gain credibility and maintain the newly reformed trade regime.
Due to the aborted democratic elections in November 1987 and the civil unrest
that followed, the preparation mission was further postponed to May 1988.
Appraisal was completed in May 1989, and negotiations took place in Washington
D.C. in September 1989. The Haitian delegation comprised Messrs. Hervey
Sylvain, Director, Special Cabinet, Ministry of Econow-i and Finance; Charles
Beaulieu, Director-General, and Claude Pierre-Louis, Cabinet Member, BRN; and
Roland Pierre, Director-General, and Lhermite Francois, Director of Operations,
FDI.
6.2      Project Obiectives and Descriltion.  The proposed project woulds
(i) support the private industrial sector in undertaking the necessary
adjustments for its transformation from a highly-protected and inwardly-oriented



- 15 -
sector to an outwardly-oriented competitive one, and provide a sow:d basis for
an increased role for manufacturing industries in Haiti's development process,
by improving their efficiency and competitiveness; (ii) assist the Government to
maintain the newly reformed trade regime; (iii) strengthen PDI's financial and
human resource base, to help it play a more active role in industrial
development; (iv) help improve the Central Bank's supervisory and regulatory
role over the financial sector; and (v) improve the industrial sector's
regulatory framework. To achieve the above objectives, the proposed Credit of
US$11.4 million would provide: (i) financial and technical assistance to large
and medium private industrial enterprises that are undergoing restructuring and
to other small and medium enterprises that need financial assistance, but no
restructuring; and (ii) institutional bupport to FDI, BRH, and Customs
Administration. The main features of the project are shown below (detailed
descriptions of each component are given in Annexes 1 and 2).
6.3      The credit comoonent would provide US$4.8 million equivalent to private
industrial enterprises to implement specific industrial restructuring plans
prepared under the Industrial Restructuring Component of the Technical
Assistance Credit (Cr. 1786-HA). This would include: (i) financial
restructuring, including divestiture of non-profitable activities;
(ii) improving marketing strategies and financial management; and
(iii) upgrading product quality and production facilities. The remaining US$5.2
million equivalent would finance FDI's normal term lending, including support
for the creation of new export-oriented firms or expansion of potentially viable
existing firms that need financial assistance, but no restructuring. The credit
component would finance fixed asset investment, covering plant and machinery
purchases and associated working capital needs.
6.4      The tecbnicall assistance comnnent comprises the followingt  for FDI
(US$0.8 million equivalent) to: (i) finance consultant services to assist FDI
in implementing the project, exploring options for broadening its scope for
future operations, and establishing mechanisms in the FIs to enable them to
process and supervise projects more effectively; (ii) strengthen FDI's existing
project preparation fund facility to assist enterprises in preparing bankable
projects; (iii) strengthen FDI's extension services to enterprises in need of
assistance; and (iv) finance training for FDI and selected financial
intermediaries' staff on project evaluation and supervision.
6.5      The technical assistance component for the Central Bank (US$100,000
equivalent) would support efforts initiated by the IMF to strengthen the
Supervision Department's staff in monitoring and inspecting the financial status
of financial institutions. At present, the Supervision Department conducts
periodic reviews of the formal banking sector and undertakes occasional audits.
However, its staff needs to strengthen their ability to assess the overall
solvency of the financial institutions, by analyzing loan portfolio quality and
operating efficiency.
6.6      Work has already been initiated under the Technical Assistance Credit
(Cr. 1786-HA) towards designing a trade data system called Sydonia. The Customs
Administration and the Ministry of Industry and Commerce are working closely in
installing this system. UNDP and FAC have thus far provided hardware and
software at Customs headquarters and at the port in Port-au-Prince. While
assistance from these two sources ended in September 1989, there are still unmet
hardware requirements at the ports of Port-au-Prince and Cap Haitian. In
addition, staff training is required to utilize the new data system effectively.



- 16 -
An additional concern voiced by the Ministries of Finance and Commerce was the
increased underinvoicing and underdeclaration by exporters. An export
verification scheme would be designed and put in place, with initial service and
training to be provided by the "Societe de Surveillance (SGS)," which already
does import verification for the Government. The cost of staff training,
training materials, transport, and the setting up of the export verification
system is estimated at US$350,000 equivalent.
6.7      The technical assistance component would also assist the Ministry of
Finance to carry out studies to: (i) review existing banking legislation and
regulations, adjust them to the Haitian context, and determine what new
regulations are needed, particularly in the areas of risk exposure, debt equity
ratios, capital requirements, arrears, bad debt provisions and write-offs, and
lending practice- in general; (ii) review the development banking sector, with
the objective oi sessing the need for restructuring, consolidating, or closing
existing institutions; and (iii) review the non-banking financial sector and the
informal credit sector, with the objective of assessing their size and
importance to the economy and the need for regulation and protection of small
savers. Upon completion of the st-idies, an action program would be agreed
between the Government and IDA to implement the ensuing recommendations. Dated
covenants are included in the Legal Documents. The total cost is estimated at
US$100,000 equivalent.
6.8      FDI and Experience under the First Industrial Credit (Cr. 1131-HA).
FDI was established by Decree on March 26, 1981, with IDA support, to operate as
a second-tier rediscounting facility within the Central Bank for medium- and
long-term discounting operations and to provide guarantees for loans to medium-
and small-sized industrial enterprises. It began operations in July 1981. FDI
is subject to the Board of Directors of the Central Bank, but has its own
separate management and separate non-transferable permanent resources. It
receives no budgetary support from the Central Bank. Although FDI is subject to
the Central Bank's Internal Comptroller, an annual audit is performed by
independent qualified external auditors. Annex 1 provides details on FDI's
organization, operating procedures, and lending regulations. Under the proposed
operation, a study would be conducted to review FDI's future role in mobilizing
resources and in further promoting industrial development.
6.9      Credit 1131-HA, which became effective in December 1981, was IDA's
first direct support to Haiti's industrial sector development, providing
financing for industrial operations and technical assistance. A two-tier credit
system was established, comprising the Central Bank, FDI, and a network of
financial intermediaries qualified by the Central Bank. The FDI was to provide
access to medium- and long-term financing for private industrial operations,
particularly for small- and medium-sized enterprises. A guarantee facility was
established to cover, in selected cases, part of the financial risk borne by
commercial banks under the project, and subsequently induce these banks to act
more effectively in channelling term lending to the industrial sector.
6.10     After initial delays in project implementation, caused by the economic
recession of the early 1980s and hesitation by the commercial banks to expand
term lending and participate in the rediscounting scheme, the project completed
disbursements by March 1987, approximately one-year-and-a-half after the
original Closing Date. FDI was quite successful in carrying out a very active
promotional role in identifying and preparing bankable projects for commercial
bank financing.



- 17 .
6.11     As of September 30, 1987, FDI had approved 114 subloans, amounting to
US$8.1 million equivalent and covering 103 enterprises. Distribution of Credit
proceeds through financial intermediaries is shown in Annex 6, Table 1. Nearly
752 of the approved amount covered medium- and long-term operations (2 to 7
years), with the remainder covering operations from 6 months to 2 years (see
Annex 6, Table 2). Seventy-nine percent (79Z) of FDI's rediscounts supported
the manufacturing and agroindustrial sectors (462 and 33?, respectively).
Construction, fisheries, and other subsectors comprised the balance (see
Annex 6, Table 3).
6.12     Through this operation, FDI achieved the following objectives:
(i) lent assistance in the creation of new microenterprises (which normally do
not have access to traditional sources of finance) and the expansion of existing
ones; (ii) assisted small- and medium-sized enterprises with working capital for
importing raw materials; and (iii) met term financing needs of small- and
medium-sized enterprises.
6.13     Approximately 45 microenterprises (22 new and 23 existing) were
assisted through FHD, a development bank geared to small-scale industry
promotion, creating 340 new jobs at around US$2,000 per job. Approximately 39
subloans, amounting to US$1.9 million, addressed the working capital needs of
around 30 small- and medium-sized enterprises. Thirty rediscount operations
covered medium- and long-term financing for 28 new small- and medium-sized
enterprises for a period of 2-7 years, amounting to US$5.9 million. Seventeen
operations covered expansion and modernization needs, and 13, the creation of
new enterprises. Subloan size varied from US$14,000 to US$0.5 million
equivalent.
6.14     Overall, Credit 1131-HA created a total of 1,500 new jobs, compared to
the original estimate of 2,000, at a cost of about US$10,000 per job. It also
mobilized local resources, i.e., for every FDI dollar, US$1.40 was mobilized,
through the financial intermediaries and final beneficiaries. Furthermore,
every U.S. dollar disbursed by IDA mobilized more than US$2.00 of local
resources.
6.15     The technical assistance component, providing assistance to small and
med4-vm enterprises, encountered difficulties when tha 0office National de
Prootion Industrielle (ONAPI),' originally intended to provide extension
services, was abolished. Subsequently, FDI, with the assistance of consultants,
carried out the extension program effectively. In addition, this component
provided assistance for institutional strengthening to PDI and to the
Supervision Department of the Central Bank (BRH).
6.16     FDI LendinR and Financial Status.  Up to March 1989, FDI had approved a
total of 117 rediscount operations, amounting to US$8.7 million, with available
resources in Gourdes equivalent of US$2.7 million. Annex 1 provides details on
the lending profile of FDI and the economic impact of its operations. About 100
of these operations, and more than 701 of the discount approvals--about US$6.2
million, were processed during a three-year period (1982-85), as a result of a
very active and effective promotional effort undertaken by FDI. The situation
drastically changed in 1987-88 due to the political instability and ensuing
uncertain investment climate. Furthermore, the excess liquidity in local
currency in the banking system reduced the need for FDI rediscounting, while



- 18 -
FDI's depletion of foreign exchange resources prevented it from rediscounting
loans with foreign exchange components. However, duting the first part of 1989,
excess liquidity in the commercial banking system was reduced (para. 2.2), and
investment demand increased, with FDI committing ov'r US$700,000 from its
available resources.
6.17     The financial results, however, have been somewhat different from the
original projections. This was mainly because the resources available for
rediscount operations were lower than expected, since, from the mobilization of
SDR 4.8 million provided under Credit 1131-HA, FDI received only US$4.8 million
at full disbursement (instead of US$6.0 million equivalent estimated at the time
of approval), due to a stronger U.S. dollar. FDI therefore suffered a loss of
US$1.2 million in resources. while counterpart funds remained at the originally
committed US$l.O million. To.al funds available were thus reduced to US$5.8
million, from the envisaged US$7.0 million.
6.18     As FDI's income came only from interest collected on rediscounting
operations, its revenue remained largely under appraisal estimates, but
sufficient to cover administrative expenditures. By September 1987, FDI had a
balanced operation, although showing a book loss of about US$200,000, due to the
obligation to constitute a reserve fund for eventual losses on its portfolio and
guarantee operations.  This fund grew to about 1JS$238,000 by September 30, 1987.
Balance sheets and financial statements are shown in Tables 1, 2, and 3 of
Annex 7. These include actual figures for the last three years and projections
for the period of the proposed project.
6.19     Portfolio Qualitv.  Since dpbt-service on amounts outstanding on
rediscounting operations are debited automatically through the Central Bank to
the accounts of the commercial banks. FDI does not experience defaults.
However, the deteriorating investment climate has affected FDI's clients, some
of them seriously, and the banks have informed FDI that some payments are
overdue. By March 31, 1989, 18 loans were outstanding, totalling US$3.1 million
equivalent, of which 7 present some problems for which the bank2 are searching
for solutions. Five of these loans, totalling US$0.6 million, are presently on
FDI's problem list, and although the credit risk is with the banks, FDI is
liable for the guarantees extended to these loans, amounting to about US$0.3
million equivalent. This represents 4.0X of total FDI disbursements to date.
6.20     Guarantees.  To encourage intermediaries to provide medium- and long-
term lending to small and medium enterprises, FDI provides guarantees in
selected cases, simultaneously with the specific FDI rediscounts. Currently,
FDI guarantees up to 75? of the amount rediscounted, wiLth a maximum of
US$200,000.  Financial intermediaries pay FDI a guarantee fee of 2? p.a., which
is collected simultaneously with the interest payments on the PDI subloans.
Total guarantees cannot be issued in excess of 25? of its available resources.
Up to March 31, 1988, this limit was about US$1.5 million (25? of FDI's
resources of about US$6.0 million), by which time FDI had issued 14 guarantees
totalling US$1.1 million. Of these, nine are still outstanding as of March 31,
1989, totalling US$519,696. Five of the enterprises with FDI-guaranteed loans
have experienced problems (see para. 6.19), two of which ceased loan repayment.
Total payments made by FDI as a result of its guarantees totalled US$185,000.
This relatively low use of the guarantee facility resulted from FDI's strict
policy for guarantee approvals, which requires financial intermediaries to cover



- 19 -
the largest possible share of their loans with collaterals. FDI acts as a
guarantor of last report for the portion of the loans that is not covered by
collaterals. As of March 31. 1989, outstanding guarantees amounted to about 172
of FDI's total outstanding portfolio, which is below the 25Z limit established
by FDI's Policy Statement.
6.21     Under the proposed operation, FDI would continue to provide guarantees,
to cover part of the rediscounting. However, total guarantees would not be
issued in excess of 202 of FDI's available resources. Applications for
guarantee operations would be made simaltaneously with discounting requests.
FDI's approval would be based upon the risk assessment uf the particular
operations and the following eligibility criteria: (i) debt/equity of the
ultimate beneficiary would remain below 3:1, and debt service coverage would be
at least 2:1 during the amortization period of the guaranteed subloan; and
(ii) the ultimate beneficiary must not have any overdue financial obligations.
These provisions would be incorporated in the participation agreements.
6.22     Eliaible Financial Intermediaries.  According to FDI's Operating
Guidelines, as approved by the Central Bank, all commercial and development
banks legally established and operating in Haiti are eligible to participate in
the FDI discount facility, provided that no more than 25Z of the participant's
loan portfolio is affected by arrears. Of the 10 registered commercial banks in
Haiti, 9 are operational, and only 8 are of any significance. Of the eight
principal commercial banks, two are state-owned, two are private, and four
constitute branches of foreign banks. Only six private commercial banks would
be eligible to participate in the proposed Project. Annex 5, Table 6 provides
information on the portfolios of the above institutions. During the first
project, SOFHIDES, a development bank, was accepted as participant in the FDI
rediscounting system, in consideration of its purpose, performance, and good
record. The Government also asked, and IDA agreed, that another development
bank, BNDAI, be included in the scheme, although its arrears were higher than
the limit stated above. For that reason, BNDAI was excluded from the guarantee
scheme, remaining fully responsible for the loans rediscounted by FDI. BNCAI
was not able to improve its performance, and is now in the process of
liquidation.
6.23     During appraisal, the mission reviewed the participation agreement with
intermediaries to assess the experience gained to date. The review showed that,
although these agreements are satisfactory, some failures by the banking system
to abide by the stipulations occurred, which would be addressed in the new
participation agreements to be signed with the Central BanklFDI and the FIs,
including: (i) close subproject supervision, especially of enterprises
undergoing restructuring, to ensure adequate progress and adherence to the
schedule of the proposed action plans; and (ii) pariodic reporting and
maintenance of adequate records on all IDA-financed subprojects. FDI would
closely supervise the FIs, to ensure that they abide by the stipulations in
their agreements. And, under the operation's technical assistance component
(para. 6.5), the Central Bank's Supervision Department would be strengthened, to
ensure adequate monitoring of the FIs.
6.24     ?roiect Costs. Financina. and Imolementation.  The overall project cost
would amount to US$24.6 million equivalent, of which US$14.7 million (60Z) are
foreign costs (Table 9, Annex 7). FDI's rediscounting on total project costs is



- 20 -
estimated at US$15.3 million equivalent, of which US$10.0 million is in foreign
costs (Table 6, Annex 7), to be entirely financed by IDA. The total project
cost, excluding the technical assistance component of US$1.4 million equivalent,
amounts to US$23.2 million equivalent, of which 432 would be financed by IDA,
231 by FDI, 102 by financial intermediaries, and the remaining 24Z by final
beneficiaries. The technical assistance costs would be entirely financed by
IDA. Import duties and domestic sales taxes would account for approximately lOZ
of the total project cost, and would be paid from the beneficiaries'
contributions.
6.25     Revlenishment of PDI Resources.  FDI's present resources of US$5.8
million equivalent (held in Gourdes) generate insufficient income to cover
expenditures. At September 30, 1988, the US$5.8 million equivalent represented
US$2.7 million equivalent in outstanding portfolio, US$1.6 million equivalent in
savings at 5 interest, and US$1.2 million equivalent in a sight account, to
enable disbursements for loans approved but not yet disbursed. The average
interest on its portfolio was 7.5Z in 1988, generating an income of about
US$220,000 equivalent, with the savings bringing in another US$70,.000
equivalent. Commissions collected on guarantees were marginal (about US$5,000
equivalent). Total income was therefore about US$300,000 equivalent, against
expenditures of US$333,000 equivalent, showing a loss of US$33,000, to which
must be added the provision for eventual losses on guarantee operations of
US$14,000 equivalent. Even if FDI could have used around US$5.0 million
equivalent of its resources in rediscount operations, its income would have been
barely sufficient to cover its operating costs. In addition, FDI has had to
increase its staff to improve its project evaluation, follow-up, and
supervision.
6.26     Under the first project, the entire IDA Credit of US$4.8 million was
passed on by the Government to FDI as a grant. Under the proposed operation,
the Government would pass on US$5.0 million as a grant to FDI and lend the
remaining US$5.0 million at 82 for 20 years, including 5 years of grace. This
would enable FDI to easily ensure debt service and provide a cushion against any
drop in revenues (see Cash Flow, Annex 7, Table 5). However, the transfer of
US$5.0 million to FDI in the form of a grant would not inhibit in any way FDI's
efforts to develop a sound financial structure and become a self-sustained,
cost-conscious financial institution, nor result in a subsequent need for
Government grants. Technical assistance funds would be passed on to FDI as a
grant.
6.27     The above onlending arrangement would enable FDI to bring up its
portfolio to about US$15.0 million equivalent, starting in 1994 (and maintain it
at that level henceforth) (Annex 7, Table 5). IDA disbursements would cease as
from 1994, and, since all repayments are received in local currency, FDI would
need to replenish its foreign resources. An agreement was reached with the
Government during negotiations to commit itself to exchange the Gourdes
accumulated by FDI into foreign exchange at the rate of US$2.5 million per year
from 1994 on and to maintain this exchange arrangement throughout the life of
FDI.
6.28     Onlendinu  Terms.  The proposed Credit of US$11.4 million equivalent
wouldf be made available to the Republic of Haiti at IDA's standard service
charge and commitment fee. It would be repayable in 40 years, including 10
years of grace. The Government would pass on the funds to FDI as mentioned in
pars. 6.26 above.



-21 -
6.29     Interest rates charged by FDI to financial intermediaries under the
first operation allowed a uniform spread of 5 percentage points. The difference
between the rate charged to the borrower and the spread reverted to FDI as the
implicit rediscount rate (62 was allowed for subprojects under US$100,000, to
encourage the FIs to lend to small enterprises). When liquidity was high and
the banks charged low interest rates, their income on FDI rediscounts remained
the same, and FDI alone supported the reduction in interest rates. Under the
proposed project, a rediscount rate of 82 will be charged to PIe, which reflects
closely the average cost of funds to the banking system. For loans financing
small-scale enterprises, FDI will charge 72 to the FIs. This would provide a
larger spread to FIs as an incentive to finance small enterprises that are not
among the preferred commercial bank customers.
6.30     FIs will be free to determine the interest rate to the final
beneficiary within the broad interest range authorized by the Central Bank.
Average interest rates charged by financial intermediaries, currently ranging
between 132-142, are subject to the limits established by the Central Bank,
which are periodically reviewed to reflect market conditions. In view of the
projected 10X inflation, the interest rate paid by final borrowers would be
positive in real terms. Under the proposed onlending arrangement, FDI would
receive an average intermediation margin of about 4 percentage points, which
would be sufficient to cover operating costs, debt service, and adequate
provision for eventual losses on guarantee operations (see Table 5 of Annex 7).
PDI is also exploring the possibility of introducing a variable interest rate
structure, both for onlending to Fla and to final beneficiaries. A semiannual
review of the interest rate and the intermediation margins would be carried out,
to ensure their adequacy.
6.31     The nominal foreign exchange risk would be borne by the Government.
However, given that interest rates are freely determined within a broad range
authorized by the Central Bank and that the capital market is open, interest
rates are considered to reflect investors' perception of the relative return to
assets denominated in foreign and domestic currencies. As a result, a foreign
exchange risk premium reflected in the interest rates would be borne by the
final beneficiary.
6.32     Financial intermediaries would assume the credit risk on subloans
rediscounted by PDI, except for those portions covered by FDI guarantees. All
PDI subloans would be denominated in Gourdes.
6.33     Tynes and Sizes of Subloans.  FDI would provide financial assistance to
meet the restructuring needs of the 10 enterprises for which individual
restructuring plans have been prepared. Specifically, it would contribute to
the financing of the incremental as well as replacement machinery and other
production inputs expected as a result of restructuring. PDI would also finance
associated permanent working capital and continue with its regular term lending
operations. The maximum rediscount limit for investmen;z subprojects, which
stands at US$500,000, including a maximum of US$150,000 for working capital
subloans, would continue to be enforced. PDI loaus could not exceed 90a of the
intermediaries' subloan.  The maximum aggregate amount of working capital
financed by FDI would not exceed 20t of its total resources. An exception to
the upper limit of US$500,000 of PDI subloans is warranted in the case of a few
projects under the industrial restructuring component, to comply with the
recommendations in the business plans. This limit would be raised to US$800,000



- 22 -
plans. This limit would be raised to US$800,000 equivalent on a case-by-case
review, and under specific IDA approval of all such loans. Repeater loans are
allowed for borrowers with good performance, provided that each borrower's total
indebtedness remains within the limits indicated above.
6.34     Financial Instrumfents.  Haiti's financial markets are currently limited
to conventional loan and mortgage agreements. The money market is limited to a
small interbank market. Only a few Haitian enterprises, mainly fiianciql
institutions, have more than 50 shareholders, such as the BCI, BUfH, and
SOFIHDES. However, there is no formal market of these shares, and their
turnover is negligible.
6.35     Given the current narrow structure of the Haitian financial markets and
the lack of credit information and uniform accounting standards, there are
limited opportunities to develop innovative financial instruments and mechanisms
for industrial restructuring at this time.  For example, debt/eouity swaps,
popular in Mexico and Chile, are not appropriate in Haiti, because over 90X of
its outstanding foreign debt is donor- or international-agency-funded, and there
are few if any desirable Haitian private or parastatal acquisitions.
Consequently, for the same reasons, Eurodollar-type syndicated instruments, such
as transferable loan instruments, revolving underwriting facilities, and
floating rate notes, are not applicable under the above constraints. However,
there are a few quasi-equity instruments that could be adapted to the Haitian
environment, which would provide for shared risk between the borrower and the
lender. Among these are: (i) conditional loans which base repayments on one or
more factors, such as revenue or net income; (ii) graduated repayment loans,
with initial low debt service payments that increase concurrently with the
enterprise's earning power (revenue); and (iii) subordinated loans, which charge
a higher rate of interest, but act as a buffer for an enterprise which lacks
sufficient collateral. This latter type of facility is understood in Haiti, and
is probably the most adaptable to the present environment.
6.36     Maturities and Grace Periods.  FDI financing for investment projects
would be available with a maturity of 15 years, including up to three years of
grace. For rediscounts for permanent working capital (raw material and
inventory stocks), the repayment period could be up to three years, including
one year of grace. IDA would seek prior review of all subloans financing
enterprises undergoing restructuring and all those above US$300,000 equivaleIt.
6.37     Subnroiect Aipraisal and SuDervision.  In the case of the restructuring
component, individual restructuring plans have been prepared by FDI, with
specific action plans and schedules (see para. 3.5). Packaging of restructuring
measures would serve as a basis for appraisal by the FIs. The project proposals
would comprise definition of project scope and capital cost estimates, including
financial and economic rates of return and a risk assessment. The step-by-step
action plan will provide a schedule for key activities, which would form the
basis on which disbursements would be made, and would be used as a progress
monitoring instrument. FDI, jointly with the FIs, would oversee implementation
of the restructuring plans, to ensure that they are carried out as scheduled,
and assist in those cases where modifications to the original plan need to be
made.
6.38     In the case of regular credit operations, the financial intermediaries
would prepare short appraisal reports, which FDI would review before approval.



A financial rate of return would be calculated for all projects. For loans with
total project costs above US$500,000 equivalent, an economic rate of return
would be also calculated.
6.39     Under the first IDA credit operation, financial intermediaries were
responsible for supervising FDI's ultimate beneficiaries and for maintaining
adequate records to indicate the progress of the subprojects. In practice,
however, because they did not devote sufficient efforts to project supervision,
FDI had to monitor the situation of its clients. This increased FDI functions,
and forced the Operations Department to reinforce staffing so as to better
handle the whole project cycle for each rediscounting request, from
identification and loan application preparation to supervision and follow-up.
This did not mean that the FIs were exempt from these responsibilities, and FDI
continued to pressure these institutions to fulfill their obligations in this
regard. FDI's and the FIs' project evaluation and supervision capabilities
would be further strengthened under the proposed operation.
6.40     In the early years of the first operation, FDI had a Deputy General
Manager, who assisted the General Manager in properly supervising the various
aspects of the Operations Department, which includes continuous training of the
operations officers. This position would be reinstated and occupied by a
professional who is familiar with banking and rediscounting operations and who
has the ability to transfer this knowledge to FDI's operations officers. The
technical assistance component would finance a consultant for a period of two
years to take the place of an Advisor to the General Manager.
6.41     Prolect Advisory Committee (PAC).  This Committee, which was set up as
a result of one of the first operation's legal stipulations, met only twice, and
did not bring to FDI the assistance and guidance expected, neither in the
relationship between PDI and other Government agencies, nor in the examination
of existing and contemplated industrial and credit policies. This was a serious
failure by the Government to meet its commitments, since the PAC was created
under the Decree-Law setting up FDI. This covenant shall be repeated under the
proposed project, providing for at least semiannual meetings, and making the PAC
the overseeing body of all FDI policies and operations. The PAC's composition
should remain as originally conceived: chaired by the Governor of the Central
Bank, and comprising FDI's General Manager and representatives of the Ministries
of Finance, Indastry and Commerce, and Planning, of the participating financial
intermediaries, and of private industry.
Procurement
6.42     FDI and participating intermediaries would oversee procurement,
particularly Credit-financed items, to satisfy themselves that: procured items
are suitable for the respective investment projects; items are reasonably
priced; and beneficiaries have carefully examined the main sources of supply and
are purchasing from the most advantageous source. For contracts of less than
US$1.0 million equivalent, procurement will be done under local shopping,
requiring at least three price quotations. For contracts above US$1.0 million
equivalent, were they to occur, procurement will be done under ICB. Proof of
receipt uf the equipment and/or goods in Haiti must be submitted in due course
to FDI by the FI. Under technical assistance, IDA would finance two vehicles
and microcomputers. Given the small amounts involved, the respective items will



- 24 -
be procured under local shopping. Procurement of consultant and training
services would be open to international recruitment, in accordance with IDA/Bank
guidelines. The qualifications and terms of reference for consultants would be
subject to IDA approval.
Disbursements
6.43     IDA would reimburse FDI for 652 of its disbursements for approved
subloans against fully documented withdrawal applications. IDA would reimburse
PDI for expenditures made not more than 180 days prior to submission of the
discounting application by the financial intermediary to FDI. IDA funds would
be disbursed against full documentation. to cover 10OX of total expenditures for
technical assistance. The minimum size for withdrawal application has been set
at US$50,000 equivalent. The final date for submission of loan proposals to IDA
would be December 30, 1993. The Closing Date for disbursements would be June
30, 1995. Retroactive financing would be included for expenditures of up to
US$l.l million equivalent for a maximum period of 12 months prior to credit
signing. Such provision is justified to cover the cost of the expatriate
Advisor to the General Manager, who will take the place of the previous
consultant and whose appointment expired on July 30, 1989, and to meet the
immediate financing needs of two to three enterprises in the restructuring
program that need to proceed with their business plans.
Accounts. Auditina, and Reuortina
6.44     As under the first IDA Credit, FDI would maintain special project
accounts for each participating intermediary to record rediscounting operations.
Since the start of FDI's operations, its accounts have been audited by the local
associates of Peat, Marwick, Mitchell and Co., and they have been satisfactory.
These auditors have followed accounting principles acceptable to IDA. In
addition, FDI is subject to review by the Central Bank's Controller. The audit
reports would be submitted to IDA within six months after the end of the fiscal
year.
7. BENEFITS
7.1      The proposed project would assist local industry to increase
productivity, improve financial performance, and increase exports. By providing
investment resources and technical assistance, it would sustain modernization
efforts by export-oriented or efficient import-substitution industries and
reduce urban unemployment. Technical assistance would strengthen FDI to carry
out its operations effectively. In addition, it would strengthen the Central
Bank's supervisory and regulatory functions and improve and simplify the
industrial regulatory framework system.
8. RISKS
8.1      If the recent political instability were to persist, project
implementation could be adversely affected. Influential, long-protected



industrialists might put pressure on the Government to reverse the trade
liberalization reforms. Investment credit demand is highly sensitive to the
current unstable political environment. Restructuring as well as new
investments may be slow to materialize. The above risks would be mitigated by
the strong pipeline of industrial restructuring proposals and the Government's
efforts to broaden the basis for an internal dialogue through revival of a
public/private consultative committee, its commitment in a policy letter
submitted to IDA to continue implementation of trade policy reforms, and the
provision of adequate financial resources to FDI to support the private sector's
restructuring efforts.
8.2      Another risk is that the banking system may be reluctant to tncrease
its financial exposure to the industrial sector--perceived as more risky for the
provision of term financing--which in turn might slow down disbursements. The
project, however, is designed in such a way as to encourage its utilization by
the banks, including, for instance, an adequate spread and, in the case of the
restructuring component, participation by the commercial banks in the drawing up
of the restructuring plans for some important clients. In addition, the banks
have gained experience in the second-tier-type lending under the first
operation.
8.3      FDI's rediscounting operations were reduced in the first credit
operation when its foreign exchange resources were depleted, at a time when the
banking system was experiencing excess liquidity. This could be repeated in the
future. However, a commitment by the Government to exchange accumulated Gourdes
for foreign exchange would reduce this risk.
9. AGRIDIS  RAEED
9.1      During negotiations, agreements were reached on the following:
a)       With the Government of Haiti on:
(i)    Continued implementation of the trade reforms (para. 1.12);
(ii) Taking necessary actions recommended by ongoing studies to
strengthen customs administration, streamline customs
procedures, and improve the industrial regulatory framework
(paras. 1.26-l.27)--dated covenants are included in the legal
documents; and
(iii) Carrying out finance studies, including the country's banking
regulations and legislation, the development banking sector and
the non-formal financial sector, and taking the necessary
actions to carry out the recommendations of the studies
(para. 6.7). Dated covenants are included in the legal
documents;
b)       With the Government of Haiti and the Central Bank on:



- 26 -
(i)    Terms, conditions, and procedures for making available the
proceeds of the IDA Credit to PDI; interest rates to FDI and
financial intermediaries; retention of the foreign exchange risk
by the Government; revival of the Project Advisory Committee;
and a commitment to replenish FDI's foreign exchange resources
as needed (paras. 6.26, 6.28-6.41);
c)       With the Central Bank ons
(i)    Taking the necessary actions to strengthen its supervision
department (para. 6.5);
(ii)   Proper organization and FDI staffing (paras. 6.39-6.40);
(iii)  The basic content of the agreement between the Central Bank and
the participatory financial intermediaries, including
eligibility criteria for participating financial intermediaries
(paras. 6.21-6.23);
(iv)   Project appraisal criteria; maximum subloan size and maximum
guarantee coverage; all restructuring proposals to have IDA's
prior review; and a free limit of IDA review to be set at
US$300,000 equivalent (paras. 6.33-6.38);
(v)    A semiannual review of the interest rate to the final
beneficiary and the intermediation margin (para. 6.30);
(vi)   FDI disbursements to be linked to compliance by the enterprises
to implementing recommendations in the respective restructuring
plan (para. 6.37); and
(vii)  Capitalizing the proportion of the cost of the in-depth study
for restructuring paid by FDI as part of the restructuring
subloans (para. 3.5).
9.2      Signing of participation agreements, in form and substance satisfactory
to IDA, between the Central Bank/FDI and at least three financial
intermediaries, including the provisions for the restructuring component, the
signing of an agreement with the Government of Haiti and the Central Bank for
the transfer of proceeds of the IDA credit to FDI, and FDI's Statement of Policy
to have been amended to incorporate the new conditions under the proposed
operation would be conditions of effectiveness (paras. 6.23 and 6.26).
9.3      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit for
SDR 9.1 million (US$11.4 million equivalent), on the terms and conditions set
out in sections 1 through 9 in this report.
LAMT1
Washington, D.C.



-27 -                                ANUEX I
Page 1 of 7
M&ITI
STAFF APPAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL  STCT          AD DEVZLONT PROJCT
Fonds de D4velopDement Industriel (FDI)
1. BACKGROND
1.1      Backsround and Objectives.  Starting in December 1980, IDA explored
the prospects for a private development bank in Haiti. However, in order to
permit a wider access to term financing, it was found more appropriate that
the Government establish a special fund in the Central Bank to enter into
medium- and long-term discounting operations and to provide guarantees for
loans to small- and medium-scale industrial enterprises through eligible
financial intermediaries (FIs). As a result, FDI was established by a Decree
Law dated March 26, 1981.
1 *2     Ormanization. Manatement. and Staff.  The FDI organizational
structure, illustrated in a Chart of this report, includes a General Manager,
a Consultant, and two units--one in charge of administrative and financial
matters and the other dealing with operations. The present General Manager
was appointed in October 1988, after having served in various important
Government posts. The Consultant's role is to assist the General Manager in
developing FDI and help design technical assistance programs for industrial
beneficiaries. FDI staff presently total 15.
1.3      In order to increase its role in project promotion and supervision,
especially regarding the proposed Industrial Restructuring and Development
Project, FDI needs to recruit additional staff (two operations officers have
just been hired) as its portfolio grows. Furthtrmore, to develop the staff's
technical capabilities in the preparation and evaluation of investment
projects, seminars will be organized on project analysis.
1.4      Overatina and Financial Policies.  FDI's lending activities and
financial matters are condacted pursuant to its Statement of Policies and
Procedures, which, in agreement with IDA, was approved by the Board of
Directors of the Central Bank in March 1981. FDI finances investment projects
and the operations of new or existing Haitian-ownedl private enterprises
engaged in handicrafts, manufacturing, agroindustry, fishery, mining, tourism,
transport, construction industry, and enterprises providing auxiliary services
to these various sectors.
11 Defined as enterprises whose equity is owned at least 512 by Haitian
citizens. However, FDI can finance projects which do not meet this
criterion, if it considers that it is in the economic interest of the
country.



-28-                                  ANEK 1
Page 2 of 7
1.5      Only viable enteeprises and sound projects are eligible for FDI
financing, which can cover the purchase, construction, or renovation of
equipment, machinery, cargo vehicles, civil works, and industrial buildings.
as well as raw materials and technical assistance services. FDI financing per
beneficiary goes up to US$0.5 million, and loans can be made for raw material
purchases up to a maximum of US$150,000. Repeated operations are possible
only if 50X of previous FDI loans have been repaid, but at no time can the
total of FDI commitments to a beneficiary exceed US$0.5 million.
1.6      FDI can provide guarantees on the loans it rediscounts, within the
following limit: guarantees cover only the principal of rediscounted loans,
but cannot exceed 75X of the amounts rediscounted, and the total amount of the
guarantee cannot exceed US$200,000.
1.7      The total debt contracted by FDI and the guarantees it gives on
rediscounted loans must not exceed three times FDI equity. Furthermore, total
guarantees granted by FDI must not exceed 20? of its total resources (equity
and long-term borrowings).
1.8     O2eratint Procedures.  FDI operating procedures are spelled out in
its Statement of Policies:
(a)      Loan Aimroval.  Standard procedure is that, when an FI submits a
request to FDI for a rediscounted loan, it simaltaneously provides
appropriate background information, including a project description,
the enterprise's financial needs, the project's technical and
financial evaluation for all subprojects, and economic evaluation for
all subprojects above US$500,000. FDI staff review this information
and prepare a memorandum to the General Manager presenting their
recommendations. The General Manager, on that basis, approves or
rejects the request and communicates his decision to the Governor of
the Central Bank and the FI.
However, when a request is made to change the terms and conditions of
loans previously approved, the General Manager of FDI must refer the
matter to the Central Bank's Board of Directors for a decision.
In practice, because of the project promotion role that it assumes in
order to identify and prepare bankable projects, FDI plays a very
active role in the appraisal of investment proposals. In many
instances, it takes the leading role in coordinating the efforts of
the promoter and the PI that will finance the project;
(b)      Disbursement and Repayment.  Each FI that has signed the agreement to
participate in FDI rediscounting schemes is required to open a
special account at the Central Bank. When a rediscounting request is
approved, the Fl's account is credited by FDI with the corresponding
amount, upon presentation of appropriate documentation. Conversely,
when a repayment comes due, FDI debits the corresponding account;
(c)      Supervision.  Financial intermediaries which participate in the
scheme are committed to regular supervision of FDI-financed
subprojects and to keeping FDI informed of how operations are



- 29 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 7
evolving. In practice, however, Fla do not devote sufficient effort
to supervise the projects. This obliges FDI to monitor its clients'
situation very closely;
(d)      Lending Terms.  PDI financing is available for up to 15 years,
including up to three years of grace for principal repayment. In
case of separate subloans for raw materials or technical assistance,
the repayment period can be for up to two years, including up to six
months of grace. In practice, the maturity granted by the FIs does
not excced five years and, in many cases, does not exceed three
years; and, typically, the grace period is for one year. These terms
very often do not take into account the time necessary for the
project to develop and reach a normal level of operation. Therefore,
they do not meet the real financial needs of the enterprises, and
lead to serious liquidity problems. FDI has tried to convince the
intermediaries to give adequate maturities, with some results.
Furthermore, upon FDI's advice, Pls have agreed to reschedule a
number of loans facing difficulties because of too short initial
maturities.
FDI rediscounts a maximum of 9O0 of the intermediaries' loans. They
have a spread of 6 points for discounted loans of up to US$100,000
and 5 points for amounts between US$100,000 and US$500,000. The
larger spread on smaller loans was designed to encourage
beneficiaries to lend to smaller enterprises. All FDI subloans are
denominated in Gourdes, and the Government assumes the foreign
exchange risk. Under the proposed operation, FDI would pass on the
funds to FIe at 82 for onlending to final beneficiaries. For loans
finanicng small-scale enterprises (below US$100,000 equivalent), FIe
would be charged 7S to allow a larger spread, as an incentive to
support small-scale industry. FIs would determine the lending rate
to the final beneficiary within the broad interest range authorized
by the Central Bank;
(e)      Interest Rates.  Interest rates charged by FIs are subject to the
limits established by the Central Bank, which are periodically
reviewed to reflect market conditions. Currently, the Central Bank
has established a lending rate between 82 and 182 per annum. Current
interest rates range from 132 to 15Z. With inflation estimated at
102, interest rates charged to the financial borrowers are positive
in real terms; and
(f)      Promotional Activities.  FDI, to expand its lending activities and
play a leadership role in the development of the industrial sector,
undertook, since 1983, project promotional activities. This
consisted of establishing contacts with existing entrepreneurs to
inform them of FDI's resource availability and development
objectives. As a result of these sustained efforts, PDI has become
well-known in the industrial community, and is now frequently
approached by potential investors. Moreover, FDI went one step
further and assisted the promoter to prepare bankable projects, an
activity that has proven very productive. PDI promotional activities
are now a key feature of the institution, and they correspond to a
specific need that presently exists in the country.



- 30 -
Page 4 of 7
1.9      FDI has provided the following technical assistance to entrepreneurs
and to FIst
(a)      Feasibillty Studies.  FDI assists project promoters in project
preparation by providing guidance and financing of feasibility
studies. The procedure is as follows: when a promoter comes to FDI
with an apparently viable project idea, FDI will suggest that a
feasibility study be conducted by an independent consulting firm,
provided the FP gives its approval in principle to finance the
project should it prove to be viable. The promoter would be required
to pay 25S of the study, with FDI advancing the remaining 75Z. FDI
assists the promoter in identifying a qualified consulting firm and
in preparing the study's terms of reference. FDI then reviews the
study's major findings and conclusions. If the study results in a
bankable project, its total cost is capitalized within the project
cost, and PDI recovers its advance when the project is financed. If
no project results, the promoter is not required to reimburse FDI's
advance.
So far, FDI has financed several feasibility studies at an average
cost of about US$3,500 each, a number of which have resulted in
bankable projects that have been implemented. The total of these
project investment costs amount to US$2.9 million. IDA has provided
financing of US$13,537 for these feasibility studies;
(b)      $ndustrial Extension Service.  In October 1985, FDI launched its
industrial extension service. DFC, a consulting firm, was selected
to make diagnostic reviews of 12 FDI clients, to ascertain their main
problems and make recoumendations for improvements. On the basis of
these reviews, DFC prepared seminars geared specifically to the needs
of Haitian entrepreneurs.
This effort, which has been very well received by the enterprises,
has made it possible to highlight their main weaknesses and that of
their management: shortage of working capital, inadequate marketing,
and lack of planning. It also has demonstrated clearly that there is
a significant need for direct technical assistance to enterprises;
and
(c)      Seminar for Flo Staff.  In 1983, PDI, with IDA assistance, organized
a seminar on the financial analysis of investment projects for FDI
and FIs staff, with 21 participants. The purpose was to increase the
capability of the loan officers to analyze the basic documentation on
investment proposals, prepared by promoters and submitted to FDI for
rediscounting. The result has been a better understanding and
coamunication between FDI and the FIs.
1.10     Fiancial Performance.  As of March 31, 1989, FDI approved a total of
117 rediscount operations, amounting to about US$8.4 million, all disbursed.
About 100 of these operations, and more than 75? of the discount approvals
(about US$6.2 million), were approved in a three-year period (1982/83, 1983/84
and 1984185). This was the result of a very active and effective promotional
effort undertaken by PDI, aimed at identifying and preparing bankable projects



31 -                                AMx 
Page 5 of 7
to be submitted to the commercial banks for financing. Since then, FDI has
faced a more difficult environment, accompanied by slower economic activity.
Furthermore, excess liquidity in the banking system up to recently had an
adverse impact on the need for rediscounting; only loans with a foreign
exchange component were proposed to FDI by the participating banks. When PDT
ran out of foreign exchange, sometime during the financial year 1986187,
rediscounting requests were reduced. A table showing FDI performance under
the first project is shown below.
FDI Coumitments. 1981-1988
Year           81182   82183  83184  84/85  85186  86/87  87/88  Total
No. of Operations  1       73     26      7      3       4      3    117
Approvals (US$ M)  0.02    1.97   2.32   1.88   0.78   1.14   0.29   8.40
All the above approvals were disbursed up to March 31, 1989, of which US$3.1
million were still outstanding at that date.
1.11     Portfolio Structure.  FDI's credit allocation by sector is shown below:
uSS million        X
Food Industries                   1,536            19
Agroindustries                    1,331            16
Chemicals and Plastics            1,764            22
Metals                            0,520              6
Textile and Leather               0,373             4
Building and Construction         1,009            10
Services                          0,484             6
Others                            1.383            17
Total                   8,400            100
About 20X of this total was lent for working capital.
1.12     fuarantee ODerations.  As stated earlier, FDI can issue guarantees on
loans it has rediscounted, with a ceiling of 75? of the amount discounted and
a limit of US$200,000 per guarantee. Another limit is that PDI can issue
guarantees up to, but not more than, 25Z of its available resources (under the
proposed operation the 25X limit has been reduced to 20? in order to reduce
FDI's exposure). Up to March 31, 1989, this limit was about US$1.5 million
(25Z of FDI's resources of about US$6 million), and FDI had issued
14 guarantees, totalling US$1.1 million. Of these, nine were still
outstanding at March 31, 1989, totalling US$519,695. Five of these
enterprises with guaranteed loans have experienced problems, and two of these



-32-                                  ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 7
have ceased repayments. Guarantees covering these loans total US$304,000.
Total payments made by FDI as a result of its guarantees totalled US$185,000.
FDI has created a reserve fund for such risks, which reached the statutory 25X
of the guarantee exposure. The US$185,000 have been paid out of this fund,
which is now being reconstituted.
1.13     Quality of Portfolio.  Since debt service on amounts outstanding on
rediscounting operations are debited automatically through the Central Bank to
the commercial bank accounts, FDI does not experience defaults, unless a
commercial bank asks FDI to stop collecting its debt service because of such
default. Only one case has been registered so far, for a company that went
bankrupt. At March 31, 1989, 18 loans were still outstanding, for a total of
US$3.1 million, with five presenting some problems (see above). This
liability of US$304,000 represents under 42 of total FDI operations up to
March 31, 1989 of US$8.4 million.
1.14     Financial Results.  In general, FDI has had a balanced operation,
covering its expenditures from interest received on its rediscounting
operations from participating banks. However, resources available for the
rediscounting operations have been lower than expected. As Credit 1131-HA was
denominated in SDRs, the original financing plan assumed that these
4.8 million SDRs would produce about US$6.0 million. But, because of the
strength of the U.S. currency, disbursements in SDRs were equivalent t-o only
US$4.8 million. On the other hand, as long as PDI had access to foreign
exchange, banks applied for loan rediscounting for investments or working
capital. When IDA funds were exhausted, FDI started accumulating Gourdes from
loan repayments, without being able to lend these funds, due to the already
existing excess liquidity of local currency in the commercial banking sector.
IDI's portfolio is being reduced by repayments, since no significant new
lending was possible during the last two years. Although interest income
covered administrative expenditures, PDI, which had to constitute a reserve
fund for eventual losses on its portfolio, showed at September 30, 1988 (the
last financial year for which accounts have been audited) an accumulated loss
of about US$$280,000, while the reserve fund grew to about US$215,000.
Balance sheets and operating accounts are shown in Tables 1, 2 and 3 of
Annex 7. These include actual figures for the last three years, and
projections for the period of the proposed project.
1.15     Elizible Flo.  In the Statement of Policies and Procedures for FDI,
endorsed by the Central Bank, it is stated that PDI can red'scount loans
granted by commercial banks recognized by the Central Bank as eligible to
participate in the scheme.
1.16     There are nine institutions operating in the commercial banking
system in Haiti. Their classification according to assets held at
December 31, 1987 is shown below:



- 33 -                              ARM  1
Page 7 of 7
Classification of Banks Accordina to Assets. as of Seutember 30. 1988
(In USS millions)
Total Assets          X
Banque Nationale de Credit (BNC)           $163.0              26.9
SOGEBANK                                     98.9              16.3
Banque de l'Union Haitienne (BUH)            78.5              13.0
Banque Nationale de Paris (BNP)              74.6              12.3
Banque de Nova Scotia (BNS)                  68.6              11.3
First National Bank of Boston (FNBB)         66.4              11.0
Citibank                                     34.9               5.8
Banque Populaire d'Haiti (BPH)               19.8               3.4
BICH                                          0.6                -
TOTAL                                 S605.3             100.0?
The first eight banks were declared eligible by the Central Bank, and FDI
rediscounted loans granted by six of these (BNS and BHP excluded). The six
banks are equally divided between local banks (BNC, SOGEBANK and BUH) and
foreign banks (BNP, FnBB and Citibank).
1.17     In addition to these six banks, FDI extended its operations, although
on a very limited scalc, to two development banks (BNDAI and SOFHIDES) and to
a small fund (FHD - Fondation Haitienne de Developpement) which caters to very
small enterprises.
1.18     FDI's turnover was largely achieved with local banks, which
represented 66Z of its total operations:
Amount
Rediscounted
(in USS '000)       z
Local Banks
BUR                              3,163           37.5
BNDAI                              950           11.3
SOGEBANR                           907           10.7
FHD                                259            3.0
SOFHIDES                           262            3.1
BNC                                 50            0.6
66.2?
Foreign Banks
First National Bank of Boston    1,088           12.9
Citibank                           927           11.0
BNP                                833            9.9
TOTAL                       8.439          100.0O



- 35 -                               ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 3
HAITT
STAPF APPRAISAL REPORT
InDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance CoaDonents
A.       PDI
1.       One of the principal difficulties FDI encountered in the first years
of its operation was the lack of entrepraneurial spirit in owners/managers of
medium-scale industrial concerns. This resulted in weak management, ignorance
of modern management methods, poor-quality financial data, and, therefore, an
inability to prepare sound investment projects. As there was a need for
restructuring, expansion, diversification, etc., the need for assistance to
these enterprises became imperative.
2.       FDI started providing this assistance in various forms:  in-house
assistance, use of consultants (local and foreign), seminars to train the
staff of the commercial banks involved in project evaluation, and continuous
training of FDI personnel to enhance its ability to provide such assistance.
FDI Assistance
3.       Proiect Preparation Fund Facility.  It is important to continue and
expand this activity under the proposed operation. FDI estimates that, for
the period October 1989 to September 1991, about 30 of its rediscounting
operations will require studies (i.e., marketing, production diversification),
at an average cost of about US$6,600 per study. The total financial resources
needed to cover these activities would amount to about US$200,000, half of
which would be for expenditures in foreign exchange, particularly for projects
geared towards the development of exports. A total of US$100,000 will be
needed to cover the foreign cost of the feasibility studies, while FDI will
provide a similar amount from its Gourde resources expected to be reimbursed
by the enterprises from the Industrial Restructuring Program.
4.       Extension Services.  In-house support to enterprises whi.ch started
under the first IDA Credit consisted in assisting them to identify major
problems and implementing corrective measures. The direct in-house assistance
to the enterprises, which included seminars, was well received, and is
considered one of the most effective ways to provide support to enterprises to
improve their management ability. FDT intends to continue providing this
service, which will permit it to supervise projects it finances and thereby to
preserve the quality of its loan portfolio.
5.       At least twice a year, FDI staff would visit each enterprise which
FDI has financed, in order to ascertain whether there are any particular
problems which require urgent attention. If necessary, FDI staff will put the
enterprise in contact with consultants, who would conduct more in-depth
analyses of-the situation and make recommendations on remedial measures.
While local consulting services could address most of the problems, there will
probably be instances where the help of foreign consultants will be required
to solve more complex problems. A total of US$120,000 will be needed to cover
the foreign exchange cost of these services.



-36 -                                ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3
SuiDort to FDI
6.       Staff Trainins.  In order to allow FDI to play a leading role in
project preparation and appraisal, it will be necessary to firmly develop the
technical capabilities of its staff, particularly in ascertaining the economic
and financial viability of investment projects. This will be done through
training seminars conducted by short-term consultants (4 man/months). FI
staff will also be eligible to participate in these seminars. A total of
US$80,000 will be needed for this purpose under the IDA credit. Hiring of
consultants and choice of seminars shall require prior discussion with, and
approval of, IDA.
7.       Consultant to FDI Management.  The high-level Technical Assistant
recruited during the first project, who was retained for an additional two-
years with financing under Cr. 1786-HA, has played an important role in
implementing FDI policies and in the development of good relationships with
the banking system. As his contract ended in July 1989, FDI has recruited a
replacement to continue assisting FDI's management, particularly in view of
the new changes in the senior staff. The cost of this consultant is estimated
at US$200,000 a year, for two years.
S.       Technical Expert.  PDI's scope for future operations anw  promotional
role need to be broadened, given that, at this moment, it is the only
industrial development institution in Haiti. FDI had only a very limited
success in tapping the down-market segment of the industrial sector.
Potential entrepreneurs in this high-risk market segment have neither access
to "seed money' nor the capability to mobilize sufficient equity capital, no
banking and financial credibility, and, above all, very limited
entrepreneurial talents and basic management skills to start a successful
venture. The inordinately high risk of doing business by conventional rules
in this market segment outweighs by far all other considerations, unless new
approaches and strategies are designed.
9.       The proposed operation would support an expert, preferably a
qualified Haitian with expertise in financelbanking, to explore the viability
of the following options, in order to achieve the broadening of FDT's scope of
operations and promotional role: (i) leasing of equipment as an alternative
to medium- and long-term financing; and (ii) tapping the curb market for
venture capital funds, as an alternative to the more conventional banking term
loans.
Technical Assistance Budiet (PDI)
(In US$)
Project Preparation Fund Facility                  100,000
Extension Services                                 120,000
Seminars                                            80,000
Deputy General Manager                             400,000
Technical Expert                                   100,000
Total                                             800.000



- 37                                  A
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 3
S.       Other Technical Assistance Suiuort
10.      The technical assistance component for the Central Bank would support
efforts initiated by the IMF to strengthen the Supervision Department's
internal procedures and the control and inspection of banks. Consultant
services are estimated at US$100,000 equivalent.
11.      Work has already been initiated under the Technical Assistance Credit
(Cr. 1786-HA) towards designing a trade data system called Sydonia. The
Customs Administration and the Ministry of Industry and Commerce are working
closely in installing this system. UNDP and FAC have thus far provided
hardware and software at Customs headquarters and at the port in Port-au-
Prince. While assistance from these two sources is ending in the Haitian
fiscal year 1988/89, there are still unmet hardware requirements at the ports
of Port-au-Prince and Cap Haitien.  In addition, staff training is required to
utiiize effectively the new data system. One concern voiced by the Ministries
of Finance and Commerce was the increase of underinvoicing and
underdeclaration of exporters. This has led the Government to propose raising
the foreign exchange surrender from 502 to 75Z. This has not yet been
implemented, and if it does, it would be self-defeating. Instead, an export
verification scheme would be put in place, with initial service and training
provided by the Societe de Surveillance (SGS), which already does import
verification for the Government. The cost of training staff t.o enable them to
implement the new trade data system, training materials, microcomputers,
transport, and the setting up of an export verification system is estimated at
US$350,000 equivalent.
12.      The technical assistance component would finance studies to:
(i) review existing banking legislation and regulations, to adjust them to the
Haitian context and to determine what new regulations are needed, particularly
in the areas of risk exposure, debt equity ratios, capital requirements,
arrears, bad debt provisions and write-offs, and lending practices in general;
and (ii) review the non-banking financial sector and the informal credit
sector, with the objectives of assessing their size and importance to the
economy, the need for regulation and protection of small savings, and
resources for financing of development projects. The cost of these studies
has been estimated at US$100,000.



-39-                                ANNEX 3
Page I of 3
MITI
STAF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Industrial RestructurinA Plan
1.       In order to facilitate the adjustment and modernization of the
industrial sector in the context of trade liberalization, the Government of
Haiti launched at the end of 1986 the Plan d'Amelioration de la Competitivite
de l'Industrie Haitienne,' with the Fonds de Developpement Industriel (FDI) as
implementing agency. The first phase of the plan consisted of screening private
industrial enterprises through individual diagnostic studies to identify their
restructuring needs. The second phase consisted of in-depth studies of 25 firms
that seemed likely to need restructuring. The final phase will be the actual
implementation and management of bankable restructuring projects by FDI,
supported by the proposed operation. This Annex briefly discusses the results
of the Diagnostic Studies and the characteristics of the firms in the In-Depth
Studies, which form the basis for the proposed IDA Industrial Restructuring
Credit.
The Diaanostic Studies
2.       The first phase of the Diagnostic Studies was financed under the
the Technical Assistance Credit (1786-HA) and carried out by SEMA-METRA, in
collaboration with FDI, from March to July 1987. Sixty-three enterprises were
surveyed according to the following sectoral breakdown, covering about half of
the existing industries in Haiti:
Agroindustry      18         Chemicals          13
Metal             13         Textile             8
Building/Constr.   7         Other               4
3.       The sample of firms, which tended to be as exhaustive as possible,
wis very heterogeneous, with employment varying from less than a dozen to a few
k,ndred, and sales and capital stock from a few thousand to several million U.S.
uollars. As a result, the information collected varies widely according to the
size of the firm, the quality of its management or information system, and the
skills of the consultants.
The In-Deoth Studies
The Selection Process
4.       On the basis of the above information, FDI selected 25 enterprises for
the in-depth studies. About one-third of the initial sample was discarded
because of its artisanal nature (inadequate for FDI structure) or reported good
health. Almost another third was eliminated because of the lack of information,
structure, or interest on the part of the firm. A few fell within the direct



-40 -                                  ANNGX 3
Page 2 of 3
expertise of FDI, and did not need further studies. A couple were eliminated
because of limited PDI technical assistance resources. Twenty-four accepted to
pre-finance the required 201 of the in-depth analysis cost.
5.       The firms' expectations about these studies were high.  A few of them
enrolled for the benefit of the technical assistance to be provided by
DFCIADL consulting firms as part of the restructuring/modernization plan.
Characterlstics of the SamPle
6.       The sample originally included 25 mostly large firms in the following
sectors:
Agroindustry     7             Chemicals          7
Textiles         3            Building/Const.    3
Metals           4             Other              1
7.       They share a few common characteristics:  All are privately owned, by
families (less than a dozen) who play a direct role in management. This family
type of operation is reflected in the financial statements. Long-term debt vis-
a-vis the banking sector is minimal. Equity is generally low, while most of the
financing and profit distribution is done through the "current accounts of
partners or associates., Short-term liabilities vis-a-vis the banking sector
can go as high as 5-6 times the long-term resources. They are rolled-over on a
rather systematic basis, provided that collaterals (up to 100%) in Haiti or
abroad guarantee them. This indicates that, even though firms show unhealthy
balance sheets, their owners are creditvorthy.
8.       Operational, accounting, and marketing structural deficiencies
aggravate the firms' vulnerability to trade liberalization and a fortiori
contraband. Most firms, regardless of size, operate with inappropriate or
obsolete equipment. Except for a few large units, knowledge of the markets and
final users, whether local or international, is very limited. Nevertheless, no
firm closure was reported since implementation of the new trade regime, and the
few managers met by the mission team are looking into ways to adapt to the new
environment. However, latent protectionist pressures could resurface with the
Government. On a sectoral basis, the Diagnostic Studies give the following
picture:
9.       Metals.  The sector was heavily protected with quantitative
restrictions (QRs) and high tariffs. QRs have been removed, and lower tariffs
were implemented, starting in 1988. Becaase of world market surpluses and
inadequate economies of scale, the steel-rolling is threatened. The local
value-added is very low for this highly capital-intensive industry. The study
was meant to clarify whether an extansion would be economically viable. The
nail factory was not viable, and is already closed. The canning factory is
obsolete, and produces low quality cans that hinder the competitiveness of the
food-processing industry, on which it is completely dependent. The cans are not
competitive against legal imports from the Dominican Republic. The country's
food processing industry is eager to support and finance a new local cannery,
provided it can produce international standards.   The kitchenware factory is
threatened by smuggled substitutes, but could find a niche for exports on the
enamel market. Divestiture may be expected, if requests for minimal protection
do not succeed.



-41                                  A       3
Page 3 of 3
10.      Pasta.  The local market is very small, threatened by smuggling of
substitutes like rice, caters to middle- to upper-income markets, and cannot
support the three local producers. Mergers are on the way for the local low-
price low-quality market, and the dynamic and resourceful management is
optimistic about new products. This is a sector where restructuring may lead to
viable activities.
11.      Food Processina.  Although seriously affected by contraband, several
activities seem competitive enough to survive. Firms in this sector are
considering restructuring into new products (milk for the local market) or new
investments (mangoes) for exports. It suffers from high cost (agriculture) and
low quality (cans) of local inputs. Financial and technical assistance to
agriculture and improved canning are external factors that should help a
successful restructuring.
12.      Pharmaceuticals.  Though there is real market potential in this sector,
production and marketing seem disorganiz,ed. The sector suffers from negative
tariff protection and probably the presence of too many operators. Final
products have always entered the country duty-free, and therefore the sector has
not been affected by trade liberalization or contraband. However, it is
extremely dependent on foreign exchange availability. Financial restructuring,
extension, and management assistance should improve the competitiveness of this
otherwise viable sector.
13.      Textiles.  This sector, formerly protected with QRs, was completely
liberalized to beat the traditionally widespread parallel trading from various
sources (Southeast Asia, secondhand imports from the U.S., etc.). World
overcapacity and economies-of-scale challenge Haiti's competitiveness outside
the assembly sector. Two firms operating for the local market (knitting and
cotton cloth weaving) are inefficient and in the process of divestiture. On the
other hand, the local processing of sisal into twine seems to have export
potential and is open to expansion.



HAITI
DMUSTRIL RESTRUCT.INAN DEVELOPME T PROWECT
table 1: ero" Dometic Product bt Sector: Constant 1976 Price
(MillIelo   of Gors")
Fical Year (to Sept. 0)         190/SI       1962/63       1986184      19S4/8S       19865/6      196/?       1tw/in p
Primra  Sector                    1097.5      171.6          1826.            .       1678.         16680.1     1664.4
.Arycvtlter                       1396.2    1U1.8           1861.2       1867.0      1422.6        1419.0      1M.7
-Lives4elt                        twos        2@C.4           240.1        248.7       247.5         256.8       200.4
-Ifnmg                             7To5         4.7             5.0          5.0         6.8           5.$         5.8
Secondary Setor                   1142.9     121.6           1171.4                                 30.2  lies.?  1147.1  1160.8
-Umatacteriag Industries          8a.9        967.7          986.0         626.7       014.2         783.2       776.9
-Wator and Electricity             40.5        42.0            44.0         45.7        46.C          49.5        5.3*
-BI ldlpgs and Publlc Work        2609.6      366.6           200.6        827.7       807.9         b14.9       620.1
Service factor                    1968.2      2024.f         204.1        a.$         2007.7        2071.7      2074.
.Coro                             6$168.0     906.5           970.7        986.1      686.7          670.6       66.0
swuuranO  and Hotels               62.0        61.0            27.6         k; ,        26.4          26.9        28.9
-treasport sd C4  1am tioen        97.2       16.7             92.0         64.9        6.84          98.0      104.6
-FeaseisImeO wtltOutes             14.5        15.0            15.6          9.2        10.1           5.7         5.6
,l aI Estate                      256.9       268.6           266.0        274.2       279.0         285.0      266.0
-Social Servie                    143.6       151.7           016.1        194.        22.0          177.8       170.1
-4ow-tradable Services            C4.7 JLU.4                 105.6         180.1      56l"j         -M.- 
CDP at Factor Cost                4796.6     4611.2          4641.        4900.8      4982.0        4690.4      40199.t.7 
Net lepot Dti_es210.6                        246.0           229.tj       22.6 23J                              20.0
MP at Market Pries                691        662             5071.8         0.a6      518.0         5121.5      510e.7
p a provislonl
Source: Ministry of Industry and Coinrco



- 44 -
-4
Table 2
HAITI
INIWSTXIAL RESTRUCTRING AND DEVELPMT PROJECT
table 2: Pertformace of Local Import Substitutlon Industry
Production           Percent    Changea-
Product          Unit                1988-94      1964485  196546   166-67  1987-68
matches          carton              45,699.0       -19.2    *16.4      *4.6    -28.0
Sugar            (1566 .eric tone)       48.0       *88.6    -26.5    -21.8      4S.5
Clinker           (low metric tone)     188.0       -11.9    -16.8    -16.1      -0.2
Cotton Toxti lee   (1,696,966 yarde)    5S.8         -4.8    -11.7    -76.0       N.A.
Synthelc Fiber
Textl [e        (1,00,000 yards)        1.1         0       -46.5    *16.7    -26.7
Toilet Soap       (IBM  ki Ie)          400.0      .1650.     *10.0    -86.4    -14.8
etergents         (An hI lo)            644.0      .189.3      .5.5    *89.5    -82.6
Cement           (IM  metric ton.)      280.2       *14.1    -15.7    .14.8      *4.9
Eeentlal Olls    (IM  lileoo)           211.0       -27.2      0        *8.8   *.3.9
Edible Oi Is      (IM  tone)             15.9      .189.6     .5.5    -89.7   .283.9
Laundry Soap      (im  toe)              11.0      +186.9      .5.7    *82.9    *10.9
Butter            (low kilo.)         1,544.8         0       .28.5    .40.5     *2.S
Sources: Central Sank Annual Report, January 1909.



HAM
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTlIINO AND DEVELOPMN PROJECT
Table 8: Industrial Exeorta to USA Based on Local Materials
(Thousands of Gourds.)
(1982-1988/1006-1987)
Typo of Products                          12.-1988      1988-1984    1984-1985    1986-19W     198-1987    1987186(p)
Articles Mbnrfctured In Leather           86,819.0      110,648.0    196,995.2  107,248.0     49,798.0   40,681.9
Articles Manufectured in Wood             28,586.0       26,628.9    20,567.5   10,495.4       9,886.9    8,652.0
Articles for Clothlog                     80,247.0       29,687.0    22,418.0   18,488.0       16,860.0   21,287.0
Textiles                                  28,75.0        20,147.0    41,078.6   44,114.0      47,186.0   48,749.0
Tapestry, Artcl_e for Tapestry, Blankets   2,186          1,826.6      2,098.7      946.0      1,089.0       896.0
Weed for Furniture                         9,86.0         8,975.0      7,610.1    4,518.0      4,680.0    8,741.0
Art Articles                               2,684.0        2,999.0      2,707.4    8,218.0        720.0    1,947.9
Broom & Brushes                           26,962.0       21,485.0    22,520.0   28,104.0      19,449.0   16,452.0
ohrns                                      8,926.9          040.0      1,817.0    8,094.0        840.0      742.0
SubWAtal                       2098.1.0       22.1.0  2f.76.6   l29,07j.4    161.190.0   168.496.0
Returned Merchandts                      -1_.L508.0     -22.871.0    -_2.L69.7  -44.241.0    -_8.795.0  -80.874.0
TOTAL                       189.609.0      204.610.0   207.896.8   186.829.4    122.39S.0   126.821.8
p = provisional
Source: Central Bank - Economic Studies Division, Table V-1B-, Central Bank Bulletin, March 1969



HAIn
INDUSTIAL RESTRUCTURDIN AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 4: Exports of the AsOsly Sector Bed on Imorted Material.
(howsad. of Gordee)
(1062-1098/196-$1087)
Typ of Product.                            iE-lMI         1988-1984    1984-198S    ,1986-108    1986-1087   198?-00(P)
T al.. I,697.0                                             4,744.0      8,016.0      8,040.9   8 ,e0.0    9,228.0
Distributioe Equipment                     22,824.0        44,604.0    78,069.9     5S,6B9.9    a8,806.0   37,129.0
Radioo and Acessories                      10,745.0         6,466.0     4,598.0     7,86.0 .,920.0    6,029.9
Machinery and Accesorlee                   17,020.0       21,965.0      6,298.0      7,731.0      4,185.0    4,476.0
Electrical Apliances n Accesories          66,88.0        46,588.      29,607.0     27,089.02    17,795.0  12,519.0
Transform, Swites                         259,512.0       869,666.0    876,964.0    262,906.0    364,625.0  88,7.09
Travel Articles                            38,85.0        46,028.0     26,194.0     26,6883.3    6,84.0   68,629.0
Clothing                                  8690284.0      434,761.0    604,518.0    462,640.4    66,469.9  682,076.0
Sboos                                      47,995.0       21,151.0          -           -        6,686.0    6,094.0
Toys and Sport Articles                   222,148.0      276,648.0    252,58a.0    212,690.0    27,860.0  238,501.9
Articleo  anuactred In Rubbwr and Plastic    82,49J.0     at,598.0     84,784.0     25,469.1    50,070.0   52,112.0
Jewelry and Optical Articles               34.1865.0      8.98.0       48.814.0    56.s89.0    170.96.6  13.0r7.9
TOTAL                      1.294.264.0    1.828.246.0  1.884.A91.0  1.164.876.0  1,884.727.0 1.54.028.0        0 
p a provistonal
Source: Contral Bnok - Economic Studies Division, Table V-6, Central Bank Bulletin, Mareh 1969



- 47 -
AMNEX 4
Table 5
HAITI
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 5s Trends of Industrial Exnorts to USA
(Baset FY1982-1983 - 100)
------------------ Fiscal Year ------------
Category of Articles         1983-84   1984-85   1985-86   1986-87   1987-88
Group Is Transformers,
switches, toys,
jewelry, optical
articles, sporting
goods                       131.6     132.7     103.6      157.6     133.5
Group II: Textiles
and Garments                117.7     137.9     131.6      181.1     181.3
Group III: Other
Articles, Manufactured
From Imported Components    45.4       65.1      66.0       76.5      79.8
Group IV: Other Articles
Manufactured from
Domestic Raw Materials      146.7     127.7      92.7       43.8      44.5
Sources Annex 4, Tables 3-4.



- 48 -
AIUEX 4
Tabl- 6
HAM
INDUSTRIL RESTRUCTRIN  AND DEVELOPWM PROJECT
Table 6: Smry of !ndutrlel Eusor f Me Aofa_lw Sesto to USA
(Gourd.. ThousandIs)
(1982-83/1987-)
Orillin of materials    1982-     198344   198445   1985-46   1908-87   1987-86
Local sourcs            198609   264,510   207,88    165,629   122,889   125,821
Forign soure          1,104,254 1,328,248  1,884,019 1,164,875 1,64,727  1,545,626
Totsl              1.298.763 1.582.76M  1.571.826 1.8W.C04 1,787,122 1.6709.47



- 49 -
Tabl:? 
INDUSIRXAL RESTRUCRHM   ANM DEVELUIPMENT PMOJET
Table  : Btaic IndIstOrs of Aessmbl Sctor
Eatimated
No. of      No. of    Value of Exports        Haitian
Type of Products            enterprise    mploye       ('ooo "ogrin)       Oserehip
(1)         (2)            (8)                (4)
Electrical & electronies         28        0,825         828,247              27%
8eneral asemly                   is          694         288,28B             2lO
Toys and sport articles          1S        4,876         20,561               24X
Shoes & leat-r  rticles           9        2,687          62,914              86%
Textiles                         s6       28,049         682,076              40X
Total                        151       88.681   U65IE                      84X
Source: Columns 1 A 2, PRONIDEX
Column 8, Central ank Annual Report
Column 4, Ministry of Commerce and Induatry



"mA
DOURMIAL A61PRJCTUMDO   I0 OC MEO r FROJEWr
Table 1: Finanial Syste. - Suari   of Dooentions
(In tII ;en oaf  ourde.)
Egercia. 1906 - 19                            Sept Me      De.4 I       d19em7  June I.hmaJDo  196J"arsch 9L                                   June 1988      Sa f9 
A. Foein Exlchange Rorves                      -22i0.         -106.9        -50.3          2.4         -5. 6          -87.2            2.6       -46.5             40.3
1. Foreign Dosits                            209.0          SS4.8        300.6        411.3         SIS.7          302.6          339.5        277.9           852.8
2. Frorem ComitnI ts                         (437.0)       (-436.7)    (-481.1)     (040-9)        (4-6.)         -S9.7          -36.9        -3M.4           -292.6
6 . Doastlc Creit                              4,188.4       4,228.9      4,170.8      4,292.8        4,448.0       4,646.0        4,645.0      4,765.1         4,792.8
1. To Oovernmnt                             2,682.9       2,87.5       2,854.4      2,612.6        2,791.7       2,802.7        2,804.7      2,901.1         2,975.5
a) Outetonodln  Advance.                (3,066.6)      (3.115.6)    (8,127.6)    (3,189.8)     (38229.8)       8,241.1       3,269.4      3,273.0          3,830.5
b) Deposit.                              (-435.9)       (-478.0)     (-578.2)    (-57.2)        (-436.1)       -85.4          -384.7       471.9            -75.0
2. To Public Ecterprise                       147.1         121.9        130.0        176.3          156.0         163.6          148.2        187.1           106.6
) Outstaing Adv                           (361.8)        (870.2)      (366.8)     (360.7)        (880.0)        379.5          389.0        432.0           441.3
b) O1ot                                  (-214.4)       (-048.3)     (-286.6)    (-204.4)       (-224.0)       -215.9         -242.8       -245.7          -34. 7
3. To the Privats Sect.or                   1,8.1          1.,19.8     1,S24.6      1,567.4        1,537.3       1,630.1        1,800.9      1,736.2         1,7312.4
4. Oraee-indebitdne. of Fin. institutione      S5.9          86.2        86.4          73.4          71.9           58.2           69.4         56.1            74.6
S. Capital and Surplus                       -407.9        -419.8       -484.2       -458.6        -460.6         4M6.0          -3.1        -4S9.1           -472.'      
t6. helsifld                                 iz9            24.0         AU           IL            Amu ILan 2mA                  ZL.                         a"i.              U%ji
Credit = Debit                           8,960.4        4,130.0     4,120.0      4,295.2        4,364.4        4,566.6       4,647.8      4.719.6          4,063.1
C. CoMnitdmnte to Private Sector               3,1S9.2       8,272.9      89227.7      8,373.8        8,501.        3,706.7        3,764.5      3,827.5         3,012.3
1. Cwuenc  In Circulation                    (749.1)       (B.2)        (72.4)       (776.4)       (628.0)         97.7           961.5       981.4            981.9
2. Sight Dpoits                             (62.1)         (4S.9)       (690.9)      (710.8)        (761-7)        000.5          8S1.9       852.1            S63.4
8. Savings Deposit&                        (1,.14.5)      (1,140.6)    (1,201.1)    (1,229.1)     (1,248.4)      1,298.6        1,828.0      1,861.1          1,354.2
4. Ten Deposits and Ogtrs                   (336.4)        (877-7)      (878.6)      (868.8)        871.7          880.5          318.5       384.1            844.0
S. O0r                                       C(2.1)        (274.8)      (268.6)      (292.7)        (802.0)        802.4          304.6       346.8            348.8
O. Comilsete to Foreign Institutine              68.7?         708.9        7.6          770.1         788.5          756.4          789.2       762.4            799.8
6. ZW Accout                                    187.8          185.2        12.4         169.1          MI            126.7         1138 .    122.8               114.0
1. SR Allocatie                              (00.5)         (60.5)       (60.8)       (89.S)        (89.5)          89.'          89.5         94.6             94.0
2. %W  Fidueary Fud                          (36-8)        (54.7)       (45-9)       (46.6)         (89-6)         87.2           26.4        26.0             20.0
F. Depoeto of Ol COepnie. WA  Dth..e.           15.2           13.0         18.1        13.2                           -             -
Cowltmnts to e                                 -              .-                        -             -              -             5.8          6.9              6.7
p a prelliminar figure                                                                            ~i
Scurcas Central Beak - International Affairs Diviot ad Econamie Studies Division, Table V-A-S-1, Centrol 1ak Del letinN. arch 1909                                               L
o Financitl *Stem a Denetary System   Non-loaetary Finactil Intiuon (tODA, 0M, BOA, FI, Oa,  S6FIM, 1?0, FOIWO.



HAITI
NDUs1IAL AESTMCTRDIG  N DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tbl 2:  0  of Oerd",
at the sod of Period)
1961-62~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 19 24                           .. . _  _ _ ___
1981:9    lost-03      1993-04      1994-N        1965-66   1ow-?7  uN'!lstl,                   1980187
I) TOTAL M       SPLT         2,627.6   2,64.8        2,884.8      2,624.8      2,86.8    8,601.8        296.8       1         8,629.4
A. lNEt                      949.4      926.7      1,79.?       1,1".6       1,818.2    1,584.7       108.5      14.7       1,'?6.2
1. mos, to Clraati.o         466.4      57.8         010.4       69.1          749.1      828.6        74.0       9.0         961.6
a d ills Ia Ciweutatico   (477$)   (616.8)        (691.9)     (629.9)      (78.2)       611.7       78.6       11.9       (940-0)
b) Cols In Circulatio      (8.9)9    ) (9         (9-.)       (10.1)       (19.9)      (11.8)       0.4       8.7         (11.5)
2. Sipatur. Deposite         406.0      461.4        406.8        527.7        083.1      761.7       129.0      20.5         686.7            V
S. WMS-UIE                 1,067.4   1,106.1       ',264.0      1,867.5      1,464.1    1,661.1        94.6       0.6       1,096.7
1. Savi s_ Deposits          699.0       71.5        79.1        960.1       1,188.5    1,248.4       68.9        7.4       1,846.8
2. Tom Dopoeit               479.4      494.0        459.5        407.4        820.0      82.7         10.9       8.4         840.9
S. O0e                                                                                    802.9                               845.5
tI) SmuCE OF Mm   UPPLY       2,627.6   2,64.6        2,8.8       2,58.8        2,966.4    8,601.6       296.8      10.5       8,829.4
A. M.t Foreign ExcImag
RAwForoE                  -72.9    -168.7       -267.7       -877.7       -228.1       -65.6      169.6    -45.4           16.9
U. Doestic Credlt          2,762.6   8,218.4       8,669.5      4,025.4      4,080.9    4,465.0       219.5       5.7       4,856.0
1. Public Sectr            1,565.6   2,968.0       2,447.6      2,786.4      2,789.1    2,047.7       146.6       5.4       8,121.1
a) Ceatral Oo.ramnt    1,299.2   1,910.6        2,28.1       2,515.1      2,591.9    2,791.7       189.s       6.4       3,m20.1
b) Public Enterpiriss     2s6.0      162.2        164.7        288.8        147.2       156.9        6.       110.6        9S.0
2. Privat Sector           1,17.    1,120.4        1,221.7      1,287.       1,172.4    1,587.8        12.6       4.4       1,718.6
8. OtUe                      462.1    -961.9      -1,677.5    -1,128.4        -796.9     -914.6       -90.7     -11.4      -1,024.6
Source: Central Bnok, Table 17, Central Batik Sl letin, Match 1969.



- 53 -
Table 8
HAMT
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURIN AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 8: Distribution of Credit by Economic Activity
(In millions of Gourd..)
Branch of Activities            Sa  2       s6 es        4w U        SO eS            so      SeO 87
Agriculturlt, Forestry,
and Fisheries                 18.2       28.4         81.4         82.1         84.0        86.2
Extractivo Industry               9.5        9.9          0.2          1.02         1.90        1.9
Manufacturing                   416.5      420.4        464.9        419.6         56.9       460.5
Electricity, Gas, and Water       1.0        8.8          6.8          1.9          0.8         1.1
Construction, Public Works       61.9       90.6          6.0         90.80        71.4        76.6
Wholesale A Retail Distribution
Restaurants, Hotels            820.0     81b.2t       8.2          83.6         867.7      3885.2
Transport and Comunication       11.8       17.8         20.64        15.5         15.6        18.8
Insurance, Housing, and
Vobillaries                   41.9       82.9         20.4         48.0         31.9        31.0
Other Services                  122.9      127.8        117.2        142.1        147.2       152.8
TOTAL                 990.9   1,940.8       1,064.4     1,W098        1,151.9    1,102.1
Source: Central Bank



IAITI
INDUSTRIAL. klFS!rklJ1IlR INC ANI IW)VVKIAIAF.IMNT PRO.I ICT
Thble 4:1S_EST  MIES
Savi                  LAtem b_o.Ito      Tore d.oets of 0. eer
hp.elt.   Low %Me I  lb. peer         Le". them   8064f           L.edir%,
01r or  etes,  81ff,0      or goes        Mete
Nis. Ubs.   via. lb..  via. Ms,.;          via. "a.. Mi.. Mon.    via.  ms.
upto 0/13                43    41       as    as    as    5                                   133    16s
Wil .- 5/14              43    A       53    5.63   53   5.63                                 i1t   136
614 - se/ls              41    41      65    S3      53    0x                                 hI    lb%
to/I  - 1/70             03    0x     G.5   ex    0.5   ex                                    11    16
1/79 - 11/1151           a    as      13    0. 753  IS   0.163                                11   165
I116119 - 4/165/0        0x    03    1oo   123    123   143                                   ui    in
4/15/U - S/A "           ex     1     123   143    143   10                                   143   1af
$511/" - 0/25/           a      3     to   123                     11%   141   12X  163       14    1in
0/2U/   - 12/12/0a       ox    ex      ex   123                    in   11    11   103       1in    L
S1212/U   - 1/11/0       0x    ex     113   143                    III   163   153  13      1.1S   1ox
1/1I/" - 1/0/n           is    13    lox  1ta                      113  141    12  1 is     14.63   193
/1/300//0                63    03      03   15      103   Il                                 103    23
0l/0/I - P,..t          4.65   Is     0.65  133      13  113                                 ex      10
Source: Central Bank
Iz 



UAIU
INDUSTRIAL RPSTRIKUTURING AND I)EVIIA)IP1.NT PRO)ECLT
Tahle 5:  ecserve Requirueants by Clatt-Loru     I)Depos it s
WUu iaiV up t     o onlm  II      V14W 406MO-11IaO16 salaIual|ias  auIs.sIKete  Ini.sap ?tfwS-Ss li--
SIg. $""Iu           so     _1                 be              sex          s             465        44s        465
Soas  .pst           BU          IS       .     4              86           6              1385a
"    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"
foes bponds.onm                                                        0                         4212
a)~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ .ee                                                                             _
Source: Central Bank
q*



-56 -                                     Um  6
HAMT
D JSTRIAL RESRUCTURD  PROJECT
TabIe :  Th Comercial Sanking Set_ In Haiti
statemen of Conditon, as of sa UeRt.mber 19e8
(in USS oi I Ion.)
sNC    we9  SON   SCS    N    OHS   CNBA   PHUS   51             Total X
Resources Available          84.1   8.5  36.0  47.3  23.?  34.1   18.0   32.2    0.2   284.1  46.9
Portfol To                   49.0  10.0  39.3  44.7  43.2  32.2   12.9   29.0    o.3   201.2  48.2
Fixed Assets                 29.3   O.5   1.6   6.4   0.1   0.0    1.2    2.0           -       31.7   6.2
others                        9.7   0.7   1.6   1.5   7.5   1.7    2.9    2.7           -       28.8   4.7
TOtl                      163.1   1l97  796  88.9    46  68.6   35a.0   6.5    0.65  e6.8  190.0
Llabi I ities
- Sight DopostO              29.6    1.0  25.4  31.1  23.?  18.8   14.6   27.0    6.1   167.7  27.7
- Savins Deposits            69.2  15.1  22.2  52.2  21.0  48.1   18.5   27.2           0.2   258.7  42.7
- Term Deposits               0.4   -       8.5   5.1   8.3   0.6    0.4    2.0         -       26.9   4.4
Subtotal
Sight Debenturse             42.7   1.1  13.0   1.9   9.8   1.4    4.9    4.2           -       79.9  13.8
Torn Debentures              11.4   -       2.2   0.9  13.3   0.7    0.1    1.1    -            29.7   4.9
Othoere                       -      0.1   1.9   1.8   0.9   1.8    0.3    1.7    -              7.8   1.2
Totl Liabilitlee          140.2  18.2  y.2  93.9  72.0   ".4   38.8   64.4    0.8   670.6  94.2
Shareholders Eqult
Capital                       5.2   1.0   4.4   5.7   2.4   0.7    0.9    1.5    9.8    22.1   8.7
Statutory Rersrves            8.    0.6   0.9   0.2   0.8   1.4    0.2    9.5           -       12.7   2.1
Total                      13.8   1.0   5.3   5.9   2.7   2.1          1.1    2.0    0.3    34.8   6.8
Grand Total               163.0 9   . j   86  98.9  74.a   68.11   4.9   60.4    9.6   B06 f          lW.O
Sources Central Bank



HAITI
NDOUSIRIL REDSRUJCUIN AND DOEVELUPUCET PROJECT
Table 7: Distribution ot Credit by Bookini Inttiotlon and Ecoomic Activity tJuns W. 186)
(It thousrnds of Ckrdee)
Agriulter.
Forestry,  Extrative  Mu_teturlog  Pubilc                               Transport £
z.ttotilo.                     Fisheries   Industry    Induatry   Uti I itt.e  Constructon Commere Comtunlaotion   Servics   Other
_ue  Nmtioaale de Credit              -           -        80,904.2        -           440.6   52,606.8      2,190.6         -      79,10l.8
NSMI                             16,628.7    1,806.1       $1,116.1        -             -     11,509.6          -       62,466.4    1,671.9
Firs Cntionel seek of Base.a          -           -    1,686,806.0       899.0       6,756.6   50,M76.6   179,186.6      4,299.0  404,410.6
Soaps National. do Parle          2,284.6       816.0      85,682.0      462.6      16,611.6   94,572.6      3,494.0       086.6    6,5M0.9
Seeps Poplcire Haltien_             924.6         -        16,647.7        -             -      9,40.1           -       1,00.0   15,626.6
Se_ps de Novi* Scotia                 -           -        63,106.9     1U6.0       26,672.0   82,466.9      1,419.6       886.9   28,496.0
City Beank *A                         -           -       21,116.9         -            -      28,209.6         -          625.0    0,478.0
Beepo do Ceit Irnbs billcr            -           -            -           -            -         406          226.0         -         7e0.0
Total                        21. U2.0    1.978.0  1.681.475.0        802.6      44.77m.5  28.8942.1   18,6511.6    27.712.4   a4.4s6.7
0.83       0.116 U6.x                 79.1S      1.73       19.86        7.0s        1.6S        19.81
Of ubich:
For04ge-ownd Banks              2,864.0       816.0  1,498,216.o       642.0        446.5  215,M8.6   164,996.6        6,246.0  447,989.0
Haitia-owned Bonok             19,548.0    1,66.8        68,7t6.9        0        44,8.0    78,904.1       2,416.5    21,486.4   866,61.7
Source: Contral Bank, Service Central dos Rilu_s.



- 59 -
Tablo 1
INDWSTRIAL RESTRUCTtRIN AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 1: FDS - Dlttrlbution of Operatlons through Fl. by Siz. of Subloane,
as of Saptr 80. 198?)
(In US8 Thousands)
Subloans > US81W06W      Subloso n   US8100          Totsl
Amount     Numbor      Amount      Number      Amount   Number
BNC                                  -          60.4         2          60.4      2
DNDAI                   916.0        2           -           -         906.6      2
BNP                     815.0        1         193.6         8         68.6       4
BUH                    2,867.1       8         517.1         9       2,684.2      17
FHD                       -          -         269.4        45         259.4     45
FNBS                   88.9         a         428.7        i2       1,087.0     15
FNCi                    221.4        1         706.7        11         927.1     12
SOFDlDES                  -          -         282.0         4         262.0      4
SONCOM                  680.2        8          601.7       16       1.181.9    1i
Total            5,197.6      18       2,9123.6        96      6,111.2    114
Souroe: FDI.



- 60 -
Trbl- 2
HAITl
INUSTRIAL RESTRUCTlUING AND DEVELOPIENT PROJECT
Table 2: FOX - Dlatribution of Operations throush FS'. by Maturity
(September so, 1987)
Long-Term                Short-Term               Tote I
Amount*      X          Amounts     X          Amount*    X
BNC                                 -         60.4         2.5       50.4      0.6
8NDAl                   960.0      15.5        -           -        950.0      11.7
BNP                     815.9      5.2       198.6         9.7      608.0      6.8
BUN                   2,720.8     44.5        168.9        8.2    2,684.2      85.6
FHD                    259.4       4.2         -           -        289.4      8.2
FNR                    495.2       8.1       592.5        29.0    1,987.0     13.4
FNCM                   882.8       6.2       S44.8        27.8      927.1     11.4
SOFIDES                262.0       4.8         -           -        262.0      8.2
SOGEBANK               784.2      12.0       447.6        22.5    1,181.9     14.6
Total           6,116.4     100.0     1,992.0       108.0    6,111.2    100.0
Source: FDI.



- 61 -
Table 8
HAITl
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCURIN  AND DEVELOPMENT PRMJECT
Table 8: FDI - Dletrlbut.on of Ogeratlone b Sector end Ut*uritx,
as of September a. 19l?
(In USSI Thousands)
A.provals
Long-Toro    Short-Tom      Totsl        X       D    liebreem_nta
Manufacturing         2,046.2      1,092.4      8,787.0       40.1        2,647.2
Agsro-industry         2,58.7        607.0      2,650.8       82.8        2,508.s
Building Industry       6".0          87.8        674.4        0.8          015.9
AuxilIary Servicoo      208.2        255.1        543.8        0.7          54.A
Sport                   468.6          -          46.5         5.7          463.5
Handicrafts              20.2          -           20.2        9.8           26.2
Tourism                   -            0.9          9.9        0.1            9.9
To"ta            6,118.4     1,992.8      8,111.2       1.6         0,78.8
Source: FPD.



- 62 -
Table 4
HAM
INDUSTRIAL RESTRCTtMING AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 4: FDI - Distribution of the Number of Oerations by Realon.
as of SoPtibor so. 198?
Size of Loans         Port-au-Prince    Metro"oliItn    Province      Total
> USlSI9.9                18               4             1            18
< Us810,60                77               14             5           98
Total                 90               18            6           114
S                   79               16             6          1o0
Source: fDI.



DSUSINIL F&RUC7M  AIS OAND DPISIT PROCT
*ebl- ls FDt - Prolect Z*d  Act4* BslerNo                Ft1982to  198 *
P    16 low_                                                       _I_7 19B4        F0198S  _   19
Jee    Actami   J.ctoad   Actual    jeste    Actual    J..tUd    Actual    jected   Actual          Actual    Actual
Ceb                                   MU 32.449          m.6  1,674.3   1,155.O    460.3   1,282.0   2,423.9    1,478.0   2,662.6   1,119.7   1,823.5
b.~apsts                                -                  -       66-                615.6       ---                           515.6   1,562.6   1,016.2
l _t~    Ro   _al                      13.6 1            151.7                9..        -         4.6        -         4.4       6.6    192.6
Totl Cures"  Aasat                 12.     885          ML.-  23,2.0   1,15560    86I9 A    I-.    2.928.4    1.4?8.    2.tO8.4   2.699.7   8.132.3
Portfollo
Lema PoVolItol, Gre                1,446.0      17.4   2,920.9   66.2   4,796.8  2,206.1   7,226.0  2,461.6    9,960.6   2,836.1   8,167.0   2,760.7
M$ Pro,leloa_                         16.6       -        M1.#      -       349.8    16.6    764.8    190.8          0M.       179.8    238.1       216.0
TotS Net Pwortolio       1. 42YI   1           7.4    2,9I0L    9tS.2  4C441.6 2J0.1   0f510.6 4 242O   8EAr20   2,736.8   2                    2.95.7
Flad  _east                            8.e    9-.u         0.9    06.6        4.0     46.0        2.6      34.0                 20.4      49.2       S7.2
Ot^et                                  -         -         -        -         -        -          -         5.                   -         -9.9
Totl Mab Aseas6. 8.6                          65.        L       1-         4.6   _9LI        Ij         30.9        -        26.4      49.2      47.1
Toetl                            16-M-f   4]1LI    6S00-  2-.6.0   bLmt.  X.IE.L   7L0.   5.2t2.6  10.41160.6  S.n271.    6.UJ7.    .687.1
hbi liti..
Short-Touf  LIabIlIties                 -         6.5      -      1.29 J                          -.6  -                         7.9     1SS.6      182.4
Capital NW B"It16.                             2065.    3,6.6  2,156.   6,e0.0  8'1    6   7,111.0   6 5,347.6   1,20105 6 6,54.5    ,76.0   6,766.6
surplus (Oaf it)                       -       148.9       *       09.7       -      (38.8)      -       (181.8)     266.6    (281.6)   (263.8)   (281.8)
Toutl                            I,' .    416.9   3,00.0  2,806.0   5,006.0 68,69.7   7,815.6   6,262.5   10,460.6   5,271.0  6,667.8   5,67.l1
9/  AllI flasal pores au  e  Septiataw S6.
Sbeta: FD1 aod IA Appraisal Missin.a.



- 64 -
Table 2
"AM
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING AND DEVELOPNT PROJECT
Table 2: FOI - Balance Sheet Projections Under NM Prolect
(FY ending Sept. 88, 198 to 1984)
(In US$ i IllI ons)
Interim
Year    -Project Year
19e9    1990   1991   1002   1989   1094
Assete
Cash and Receivables                 2.1      0.6    8.6    0.8    2.1    1.5
Loan Portfolio                       8.5      7.1   10.1   12.0   14.5   16.5
Net Fixed Assets                     0.1      0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4    8.8
Total Asee                        5.7          . 11.1   14.0   17.0   17.8
Liabilties and Equity
Indebtednes                                                   2.5    5.0    6.0
Capital !/                           5.6      6.8   10.6   10.6   10.6  1.6
Reserve for Ouarantee Operations     0.2      8.8    0.4    0.6    0.6    O.7
Surplus (Deficit)                   (8.8)    (8.8)   (0.1)    0.2    0.6    0.9
Total Liabilities and Equity      5.7             11.1   14.0   17.0   17.4
I/ Representing at September 88, 1980, USO.8 mtillIon grant by the Government,
and US84,786 mllion diburse  under Credit 111-SA.  Incrae  as from
FY90  refloct expected disbursement under the nm  project (m  cash flow
projections in Table 4).
Sources FBI.



- 65 -
AR 7
Table 3
HAITI
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 3i  FDI - Audited Results of Operations 1985-88
(In US$ Thousands)
9130185     9130186      9130187    9130188
Income
Interest Income                         236          236          265        219
Guarantee Fees                            10           7            7          5
Interest on Deposits                       9           6           65         76
Operating Subsidies                        9           -           32          5
Total Income                          264          249          369        301
Expenses
Administrative Expenses                  251         234          222        316
Depreciation                              10          10           10         17
Others                                     4           -            -         10
Sub-total Expenses                    265          294         232         343
Net Income                              (1)        (45)         137        (42)
Guarantee Reserve                        (97)       (110)         (59)       (35)
Net Revenue (Loss)                       (98)       (155)          78        (77)
Cumulative                              (127)       (282)        (204)      (281)
Source: ?DI



- 66 -
Table 4
HAM
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 4: FDI - Cash Flow Prolections FY1988/89 To FY1994-95
(In US1 ml IlI one)
Debt
Interim                                             Service
Year                   Project Years               Year
1988/89  1989/90 1990/91  1991/92 1992/98  1993/94  1094/95
Soure
Cash Available                      8.1       2.1     0.7      0.5      0.8     2.1      1.6
Recoveries                          0.9       0.9     2.0      8.3      4.0      6.6     6.5
Withdrawals from IDA Credit         -         2.5      2.5     2.5      2.5     -        -
Revenue                             0.8       0.4     0.7      1.0      1.2      1.2     1.8
Subtota l                         4.8       6.9      6.9     7.8      9.8     0.8      9.8
AppI ications
Administrative Expense              0.8       0.4     0.4      0.4      0.4     0.4      8.4
Debt Service  /                     -         -        -       -        -       -        0.6
Interest on Deb                     -         -       -        0.1      0.8     0.4      -
Lending                             1.9       4.5     5.0      6.0      6.5     6.5      6.5
Purchase of Asseft                  -         o.8      -       -        -       -        -
Subtotal                          2.2       5.2     5.4      6.5      7.2      7.8     6I.
Balance Brought Forward             2.1       0.7     O.5      0.8      2.1     1.5      1.8
/a Assuming a US115.0 millIon grant to FDI and a USC.O mlillIon lo n at us18X over .8
years, with 5 years of grce. Annual loan amortization froe year-6 Is US84M,0.
Source: FDI and IDA Appraisal Mission.



- 67 -
"AM
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURIN AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 5: Intearated Cash Flow and Debt Service ProJections
0        1        2        8       4       t       0
A.  Portfolio Fluctuations                            -              (in US8 millions)
Opening Portfolto: Foreign Curroacy               -        2.6      4.4      5.9     6.5    6.6
Local Currency                 8.6      4.8      5.7     7.2     6.8     9.8
8.6      7.1     19.1   18.1    14.8    16.0
Disbursements:     Foreign Curreney               2.6      2.6      2.6     2.5      2.5     2.5
Local Currency                 2.8      2.5      8.5     4.0     4.9    8.9
Sub-totel                               8.0     12.1     16.4    19.6    21.8    21.8
Recoveries:        Foreign Currency               -        0.6      1.8      1.9     2.5     2.5
Local Currency                 9.9      1.4      2.0     2.9     8.0     8.9
Closing Portfolto                                 7.1     10.1    13.1   14.8   16.8   16.8
Of which:          Forelgn Currency               2.6      4.4      5.9    6.5       6.5    6.5
Local Currency                 4.6      5.7      7.2     8.8     9.8     9.8
B. Revenue  /-                                                           (in U88'#)
411      667      984   1,112   1,186   1,226
Guarantee Commissions                              21       85       46      655       1      61
Totel Incom                             432      .02      980   1.167   1.247   1.286
C. Expenditure
Operating and Admininistrative Expenses           888      492      422     422      422    422
Provision for Guarantee Losso                      71      101       129     196     156     156
Subtotal                                464      S68      551    568      676      578
D. Profit (Loss)                            (298)      (22)    199      429      599    069      708
E. Debt Service
Scenario I - USs810 ml! Ion loan
at 61 40 yeare of which 5 are grace                 -        -        -       -        -    611
Interest during grace porlod                       68      168      828     488    5W          -
Net Resu Ito                  (298)     (85)      11      116     161      169     9?
Cumulative Resulto                      878)    tA371    (251)  D119)      59     156
Scenario II - US$5.9 millon grant
dTNFburs drat and thm nUS86.9 M.
loan at 8X over 20 yars with 5 years
of grace                                            -        -       75     2SO    87S    56
Net Resu Its                  (298)     (22)     199      8S4     849     294      122
Cumulative Results                     (815)    (118)     2B      S8J    8M1   1.0
1/  Interest rate of 8X on large laons and 7S on smlIl lo an  making an average of 7.M, assumitng
small loans represent 265 of portfolio.  Applied to opening portfolio loe  hSlf of the yoer's
recoveries, and on half of the yer's new disburements.
Sources FDI and IDA Appraisal Mission.



- 68 -
lable p
HAITI
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING AND DEVELOPUENT PROJECT
Table 6S Estimated Credit Demand
(In US$ Thousndb)
Estimated Investment Cost     Estimated    Of which
Foreign                 FDI         Foreign
Local   Exchange    Total   Rediscount   Exchange
A. Restructurin Programs
Ange ram                                  275         825       o0n          435         325
Un1ted Plastice                            185         240       400          800         240
Caribbean Canadian 4C                     7?0          SW0      1200         WaO          376
Industrle Electrique d 'Hati              1W          200       83W          270         1W
Deschamps Fri sch                          6o8         800      1400          S8W         eoo
Mosalque Gornal                             95          38       125          1OS          25
Ael-rie dHaiti                             S00        1o8w      2800          8o         eSo
Rayand Menos S.A.                          81t         1S0       465          208         15O
Haiti metal                                 SO         200       25W          250         200
Snfico                                     800         4S0       7S0          S0W         850
Follow-Up Actions (estimated)             150         1508      S0am         2708        185
Subtotal                            4645        6185     10840        6s6o         4765
Other Enterprlses from the
Diafnostic Studies
Famepak                                   18          800       480          400         800
Industries Nation lea Reunles              80          800      ee            5so        875
United Shoes                               875         so        675 S?                   875
Fernw Armory                               700         500      125 O                     875
Haiti Zipper                               100         180       280          175         188
Lalterie Brandt                            180         270      40            86a         270
Refai Almoetatre                           700        10        1700          S0W         87S
U-n  R. Wagner                              eS          40       1O5           95          8S
Hisles Eseetial les                        s8            -        so           7o
Subtotal                            2688        8840       7078        8100        2285
Reaular FDI Pipeline
haiti Sole                                 a0m           -       eo           276           -
Caribbean Textilo                           so          sO       108          g0          45
Duval Industries                           208           -       200          125           -
Sodgaz                                     160         8650      SW           460         885
Meridian Industries                        188         128       808          200         120
Brasseri- La Couronne                      125         675      1808         6so          S0
Other Operations (Estimates)              1905        2050     4600         a608         2000
Subtotal                            8255        8445     6700          6586        8M
Tot al                             10526       12688     28218        15845
Source: FDI and IDA Apprai"l Mission.



- 69 -
Table 7
HAM
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Table 7: ProtIle of Enterprises to be Restructured
capital   Sales   Pur poe  t
Firm Name           Sector       Products     Employment   US10    USSS         Investment
AROICERAN          Bul dina   Brieks, Tiles         so       2.488       SS    Expansion/Export
UNITED PLASTICS    Plasttcs    Plastics              s        1.080      775   Exp./Local
4 C                Chemicals  Pharmaceuticals       SO       2.180   8 000   Exp./Locel
Industris
Electr. d 'Haiti   Metal      Metal Furniture      25         6T5      a86   Exp./Local
Decha mps Frilch   Paper       Printing            2S0       5.600   8.7C0  Exp./Local
OORNAIL            Building    Mosaics              40         1S       115  Exp./Local
Acierie d*Hbiti    Metal       Wires              8am        8.709   S.56W   Exp./Local
Raymond Menos      Building    Furniture            80         280       255   Exp./Local
Haiti Metal        Letal       Kitchenware         8we       8.08    2.280  Exp./Local
SAFICO             Textile     Bags, Twine          80       1.012    1.8-S   Exp./Local
Source: FDI



IDW1UIM.ESUC)    PAOJECT
Table. St FOI Leadl). Prowm
t_.ted- -   Yer I -    --   Yer IIt                           -              -    -Yer IV---
FORI     Loal   Foetign            Local   Foreg            L       Foreign           LoaI   Forola
C    _qenua          Redicoent   Currauy Es_bn   Teoal  Currea   Exche. Total  Cerrecy Eschaug  Total   Currecy Exchan. Toeu t
A. sasbtrctarl" Prwam       6.0        1.8      3.      S.8    e.g       1.e     1.0    0.1       9.6     0.7      0.2      .9    1.1
a. I_u  Et _ccI. for
the Dl_mebic Studl       8.1       0.2      O.5      .7     0.1      .6      0.8     9.1      0.4     O.5      0.6      0.9    1.8
C. ReOA_IC Pt.tt)           5.4        0.5      -       0.6     0.8      *.7     1.6     1.0      1.6    2.6       0.1      0.8    9.9
Subetl               15.4        2.0      2.6     4.5     1.4      2.6     8.9     1.2      2.5     8.7      0.0     2.6    8.8
D. Ibleadl. of FOI
3m_                     -          .        -       -       1.1      -       1.1     2.8      .       2.8      8.2      .       J.2
Total Loading Progran   -          2.0      -       4.5     2.5      -       5.0     8.5      -       0.0      4.0      *        .5
0-i
eg 
oz 
Sloerco FOR



- 71 -
AME  7
Table 9
HAITI
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING AND DEVmLOPMENT PROJECT
Table 9: Proiect Cost Table and Proposed Financing
(In US$ Millions)
Foreign
Local       Exchange         Total
Amount   X    Amount   Z    Amount   Z
A. Proiect Costs
(i) Total Cost of Operations
to be Discounted               10.5    45    12.7    55    23.2
(ii) Technical Assistance                           1.4   100     1.4
Total Project Costs       10.5    43    14.1    57    24.6
B. Financinit
(i) Operations
(a) FDI from Presently
Available Resources        5.3     -      -       -     5.3    23
(b)  Borrowers and IFIs         5.2           2.7      -     7.9    34
(c)  IDA Credit                 -       -    10.0      -    10.0    43
Total Cost                10.5    45    12.7    55    23.2
(ii) Technical Assistance
IDA Credit                      -       -      1.4     -     1.4   100
Total Cost                10.5    43    14.1    57    24.6
Sources FDI and IDA Appraisal Mission.



- 73 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 1
HAITI
SinDSTRIAL RESTRUCTURG AND DE OPH     PROJECT
ESTINA!ED IDA DISBURSDEENT SCHEDULE, 1990-95
(In Nillions of US$)
IBRD
Fiscal                          Disbursements
Year        Semester            During Semester   Disbursements
1990        May 31, 1990              0.4               0.4
1991        Dec. 31, 1990             0.4               0.8
June 30, 1991            0.6               1.4
1992        Dec. 31, 1991             1.7               3.1
June 30, 1992            1.4               4.5
1993        Dec. 31, 1992             1.4               5.9
June 30, 1993             1.5              6.4
1994        Dec. 31, 1993             1.5               7.9
June 30, 1994            1.1               9.0
1995        Dec. 31, 1994             1.1             11.1
June 30, 1995            0.3              11.4
TOTAL                   11.4



- 75 -
am  9
Page 1 of 1
HAITI
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Proiect Implementation Timetable
(Monitoring Indicators)
A.       Credit Component
Credit Commitment
Year                            2     AmountLI
By mid-1990                      10       1.2
By mid-1991                      30       3.4
By mid-1992                      40       4.5
By mid-1993                      20       2.3
Total                         100      11.4
1/ US$ Millions
B.       Technical Assistance Component
The following timetable was agreed during negotiations:
(i)      Customs administration to engage consultant services, by March 31,
1990 to train customs staff and to assist in the establishment of
an export verification scheme. Staff training should be completed
and the export verification svstem put in place by October 30,
1990;
(ii)     The Ministry of Finance to hire a consultant by no later than
March 31, 1990 to carry out the finance studies, which are to be
completed by September 30, 1990. An agreement to be reached
between IDA and the Government by no later than December 31, 1990
on the timetable for implementing actions recommended by the
studies; and
(iii)    The Central Bank to hire a consultant to assist in strengthening
its Supervision Department by no later than June 30, 1990.
(iv)     The Central Bank through FDI to hire a consultant by no later than
June 30, 1990, to explore the feasibility of broadening FDI's
lending operations. By no later than March 31, 1991, implement
the recommendations of the feasibility study.



- 7? -
AM= 10
Page 1 of 1
HAITI
IIDIJSTRIAL RZS__CS?UR  GA1  DDEVLOPMI  PRNJZCT
List of Documents Available in Proisect File
1)       Industrial Restructuring In-Depth Studies, Business Plans, Sumnary
of Recommendations, FDI Follow-Up
2)       Industrial Investment Code, 1985
3)       Operational Survey of the Ponds de Developpement Industriel (PDI),
Findings and Recommendations, May 1989
4)       FDI Operating Policies and Procedures
5)       Rapport Econom!.que et Social, Department de D4veloppement
Economique et Social, December 1987
6)       Strategie du D4veloppement Industriel, PNUDIONUDI, December 1985
7)       Policy Letter dated April 26, 1989



- 79 -
FDI ORGANIZATION CHART
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS
I  PROJECT     I
|ADVTSORY COMMITTEE|
-~~~~
GJENERAL MANAGERI
ADVTSOR TO THE
GENERAL MANAGER
FINANCIAL AND
OPERATIONS MANAGER                                  ADMINISTRATIVE
MANAGER
OPERATIONS AND        TRAINING                 FINANCE & ACCOUNTSI   ADMINISTRATION
SUPERVISION      I               I                               I
OPER.OFFICER  - SEMINARS
SUPOTSTAFF
OPER.OFFICER     IN-HOUSE
OPER.OFFICER



r  <,^                                                                          4'                                                                            Zi-                   IBRD 21 14;}~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~''  BD   14
.  . .   *s                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Part de Paix
CUBA  ~                  iLMl|                                                  u     ,,f                     -    - - - -, - -'5 - -                                                            
jAI    CxItO                                   '  Iz                                                N     -            (;             - ~DOMIN>,e                                                                      z
t                                                                 <       <                                                                        >--'<e;N'@ t \\Mob  g icabes
\'~~~~~~Pr -\rpt                           Cap Hci'i tienw) 
JAMAICA.~~~~~~ a '5 ,g4_  
H  A I T I                                                                        Gonciives)               <+  tKv,  9XP    /\           NX  5sX Moswb         .X_  !   a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ftL-en
ECOIO9;COI ZON3S                                                                                                 5   ;    dE L@AnQIQreS  N9)S   P  SO I   9         S    ,   <SCQ  +>          |~~~~~~~~~~~~01 Mrn  N
Verj humid                                                                                                         F/\                     X,  _  ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~ LQ1tiQ;f¢   ,:+   fi         UJ I~~~~se  -  P
r   ----Xertiorv  roods veu , \ >rhoXo\+eg . ,/ Q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ls'otou'N                                                                                             '
-|-Intrnoti=el boundery                                                  .r,,                  <         g-           \\<   \                  _-   C       > i S                 Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
KItO~lEtERS 0 10    20  30  *0  0                                                         \                            \       -        LeCha dle   -   >    <t ?{/ SReGO    eee
|   A>_                                                                                i                                                 =Ecologial zones
'                                                                                                                                                              O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
|~ ~ ~~Vr -- -      humid                                                   n-   .                                 , , 6 6            e         -.                     -w-' 
-llr~ ~~~Hui G_g S-_ rndilb*                                                                                                                  Sa.e                             %
_ o n  1>  _   dgd"to w W #ntr<"nol                                                                                                                                                 lS--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
e,e/e       c   ezcDry
Ar-a aveag  ronfl iilietr
\Pont~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ET^E Sonde  mSid



