Page  1
September 26, 1995
Her Excellency Marie Michele Rey
Minister of Economy and Finance
Republic of Haiti
Palais de Ministeres
Port-au-Prince, Haiti
Excellency
Industrial Restructuring and Development Project (Credit No. 2071-HA) -
           Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement
      Please refer to the above captioned Development Credit Agreement,
as amended.
      We are pleased to advise you that as a result of your request and
our recent discussions on the subject, the Association agrees to amend
such Agreement as follows, so as to restructure the implementation of
the Project and streamline the operations of FDI.
General
      1.   All references to "Part B.2", "Part B.3" and "Part B.4" of
the Project are deleted. The respective sentences are adjusted, as
required, to accommodate the number (singular or plural) and the
corresponding conjunctions.
Preamble
      2.   Whereas (C) is deleted.
Main Body
      3.   Section 1.02 (d) is amended by adding the words ", or any
financial institution which extends microcredits for industrial
development approved and supervised by BRH," after the words "or
ancillary services related to such sub-sectors".
      4.   Section 2.03 is amended by replacing the date "June 30,
1995" by the date "June 30, 1998".
      5.   Section 3.01 is amended by:
           (a)   deleting the two occurrences of the sentence "except
in respect of Part B.2 of the Project" and the words "and, to this end
shall carry out Parts B.3 and B.4 of the Project"; and
           (b)   deleting subparagraph (c) (iv), except the word "; and";
      6.   Section 3.03 is amended by deleting the sentence "except in
respect of Part B.2 of the Project".
      7.   Section 3.04 is deleted.
      8.   Section 3.05 is amended by:
           (a)    replacing the word "six" by the word "three"; and
           (b)   adding the words ", such Committee to be chaired by
           the Governor of BRH or any person designated by him/her and
           with membership comprising representatives, acceptable to
           the Association, of financial institutions and industrial
           enterprises, selected by said Governor from lists submitted
           by the associations standing for such institutions and
           enterprises" before the word "; and".
      9.   Section 3.06 is amended by replacing the sentence "at the
Page  2
prevailing official exchange rate" by the sentence "the applicable
exchange rate reported at the day of the transaction by BRH".
Schedule 1
      10.  The table in paragraph 1 is amended by:
           (a)   replacing the figures "3,840,000" "4,160,000" and
           "640,000" by the figures "885,000" "7,000,000" and
           "1,065,000", respectively;
           (b)   deleting Categories (4), (5) and (6); and
           (c)   adding a new Category (4) to read as follows:
           "(4) Training of FDI Staff              150,000    100%"
Schedule 2
      11.  Part B.1 is amended by adding the following paragraph at the
end thereof:
           "including:
           (a)   strengthening FDI's capacity in identifying Investment
           Projects, assisting Investment Enterprises in preparing such
           Projects and in presenting such Projects to Financial
           Intermediaries;
           (b)   carrying out of subsector studies aimed at: (i)
           accelerating Investment Projects processing; and (ii)
           assessing relevant commercial risks; and
           (c)   resuming promotion and publicity activities, aimed at
           potential Financial Intermediaries and Investment Enterprises,
           including commercial banks and other financial institutions,
           established industrialists, small and medium size
           entrepreneurs.".
      12.  Parts B.2, B.3 and B.4 are deleted.
      13.  The last paragraph is amended by replacing the date "December
31, 1994" by the date "December 31, 1997".
      Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by
signing and dating this letter in the spaces provided below. This
amendment letter shall be executed in two counterparts, each of which
shall be an original. Upon your confirmation, please return one fully
executed original to us.
      The provisions of this amendment letter will become effective as of
the date the Association has received: (a) one fully executed original of
this amendment letter; and (b) one fully executed original of the
amendment letter of even date herewith with regard to the Project
Agreement.
      Because of his interest in the matter, a copy of this amendment
letter is being sent to the Governor of the Bank of the Republic of Haiti.
                               Sincerely,
                           Edilberto L. Segura
                                Director
                          Country Department II
                    Latin America & Caribbean Region
Agreed:
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
Page  3
By:   Marie Michele Rey
      Authorized Representative
Date: October 3, 1995
cc: Governor of the Bank of the Republic of Haiti
