(                                                                               AL
The World Bank                                   1818 H Street N.W.         (202) 477-1234
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELCPMENT  Washington, D.C. 20433  Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION           U.S.A.                      Cable Address: INDEVAS
Octobe         Oi0l1
H. E. Edna Molewa
Minister of Water and Environmental Affairs
Ministry of Water and Environmental Affairs
Private Bag X447
Fretoria 0001
kepublic of South Africa
South Africa: Africa Stockpiles Program (GEF TF055763-SA)
First Amendment to the Grant Agreement
Ex,cellency,
We refer to the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement (the
Agreement") for the above-referenced Project dated April 4, 2006, between the Republic of
South Africa (the "Recipient") and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(the "Bank"), acting as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility. We also
refer to the letter from your Ministry dated March 31, 2011 requesting a restructuring of the
Project. We concur with your request.
Accordingly, we are pleased to inform you that the Bank hereby proposes to amend the
Agreement to read as follows:
1. Article I, Section 1.02 (c) of the Agreement is deleted and replaced with the following
clause:
'(c) "Environmental Management Plan" means an environmental management plan,
acceptable to the Bank, defining procedures, guidelines and rules to mitigate, reduce
and/or offset negative environmental and social impacts of the Project, and enhancing
4L                      the environmental and social benefits to be derived from the Project in a specified
Selected Province and the term "Environmental Management Plans" means all such
environmental management plans collectively;'
2. Article I, Section 1.02 (g) of te Agreement shall be amended to read as follows:
'(g) "Disposal Services" means services related to the safeguarding and/or disposal of
Obsolete Pesticides and Associated Waste under Part B of the Project;'
3. Two news clauses are added in Article I, Section 1.02 as follows:
'(q) "Selected Province5" means the provinces of Limpopo, Free State and Western
Cape in the Recipient's territory;'


﻿-2-
'(r) "Training" means the costs associated with expenses incurred with the training,
study tours and workshops, including travel and subsistence costs of participants,
costs associated with securing the services of trainers, rental of training facilities,
preparation, reproduction and acquisition of training materials, and other costs
directly related to course preparation and implementation.'
4. Article V, Section 5.01(c) of the Agreement shall be amended to read as follows:
"Any of the Environmental Management Plans is amended so as, in the opinion of
the Bank, to materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project;"
5. Article VII, Section 7.01 is amended to read as follows:
"The Minister of Water and Environmental Affairs of the Recipient is designated as
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions."
6. The table in Section I of Schedule 1 to the Agreement shall be replaced with the
amended table set forth in Attachment I to this letter.
7. Section 3 (b) ii is amended to read as follows:
"submitted to the Bank applicable Environmental Management Plan, related to
incurred expenditures requested to be reimbursed, that is satisfactory to the Bank and
disclosed the said document in such manner as may be required by the Bank."
8. Schedule 2 to the Agreement shall be replaced in its entirety with the amended Schedule
2 as set forth in Attachment II to this letter.
9. Section B.2 of Schedule 4 is amended to read as follows:
"The Recipient shall implement the Project in accordance with the Environmental
Management Plans. Without limitation to the generality of the foregoing, the
Recipient shall not implement any Project activity which results in the involuntary
resettlement of persons or the involuntary acquisition of land, save with the prior
written approval of the Bank and on such terms as the Bank may require."
10. Schedule 5 to the Agreement shall be replaced in its entirety with the amended Schedule
5as set forth in Attachment III to this letter.
All other provisions of the Agreement, as amended herein, shall remain in full force and
effect.
Please indicate your agreement with the foregoing amendments to the Agreement on
behalf of the Recipient by countersigning and dating the two original copies of this letter and
returning one countersigned original to us. The amendments to the Agreement shall become
effective as of the date of countersignature of this letter.


﻿-3-
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
As an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility
By
Ruth Kagia
Country Director for South Africa
Africa Region
AGREED:
ON BEHA OF THE REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA
3y:
\ame:          -                                   2
Tritle:
Date:        OG~)~


﻿-4-
Attachment I
Category           Amount of the GEF         Percentage of
Trust Fund Grant        Expenditures to be
Allocated (expressed in  Financed (inclusive of
Dollars)                 Taxes)
(1) Goods                         150,000             100%
(2) Works                        295,000              100%
(3) Consultant services                      100%     of     foreign
255,000    expenditures 83% of local
expenditures
(4) Disposal Services                                 100%
850,000
(5) Training                                          100%
30,000
(6) Operating Costs                                  100%
120,000
(7) Unallocated                        0
TOTAL AMOUNT                    1,700,000


﻿-5-
Attachment II
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Recipient in the development and piloting
of a sustainable system to identify, collect and dispose of Obsolete Pesticides and Associated
Waste.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the
I ecipient and the Bank may agree upo,i from time to time to achieve such objective:
art A:      Identification and Collection of Obsolete Pesticides and Associated Waste
[dentification and collection of Obsolete Pesticides and Associated Waste by: (a) establishing a
rooking line where farmers in Selected Provinces voluntarily declare Obsolete Pesticides and
tosociated Waste in their possession; (b) preparing Environmental Management Plans; and (c)
-c Ilecting and transporting identifiec obsolete pesticides and associated waste to collection
:e nters.
Part B:      Safeguarding and/or Disposal of Obsolete Pesticides and Associated Waste
Safeguarding and/or disposal of Obsolete Pesticides stocks and Associated Waste by: (a) carrying
out of a technological assessment of available safeguarding and disposal options; and (b)
implementing the safeguarding and/or disposal technology selected in Selected Provinces.
Part C:      Capacity Building
Carrying out of activities aimed at raising awareness on the health and environmental hazards of
pesticides and strengthening the capacity of the PMU to implement the Project through the
provision of Training.
Part D:      Proiect Management
Supporting the PMU in carrying out Project coordination, implementation, monitoring and
evaluation through the provision of technical advisory services, equipment and operational
support.


﻿-6-
Attachment III
SCHEDULE 5
Performance Monitoring Indicators
1. A system for identifying, collecting and disposing of private and public Obsolete Pesticides
stocks and Associated Waste developed through collaboration with the private sector association.
2. Three pilot safeguarding and/or disposal operations implemented.


