Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY'Y
Report No. 10249-MAG Typee: (F'CR)
MAUPRIVEZ,/ X31709 / 1-9 0'69/ OET)ED3                       RePOrtNo. 10249
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
ANDEKALEKA HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
(CREDIT 817-MAG)
DECEMBER 27, 1991
Industry and Energy Operations Division
South Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ACRONYMS AND ALBREVIATONS
BADEA    Arab Bank for the Economic Development of Africa
CCCE       Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (France)
CIDA       Canadian International DevIopment Agency
EdF        Electricit6 de France
ESMAP    Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
EEM        Electricite et Eaux de Madagascar
HQI        Hydro-Quebec Intermational
JICA       Japan International Cooperation Agency
JIRAMA    Malgasy Electricity and Water Corporation
OPEC       Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PCR        Project Completion Report
PEMC       least-cost expansion plan
RNCFM      Malagasy railroad company
SAR        Staff Appraisal Report
SEM        Soci&tA d'Energie de Madagascar
SMEE       Societe Malgache de l'Eau et de lElectricit6
SOLIMA    state-owned petroleum company
CREEMNCY ALENI3
At time of Proiect Anpraisal (Auggst 1972):
US$1             =    FMG 240
FMG 1                 USS0.004167
FMG 1,000        =    USS4.17
June 1990:
US$1             =    FMG 1,529



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Dit torlG.fwal
Opefatms Evakuatkon
December 31, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on MADAGASCAR
Andekaleka Hydroelectric Project
(Credit 817-MAG)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Madagascar - Andekaleka Hydroelectric Project (Credit 817-
MAG)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office with Part II contributed by the
Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evalulatiorn
Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MADAGASCAR
PROlEC COMPEIACN REPORT
ANDEKALEKA HYDROELEC i=  PROJEC
CREDII NO. 817-MAG
TABLE 3F CO)NTE=T
PREFAC:E
EViJzLUATION  SUMlMARY    . ......................................... i-iv
PART I: REPORT OE TiBE lBANK
A^. Project Identity    .........................................I... 
B. Bacgroud   ....................................................I1
Project Rationale   ............................................I1
Electrc Power Seomr          I........................ 
lSe Implementing Agency   .........................................I1
c. Project Design and Organization   .........................................2
PoasibiltyWork   ........................................... 2
Projed  Preparaion  ............................................2
D. Project Obojeaives and Description    ....................................... 4
E. PoJet Imlementaton  ............................................ 
Project Timetable and Disbursements   ..................................... 5
Project Costs anid Fioacing   ................................5........ 
Project Performance Indicators   ........................................6
Procuement  ..............................................                                        6
.P. ProjectResWt   ..................................                                          ......  6
ObjectivesAttaind    ............................................6
Financial sand Institutdonal Strengthiening    .................................... 6
0<1s Benefits  . ...............................................  6
FADOmic ImPact  ................................................7
G. ftwA Sustinablity ......................... ................ 7
H. Bcirrower Performance   ........................................... 7
I.  Bak Peodbm ce  ................... ........................ ............8
J.  ConutantSPerformance                .;...........................;..;.. s
K. Conclusions and LessonstLearned ............................ 9
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oflicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(Table of Contents Cont.)
Pagre No.
PART ; BEPOET OF THE IMPLEMENTMNG AGENCY
A. Project Implementation ................                                  10
Problems Encountered During bmlementation .10
Performances of the Various Parties ............................ 12
B. Project Opeation ..     14
Timdiness and Importance to Operations of the Andekaleka Project .14
Operating Perfomnwce .14
Current Condition of Installations .14
Operating Statistics (table)  .................................        15
Planned Activities ..................................... 16
C. Reuropective Economic Evaluation .................    .............. 16
Objectivs of the Study .16
Methodology .16
Results of the Study .19
D. Financial Position .20
PART m: STATISTICAL INFORMAION
A. Related Bank Credits ............                                        22
B. Project Timetable ............                                           22
C. Cumulative Estmated and Acul Disbursements ............                  23
D. Project Implementation Indicators ............                           23
E. Project Costs and Financing
ProjectCosts ...............                                          24
ProjectFinancing ............                                         25
F. ProjectResults ............ 25
G. StunsofProjectCovenats            ............ 26
R. Staffinputs ............ 29
Mission Data by Stages of Project ............                        29
ANNEXES ........... 30



MADAGASCAR
PROECT COMPLETMON REPORT
ANDEKALEKXA HYDROELECTRIC PROJEC
CRED1T NO. 817-MAG
PREFAQ
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Andekaleka Hydroelectric Project in
Madagascar. This project received an original Credit (Cr. 817-MAG) of US$33 million,
approved in June 1978, which was fully disbursed. To help finance a project cost overrUm, the
Bank, in January 1980, approved a supplemental Credit (Cr. 817.1-MAG) of USS10 million, of
which the Bank disbursed US$7.6 million and canceled USS2.4 million.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Industry and Energy Operations Division, of the
Africa Region's South-Central and Indian Ocean Department (Parts I and I), and JIRAMA (the
Malagasy Electricity and Water Corporation), the implementing agency (Part II).
TIe preparation of Parts I and m  of this PCR is based on the Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR), the President's Report, the Credit, Guarantee and Project Agreements, other information
available in the Bank's files on the project and discussions with some of the Bank staff invo!ved
in Project appraisal and supervision.



- ii -
EROIECT COhM=IE1ON REPORT
ANDEKLEKA HYDROELEC C PROJE
CREDIT NO. 817-MAG
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Backffound
i.         When the Bank appraised the Andekaleka Hydroelectric Project, in August 1977,
preliminary investigations had indicated a substantial hydroelectric potential in Madagascar, in the
order of 3,500 MW, compared to an installed capacity of 101.1 MW, of which around 55.9 MW
was in the interconnected system serving the area around the capital, Antananarivo. In the inter-
connected system, hydropower accounted for about 62% of installed capacity. The Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR) noted that the existing hydro capacity of the interconnected system was
filly utilized and that future demand increases would have to be met by existing thermal plants,
which had been held in reserve for dry years or for pealing purposes. Given Madagascar's
substanl hydro resource potential and high international oil prices, the Government looked to
the development of the power sector to support emerging industries, meet the various energy
needs of the rural and urban populations and save foreign exchange resources. During project
apprasal, the Governmewt and the Bank determined that t!v Andekaleka Project was the least-cost
alternative for meeting future power demand. JIRAMA (the Malagasy Electricity and Water
Corporation), the implementing agency, was a relatively new agency. It had emerged from the
consolidation of two nationalized companies: Electricite et Eaux de Madagascar (EEM) and
Socidte d'Energie de. Madagascar (SEM) and required support in power system planning and
financial operations (paras. 1-3).
EMjgg Qkj2ives and D2esiption
H.         The main objective of the project, for which the Bank approved an original Credit
df US$33 million, was to meet demand growth in the interconnected system beyond 1982, save
cosdy foreign expenditures on imported fuel, and strengthen JIRAMA  financially and
institutionally. The project included the construction of the Andekaleka power plant (a dam and
two 28-MW units), the preliminary investigation and design of a possible storage reservoir at
Ankoraotra, a 138-kV, 150 km transmission line to Antuanarivo, engineering services, and
technical assistance for the creation of a planning unit and the training of JIRAMA staff
(paL 12).
iii.       The project met most of its critical targets on time except for a two-month delay in
commissioning the power units. Details on project implementation are given in paras. 13-16.
The performance evalation of the Borrower appars in paras. 26-30, that of the Bank in paras.
29-32 and that of consultants in para. 33. There was a delay in effectiveness of the Credit due
to difficulties in completing certain formalities and the need for Government action in the areas
of tariffreadjustm   and compensation to JIRAMA (para. 13). Also, there was a major cost
overn on the project with total costs reaching US$142.1 million compared to an estimated



- iii -
US$116.3 million at project appraisal. The cost increase was mainly due to substantial
diffeces betwoen the cost estimat of the engineering consultants in charge of supervising the
project and the actual bids received after tendering, mainly the cost of civil works (para. 15).
Project construction quality was satisfactory but there were problems with transportation of
materls to the project site which resulted in additional costs. However, because of foreign
exchange movements the total cost of the project was close to the revised estimate (Part IU,
Table 5). The Bank disbursod the original US$33 million IMA Credit in full. To help finance
the cost overrun, the Bank approved a supplemental Credit of US$10 million of which it
disbursed US$7.6 million and canceled the remaining US$2.4 million.
PrQiect Results
iv.        The project began an important power sector dialogue between Bank and the
Goverment, and achieved its major of objective of meedti  demand gowth in the interconnected
system beyond 1982. In terms of physical achievements, the project nearly doubled installed
hydro capacity in the interconnected system, from 55.9 MW to 97 MW. However, because
power demand did not materWize as expected, JIRAMA has had to cope with a combined set
of advere circumstances-a considerable amount of surplus capacity at a substantial financl cost
along with demand and supply constraints to utilizing surplus hydro capacity due to the high cost
to the consumer of connection to the grid and the scarcity of materials for connections.
Bank follow-up work in the power sector has helped to lessen these constraints. The PCR
reviews these actions, certain indirect benefits, the project's economic impact, and the
financial/institutional aspects of the project in paras. 20-22.
V.         Followipg completion of the Andekaleka Project, the Joint UNDP/Bank Energy
Sector Management Assistance Program (ESMAP) identified the need for a Power System
Efficiency Audit. Ihe ESMAP Audit proposed several programs to enhance the sustainability
of the project by making use of the hydro surplus. In pardcular, it proposed external financing
of the foreign costs of new connections and a more flexible approach toward financing connection
costs to the consumer. Moreover, the Bank's Energy I Project, which was approved in 1987,
contains specific elements to sustain some of the institution-building work begun under the
'Andekalea Project (para. 25), i.e., strengthening of energy planning and investment
progamming, improving financial mangement and maximizing the use of existing power
infratructure.
Vi.        The Andekaleka Project was a major investment which made sense in the feneral
context of Madgscar's 14rge hydro resources, high oil prices and projected le-ohs of power
demad. However, overlyovpmistic demad projections conveyed a sense of urgency to bring
on m      a large, capitd-intensiv, indivisible investmeaL In hindsight, it seems that the Bank
may not have fklly appreciated the potential difficultd  that cold rise from a combination of
cooniWons prevailing at the project's inception (a) a financing set-up which made it difficult for
Bank to supevise, directly, the consultants in charge of the project's execudon, (b) parallel
finacing with a largenumber of co-lenders, limiting the fungibility of finds in the case of major
changes in the cost esima, (c) the newness of JIRAMA as an implemeting agency with the
conspicuous absece of a finncial manager, (d) the lack of agreement on a new tariff structure



- iv -
at the time of Credit approval and (e) a questionable data base for making projections of demand
and financial targets. These conditions foreshadowed, to a certain degree, the resulting cost
overuns, surplus hydro capacity, and difficulties for JIRAMA in meeting some of the financial
covenants of the Credit. In this regard, the Bank should consider the following lessons learned
from the project:
(a) In cofinancing arrangements for large construction pi ,ects where the Bank has the
major responsibility for quality assessment and relations with the Borrower, the Bank should
make sure that it has adequate control over the supervision of the engineering component, which,
though it may represent a small portion of total project cost, can play a critical role in the
implementation and outcome of the project.
(b) For the preparation of a large construction project, there is likely to be a tendency to
focus more on the supply side of the investment than on the demand analysis. This seems to have
been the case with the Andekaleka project and the reason for this may have been the inherent
unc-rtainty in any demand projections and the general assumptijn, especially at the time of the
project's preparation, that most power systems in developing countries were supply constrained
and that even if there were a temporary setback in demand growth, the target levels eventually
would materialize. In hindsight, given the large-scale, indivisible nature of the project, the Bank
should have paid more attention to the volatility of the past power demand trends and taken a
more cautious approach, by preparing a broader range of sensitivity analyses based on lower
growth rates, to obtain a better picture of the risk involved in the investment.
(c) A key factor to keep in mind in drafting and *enforcing" financial covenants should
be sensitivity to the evolving position of the implementing agency, since conditions affecting the
agency's ability to comply with covenants may change significantly at various times throughout
the project. For example, certain factors outside JIRAMA's control, such as lower power
demand than anticipated and several dry years preceding the commissioning of the Andekaleka
plant, undoubtedly inhibited JIRAMA's ability to comply with certain financial covenants. Given
inflation, the large financial cost of the project, the low level of electricity demand and the
revaluation of assets planned under the project, the focus of financial performance on meeting
target rates of return was probably less meaningful in this project than the contribution the
company was able to make to its investment program. In the preparation of the Energy I Project,
which followed the Andekaleka Project, the Bank seems to have learned this lesson, since it
provided for an annual review of the financial situation and the tariff levels, with the joint
participation of JIRAMA, the Government and the Bank. Future projects should rely less on
target rates of return and more on the contribution to investments from internal sources. Also,
in the context of this dialogue, the Bank and JIRAMA have agreed to a formula for debt service
of the Andekaleka investment which takes account of the fact that only 40% of the capacity is
actually in use.



MAsDAUASCAR
,NE"BQ,SAQHDRELEfQ     CR PRQIE
CREDIT NO, 817-MAG
PART I. REPORT OF THE BANK
A. EtwJe&t Identixx
Madagascar
Energy
Electric Power
Pmiect Name:    Andecaleka Hydroelectric Project
Credit No:      817-MAG
B. Backgr.ud
roiect Rationale
1.        In 1977, when the Bank appraised the Andekaleka Hydroelectric Projea (hereafter
referred to as "tho Project"), preliminary investigations had indicated a substantial hydroelectric
potenl in the country, of about 3,500 MW. lhis potential compared to a total installed
capacity of only 101.1 MW, about half of which was in the interconnected power system around
Anunanarivo. Iocreased fuel prices at the time had enhanced the economic viability of
developing some of these resources to meet the anticipated demand increase in the interconneced
power sysem and fill the demand/supply gap projected for that system in 1982. Furthermore, the
Government attached considerable importance to the development of the power sector to support
emerging industries, meet the various energy needs of the rural and urban populations and save
foreign exchaage.
Eletrc pQxr Sector
2.         The electric power system in Madagascar consisted of an interconnected system
around Antananarivo, with an installed capacity of 55.9 MW. Another 45.2 MW were installed
in 30 isolated systems (mostly diesel-powered) located outside the Antananarivo area. In the
interconncted power system, hydroelectric power accounted for about 62 % of installed capacity,
while the rest was thermal capacity for backing up the system in dry years and for peaking.
Independent electricity generating facilities for self-consumption had a total installed capacity of
about 58 MW, including 1.5 MW in hydroelectric plants. Sugar estat, which operated bagasse-
fuded steam power plants, accounted for about 23.5 MW of this total. Given the size of the
country (592,000 kn2) and its population (9 million), the power sector was at a rudimetary
stge of development. Per capita consumption of electricity, for example, was only 33 kWh
compared with 72 kWh in JCenya.
3.        JIRAMA (the Malagasy Electriciy and Water Corporation), the implemendng
agency, emerged from the joining of two nationalized companies: Electricite et Eaux de
Madagasar (EEM) and SociZd d'Energie de MadagU car (SEM). At the time of Project
appral, J]RAMA had about 3,900 staff, of which some 2,600 were engaged in electricity
operations. Staff at the mangement and technical levels were well-qualified, though the SAR



-2-
noted a shortage of qualified accounting staff. During project negotiations, there were assurances
that the Bank and JIRAMA would exchange views on the appointments of certain key positions
and contain the growth of unskilled staff. On the financial side, there was a need for preparation
of a uniform system of accounts following the merger of the two former entities. Prior to the
project approval, JIRAMA made a major effort to bring all accounts up to date, separate the
accounts of the electricity and water sectors and est'blish a uniform system of accounts. Because
of these efforts, as well as JIRAMA's agreement  -.  int a financial manager, the Bank found
the fiancial situation satisfactory.
C. Project Design an Organization
Feasibililty Wot
4.         In September 1976, following a request from the Malagasy Government, IDA
granted a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) of USS400,000, for the preparation of a hydro
project at Andekaleka. After competitive bidding limnited to Canadian companies, the Malagasy
Government, in agreement with IDA and CIDA (the Canadian aid agerncy), selected an
engineering consulting firm to prepare the engineering studies and the detailed design work. Tne
study prepared by this consulting fim concluded that, due to the projected increased demand in
the interconnected system, the project would be necessary even without the demand from the
planned ferro-crome plant which was uncertain at the time of project appraisal and ultimately
did not materialize. Tbe consultant recommended the Andekaleka project to meet projected
demand in the interconnected system through increased use of hydropower as opposed to
additonal thermal generation.
froject EMearation
S.         The Bank appraisal mission consisted of two IDA staff, an economist and a financial
analyst, and a consultant power engineer, all of whom were in the field for about 22 days in
August 1977. The Bank issued the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) in May 1978 (Report No.
1795a-MAG). This report provided a satisfactory justification for the project based on the
informadon available at the time. It also accurately identified some of the project risks, such as
overinvetment and institutional/financial difficulties which ultmately occurred. In hindsight, the
Bank, durir, appraisal and prior to Board approval, could have given more attention to certain
factors sum -nding demand projections, the financing arrangements for the supervisory
engineers, the initial financial situation of JIRAMA and tariff levels and structure.
6.         Deand  eMions. Given the importance of the demand projections for the
interconnected power system to the preparation, implementation and actual results of the Project,
it is worth preseant   a brief review of the demand analysis as indicated in the Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR). According o the SAR; the hydro capacity of the interconneced system had been
fully udlized and future increases in demand would have to be satisfied by existing thermal
capacity which was held in reserve for a dry year or used occasionally for peaking purposes. The
existng therml system would meet the demand increase through 1982 at a fuel cost of US$3-5
million annually at 1977 prices. After 1982, fue:l4ost could be avoided with the commissioning
of the hydro plant. In its evaluation of the least-cost solution, the Bank used a Oprobablew demand
forecast of 7.6 % annually for the period 1978 to 1997. It is not clear to what extent the Bank
evaluated this forecast, which JIRAMA prepared. However, the SAR did comment that (a) actual
saes figures had fallen within 15% of the trend estimate for some years and (b) the JIRAMA



-3 -
forecast wu in line with the consultant's forecasts. At the sme time, however, the Bank noted
sigificant variations in the other forecasts which had been prepared a;d the fact that the power
demand growth rate had declined steadily between 1968 and 1975; in 1975 there was an actual
decline in salo. However, demand then grew by 5% between 1975 and 1976. The SAR refers
to the consultant's analysis of the various hydro/thermal options to meet demand and tested the
sensitivity of the variability of investments using the same 7.6% average annual growth rate but
with a two-yar lag for a low case' and a two-year advance for a high 'case." However, given
the past demand fluctuations, it would have been prudent to test the viability of the investment
at lower growth rates to obtain a better picture of the risks involved.
7.         Tariffs. During project preparation, there seemed to be a strong feeling in the Bank
that since the structure and level of new tariffs would affect both the rate of retr of the
Andekaleka project and the financial viability of JIRAMA, it was necessary to complete a tariff
study by July 1977, before project appraisal. Tbe preappraisal mission issues paper (July 1977)
had proposed that, during project appraisal, JIRAMA agree to introduce a simpler tariff structure
prior to Board presentation of the project. Such a structure would allow JIMAMA to meet its
financial obligations as well as meet certain economic objectives (i.e. elimination of decreasing
block tariffs, provision of poorer segments of the population with a minimum amount of
eectricity and water, etc.). Later, following the tariff study, changes could be made based on
long-term marginal costs.
S.         The tariff study was not completed before project appraisal. There seems to have
bee some concern that the tariff issue would delay the project and subsequently the Bank decided
that the appraisal mission would not re- Ire the first part of the tariff change prior to Board
presentation of the project, unless it became necessary for financial requirements. As it turned
out, the structure and level of tariffs were issues that remained alive throughout the project's
implementation.
9. dn,tant Seleion Ed Cost EstiMation. CIDA originally had selected, from a
list of Canadian consultants, the engineering consultant which prepared the feasibility work for
the project. Subsequently, for the preparation of the engineering report, the Government selected
the same consultant from a list of six consulting firms of various nationalities, approved by CIDA
id the Bank on a "no objection basis". CllA agreed to fiance the remaining engineering work
(the preparation of bid documents, the evaluation of bids and the supervision of works) and for
this work anmounced proceedings for the seection of a new engineering consultant.' Accordit
to the Bank report on the project's preappraisal mission, this position *... came as a surprise for
both the Malagasy Goverment and our mission ... n, adding that the re-selection would result in
project ddays and higher costs.
10.        1=       E_     _    . There was some concern in the Bank about access to the
work of the consultant, wjlh - CIDA was finaing, since the Bank had the responsibility of
esuin that the enginering services, which concerned the entire project and not just the items
fianced by CIDA, received sufficient coverage. This concern increased when Bank staff began
I/   In its comments to a draft of the PCR, CIDA indicated that its rules require that
consultants be selected on a competitive basis and competitve proposals wero called from
five engineering firms, including the original firm. The new consultant was selected on
the basis of having submitted the best proposal.



-4 -
to have serious doubts about the suitability of the consultant even before the project began, stating
in an internal memo that "..in view of the all too frequent omissions and resulting subsequent
increases in the cost estimates' they had little confidence in the cost estimates prepared by the
consultant. The consultants originally estimated project costs at US$108 million, which had been
the basis fo,r seting up financing arrangements among the various cofinanciers of the project.
Later, before the SAR went to the Board, the consultants increased the estimate due to a change
in the design of the, intake gate to take account of the high sediments flows level in the Vohitra
river and the omission of certain essential items.
11.        FlnMing Aangements.   The Bank noted the critical importance of reliable cost
estimates when many cofinanciers are involved in mostly parallel financing, where, unlike
projects the Bank fiances alone, the fumds would not be fungible in the event of major cost
changes. Thus the Bank seemed aware of its difficult position but perhaps did not feel the
situation was serious enough to change the financial arrangements, especially considering the
perceived urgency of the project, and was not in a position to be able to change the consultant.
12.        Financial Situation of JIRAMA. During Project appraisal there were no audited
financial statements available for analysis and projection of JIRAMA's financial position. The
financial estimates made were based on the records of the private companies from which
JIRAMA was formed about two years prior to the project's appraisal. On the basis of this
information and assurances about hiring a financial manager and consolidating accounts, the Bank
found JIRAMA's operations financially sound. Furthermore, using the same data base, the Bank
recommended a 12% increase in tariffs in 1980 to reach an agreed upon 8% rate of rate of return
on assets. However, late in 1978, new information became available during the Bank appraisal
of a water supply project, which indicated a substantially weaker financial situation than what the
appraisal mission of the Andekaleka project had found. Based on this new information it was
found that JIRAMA would require a 35% increase in tariffs to meet the specified rate of return.
D. Eroject Objectives and Descrioign
13.        The main objective of the project, with an original IDA Credit of US$33 million,
was to meet demand growth in Madagascar's interconnected power system beyond 1982 through
the expansion of hydro plant capacity at the Grand Rogez dam at the Andekaleka site, which the
Bank and JItAMA had determined to be the least-cost solution compared to the thermal options
and other hydro options considered. The Credit also provided for the strengthening of JIRAMA,
particulauly in the areas of planning and staff development.
14.        The project consisted of constructing a cement dam, the Andekaleka power plant,
two 28-MW geneting units, the preliminary investigation and design for a possible storage
reservoir at Ankorahotra and technical assistance for the creation of a planning unit and the
tvaini  of JIMAMA staff. Je project was designed for four 28-MW units. The purpose of the
Ankorabotra investgation work was to analyze storage capacity of the reservoir and provide the
justification for the fiuture installation of the third and fourth 28-MW units. In addition to the
plat component, the Project included&a 138-kV, 150-km transmission line to Antananarivo with
necesary switcbing gear and sub-stations, as weR as engineering services.



-5-
E. Prjc mlmentation
Prole  Timetable and Disbursements
1S.       The Board approved the Credit for the project (US$33 million) on June 1, 1978,
close to the original schedule. The Credit did not become.effective until May 30, 1979, eight
months later than originally scheduled due to (a) difficulties in completing effectiveness
formalities, including the finalization of cofinancing arrangements and (b) the need for a
Goverment's decision on adjusting JIRAMA's tariffs, covering the 1978 deficit on the water
operations side and reimbursement of administrative arrears which it owed JIRAMA. Following
a major cost overrun (para. 14), IDA approved a supplemental Credit for US$10 million in
January 1980, of which the Bank disbursed US$7.6 million and canceled the remaining US$2.4
million. Part EII, Tables 2 and 3 gives the complete project timetable and disbursement. The
planned closing date of the original and supplemental Credits was December 1983. The project
was substantially completed with the commissioning of the power plant at Andekaleka in 1982.
The first extension of the Credit through September 1985, allowed for the disbursement of funds
already committed and use of the remaining US$3.5 million for a cooling system, operating and
aning equipment and management assistance and studies. IDA ultimately extended the closing
date to September 1986 to enable JIRAMA to comply with certain financial covenants of the
supplemental Credit and utilize some of the remaining funds.
Prject Costs and Financing
16.        Cgst Overrun. There was a major cost overrun on the project with total costs
reaching to US$142.1 million, compared to an estimate of US$116.3 million at project appraisal
(Part m, Table 7). The increase in cost was in part due to substantial differences between the
cost estimate of the engineering consultants in charge of supervising the project and the actual
bids received after tendering. According to an internal Bank document, the bid comparison
"...did not allow identifying specific causes for the difference between the actual bids except that
the consultants and the bidders appear to differ on the evaluation of some of the transport risks,
which are due mainly to the isolation of the Project.* JIRAMA has indicated to the Bank that
the cost overruns were essentially due to the following factors: (i) underestimation by all parties
of the conditions of implementation; (ii) changes made during the engineering designs: (iii)
unforseen geological factors; and (iv) the participation of a French firm, which was responsible
for site safety on behalf of insurers. CIDA-Canada commented that the mandate of this firm
was enlarged by JIRAMA to review the design as well, as design work progressed" and that this
"seems to have led to a sort of competition between European versus North American technology.
The on-going resolution of these differences added to the cost of engineering and project
management, delayed the production of drawings, leading to delays and claims for extras by
general contractors".
17.        Cfinancbra. Eight external cofinanciers participated in the financing of the original
and supplemental credits..: lese cofinanciers were the Abu Dhabi Fund, the Arab Bank for the
Economic Development of Africa (BADEA), the Caisse Centrale de Coopdration Ecoomique
(CCCE), the Canadian International Developmeni Agency (CIDA), the Kuwait Fund, the Swedish
Export Credit Guaratee Board, the OPEC Special Fund and the Saudi Fund. JIRAMA and the
Govenment also contributed to the financing of the project. The relative contibutions of these
cofiacis are detailed in Part m, Table 6.



-6-
18.       The SAR established a number of critical targets, given in Part m, Table 4, as basic
indicators of project.implementation performance. The project met most of these targets on time
except for a two-month delay in commissioning the power units constructed under the project.
This delay apparently resulted from delays in the railway shipment of materials and supplies from
Tamatave to the project site, resulting in an increase in costs of about US$7 million.
19.       The supervision reports for the project indicate no significant problems with
procurement through the commissioning of the power plant. However, there were some delays
in the purchase of additional equipment under the Supplemental Credit, mainly due to JIRAMA's
lack of experience and familiarity with Bank procurement procedures.
F.    e
Objectives Attained
20.        The project achieved its  major objective of meeting demand growth in the
interconnectedpower system beyond 1982, and avoiding investment in additional thermal capacity
to meet base load generation. In terms of physical achievements, the project nearly doubled
installed hydro capacity in the interconnected system, from 55.9 MW to 97 MW. However,
becas power demand did not materialize as expected, JIRAMA has had to cope with a
combined set of adverse circumstances-a considerable amount of surplus capacity at a substantial
financial cost and both demand and supply constraints to utilizing surplus hydro capacity, due to
the high cost to the consumer of the connection to the grid and the scarcity of materials for
connections. Bank follow-up work in power sector has helped to diminish these constraints, as
outlined in paras. 24-25.
Financial And Institutional Srgbening
21.        lbe Project resulted in several improvements to the financial and institutional
structure of JIRAMA: (a) Government compensation for the deficit in water operations; (b) the
appointment of a Financial Director; (c) separation of accounts for electricity and water
opsations; (d) the establishment of a mechanism for increasing tariffs in line with operating
expene; (e) the creation of a planning unitffor long-range forecasting; (f) the establishment of
a training progrm to improve staff qualifications; (g) the establishment of a uniform,
computerized accounting system; and (h) the revaluation of fixed assets.
22.        The Project was the Ba's first power project in Madagascar. As such, the project
begn an imporat power sector dialogue with the Government and JIRAMA, leading to
additionl sector work under the ESMAP Energy Asesment, the Power System Efficiency Audit
and the Energy I Project. The sustainability of the project is discussed in para. 24. Also, on the
institutional side, despite JlRAIA's difficulties in meeting financial covenants, as discussed in
para. 29, the project set the parameters for improved financial performance which the Energy I
project developed fiurher.



-7 -
Economi JmVW
23.        The SAR calculated the project's economic rate of return at 11.3% based on a
probable demand growth of 7.6% on average between 1978 and 1997. However, the actual level
of demand (4-5%) and the 22% increase in project costs have adversely affected the economic
impact of the project, reducing the economic rate of return to about 7.5%. Using.actual demand
data (1982-90) and project costs, JIRAMA has prepared an economic evaluation which shows that
the optimal date for bringing Andekaleka into operation would have been 1997 and that, in
hindsight, the thermal option would have been more economic than the Andekaleka option until
then (see Part II, pp. 18-19).
G. Project Sustainablity
24.        According to load forecasts, the interconnected system may have surplus hydro
capacity through the year 2000. Thus, a priority for JIRAMA has been expanding the productive
use of electricity. Towards the completion of the Andekaleka project, the Joint UNDP/Bank
Energy Sector Management Assistance Program (ESMAP) conducted an assessment of
Madagascar's energy issues and options and identified the need for a power system efficiency
audit. ESMAP conducted the power system efficiency audit in 1984/85, which, inter alia, dealt
with the combined issue of surplus capacity and lack of materials and appropriate financial
programs for the expansion of electricity connections. The audit proposed several programs to
make use of the substantial hydro surplus and improve the efficiency of generation and
distribution systems. In this context, it cited the exceptionally high potential return on new
connections and noted that there were about 10,000 applicants awaiting electricity service.
25.        Given the high expected return on a connection program, the audit suggested more
flexible approaches tq financing connection charges, which in the low-voltage system amount to
about twice the monthly industrial wage. The Audit also proposed external financing for the
foreign costs of new connections allowing JIRAMA to connect about 6,500 new customers per
year, a level which JIRAMA has reached.
26.        The Energy I Project, approved in 1987, contains specific elements to sustain some
of the instiution-building begun under the Andekaleka project, with the creation of JIRAMA's
planning unit, as well as some of the recommendations in the power system efficiency audit
related to the use of the hydro surplus and improvement in the efficiency of generation and
distribution operations. The project has helped to strengthen energy planning and investment
programming, improve the soundness of financial management and maximize the use of existing
power infrastructure.
H. Borrower Pefo
27.        The performance of the Borrower's and implementing agency, JIRAMA, was
satisfatory, though there were difficulties in compliance with many of the Credit's financial
covenants. Specifically, JIRAMA, throughout most of the project, did not (a) maintain a
satisfactory rate of return on its electricity operiions, (b) meet the required debt limitations,
(c) contain Government and municipality arrears at agreed upon levels, (d) implement the new
tariff structure as agreed, and (e) funish timely audit reports o the Bank. The details on the
status of compliance with project covenants are shown in Part m, Table 8.



-8 -
28.        The project files indicate that the financial forecasts were based mainly on data for
1977, with some scant information from other years. There were no audited financial statements
available. Furthermore, the financial data for 1977 reportedly were not reliable-the operating
income apparently was too high and JIRAMA's accounts at the time generally were of
questionable quality. These data problems plus (a) lower power demand growth than anticipated,
(b) several dry years, requiring costly thermal power generation, and (c) the high financial cost
of the Andekaleka investment in relation to its utilization and JIRAMA's financial resources,
made it difficult for JIRAMA to meet many of its financial covenants, particularly the rate of
return covenant.
29.        During the latter stages of the project, the Bank commended JIRAMA for its
perseverance in a difficult economic environment but emphasized concern about the deterioration
of the, financial situation. In May 1984, the Malagasy Government agreed with the Bank on a
program aimed at financial stabilization. There was notable progress in implementing this
program through tariff increases in July 1984 and January 1985, as well as studies to inventory
and revalue assets and prepare a diagnostic study of management.
I. Banl Performance
30.        The Bank's performance was satisfactory. Perhaps the most significant contribution
of this Project was the initiation of a process to inmprove electric power system planning and
financial operations of JIRAMA. In hindsight, the Bank could have taken more precautions in
relation to some of the major problems of the project, such as the areas of cost estimation and
the financial viability of JIRAMA. Specifically, in appraising the Project the Bank could have
given more attention to (a) the financial data base and newness of JIRAMA as a company, (b)
the demand side of the projections for the least-cost investment program and related project risks,
(c) the unresolved tariff issue, and (d) the types of financial covenants which would be
appropriate given JIRAMA's financial situation and institutional set-up. Concerning project cost,
since the Bank had such strong reservations about the estimates of the consultant early on in the
project cycle, the Bank should have considered other actions, given its responsibility for ensuring
overall quality control. The Bank supervised the project frequently enough and during the
supervision process devoted a considerable amount of time to JIRAMA's financial situation, but
becase of certain factors beyond control of both the Bank and JIRAMA, it was not possible for
JIAMA to comply with a number of financial covenants, as outlined in paras. 26-28.
J. Consultany Perfonnrm
31.        The Bank used a consultant engineer in the appraisal of the project and the
performance of this consultant seems to have been satisfactory. However, both the Bank and
JlRAMA expressed considerable dissatisfaction with the work of the engineering consulting firm,
employed with CIDA funds, which supervised the design and implementation of the project.
Bank criticism, for which there is extensive documentation in the project files, began early on
in the project cycle and centered on underestimation of costs, omission of certain basic items in



-9-
the cost estimates and tight implementation schedules which did not allow for contingencies.2
During the kwtial stages of project implementation JIRAMA expressed a similar dissatisfaction,
adding that the consultants failed to establish a meaningful technical dialogue with them and often
made decisions without consulting them. In the latter stages of the project, the consulting firm
strengthened its project maaement team, transferred key functions to the site and the
relationship with JIRAMA improved considerably. JIRAMA bas concluded that.the quality of
the monitoring and supervision of civil work was satisfactory.
K. Conclusions and Lessons Learned
32.        The Andekaleka project was a major investment for the Government of Madagascar
and JIRAMA. It seemed to make sense given Madagascar's large hydropower resources, scarce
foreign exchange for imported fuels, and optimistic projections- for electricity demand.
Unfortunately, the high levels of demand did not materialize and JIRAMA was left to bear the
cost of this large investment and to find ways of putting it to a productive use. Follow-up Bank
and ESMAP projects, mentioned in paras. 23-25, have assisted the Government and JIRAMA in
this effort.
33.        In hindsight, it seems that the Bank may not have fully appreciated the potendal
difficulties that could arise from the combination of conditions prevailing at the project's
inception: (a) a financing set-up which made it difficult for the Bank to supervise, directly,
the consultants in charge of the project's execution, (b) parallel financing with a large number
of co-lenders, limiting the fungibility of funds in the case of major changes in the cost estimates,
(c) the newness of JIRAMA as an implementing agency with the conspicuous absence of a
financial manager, (d) the lack of agreement on a new tariff structure at the time of Credit
approval, and (e) a questionable data base for making projections of demand and financial targets.
These conditions foreshadowed, to a certain degree, the resulting cost overruns, surplus hydro
capacity, and difficulties for JIRAMA in meeting some of the financial covenants of the credit.
In this regard, the Bank should consider the following lessons learned from the project:
(a) In cofinancing arrangements for large construction projects where the Bank has the
major responsibility for quality assessment and relations with the Borrower, the Bank should
niake sure that it has adequate control over the supervision of the engineering component, which,
though it may represent a small portion of total project cost, can play a critical role in the
implementation and outcome of the project.
(b) For the preparation of a large construction project, there is likely to be a tendency to
focus more on the supply side of the investment than on the demand analysis. This seems to have
been the case with the Andekaleka project and the reason for this may have been the inherent
uncertinty in any demand projections and the general assumption, especially at the time of the
project's preparation, that most power systems in developing countries were supply constrained
and that even if there were a temporary setback in demand growth, the target levels eventually
would materialize. In hindsight, given the largescale, indivisible nature of the project, the Bank
Z/   CIDA has indicated to the Bank that this dght schedule was imposed by system
requirements and that there were delays in providing the second consuldng firm with the
work carried'out by the first one and with housing at the project site, which affected its
ability to perform efficiendy.



- 10-
should have paid more attention to the volatility of the past power demand pattern and taken a
more cautious approach, by preparing a broader range of sensitivity analyses based on lower
growth rates, to obtain a better picture of the risk involved in the investnent.
(c) A key factor to keep in mind in drafting and "enforcing" financial covenants should
be sensitivity to the evolving position of the implementing agency, since conditions affecting the
agency's ability to comply with covenants may change significantly at various-times throughout
the project. For example, certain factors outside JIRAMA's control, such as lower power
demand than anticipated and several dry years preceding the commissioning of the Andekaleka
plant, undoubtedly inhibited JIRAMA's ability to comply with certain financial covenants. Given
inflation, the large financial cost of the project and the revaluation of assets planned under the
project, the focus of financial performance on meeting target rates of return was probably less
meaningfu in this project than the contribution the company was able to make to its investment
program from internal sources. In the preparation of the Energy I Project, which followed the
Andekaleka project, the Bank seems to have learned this lesson, since it provided for an annual
review of the financia situation and the tariff levels, with the joint participation of JIRAMA, the
Government and the Bank. Future projects should rely less on target rates of return and more
on the contribution to investments from internal sources. Also, in the context of this dialogue,
the Bank and JIRAMA have agreed to a formula for debt service of the Andekaleka investment
which takes account of the fact that only 40% of the capacity is actually in use.
PART II. REPORT OF THE IMPLEMENTING AGENCY 3
A. PEoiect Implementaion
34.        The Andekaleka hydroelectric project was regarded as high priority, receiving
particular attention from the Government of Madagascar. Consequently, a coordination
committee, chaired by the Governor of the Central Bank and comprising representatives at the
highest level of the various ministries involved and of JIRAMA, was established to supervise
implementation. JIRAMA acted as implementing agency through one of its specialized
directorates, the Directorate of Large-Scale Projects.
Probems Encounterdrin  Ilementaton
35.        Because of the project's technical complexity, the location and physical conditions
of the site, and the number and individual characteristics of the various parties involved, the
following problems were encountered during implementation:
Esentially, these were caused by the geological conditions. Becase the terrain
proved to have many more weaknesses than expected, it was necessary both to
undertake large-scale works for consolidating and strengtheningthe tunnels (through
bolting, injection, steel plating and concrete lining), and to make certain changes
I/   This secon is a translation of the French version provided by JIRAMA with some
editoril changes.



in design, such as the relocation of the surge tank, the construction of drainage
tunnels, and the lengthening of the penstock connections. Further additional
changes were made at the request of SOCOTEC, the firm responsible for
supervising site safety on behalf of the insurer under the terms of the 10-year
guarantee.
In addition, the qualitative and quantitative inadequacy of construction materials
made the following measures necessary:
-  'he sand at Andekaleka had to be mixed with better quality sand from
Andasibe;
- Cement had to be imported from Reunion because deliveries from Belgium were
delayed on several occasions;
-  Plywood and some timber were imported from Sweden.
(ii)    11=tainPWlm
At certain times, transportation problems gave coisiderable cause for concern. The
railway was the only means of access to the site, and its shortcomings were a
source of many disruptions and of certain constraints in works organization, as
follows:
- delays in starting the works in the area of the dam;
-  the total suspension of work for two days in March 1981;
-  the use of the port of Majunga instead of Toamasina for unloading equipment
and material for the power transmission line;
-  night work on the transmission line site, in order to unload cars.
(uif) Atmoaphgrc Condition
The following problems arose:
- The cyclones in December 1979 and January 1980 damaged the installations;
- In March 1981, flooding on the Sahantsiva River swept away cetain items of
equipment which then had to be urgeany reordered from the Federal Republic
of Germanyz
36.        These problems led to cost increases and time overruns. As regards the cost
increases, it should be noted that they were caused by both design changes and the conditions
under which works were executed, but that the laxter were more or less brought under control.
The question to be considered is, therefore, how realistic the appraisal figure of US$116.3 million
was, and whether it took sufficient account of the degree of detail characteizing the studies
available at that time and of the particular nature of the work to be performed. Regarding
compliance with schedules, it should be noted that, although there was a two-month overrun



- 12 -
compared with the theoretical schedule of December 1976, the project was brought into operation
precisely when the need for It was felt.
Performances of the Various Parties
C;onsultant Performance
37.        As a result of competitive bidding, Ingdnierie Cartier Limitee of Montreal was
selected to undertake engineering design, monitoring and supervision, and project management.
38.        As regards the studies, the consultant's approach left something to be desired.
Many problems occurred in the design studies, works, schedule and budget because of the
inadequacy of the basic data (resulting from incomplete geotechnic surveys), defective knowledge
of the conditions in which the project would be implemented (as regards transportation and
communications), and the attempt to adapt to local conditions methods and designs that had
undoubtedly proved their worth in Canada, without however giving sufficient attention to the
special characteristics of the project. A number of design problems (for example, the cooling
system) were solved only long after the plant had been brought into operation.
39.        As regards the civil works, the quality of monitoring and supervision was
satisfactory. In contrast, the monitoring of the electrical and mechanical work was inadequate.
A single electrical engineer was not able to undertake all the necessary monitoring, tests and
approval of the electro-mechanical installations, particularly in view of the neglect some
enterprises showed with regard to the final stages of installation. Some problems still remained
to be solved one year after operations had begun. The methods and resources applied to the
management of the project could also have been better adapted to its complexity and to the
number of parties involved (form and content of contracts, use of methods for monitoring
planning and costs).
40.        At all times, the Malagasy authorities and the donors endeavored to secure
improveaments in the consultant's performance. As a result, Cartier was asked to strengthen its
personnel and review its organization in order to respond more effectively to the needs of the
project, particularly at the beginning of its activities. The quality of personnel did improve, but
tho organizational change-involving the transfer of project management to Antananarivo-did not
facilitate in any real way the coordination between engineering design (which remained in
Montreal) and construction.
41.        Ihe difficuldties with the consultant mainly concerned engineering design, but it also
appeas that ceain of the consultant's shortcomngs stemmed from an ignorance of local
conditos, a failure to grsp the special circustnce  and needs of the project, and a
misIntpretation of its prqper role aid rsponsibilities. Nevertheless, it should be noted that,
although the relationship between the implemeng agency and the consultant was comparatively
difficult at the outset, it subsequeny improved.
lhe Ralwam
42.        Because the railway was. the only means of access to the site (except for the
helicopter), concern focused on it throughout the works. Tle condition of the track and rolling
stock (with 50% of locomotives out of operation in February 1981) and the volume of traffic



- 13 -
between Antanaarivo and Toamasina made transportation and the provision of supplies to the
site unpredictable. This clearly contributed toward delays and cost increases.
43.        Because of the acknowledged importance of this issue, all the parties concerned
(i.e., donors, the Malagasy Government, RNCFM, JIRAMA and the consultant) cooperated at
the height of the crisis in an atempt to solve the problems. 1IRAMA and the consultant
monitored the situation closely and continuously. For its part, RNCFM deployed all its resources
in order to meet its commitments.
The Contr a
44.       In general, the quality of the contractors was very good, and SKANSKA in
particular performed excellently. However, although this enterprise was well managed, it must
be pointed out that it was not an easy partner to deal with in negotiations. The contractors
concerned with the electro-mechanical aspects of the Project were, unfornmately, tardy in
carrying out the necessary final adjustm5nts in their work.
45.        The Directorate for Large-Scale Projects represented JIRAMA, and its essential
tasks were technical supervision and financial monitoring. It also participated in works
supervision, since some of its engineers became members of the consultant's team. In addition,
it was responsible for site preparation (i.e., earthworks, sanitation and the construction camp).
46.       It had to deal with the following two types of difficulties:
-    appraisa and implementation of management and monitoring methods adapted to
the scale and complexity of the Project, which was both technically and financially
unlike any other works that had been previously performed;
-    the lack of qualified personnel. As problems arose it became increasingly necessary
for JIRAMA to intervene directly in the various stages of the project (i.e.,
engineering design, works monitoring and supervision, negotiations with
contracors, and follow-up of transportation problems). The implementing agency
could not ftlly perform its role because of the limited number of experienced
engineers.
47.        Ibe action taken by the Committee with regard to both financial issues and major
problm  (i.e., engineeringdeiign, transportation and administaive difficulties) was essentidal
to the project execution and contributed very considerably to its success.
Donr
48.        The donors permanently monitored the Project by means of the various reports
forwarded to them and the periodic meetngs at which all aspects of the Project were discsed.
Their assitance was particularly valuable in solving some problems, such as those relatng to
engineedng design and transportation. It should also be noted that the donors' own procedures,



- 14 -
together with maling problems, sometimes led to delays in payment and-consequently-additional
costs.
B. Eriect Oeration
Timeliness and IMpottance gf The Operation of the Andekalek  rjc
49.        When  Andekaleka was commissioned  in April 1982, the Antananarivo
interconnected network was supplied by the following mix of hydro and diesel-powered thermal
plants:
the Mandraka, Antelomita and Manadona hydropower plants;
the Ambohimanumbola, Antsiraba and Mandroseza theamal plants.
50.        Large-ale rehabilitation was necessary because of the age of certain components
of the system, which made it difficult to maintain the quality of the power supplied as regards
both frequency and voltage. Hydropower generation was considerably affected by rainfall
%ariations an operations of diesel-powered plants were constrained by fuel delivery capacity
between Toamasina and Antananarivo. At that time, it was clear to the operator that a
hydropower project would provide the best means of ensuring the necessary quality and quantity
of power.
51.        The operating statistics in Table H-1 show the performances of the installations of
the project. Eight years after its commissioning, the Andekaleka plant is now operating at about
half its capacity. At.all times, the overall reliability of Unit 1 has been high (over 95%). In
certain years, the rate for Unit 2 has been lower because of cooling problems (76.77% in 1983
and 86.36% in 1990).
52;        In order to reduce circuit breaker tripping, extensive checks have been made to the
f,llowing items:
the control unit and auxiliaries;
goverwrs;
the cooling system;
the 20 kV distribution network.
Current Condition of InsUtltin
53.        Some problems that sdll exist are the following:    river-borne solid matter caue
rapid wear to the turbine intalces, coilars, guide vane, high-pressure tuabine rings and cooling
pipes; (i) there are operat  mismatches between the electronic controllers, electric motors ad
radial gates at the dam; (iii) at the intake, desilti g necessitates emptring the channd and worldng
by han; (iv) because the intake is located in the river ftow, there is no solution to the crucial
problem of solid matter entering the tunnel, and a trashrack rake will have to be instatled; (v) as
regards cooling, the high-pressure open circuit system is difficult to operae ad maintain; (vi)
ommunications insallations (e.g., telephones) are not reliable; (vii) a system using water power
to srt the units would have been much more appropriate than the diesel-powered system; (viii)



TABLE I.-1: OPERATING STATISTICS
Since ce moissionng              1962                     1963                      1964                      1985
U1          U2            U1           U2           Ut          U2           U1           U2          U1            U2
O units                    60113.50       57S15.20     3356.80       2333.40    6073.10       5460.20     51SS.30       5252.20    5570.40        6326.60
US conawcted                                                                    5992.20       S396.70     5066.60       5169.80    SS47.20        6299.50
NO two unite in pWratlet                                                                                  (U1u2):  1777            MUU2):   3196.3
N tontt shutdwAs           16609.50       18092.80     3243.20       354.60    2686.90       3299.80     3628.70       3531.80    3181.60        2433.40
usb r of uiutdbun            842.00         766.00       95.00        127.00     143.00         96.00      164.00        134.00     170.00         156.00
Nabwr of cirtult bresker
trippinp per unit          131.00         136.00       36.00         5T.00      39.00         39.00       13.00        12.00       15.00          13.00
Nullr of circuit breker
tripping per line tUr'UE):  131                      (U11U2):   3             (U1 uZ):  20              (U14u2):  17              MUM4U2):   14
Utilization factor (1)        78.35          76.19       SO.86         39.68      69.32         62.33       56.68        S9.79       63.68          72.22
Load factor (2)               43.07          40.70      36.52          27.06      41.90         33.21       41.02        40.56       42.36          42.65
Reliability factor (3)       f96.68          94.26       78.90         94.54      98.94         76.77       96.67        97.00       98.18          96.36
Avaltability factor (4)       89.23          66.28       SS.67         48.96       2.73         66.S9       91.38        39.65       89.16          91.71
Gross genration           745821.10      670958.20    35551.20      18312.30   7385.30      S27.60    61337.00        61781.30    68536.S0      7366-30
Total genration             (14M2)i  1424779.3        (UIU2):   53863.S        (U14U2):  126564.1        (U1.U2):  123118.3        MUM u2):   146802.-
Peak                        MU1U2:  51000              (UILU2):  35200          (U1.u2):  31000           (U14U2):  33000          (U14MJ):   37500
1986                      1987                     1966                     1969                      1990
U1          U2            U1           U2           U1          U2           U1           U2          U1            u2
NO unmite                   74S4.90        7439.60     847.80        8322.80    7399.20       7068.60     6438.20      8320.50     8214.80        7391.30
NO covneted                7406.80        7395.30     8439.40       6313.10    7374.60       7063.30     8432.60      8303.00     8204.50        7363.90
HO two units In parallel    (U14(2)t   6167.4          MU1U2):  8137.6          (U1.u2):  526.7          lU14Ue):  7961.7   .     (U1.U2):  6923.2
N total sabtdw.             130S.10        1320.40      312.20        437.20    134.80        171S.40      321.60       439.50      54S.20        1368.70
Nuer of shutdoAS              76.00          68.00      41.00          41.00      94.00         81.00       24.00        3S.00       35.00          26.00
mber of circuit breaker
trippinp per unit            6.00           4.00       7.00           S.00       4.00          2.00        3.00         2.00        6.00           2.00
NIer of circuit breaker
tripping. per lne         (U1MU2):   16              (U1412):  15             MUlMu2):  14              (U14u2):  15             (U14U2):  17
Utilizatien factor (1)        85.10          84.93      96.43          94.99      84.23         80.47       96.33        94.96       93.77          84.37
Load factor (2)               38.63          38.07      43.02          43.76      41.96         41.17       41.40        38.37       53.47          48.69
Reliability factor (3)        95.66          94.35      99.44          99.11      98.92         99.47       99.80        98.90      9f.SO           86.36
Avalability factor (4)        93.07          94.14      96.79          96.48      95.02         95.1T       97.10        96,90       93.00          84.58
Gross Generation           62952.10       81576.70   1946.50       1048.40   90074.50        84399.00   101497.00      92601.50   127399.00      194377.90
Total gnratfon              (01112):   16426.8        (0U12):  209552.9         (UIu2):  174473.5        (U14U2):  194098.5  -     u1 u2):  231776.9
Peak                        (U14U2)s  39500            (U1'U2):  4600           (Ulu2):  48000           (01MU2):  46000          (U1 u2):  51000
Key Def lnitle
Ts    Tim In hours                                                        Utilization fector: NO/T
NO:   aIurs In operation                                                  Load factor: G/W x T
6:    Geeation                                                             teliability factor: (T  S)/T
1:    Rated output                                                        Avi tability factor: (T  N - S)/I
N:   hNuber of hours of plam-d  hutdwtAm  for mintenance
S:    Pled forced shutdoma (hours)



- 16-
the equipment and components used come from widely differing sources (Canada, Sweden, the
Federal Republic of Germany, France, Switzerland, the United States, etc.) and spare parts are
difficult to obtain; the manufacturer of some equipment has prematurely ceased; (ix) while the
main items of equipment operate satisfactorily, some interfacing and linking components are not
up to the same standard of quality.
54.        When this type of project is designed, the impact of the technological options
selected on future operation must be thoroughly analyzed, and the operators' experience must be
taken filly into account, so that the installations can be operated as profitably as possible.
Planned Activiies
55.        As part of the Energy I project, all the main components (i.e., turbines, alternators,
transformers and gates) will be overhauled in the near future. Efficient desilting equipment will
be acquired and trashrack rakes and intermediate elements between the controller and the level-
adjustment power actuators will be installed.  As regards intake operation, remote data
transmission will be increased and upgraded and the coolant circuit will be rehabilitated and
improved. Finally, it is planned to strengthen maintenance resources and provide for persoAnel
development, particularly as regards repairs to the main items of equipment carried out with
support from the suppliers of the units.
C. Retrospective EconQmic Evaluation
56.        The Andekaleka hydroelectric project was initiated in 1978 and completed at the
beginning of 1982. It was brought into operation in 1983. Currently, the plant generates only
about 48% of its energy capability.
Obiectives of thie Studv
57.        This retrospective economic evaluation has the following objectives:
-   determine the optimum date for Andekaleka to be brought into operation, in light
of actual demand trends from 1982 to 1990 and current projections for the 1991-
2000 period;
-   determine the economic rate of reurn for the delayed version of the Andekaleka
hydroelectric project, compared with a thermal reference option;
-    assess the aul additional cost of Andekaleka (in 1982) in relation to the reference
thermal option.
Methoxdolg
58.        A compaison of "Objective Functions' (total discounted costs: capital investment
+opeing costs + outage costs) for the three possible options was prepared using the ENPEP
electric power system planning software (WASP I). The options considered are as follows:



- 17 -
(1) Power plants available in 1982, the hydropower candidates for rehabDlitation, and
the thermal candidates (6 MW and 8 MW), with the Andekaleka project (first
phase) supplying 58 MW when neeed.
(2)  Power plants available in 1982 without Andekaleka: hydropower candidates for
rehabilitation and the thermal candidates (6 MW and 8 MW); the "reference thermal
option'
(3)  Power plants available in 1982 with the Andekaleka project brought into operation
as ot that date (actual situation).
59.        Power and Energy Consumption in the Integcneted Network:
1982-90:     actual trends
1991-2000:   demand projections given by the least-cost power expansion
plan (PEMC I), revised in light of 1990 developments
Monthly load duration curves: the PEMCI profiles were applied throughout the period for the
study, and were adjusted in accordance with the actual and projected annual demand factors.
60.        Gien raingPans
I) Thermal plant existing in 1982: 29.20 MW.
(i) Project Candidates:
-ermal: 6 MW and 8 MW fuel oil units.
HydweMr: Andekaleka 58 MW (first phase), together witi rehabilitation of
current system.
61.        Co. Costs have been adjusted to match economic conditions in 1982.
(i) CgRital 1&_=ent (USS per kW)
6-MW unit: foreign exchange = 369.8; local currency = 65.3
8-MW unit: foreign exchange = 365.5; local currency = 64.5
Sources: (1) Feasibility mdy on the Ankorahotra reservoir (EdF, August 1980).
(2) PEMC1 Project Bank (HQI, Octolar 1990).



- 18-
(1) Andekaleka: foreign exchange = 1,982.5; local currency = 467.5.
Source: Andekaleka Hydroelectric Project Completion Report, November 9,
1990* Part m, p. 14 (final costs). .
(2) Rehabilitation: foreign exchange = 276.2; local currency = 86.7.
Source: PEMC1 (adjusted to 1982 levels).
(Hi) Onr.a tinCost
HvYrow: Fixed costs of plants:
Run-of-river: US$0.40 per kW per month
With reservoir: US$0.80 per kW per month
].ermal (excluding fuel):
Fixed costs:     fuel oil = US$1.90 per kW per month
gas oil = US$2.90 per kW per month
Variable costs:    fuel oil = US$3.70 per MWh
gas oil = US$8.20 per MWh
;iii) Fuel CM. Fuel costs are based on the 1982 international crude oil price (US$14
per barrel), and consist of a foreign exchange component and a local currency
component. The foreign exchange costs have been increased by an adjustment
coefficient based on changes in the cost per barrel of oil at constant 1982 prices
(USS). 'he local currency component has been increased by 10% up to 1986 (the
reference thermal option) in order to take account of supply problems.
Fuel Costs (US cents per 10' kcal)
Foreign exchange: fuel oil = 2,031.0   gas oil = 3,139.0
Local currency:  fuel oil = 312.6    gas oil = 298.1
(nr) egg Csts. Ihe outage costs for assessing the cost of energy not supplied was
asumed to. b US$200 per MWh.
(v) Fc i              The discountrate pplied in the sudy was 10%. Sensitivity
analysis was performed with rats anig from 1% to 15%.
(vi) aPingnritegn. The reliability criterion for the network was based on a
probable loss of load of 0.274% (i.e., one day per year).



- 19 -
Results of the Study
62.         With the revisod demand projections over the period from  1982 to 2000, the
following results were obtained:
(1) The optimum date for bringing Andekaleka into operation was 1997 (objective
function = US$64 million).
(2) The objective function for the reference thermal option was US$60 million, a
difference of US$4 million in favor of the thermal option over the Andekaleka
option.
(3) The additional cost, representing the difference between the reference thermal
option and the currently existing situadon, is US$95 million.
63.         The total discounted costs (see curves) show that the solution incorporating
Andecaleka (1997) is cost effective in comparison with the thermal option when discount rates
are below 3.5%. With higher rates, the two soludons are almost equal. The results would
obviously be much less favorable for Andekaleka (1982).
PEAK FORECASTS: 1982-2000
170                                             -
:~  1500           _--          I I 
1l0                   CARTIER Projections
.140      7_            I  'I L L1
ss 130  =I I Iv
V   120                      -
:g ' _1   -    -                     _        
.0 100~ --
.C   = -   -    -    -oJIRANA Projections'
40
1A2      1.966      1.990    1.994     1.9
YEAR
OPTIONS: THERMAL AND ANDEKALEKA
~140O
-@    130                                            i
120,
70,
S-  ' 50             '
- 40     _       ,,,,,|,, 1 
1     3     5     7     9    11    13    15
OISCOUNT RATE (S)
O  THERM.+  ANDEKAL 97 o   ANOEKAL 82



- 20 -
64.        This study confirms that, because of the scale of investment in a hydroelectric
project, the time taken by the studies, the implementation period, its lifetime and its indivisible
nature, the economic rate of return for such a project is much more dependent on demand
projections and changes in oil prices Mhan would be the case with a thermal project.
D. Finacial Posi
65.        The rate of return has varied considerably, depending on the revaluations of the
fixed assets associated with the project, and has never reached the intended levels (5% in 1985,
6.5% in 1986, and 8% for other years). It shoild be noted that, although the revaluation
indicators for these fixed assets were proposed by our consultant (CGE), we consider them
unrealistic in view of the actual price comparisons we have made for some of the equipment.
Consequently, the rate of return per year used in this study is to, be considered indicative.
A more detailed and specialized study should be made in order to solve the revaluation problems.
66.        In any case, currently available data indicate that it would have been necessary to
make additional tariff increases of approximately the following values in order to achieve the
target rate of return:
1984       1985       1986       1987       1988       1989
96%        53%        60%        74%        83%        81%
The tariff increases already applied were as follows:
1984       1985       1986       1987       1988       1989
(June)     (Feb.)                (Feb.)    (Jan.)      (Jan.)
Medium       20%         10%        -          21%        25.8%      40.8%
voltage
Low          20%         10%        -          14%        5%         20%
*Voltage
67.          In fact, tariffs could not be increased to the necessary levels because of the
potential socioeconomic and political repercussions. In addition, JIRAMA itself cannot take
action to increase tariffs, because the latter are set by the Government. However, there were
other reasons why JMAMA could not achieve the intended rates of return: (i) atal demand in
the interconnected network was considerably less than expected, and Andekaleka has not been
used as anticipated; and (ii) the loss in value of the Malagasy franc vis-a-vis other currencies
(which was not anticipated at appraisal) had a considerable impact on the company's income, with
considerable increases in the prices of imported materials and equipment, and excessively large
exchange losses.
68.          JIRAMA and the Government of Madagascar have adopted the following
measures to improve the overall financial position of the company:
yearly tariff increases;



- 21 -
reduction of arrears from the public sector to three months of consumption, by
means of the following measures:
an agreement by the Government, JIRAMA and SOLIMA (the state-owned
petroleum company) to settle their reciprocal debts (in 1983, 1984 and
1985);
notes payable to JIRAMA issued on the basis of withholdings by the
Directorate of the Public Treasury for the purpose of both repaying
government advances and paying the consumption tax;
compensation of reciprocal debts between the Government and JIRAMA;
assumption by the Government of responsibility for the debts of Andekaleka and
Namorona, with the amounts incurred up to 1987 being counted as a capital
increase. In order to limit this large and fictitious capital increase, the
Government decided that, from 1988, these amounts would be added to the
current account of the Government and no longer to its equity holdings. The
main purpose of this measure was to finance JlRAMA's exchange losses on its
Andekaleka and Namorona debts.
69.          The debt service ratio was 0.8 in 1989, instead of the 1.5 minimum required by
the Bank. It was increased to 4.4 considering that the Government took responsibility for the
debts of Andekaleka and Namorona. Delays on customers' debts were over nine months in 1984.
Public sector debts were reduced to three months of consumption in 1989, and held at that level
at the end of July 1990. JIRAMA hopes that the position will remain stable in future, as a result
of the increasing efforts of the government agencies and local authorities to absorb these debts.
70.          It is to be regretted that, in contrast to the treatment of the financial aspects of
the Project, no decision was taken at appraisal to analyze in greater detail the condtions
governing project implementation and operation (e.g., the physical conditions, the complexities
arising from the number of parties involved, the experience, capacity, resources and structure of
the implementing agency, operating constraints, etc.), so that a more suitable implementation
strategy and form of organization and monitoring could have been recommended.



- 22 -
PART m. STA,SIiCAL NFQRMf1Q
A. Related Bank Cledits
Tbte 1: IBED CREDITS RELEVANT TO THE PROJECT
Name of         Approval    Aoq.nt
Credit No.   Project           Date     US$ mlliton   Description
1616-NAG     Petroloem        05/80        10.5        Assistanco  to iprove knowledge of
Exploration                              hydrocarbon potential and propare
Promotion                                 appropriste petroltu  logisiation for
exploration pro otion
1296-NAG     Teimiroro        11/82        11.5       Assistnce  to asose  the economic
Heavy Oil                                viability of the Teimiroro heavy
Exploration                              oil deposits
1787-NA"     Energy I         08/87        25.0       Assistwnce to-the power sector In systso
isprovmnts, production of household
nandu ndtrial fuels, nergy and power
sector pluming
B.  Proiet Timetable
Table : PROJECT TINETASLE
..........Cr. 817-NAG ------------      ..........Cr. 817-1-NAG........
Date       Date           Date          Date         Date        Dote
Pltned    Revised          Actual       Plain-d       Reviased     Actual
Identiffcation /l                                       04/73
Pro-Apprisal Nission /k       08/75     10/75
Pro-Appraisal Nission         02/76                  04-05/76
Pre-Apprafs"l Mission                                   10/76
Pre-Appraial Mission          02/77                     02o7
Appr tstl NMsion              07/76                     08/77
Credit Negotfations           02/n                   03/16/73           10/79                 11/19/79
boand Approva              05/29/78                  06/01/73        01/29/60                 01/29/80
Credft Sigture                06/78                  06/19/78        05/08/60                 05/08/80
Credit Effectivenes           09/78  11/15/78  /    05/30/79         09/08/6    12/01/80    12/17/80
02/15/79
04/16/79 /d                    09/16/86
05/31/79
Credit Closong             12/31/83                  07/19/82 /f    12/31/83   02/14/P        03/23/87 /I
09/15/85'*
09/16/866
-  delays due to undfsbusd balan
/   ecoissance missin
ee-apppraisal dissions were n    d In order to clHer the w  for the appraisl en
key  1saus  for the project& namely tariffs; Industrial  propects  and c lensation isse
for nationalization of msets
/    Delays du to difficultti   in copletin  effectiveness formlitis, including the
finalization of cofinencing agremntc.
/d  To allow for a Coverernrnt decision on the radJustment of the tariffs of JIRMA, for its
covering of the 1978 deficit of water operations nd Its reimbursement of the adeinistrative
arrears owed to JIRANA.
/t Last disburs int.



- 23 -
C. Credit Disbursements
Table 3: CUtLATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISWRSENENTS /j
(USS mi t t ion)
ANK FT  1979  1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987
Appraisel Estite       1.5  11.0  24.5  33.0  --
Actual                  3.8  10.4  21.2  33.0  36.6  36.9  37.3  38.8  40.53
Actual *as  of Estimte    251.3  94.9  86.6 100.0  --   --   --
/I Cobined disbursemants of the original ad su4plpontal credits.
D. Proiect Im2lementation
Table 4:  PLANNED AND ACTUAL COMPLETION DATZS OF COMPONENTS
Planned           Actual
Description                                   Completion       Completion
Call for Tenders Civil Contract                06/01/78           05/78
Call for Tenders Turbines & Generators         06/01/78           05/78
Call for Tenders Transmission Line             10/01/78           10/78
Contract Award Civil Contract                  03/01/79           02/79
Contract Award Turbines & Uenerators           03/01/79           04/79
Contract Award-Transmission Line               05/01/79           05/79
Commissioning First Unit                       02/01/82           04/82
Commissioning Second Unit                      04/01/82           06/82



- 24 -
Z. Proiect Costs and Financina
T ble 5: PROJECT COSTS
(USS million)
Appraisel Revised      Revised      Revised      Revised        Final
Itm                      Estimte  Estimte /l  Estimteto /  Estimate /   Estim_te /        Costs
1. Preparation Works          4.634      6.521        6.653        6.653        6.653          6.6
2. Dm and Civil Works        31 .330    47.262       87.463       87.463       90.000         87.4
3. Turbines nw  Vates         4.977      6.83         4.313        4.313        4.599          4.7
4. Gates end Lining           8.941     12.195        4.670        4.190        4.670          4.3
5. Electrical Equipment       3.067      4.194        2.337        2.337        2.578          2.3
6. Generators                 3.984      5.614        4.864        4.864        4.864          4.9
7. Transformers               1.491      2.059        1.484        1.484        1.484          1.5
8. Switching Stations         4.826      6.733        4.589        4.589        4.751          4.6
9. Tranmission Line           6.758      9.270        8.677        9.992        9.998          8.7
10. Local Supervision          3.823      4.952        6.058        6.058        6.058          6.0
11. Engimnring                 6.805      8.656        8.361-      11.986       12.994          9.2
12. Technical  Assistance      1.456      2.000        1.915        1.915        1.915          1.9
and Training
13. Preliminrry Ankorahotre    0.300      0.300        0.849        0.755                       n.e.
Investigation
Physical Contingencies    11.231
Price Contingrenies       22.669
TOTAL             116.272    116.589      142.233 lb  146.599 /   150.564 /_      142.1 /l
/l The first revised estimate dated February 1978. the second October 1979, the third June 1980,
the fourth May 1981. After the Appraisal Estimate, the contingencies were directly included
In the costs.
lb This major Increser (22.3X) was due to consultantsr errors in cost estimates. It mainly concerned
the Civil works.
lE The project wai then fftected by difficulties both in schdule (ca costly five week delay) nd
costs (transmission line).
/i The project wua eight wubks behind schedule (delays In the Civil Works and a late delivery of
the trancaission line matrials).
It Due to the devaluation of the other currences in relation to the US doller.



- 25 -
Table 6: PROJECT FINANCING
(US$ mitlion)
Source                                           Pltmned   Revised /I   Revised /I   Final
Extemat Sourcs:
IDA                                              33.0        43.0          43.0        43.0
Civil Works                                       6.8        31.5          31.4        29.2
Turbines, Valves & Other Equipment                5.0         4.3           4.3         4.0
Gates & Tuwel Linings                              8.9         4.7           4.2         3.3
Transformsrs                                      1.5
Consultants' Services  nd Training                1.2         1.2           1.2         0.8
Refunding of Project Preparation Facility         0.4         0.4           0.4         0.4
Preparation Facility
Unallocated                                       9.2         0.9            1.4        5.3
ABU DIASI Fund                                    5.0         4.2           4.2         4.2
BADEA                                            10.0        10.0 U0.0                 10.0
CCCE                                             16.5        18.0 /I       18.0        18.6
CIDA                                             15.4        14 9 /I       19.9        19.2
KUWAIT Fud                                       10.0        100           10.0         9.7
SAUDI Devlopment Fund                            12.0        12.0          12.0        11.9
SWEDISH Export Credit                              -         10.0          10.0        10.0
OPEC Special Fund                                             6.5           6.5         6.5
Sub-Total                                101.9      128.6          133.5       133.1
InternMl Sources:
JIRAMA                                           14.4        14.5          14.5        14.5
~~~...  ._...          .....       .......... .......
TOTAL                                    116.3       143.1 /j      148.0 /t   147.6 It
p  Financing Plan dated October 1979. required by cost overruns.
/k  Plus USS2.5 million as a result of exchange rate adjustments.
/;  Plus US$1.4 million as a result of exchange rate adjustments.
;d  Financing Plan dated Jure 30, 1980 (updated figur").
;j  The url located IDA Funds represent the difference beteen these
figures and the total project costs.
F.  Economic Imnact
Table 7 ECONOMIC IMPACT
Economic Rate of Return
Appraisal Estimate                  Actual
11.3%                       7.5   (est.)    /1
IA Using actual demand data for 1982-90 and project costs, JXRAIMA has
prepared an economic evaluation which shows that the optimal date for
bringing Andeka1eka xinto operation would have been 1997 and that, in
hindshight, the Ite*mal option would have been more economic than the
Andekaleka option until then (see Part rr, pp. 18-19).



- 26 -
G. Status of Credit Covenants
T.ble 8: COMPLIANCE WITH CREDIT COVENANTS
SectionlCovenant                                                   Status of Cwrpliance
Credit Agreement
Stcflon 3 03.  Without limitation or restriction upon any       The Government has compensated JIRANA the
of iti obitiong under SectIon 3. 01 of this Agreomant, the      FNG 470 million water deficit of 1979.
Sorrower hAll provide or cause JIRANA to be provided with       Tariff increaes have eliminated deficits
the nees ary funds to finance deficits and construction        for water operation.
requirmeents of the water operations of JIRANA.
Proiect Aareeent
S clion 2.02.  In order to assist JIRAIA  in: (a) the           Satisfactory.
supervision of the corstruction of the Project; (b) the
preporation of bidding documents for the project; and (c)
carrying out Part S of the Project, JIRAIA shall employ
engineering and management consultants- and other
specialists whosc qualifications, experience and terms and
condition of *ployent shall be satisfactory to the
Association.
S jtlgq   2dO4.  J IRA"    uradortakes   to   insure,   or      Satisfactory.
make adequate provision for the insurance of the imported
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
relent to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to
the oaquisItIon, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation and for such insurance any
ind enity shall be payable In a currency freely usable by
JIRA1A to replace or repair such goods.
Section 3,01.  JIRAMA shall take out and mintain with           Satisfactory.
responsible insurers insurance against such risks and in
such moimts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice.
Sectfon 3.0l. JIRANAsholl notify the Association of any         A Financial Director was appointed and is
proposed appointment to the position of its intercom  cted      performing satisfactorily.
zone mnager, development manager, or adeinistrative and
financial manger, in advance of any such  ppointment in
order to afford the Association an adequAte opportunity to
cooment thereon.
.Setlon 3L05.  Except as the Association shall otherwise         In Jawwary 1981  JIRANA has set up ANJAR as
agr e   JIRANA shall (a) apply all Its resources to public      a  100X  subsidiary  to  take  over  Its
utility operations;and (b) not later than Decwer 31.             invostments In water meters, electric bulb
1980. transfer to a separate entity or entities  ll assets      and   household   applines   factories.
liabilities, rights and obligationr of JIRANA other than        Noevevr    only   operations   have   been
puilic utilfty operation,                                       trnsferred.  Agre ment was reached that
the "Fonda Uational d lnvestisseantsm or
another   entity   would   receive   the
tronsforred asts and liabilities for the
agreed value of FNO 3 billon. As of the
ltst supervision report on file, no action
had been taken.
Suction j.p 0I    .  Pursuant to pers. (a) of this section,     JIRANA has maintained seprate accounts for
JIAA  Sihatl  mintain scponate  ccoaunts for its water          its electricity and water operationr.
supply m*d electricity operations.



- 27 -
Tabtk J (continued)
SectiofvCovent                                                     Status of CopI fence
sectitL   4.02, Z   JIRAMA  shall:  (ii)  furnish  to  the..   JIRAIA coplied but statement  were often
ASSOC*iaton *  soo  as availoble, within five months ofter       late.
the end of each year, (e) certifled copies of its financlel
statemnts for such year as so audited and (b) the report
of sch  udit by ooid auditors, of such scope and in such
detelso as the Asoceation shell have reasonably requested;
and (ifi) furnish to the Association such other informtion
concerning the accounte ad financial statements of JIRANA
nd the audit thereof as the Association shall from tim  to
tim reasonably request.
Section  4.03  te. Except  as  the  Association  shall           Unatiefactory.  JIRANAs rate of return
otherwise agree, JIRANA shall take all necessary step           for electricity operation  was about 1.7%
within its power (including but not limited to adjustments    in 1979 and in spite of tariff increases in
to its teriffs for electrical enrgy) as shatl be required       July 1979 and January 1980 was 1. in 180.
to provide JIRAIU with not operating income sufficient to       It  ouinted to 2.7% in 1981 nd was 3.3% in
yield a rate of return on the vltw of ito net fixed assoets     1982  in  spite  of  tariff  increases  in
of not le  then 3.5% in 1979, 4.5% in 1980, 6% in 1981, 7%      Decer 1981. Target rates of return were
in 1962. 8% in 1983 and thereafter. JIRANA shall conult         revised dow rd in view of the difficult
with the Association three months prior to the begoning of      financial situation created by the excess
each year with a view to determining the aoumt of the           capacity of Andekateka.
tariff increase required to achie  the required rate of
return on Its net fixed assets as specified above.
Sectfgo    4    o.04   .     Except  as  the  Association  shall   LUnstisfactory as of latest supervicion
otherwise agree, JIRAMA shall not: incur any short-term         report on file. On December 31, 1984. the
debt if, after the incurrence of such short-term debt, all      net  short-term  debt  comprise  FPC  4.1
short-term debt of JIRANA  including the short-termdebt to      million  in  overdraft   nd  about FlOG 7
be incurred, would exceed 1/6 of the gross consolidated         billion  in debt to third parties,  amog
revee of JIRANA for the twelve month period ifediately          thm, the oil distributor, SOLINA.
preceding such incurrenco.
Sectia o    4.04  (bl.   Except  as  the  Association    atll   Satisfactory compliance according to the
otheruisoe  ogr, JIRAN    hall not: (b) incur any debt           latest   supervision   report  on   file.
unless its consolidated net reveu  for a twelve-month           According  to  that  record,  no  mjor
period next preceding. the date of such incurrence, shall       borrowing wa anticipated through  nd-1986
not be leso  than 1.5 tims the meximm conrolid ated long-        in  view  of  JIRALA's  poor  finoncial
term service requirement for any succeedin  fiscal yeor on      situation.
all long-tere debt to be incurred.
Sectton 4.05. JIRMA shall: (a) carry out a study for the        JIRANA's study and proposl for a new
elaborati1n of a nnew triff structure for its electricity       tariff   structure   (1982).   not   yet
operations based on principles of long-term mrginal costs,       Ioplmnted in December 1983 was declared
under tem  of reference satisfactory to the Asociation;         out of date in July 1985. Then, it needod
(b) prepar a toriff structure for ooid operations on the        to be revied in lint with the objectiv, of
bais of the conclusions of the above-mentioned study; nd        utiliring  existing  surplus  genrating
Cc) put into effect, by July 1, 1979, or such later date as     cpcity.
the Asociation may accept, sid tariff structure.
Sction 4. 7.  Whenever en  incre   in  the  operating           Tariffs he" increasd in line with rising
epen     of  JINAA  related  to  electrieity  utility           operating exenes.
operation  shall be caued by a  increas  in the price of
fuel or in the use of fuel by JIRANA to gonerat
electricity, JIRANA shall proeptly adjust ito tariff for
the sle of electrical enrgy to coveo the full cost of
such incree.



-28 -
Table  (contimwad)
SectiovC.vmnant                                                     Status of Copl iance
SumloMntal Memos to the Aareements
mow 1.   Dealing with adeinistrative arrears of JIRAA.           The   Governoentls  and  inuicipalities'
arrears have consistently ben high. They
reached the -level of about 1.5 year of
cone uttion in 1982 wnd 1983, before
decreasing to a Level of four months of
sles in 1984.
Now 2.   Dealing   with  orgnization   of  the  budget           Budets *re being preared each year.
department in JIRA4A.
New 3.  Dealing with taes related to Andekeleks project.         There waa no tax on iaported m_terial and
equip nt.
NM  4.  Dealing with internal audit depurtment in JIRA4A.        JIALA appointed the Chief Internal Auditor
on January 1 I96M.
Now S.   Dealing with reevaluation of JIRA rA's assets.          The inventory of assets and rewvaluation
was ccapleted by the end of 195, but was
urnatisfactory.   A new  revaluation wa
undertaken in the Energy I Credit.



- 29 -
H. Uge of Bank Resources
Staff Inot.  Due to the age of the project,  information on staff
inputs to various stage. of the project cycle was not available form the
Management  Information  System.
Table_9s   MISSION DATA BY STAGES OF PROJECT
Stage of          Nonth/    No. of      Days      Specialization   Performance Rating   TYes of
Project Cycle       Yoer       Person    fn Feld   Reprosented /I         Status /b        Problm  /,
ThrouAh Anoralsal
Identification      04/73        2          10      PE, FA                 n.e.
Prpearation I       10/75         2         10      PE, FA                 n.s.
Preparation 11      04-05/76      2         12      PE, FA                 n.o
Preparation III     10/76         2         16      PE, CON                n.o
Pro-Approfsl        02/77         2         11      PE, FA                 n.e.
Appraesal           08/77         3         22      FA, PE(CON), EC        n.s.
Mryf sio
Supervision I       08/78         2         13      PE, FA                  1
SupervisionII       03;79         3          9      PE, FA                  3                F, T
Supervision III     08-09/79      2         15      PE, FA                  2                FP  T
Supervision IV      02/80         2         11      PE, FA                  I                FP  T
Supervision V       06-07/80      1          6      FA                      I                F, T
Supervision VI      09/80         1          6      PE                      2                FP  T
Suervision VII      03/81         1          7      PE                      2                F
Supervisfon VIII    11-12/81      2         14      PE, FA                  2                fP N
Superviuion IX      02-03/82      1         14      FA                      2                F, N
Supervision X       11/82         2         14      PE, FA                  2                FP H
Supervision XI      05-06/85      2         16      PE                     --                --
/ PE a Power Enginrer; FA a Financial Analyst; CON * Consultant; EC * Econormist
1 * No problems; 1 a Noderate problem; 3 * Major problem
/   F * Fincncial problem; T a Tochnical Problem; H a Mangerial problem



- 30 -
Annex 1
Page 1 of 3
JIRAMA
Actual Balance Sheets (1977-84)
(FMG million)
Opening    1977*    1978*    1979.    1980       1981     1902     1988
(1/1/77)
Assot.
Initial Expenditure                                                       106        61       18      395
Plant in operation                 24170              80683   28799    a8820    42416    42508    91777
Depreciation                        ----               1681     6960     7416      9064    10237    12466
Net Plant                          24170             29082    22839    28908    33362    82269    79322
Work In Progross                    1146                 61    12195    20186    80814    52288      8166
Other Investments                                      ----     8420     4876      6188    14069    26896
Current Assets
Cash                              1472               127       866      282       430      768      649
Accounts Receivable               3760              2689    3807       3965      7831    10909    13446
Inventories                       1266              3636      3783     6764      8162     8288     8641
Other                              103                48      ----      226       301      489      464
Sub-Total                  S9                68399     7646    11236    16724    20482    23190
Total Assets                       31914             36542    46100    66264    93187   119138   137968
Llb.6ttles
Equity
Capital                            262               262       262      252       262      262      262
Retained Earnings                 ----              17362              6116      6376     e688      287
Reevaluation Reserve              6182               ----               -        ----                --
Provisions A Subsidies           20707              9506   326282    23244    27416    30877    36010
Sub-Total                 26141             27110    26554    29612    34043    37818    36549
Long Term Debt                      3634              4047    11967    24827    89963    66982    67863
Current LiabIilties
Accounts Payable                   310             }3042       589      486      4122     5489     7473
Term Dobt: Amounts coming due   }                  }           346     1066      2170     8906     7414
Other                            )1929                        3606     4008      7686    10991    14236
Overdrafts                        ----               1344     4168     5368      6263     6066     4426
Sub-Total                  2239              4886      8699    11015    19131    26891   83546
Total Liabilities                  81914              86643    48100    65264    98187   119136   137968
Total Debt                                                     16471    81068    47386    64898    79701
Long Term Debt                                                   73X       79X      84X      86X       65X
Term Debt: Amounts coming due                                     2X        81       5X       6x       9X
Overdrafts                                                       26X       17X      llX       81       6X
Equity                                                         26584    29612    34043    37818    36649
Debt/Equity ratio                                               0.66      1.06     1.39     1.72   . 2.18
Long Term Debt/Equity ratio         0.14              0.16      0.47     0.U3    1.17       1.48     1.86
Current Ratio                        2.9                1.6      0.9      1.0       0.9      0.8      0.7
Days sales in accounts recelvable                       149      161       126      207      251      288
* Unaudited Balance Sheets



- 31 -
Annex 1
Page 2 of 3
JIRAMA
Actual Income Statements (1977-84)
(FHG million)
1977*   1978*   1979*   1980    1981    1982    1983
Operating Revenues
Electricity             4712    5253    6868    9138   10774   12645   13212
Water                   1118    1234    1506    2237    2834    3137    3577
Other                    419      548     820      103     144   16629    9095
Total            6249    7035    9194   11478   13752   32410   25883
Operating Expenses
Electricity             2030    3140    4378    4829    6395   14926   ]5738
Water                    746      828    1018    1184    1419             I 1
Depreciation            1399    1567    1767    2189    2929    3184    6017
Administration          1716    1324    1616    1926    1782   21162   12282
Others
Total            5891    6859    8779   10129   12524   29272   24037
Operating Income          358      176     415    1349    1228    3139    1847
Net Financial Charges                               606     868    2345    4913
Non Operating Income                                 14    -100    -486   -3330
Net Income                                          757     260      307   -6396
* Unaudited Income Statements



JTRAiIA
Incme  Stae e ts for Electricity and Water
1977              1973              1979              1960              1961               1963
ElIctr. Water   Electr. Water   Electr. Water    Electr.  Water   Electr.  Water    Electr.  Water
From Sales                      4712     1ll6       5253    1234      6868    1506       8626    16es     10169    2180     12144
other                            234      135        330     216       439    361         610     362       605     664      1686
Tote I Reve mm               4946     1303        5638   1462      7307    1667       9136    2236     10774    2834     14032
Opera9:ud. Expenae
Hydro Production                 100                 102                115               1SO               226               408
Thenrl Production               1271                2196             a313                4616              4916              5102
Water Production                          417                475               604                710              s6a
Dlitrlbutlon                     659      329        640     353       1075    414       1064     475      1251     535       923
Admlalstratioa                  1287      429       1043     261      1276     340       1195     370      1402     394      1576
Deproclat.on                     970      429       1063     484      1220     647       1392     693      2002     807      4976
Total Operatia9 Expenses     4287     1604       5266    1693      6874    1905       7417    2146      9799    2619     12984
Operating Income                    659    -301        317    -141       433     -16       1721      90       976     215      1048
Net Reovalued Asset                                  22306   10062     26226   11767      31924   13163     30927   14865     67505
Averag  Not Reovalued Asset      19470               21456    9699     24286   10678      30236   12791     35420   14011     64937
Rat ot Return                      3.41                1.51     -        1.8X      --       5.71    0.71      2.6X    1.51      1.6X
N.E. Dto mot available for 1962
..



- 33 
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 3
JI.RA.NA
Balance Shoot for Electricity Operations 1984-88
(millions of PUG)
1984       1885        1986      1987       1988
ASS-rS
Gross fixed assets          281270      315752     337190    425263    589473
Depreciation                182842      215192     242237    321530    465542
Net fixed asests             98429      100561      94953    103734    123931
Works in Progress             6080        3199       5408       4164       4984
Other assets                   127          98          98        97        102
Current Assets
Inventory                   6656       7814        9159      11905     14331
Receivables                12157       11602      13683       9958     13055
Cash and Baiks              2802        3235       4722       1862      1145
Other                        574         614        309       1178     -1265
Total Current Assets       22189      23265       27873      24903     27266
Conversion difference        43266       40712      61844    125968    150823
TOTAL ASSETS              170091     167835      190176    258866    307106
LIA1BILITIZS
Zquity
Capital                      252         252      26211      35301     52271
Reserves                    1224        1224       1224       1224      1224
Retained Earnings         -13668     -14406      -18003    -34192    -63265
Advances from the State    3700       25959        9090      16969     19227
Reevaluation reserve       31790      29767       22788      30229     44997
Sub-total                  23303      42801       41310      49531     54454
Provisions                   12758       14967      18230      21422     34103
Total Equity               36061      57768       59540      70953     88557
Equipment Subsidy             8644        9650      11023      11537     17087
L/T Debt                     94110       85066     103014    166542    190382
S/T Debt                     31276       15351      16599       9834     11080
Sub-total              125386     100417      119613    176376    201462
TOTAL LIABILITIES        170091     167835      190176    258866    307106
Debt/Debt + Equity            72,3        59,6       63,4       70,1       68,3
Receivables (days)             292         225        255        154        165



- 34 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3
JI.RA.MA
Inco- Statmsant for El-ctricity Operations 1984-1988
(millions of INS)
1984       1985        1986       1987      1988
Sales (GWh)                    316         330         333        347       368
Revenues:  Sales             14285       17583       18288      22119     27156
Deposits            707         959        994       1160       1378
Total Revenues             14992       18542       19282     23279      28534
Operating Expense.
Hydro-loctric                375         447         520        759       823
Thermal                     5977        6740        6929      8485      12568
Distribution                1567        1568        1822      2357       3084
Administration              1391         988         643      2395       2244
Total operating Expenses   9310         9743        9914     13996      18719
Other Revenues                  230        395         555        481       542
Income before Depreciation
and provisions                5912        9194        9923      9764      10357
Depreciation and provisions  3699         4281        5796       6756      7942
Non-operating profits          1638       3512         476        280       271
Non-operating losses          9506        3388        2430       9763     22024
Income before interest       -5655        5037        2173     -6475    -19338
Interest                      5770        6000        6011      9768      10421
Other Income                     15        225         237         50       676
Net Income              -1141         -         -3601    -
Rate of Return (%)            -7,0        -4,9        -5,3       -9,3     -14,0
(Targets)                  (8.0)       (5.0)       (6.5)     (8.0)    (8.0)



- 35 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 3
JI .RA.NA.
Sources and Applications of Funds 1984-88
(millions of PUG)
1984       1985      19861/    19871/    19881/
Operating Income             -5640        5261       -930      10611    -11136
Depreciation and
provisions                  2168        4968       4646       4957       6172
Provision for Exchange
Losses                      4455        3219       4646      10205      12655
Exchange Losses              326        -928        697       3550       1391
3rd Party Contributions      785         964        140        514      1693
Total                     2094       13484       9199       8615     10775
Working Capital              -5462       16961       3665       2926       3560
Debt Service                  8293       17182      12909      20485      25059
Repayment of rescheduled debt
for And-kaleka & Namarona             -14665       -9090    -15950    -19227
Total                     2831       19478       7484       7461      9392
Contribution to Investment   -737        -5994       1715       1154       1383
Investment Program            1176        4024       6270       3431      9924
Financing gap                 1913       10018       4555       2277       8541
Financed by:  Loans           1982        2349       2965       2071       2211
Overdraft        39          53          52        55         30
Subsidies                    62        1233                 3857
Equity Contr.              7594                  1020
Total                     2021       10058       4250       3146      6098
Cash Increase                  108          40       -305        869     -2443
Debt Service Ratio             0,3         0,8        0,7        0,4        0,4
1jFor reasons of homogeneity corrections had been made on certain values
as follows
(i) provision for exchange louses of an amount of 3340 Mfmg has been
integrated into "operating income 1986"(-), "provision for exchange
losses 1986" (+), "operating income 1987" (+) and "debt service 87" (+)
(ii) provision for exchange losse of an amount of 7526 Hfmg has been
integrated into "operating income 1987" (-),"provision for exchange
losses 1987" (+), "operating income 1988" (+) and "debt service 88" (+)



