CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 817 MAG
Development Credit Agreement
(Andekaleka Hydroelectric Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 19, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 817 MAG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 19, 1978, between the DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association.)
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the Malagasy Elec-
tricity and Water Corporation (hereinafter called JIRAMA) with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Bor-
rower will make available to JIRAMA the proceeds of the Credit as
hereinafter provided;
(C) by letter addressed to the Minister of Economy and
Commerce of the Borrower on August 10, 1976 the Association
granted an advance to the Borrower of $400,000 for the preparation
of the Project;
(D) pursuant to the terms of said advance, the amount
thereof is to be refunded to the Association out of the proceeds
of the Credit provided for in this Agreement;
(E) the Borrower intends to contract a loan from the Abu
Dhabi Fund for Arab Development in an amount of $5,000,000
to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and the Abu Dhabi Fund;
(F) the Borrower intends to contract a loan from the Caisse
Centrale de Cooperation Economigue in an amount in French francs
equivalent to $16,500,000 to assist in financing part of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(hereinafter called the CCCE Loan Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and Caisse Centrale;
(G) the Borrower intends to contract a loan from the Kuwait
Fund for Arab Economic Development in an amount of $10,000,000
to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and the Kuwait Fund;


﻿-2-
(H) the Borrower intends to contract a loan from the Saudi
Development Fund in an amount of $12,000,000 to assist in
financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
the Saudi Fund;
(I) by an agreement dated May 23, 1977, the Canadian
International Development Agency made a loan to the Borrower
in the principal amount of fourteen million Canadian dollars
(Can$14,000,000) to assist in financing part of the Project on the
terms and conditions therein set forth, and the Borrower intends
to contract from such Agency an additional loan in the amount of
about Cany,3,000,000 for the same purpose;
(J) by an agreement dated April 30, 1978 the Arab Bank for
Economic Development of Africa agreed to make a loan to the
Borrower in an aggregate principal amount in various currencies
equivalent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000) to assist in
financing part of the Project on terms and conditions therein set
forth; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
JIRAMA;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-3-
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and JIRAMA of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and JIRAMA pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c) "JIRAMA" means Jiro Sy Rano Malagasy, the Malagasy
Electricity and Water Corporation, created by Ordinance No. 75-024
of October 17, 1975; and
(d) "Statutes" means the statutes of JIRAMA set forth
in Ordinance No. 75-024 of October 17, 1975.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to thirty-three million dollars ($33,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associ-
ation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal
amounts of the advance referred to in paragraphs (C) and (D) of
the Preamble to this Agreement withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay any unpaid charges thereon. Any unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of such advance shall automati-
cally be cancelled on the same date.


﻿-4-
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1983
or such later date as the Association shall establish after
consultation with the Borrower. The Association shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 15
and September 15 commencing September 15, 1988, and ending
March 15, 2028, each installment to and including the installment
payable on March 15, 1998, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause JIRAMA to perform in accor-
dance with the provisions of the Project Agreement and the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set forth,
shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable JIRAMA to perform such obliga-
tions, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with such performance.


﻿-5-
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit
to JIRAMA under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into
with JIRAMA containing terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Association, including, inter alia, (i) interest
on the principal amount outstanding from time to time at an annual
rate of seven and one-half per cent (7-1/2%); and (ii) a repayment
term of twenty-five (25) years, including a five (5) year grace
period during which interest shall be capitalized.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall promptly take any action
necessary on its part to enable JIRAMA to comply with the provi-
sions of Sections 4.03, 4.05 and 4.06 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation or restriction upon any
of its obligation under Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall provide or cause JIRAMA to be provided with the
necessary funds to finance deficits and construction requirements
of the water operations of JIRAMA.
Section 3.04. Except as the Association and the Borrower
shall otherwise agree, (a) prior to the completion of the Project
no earnings from the electricity operations of JIRAMA shall be
used for the payment of dividends, and (b) after completion of
the Project, dividends will be paid out of such earnings only
after provision has been made for debt service and adequate
reserves have been set aside for the construction requirements of
such electricity operations.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) JIRAMA shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agreement or obligation of JIRAMA under the Project Agreement or
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;


﻿-6-
(b) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that JIRAMA will be able to perform its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment;
(c) The Statutes shall have been amended, suspended, abro-
gated, repealed or waived in such a way as to materially and
adversely affect the ability of JIRAMA to carry out the covenants,
agreements and obligations set forth in the Project Agreement;
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of JIRAMA or for the suspension of its operations;
(e) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower or of JIRAWA to withdraw
the proceeds of any grant or loan made for the
financing of the Project shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing
therefor, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower or of JIRAMA to perform any
of its obligations under such agreement, and (B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the
Borrower or JIRAMA from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement and of JIRAMA under
the Project Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (e) of Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of 30 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower and JIRAMA; and


﻿-7-
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) or (e) (i)
(B) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and JIRAMA; and
(b) the agreements for the provision of the balance of
external funds to be obtained by JIRAMA for purposes of the
Project have been signed and all conditions precedent to the
disbursement of such funds, except for the effectiveness of this
Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by JIRAMA, and is legally binding upon JIRAMA in
accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by the Borrower and JIRAMA and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and JIRAMA in accordance with its
terms.
Section 5.03. The date November 15, 1978, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The provisions of Section 4.01 (d) of this
Agreement shall cease to apply on a date twenty-six years after
the date of this Agreement.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister responsible for Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere aupres de la Presidence de la R6publique
Chargg des Finances et du Plan
Antananarivo
Madagascar
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINFINPLAN                          22339
Antananarivo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                                  440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                         248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿-9-
Antananarivo, Democratic Republic of Madagascar, as of the day and
year first above written.
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
By /s/ Rakotovao-Razakaoboana
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Andre R. Gue
Acting Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil Works               6,800,000         22%
(2) Supply and in-
stallation of:
(a) Turbines,            5,000,000         100%
valves, other
equipment
(b) Gates and            8,900,000         100%
tunnel linings
(c) Transformers         1,500,000         100%
(3) Consultants' ser-         1,200,000         100% of foreign
vices; training                            expenditures
(4) Refunding of Proj-          400,000         100% of amount
ect Preparation                            outstanding at
Facility                                   Effective Date               t
(5) Unallocated               9,200,000
TOTAL     33,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for


﻿- 11 -
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement. percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement except that withdrawals,
in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $200,000
may be made in respect of Category (3) on account of payments made
for such expenditures before that date but after September 1,
1977.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with


﻿- 12 -
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way re-
stricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associ-
ation' s reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expend-
itures whica would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceods of the Credit.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
Part A:   Construction and equipping of a hydroelectric plant
on the Vohitra River, about 115 kilometers east of Antananarivo,
including, inter alia:
(i) construction of a concrete diversion dam about
10 meters high and about 125 meters long with an
intake tower about 20 meters high;
(ii) construction of a headrace tunnel of about 5.2
meters in diameter and about 4 kilometers long with
an underground powerhouse with tailrace and access
tunnels designed for four units of about 28 MW;
(iii) provision of two Francis turbines and two gener-
ators of about 28 MW each;
(iv) provision of electrical and mechanical equipment;
and
(v) construction of a transmission line of about 150
kilometers and associated substations between the
plant and Antananarivo.
Part B:   (i) Preparation of preliminary research and design for
a storage reservoir with an approximate volume of
400,000,000 to 500,000,000 cubic meters, to be
constructed at Ankorahotra, at about 45 kilometers
upstream of Andekaleka, on the Vohitra river;
(ii) preparation of a long-term development plan for
the power sector;
(iii) preparation of (a) a study for improvements in
the management of JIRAMA; and (b) a study for
electricity tariffs; and
(iv) training of JIRAMA staff.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1982.


