COFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 817 MAG
Project Agreement
(Andekaleka Hydroelectric Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
JIRO SY RANO MALAGASY
(JIRAMA)
Dated June 19, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 817 MAG
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 19, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL DEVEL-
OPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and JIRO
SY RANO MALAGASY (hereinafter called JIRAMA).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Democratic Republic of Madagascar (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower a Credit in an amount
in various currencies equivalent to thirty-three million dollars
($33,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that JIRAMA
agree to undertake the obligations toward the Association that
are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and JIRAMA, the proceeds of the Credit
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be relent
to JIRAMA on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS JIRAMA, in consideration of the Association's enter-
ing into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. JIRAMA shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and public utility practices.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. In order to assist JIRAMA in: (a) the supervi-
sion of the construction of the Project, (b) the preparation of
bidding documents for the Project and (c) carrying out Part B of
the Project, JIRAMA shall employ engineering and management
consultants and other specialists whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association and JIRAMA shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by
the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. JIRAMA undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by JIRAMA to replace or repair such goods.
Section 2.05. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
JIRAMA shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) JIRAMA shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) JIRAMA: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record
and monitor the progress of the Project (including its cost and,
when appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it), to identify
the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
relent to it by the Borrower and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the Association's represen-
tatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its


﻿-3-
cost and, when appropriate, the benefits to be derived from t,
the expenditures of such proceeds and the goods and servir .s
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between JIRAMA and
the Association, JIRAMA shall prepare and furnish to the Associa-
tion a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation
of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be
derived from it, the performance by JIRAMA and the Association of
their respective obligations under the Development Credit Agree-
ment and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 2.07. JIRAMA shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, JIRAMA shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provi-
sion thereof.
Section 2.08. (a) JIRAMA shall at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) JIRAMA    shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by JIRAMA of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of JIRAMA
Section 3.01. JIRAMA shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.02. JIRAMA shall notify the Association of any
proposed appointment to the position of its Interconnected Zone
Manager, Development Manager, or Administrative and Financial


﻿-4-
Manager, in advance of any such appointment in order to afford the
Association an adequate opportunity to comment thereon.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree: (a) JIRAMA shall at all times maintain its corporate
existence and right to conduct its operations, and shall take
all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all rights,
powers, privileges, licenses, concessions and franchises which are
necessary in the conduct of such operations, and (b) JIRAMA shall
not increase the number of its permanent unskilled labor beyond
the level required by the scope of its operations.
Section 3.04. JIRAMA shall continue at all times to conduct
its operations and manage its affairs according to appropriate
technical, financial, administrative and public-utility policies
and practices under qualified and experienced management and
staff at all levels, functioning with such autonomy and such
powers as shall be necessary for the purpose.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) JIRAMA shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b) Pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, JIRAMA shall
maintain separate accounts for its water supply and electricity
operations.
Section 4.02. JIRAMA shall: (i) have its accounts and finan-
cial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accor-
dance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than five months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year
as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning the accounts and financial statements
of JIRAMA and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.


﻿-5-
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, JIRAMA shall take all necessary steps within its power
(including but not limited to adjustments to its tariffs for
electrical energy) as shall be required to provide JIRAMA with net
operating income sufficient to yield a rate of return on the value
of its net fixed assets of not less than 8% per annum.
(b) For th-- purposes of this Section:
(i) The annual rate of return shall be calculated by
relating the net operating income of JIRAMA for
the year in question to the average of the values
of the net fixed assets of JIRAMA at the beginning
and at the end of that year;
(ii) The term "value of the net fixed assets" shall mean
the gross book value of fixed assets used for elec-
tric utility operations, including any buildings
primarily used as offices for electric utility
operations, excluding work in progress, less the
amount of accumulated depreciation, to be revalued
annually as of JIRAMA's financial year 1977 in
accordance with methods of revaluation acceptable
to the Association and JIRAMA.
(iii) The term "net operating income" shall mean the
difference between:
(A) gross revenue from electric utility opera-
tions, including rents from buildings pri-
marily used as offices for electric utility
operations and excluding interest on invest-
ments and other income applicable to opera-
tions or activities which are not electric
utility in character; and
(B) the expenses related to electric utility
operations, including:
(1) operation, maintenance, purchased power
and administration expenses;
(2) the costs of experimental and general
research work for the electric utility
industry and of preliminary surveys,


﻿-6-
plans and investigations of utility
projects which do not prove to be feasi-
ble and are abandoned;
(3) taxes, including income taxes related
to net operating income; and
(4) the allowance for depreciation, applied
to the gross book value of fixed assets
as revalued pursuant to paragraph (b)
(ii) of this Section.
(iv) Interest and other charges on debt are not to be
deducted as expenses under paragraph (b) (iii) (B)
of this Section, but the amount of such charges
related to electric utility operations shall be
taken into account in calculating the amount of
"income taxes related to net operating income"
under such paragraph.
Section 4.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, JIRAMA shall not incur any debt unless its consolidated net
revenue for the fiscal year next preceding the date of such incur-
rence, or for a later twelve-month period ended prior to the date
of such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall not be less
than 1.5 times the maximum consolidated debt-service requirement
for any succeeding fiscal year on all the debt of JIRAMA including
the debt to be incurred. For the purpose of this Section:
(a) the term "debt" means all debt, including debt assumed
or guaranteed by JIRAMA, except debt incurred in the ordinary
course of business and maturing by its terms on demand or less
than one year after the incurrence thereof;
(b) the term "incur" with reference to any debt includes
any modification of the terms of payment of such debt. Debt shall
be deemed to be incurred (i) under a loan contract or agreement on
the date and to the extent the loan is drawn down pursuant to such
loan contract or agreement and (ii) under a guarantee agreement,
on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been
entered into;
(c) the term "consolidated net revenue" means the consoli-
dated gross revenue adjusted to take account of tariffs in effect
at the time of the incurrence of debt even though they were not in


﻿-7-
effect during the entire fiscal year or twelve-month period to
which such revenue relates, less consolidated operating, mainte-
nance and administration expenses and taxes, if any, but before
provision for depreciation and interest and other charges on debt
and excluding for the purposes of this paragraph intercompany
revenues and expenses; and
(d) the term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund payments, if any),
interest and other charges on debt.
Section 4.05. JIRAMA shall: (a) carry out a study for the
elaboration of a new tariff structure for its electricity opera-
tions based on principles of long-term marginal costs, under terms
of reference satisfactory to the Association; (b) prepare a tariff
structure for said operations on the basis of the conclusions of
the above-mentioned study; and (c) put into effect, by July 1,
1979, or such later date as the Association may accept, said
tariff structure.
Section 4.06. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, no funds will be transferred by JIRAMA from its electri-
city operations to its water operations prior to the completion
of the Project.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of JIRAMA thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 26 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accor-
dance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)


﻿-8-
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify JIRAMA r
of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have des-
ignated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For JIRAMA:
Boite Postale 200
Antananarivo
Madagascar
Cable address:                       Telex:
JIRAMA                              22235
Antananarivo


﻿-9-
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed under this
Agreement on behalf of JIRAMA may be taken or executed by its
Director General or such other person or persons as JIRAMA shall
designate in writing, and JIRAMA shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated speci-
men signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in Antananarivo,
Democratic Republic of Madagascar, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ Andre R. Gue
Acting Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
JIRO SY RANO MALAGASY (JIRAMA)
By /s/ Caleb Rakotoarivelo
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Goods and civil works shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those
set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (here-
inafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, JIRAMA shall prepare and forward
to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. JIRAMA shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods or works
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods; (ii)
customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and
sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall be
excluded; and (iii) the cost to JIRAMA     of inland freight and
other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Before bids are invited, JIRAMA shall furnish to the Asso-
ciation, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and
the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a


﻿- 11 -
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
2.   After bids have been received and evaluated, JIRAMA shall,
before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Associa-
tion of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time
for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants referred to
in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and compari-
son of the bids received, together with the recommendations for
award of the said consultants and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform JIRAMA and state the
reasons for such determination.
3.   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without
the Association's concurrence, materially differ from those.on
which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
4.   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
5.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issu-
ing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract
by more than 10% of the original nrice, JIRAMA shall inform the
Association of the proposed moditcation, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform JIRAMA and
state the reasons for its determination.


