Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2128 CE
                                             (Third Amendment)
                  (Economic Restructuring Credit)
                              between
            DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated December 16, 1991
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2128 CE
                                             (Third Amendment)
                     THIRD AGREEMENT AMENDING
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 16, 1991, between DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA (the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have
entered into a Development Credit Agreement (Economic
Restructuring Credit), dated May 2, 1990 (Development
Credit Agreement), for the purpose of assisting in the
financing of the Program referred to in Recital (A) of
the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement (the
Program);
      (B)   the Borrower and the Association have entered
into an Agreement Amending Development Credit Agreement
(Economic Restructuring Credit) dated July 13, 1990
Page  2
(Amending Agreement), for the purpose of providing
additional assistance in the financing of the Program;
      (C)   the Borrower and the Association have entered
into a Second Agreement Amending Development Credit
Agreement (Economic Restructuring Credit) dated November
30, 1990 (Second Amending Agreement), for the purpose of
providing additional assistance in the financing of the
Program;
      (D)   the Borrower has requested the Association to
provide additional assistance towards the financing of
the Program by further increasing the amount made
available under the Development Credit Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis,
inter alia, of the foregoing, to provide such additional
assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                   Amendments of the Development
                         Credit Agreement
      Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit
Agreement is amended by deleting the "and" at the end of
Subsection (d); substituting "; and" for "." at the end
of Subsection (e); and adding a new Subsection (f) as
follows:
            "(f) 'Third Amending Agreement' means the
      Third Agreement Amending this Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit
Agreement is amended to read as follows:
            "Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend
      to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set
      forth or referred to in the Development Credit
      Agreement, an amount in various currencies
      equivalent to eighty million eight hundred thousand
      Special Drawing Rights (SDR 80,800,000) (the
      Credit), which includes an original amount in
      various currencies equivalent to sixty eight
      million three hundred thousand Special Drawing
      Rights (SDR 68,300,000), an additional amount in
      various currencies equivalent to three million five
      hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
      (SDR 3,500,000) (the Additional Financing), a
      further additional amount in various currencies
      equivalent to five million Special Drawing Rights
      (SDR 5,000,000) (the Second Additional Financing);
      and an additional amount in various currencies
      equivalent to four million Special Drawing Rights
      (SDR 4,000,000) (the Third Additional Financing)."
      Section 1.03. A further proviso is added at the end
of Section 2.04 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement
reading as follows:
            ", and that any commitment charge on the Third
      Additional Financing shall accrue from a date sixty
      days after the date of the Third Amending
      Agreement."
      Section 1.04. The following paragraph is added at
the end of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement:
Page  3
            "10.  After a date twelve months from the date
      of this Third Amending Agreement, no withdrawals
      shall be made and no commitment shall be entered
      into to pay amounts to or on the order of the
      Borrower in respect of expenditures to be financed
      out of the proceeds of the Third Additional
      Financing. At any time after such date, the
      Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel
      the unwithdrawn amount of the Third Additional
      Financing from the Credit Account or any part
      thereof."
                            ARTICLE II
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 2.01. This Third Amending Agreement shall
not become effective until evidence satisfactory to the
Association shall have been furnished to the Association
that the execution and delivery of this Third Amending
Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental
action.
      Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 of this Third Amending
Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an
opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Association of
counsel acceptable to the Association showing, on behalf
of the Borrower, that this Third Amending Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and
delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is legally
binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
      Section 2.03. This Third Amending Agreement shall
come into force and effect on the date upon which the
Association dispatches to the Borrower notice of its
acceptance of the evidence required by Section 2.01 of
this Third Amending Agreement.
      Section 2.04. If this Third Amending Agreement shall
not have come into force and effect by a date ninety (90)
days after the date of this Third Amending Agreement,
this Third Amending Agreement and all obligations of the
parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the Association
establishes a later date for the purposes of this
Section. If this Third Amending Agreement shall terminate
under the provisions of this Section, the Development
Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and effect,
as if this Third Amending Agreement had not been
executed.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Third Amending Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
                  DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
                  By /s/ Susantha de Alwis
                                         Authorized Representative
Page  4
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ D. Joseph Wood
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                        South Asia
