Documcnt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8820
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
COAL MINING AND TRANSPORTATION ENGINEERING PROJECT
(LOAN S-9-IND)
AND
BUKIT ASAM COAL MINING DEVELOPMENT AND TRANSPORTATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2079-IND)
JUNE 25, 1990
Energy Division
Technical Department
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizton.



LIST OF AioBREVIATIONS
BACOMDAT    Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and Transportation
GOI         Government of Indonesia
IBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDC         Interest During Construction
MAP         Maximum Austerity Program
PCR         Project Completion Report



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD SANK
Washington. DC 20433
U.SA
Ohke di OwtwmGowat
awm  vluit
June 25, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTO0t AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:     Project Completion Report on Indonesia
Coal Mining and Transportation Engineering Project and
Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and Transportation Project
(Loans S-9 and 2079-IND)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Indonesia - Coal dining and Transportation Engineering
Project (Loan S-9-IND) and Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and Transportation
Project (Loan 2079-IND)" prepared by the Asia Regional Office with Part II of
the report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made
by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document hu a resuicted distribution and may be used by reciintu only in the petformance
of their official duties. Its contenu may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriruion.



FOR OFFIMCAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COAL W.NING AND TRANSPORTATION ENGINEERING PROJECT
(LOAN S-9)
BUKIT ASAM COAL MINING DEVELOPMENT AND TRANSPORTATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2079-IND)
TABLE OF COhTENTS
Page
Preface ..................................................                                            iv
Evaluation  Summary  ..............................................                                    v
PART I.   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ...........................  1
1.  Project  Identity .............................................    1
2.  Background ..................................................                                     1
3.  Project  Objectives  and  Description ...........................    2
4.  Project  Design  and  Organization.......... ....................    3
5. Project Implementation ...................................                                        4
6. Project Results ...................................                                                6
7.  Project  Sustainability ...................................                                       7
8. Bank Performance ...................................                                               7
9. Borrower Performance ...................................                                           8
10. Project Relationship ...................................                                           9
11. Consulting Services ...................................                                           10
12.  Project  Documentation  and  Data ...............................   10
PART II.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ....................... 11
Preface ......................................................                                        12
Highlights ......................................................    12
1.   Introduction ........... .....................................   14
2. Project Background                           ..................... 15
2.1 Objective .15
2.2 Scope .15
2.3  Schedule.                                         ......................... 16
2.4 System Design .                                                                            17
2.5 Location .17
2.6 Organization .17
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont.)
Page No.
3.  Project Implementation .        . .....................................  19
3.1 Project Master Schedule          ....................  19
3.2 Technical Deviations ..........................                  20
3.3 Capital Costs            .........................  20
3.4 Notable Successes           .......................  22
3.4.1  Decision on Development of Non-Air Laya Mines .....  22
3.4.2  Decision on Interim Coal Movement and Facility ....  22
3.4.3  Operational Constraints and Equipment Deficiencies  22
3.4.4  Decision to Restructure the Coordinating Body .....  23
3.4.5  Management of Entities ............................  23
3.4.6  Blanket Insurance .................................  23
3.4.7  Decision on Second Tarahan Turnkey Contract .......  24
3.5 Problem Issues ...........................................  24
3.5.1  Inadequate Survey and Investigation ...............  24
3.5.2  Inaccurate Technical Design .......................  25
3.5.3  Land Acquisition ..................................  25
3.5.4  Procurement .......................................  25
3.5.5  Insufficient Rupiah Financing .....................  26
3.5.6  Delay of Offshore Financing .......................  26
3.5.7  Poor Contractor Performance .......................  26
3.5.8  Ineffective Use of Consultants ....................  27
3.5.9  Inadequate Project Coordination ...................  27
3.5.10 Problems in Training Design and Application .......  27
3.5.11 Problems in Staffing and Recruiting ...............  28
3.5.12 Train Traffic Management Problems .................  28
3.5.13 Lack of Attention to Environmental Issues .........  28
3.5.14 Deviation in Coal Price Forecast ..................  29
3.5.15 Delay on Coal Sale and Transportation Agreements..  29
3.5.16 Finlancial Performance .............................  29
4.  Bank Peforman^ee ..............................................  30
5.  Conclusion and Lessons to be Learned .........................  31
5.1 Conclusion ...............................................  31
5.2 Lessons to be Learned                     ..                     31
5.2.1  Technical Design ..................................  31
5.2.2  Maximum Austerity/Valua Engineering ...............  32
5.2.3  Project Preparation Team ..........................  32
5.2.4  Project Organization Structure ....................  32
5.2.5  Responses to Change in Project Master Schedule ....  32
5.2.6  Recruitment, Staffing and Training Program ........  32
5.2.7  Procurement Procedures ............................  33
5.2.8  Time Value of Money ...............................  33



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont.)
Page No.
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORNATION .......................................... 34
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits   .              .34
2. Project Timetable    ..34
3.  Loan Disbursements (Cumulative) US$million       .     .           34
4. Project Completion    ..35
5. Project Costs and Financing    ..35
A. Project Costs .35
B. Project Financing .36
6. Project Results    ..36
A. Direct Benefits .36
B. Economic Impact .37
C. Financial Impact .37
7. Status of Covenants    ..38
8. Use of Bank Resources    ..41
A. Staff Inputs .41
B. Missions .42
4



REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
COAL MINING AND TRANSPORTATION ENGINEERING LOAN
AND
BUKIT ASAM COAL MINING DEVELOPMENT AND TRANSPORTATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2079-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Coal Mining
and Transportation Engineering Loan and for the Bukit Asam Coal Mining
Development and Transportation Project in Indonesia, for which Loans S-9
and 2079-IND in the amounts of US$10 millOn and US$185 million
respectively, were approved on May 9, 1978 and January 7, 1982,
respectively. The engineering loan was refinanced under the project loan.
The project loan was closed on September 30, 1989, two years behind
schedule. The last disbursement was on April 4, 1990, and US$5.11 million
was cancelled (excluding US$1.14 million cancelled in August 1986) during
April 1990.
The PCR was prepared by the Energy Division of the Technical
Department of the Asia Region (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and
III), and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final
supervision mission in May/June 1989 and is based, inter alia, on the Staff
Appraisal report; the Loan and Project Agreements, supervision reports;
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; and internal Bank
memoranda.



- ii -
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
COAL MINING AND TRANSPORTATION ENGINEERING PROJECT
M  S - 9)
MUKIT AZAM COAL MINING DEVELOPMENT AND TRANSPORTATION PROJECT
1LQ"V`179-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION RRPYD
EVAL'UATION SUNY
Objective
The key objective of the Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and
Transportation Project was to assist the Government of Indonesia (GOI) to
move away from a mono-energy policy and to invest in an alternative (coal)
energy development to free scarce petroleum resources and increase related
foreign exchange earnings (para. 3.1).
Enginepring and Implementation Experience
Engineering study work undertaken under Loan S-9 was effective in
providing the technical and financial basis for Bank appraisal of the
complex integrated (mine-rail-terminal-ship) project (para. 4.1). The
engineering study phase took longer to complete than anticipated due to the
complex nature of rhe project scope.
Project implementation was dogged by delays, compounded by
organizational deficiencies, with the result that the original target date
for coal movement to Suralaya slipped over four (4) years. Arrangements
for project control were ineffective (paras. 4.2 and 4.3). Project
construction faced many delays occasioned by inadequate qualifications of
staff in the implementing agencies, cumbersome and biased GOI procurement
procedures, poor performance of local contractors, protracted GOI
negotiations with cofinancing agencies, land acquisition, mobilization of
local currency, and inadequate ground investigatior.s (paras. 5.1 and 5.2).
Initial operations were disappointing. Mine development was slower than
anticipated due primarily to poor performance of main mine equipment (para.
6.3) and unsuccessful training campaigns (para. 11.1). Coal transport from
initial mine operations was slow to develop due to incomplete construction,
rail operations planning deficiencies, and settlement difficulties
experienced at the terminal site.
ProQect-Results
However, project objectives were eventually reached, which is a
tribute to the dedication of the implementing agencies (para. 4.4).



- ifi -
International coal prices, which governed the sales price of
project coal outk.ut and the revenue of the mine implementing agency, did
not follow the increases predicted at appraisal (para. 5.4). As a
covqequence and compounded by project implementation delays, the mining
company faced financial distress. GOI, with Bank agreement, will
restructure finar-ially the implementing age-icy, reducing its debt/equity
ratio to 35:65 (para. 6.3).
Project Sustainability
Following the proposed financial restructuring of the mining
company, the project is likely to sustain an acceptable level of net
benefits throughout its economic life. Main risks to sus...ainability are
development of maintenance facilities at the mine and rail components,
which remain to be completed and manned with fully trained personnel (para.
7.1).
Findings and Lessons to be Learnt
Implementation of such a complex integrated project has proved a
monumental task for the relatively inexperienced implementing agencies,
compounded by inadequate project organization and control arrangements put
in place by GOI. Although ultimately, physical project objectives have
been reached, project benefits in terms of financial results can and will
only be reached by substantial financial restructuring of the implementing
agency. This has been necessitated, inter alia, by falling international
coal prices not anticipated by the Bank (para. 5.4).
The critical importance of developing an adequate organizational
structure for project implementation that focuses on establishment of
effective project coordination and monitoring cannot be overstressed (para.
9.4). Streamlined procurement procedures are critical to the
implementation of high capital cost and complex integrated projects (para.
9.4). In cases where implementing agencies have limited experience of
development of advanced technology and complex projects, turnkey contract
options should be considered as an alternative implementation arrangement
(para. 9.5).
Although there are minor differences in focus and presentation
format between Parts I and II, the Bank and the Borrower are in agreement
regarding the definitioi, and analysis of major implementation issues;
project results; Bank and Borrower performan-e; and lessons to be learnt.



PROJECTC COMPLETION REPORT
REPU4LIC OF INDONESIA
COAL MINING AND TRANSPORTATION ENGINEERING PROJECT
(LOAN S-9)
BUKIT ASAM COAL MINING DEVELOPMENT AND TRANSPORTATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2079-IN)
Part I
1.       Project Identity
Project Name  - Bukit Asam Coal Mitling Development and
Transportation Project
Loan No.      - 2079-IND
RVP Unit      - Asia
Country       - Indonesia
Sector        - Energy
Sub-sectors   - Coal and Transpo-
2.       Background.
2.1      Prior to 1945, Indonesia relied to a large extent on coal and
hydroelectric energy for its commercial ernergy.   owever, subsequent
availability and exploitation of indigenous oil ' I the country to develop
a petroleum-based energy sector, and domestic coal production, which had
previously exceeded 2 million tonnes per year (mtpy), slumped to less than
0.5 mtpy through the 1970's. The oil crises of the 1970's and the
resultant greatly increased opportunity cost of utilizing indigenous oil,
prompted the Government of Indonesia (GOI) to formulate a strategy of
developing alternative energy sources. Repelita III (the third Five-Year
plan period) gave first priority in the energy sector to the d- elopment of
a more balanced domestic energy cors'imption, encouraging the development of
coal for internal consumption wherever technically and economically
feasible. In 1976, a Presidential Instruction was issued requiring the
maximu.. possible utilization of coal for future domestic electric power
generation and industrial use.
2.2      A comprehensive Java (Electric Power) System Development Study
financed by the Bank under the Third Power Project (Credit 399-IND, signed
June 1973) identified the Suralaya Power Scheme in West Java. The
selection of Suralaya as the major center for power development in West
Java followed Bank-financed feasibility assessment under the Fourth Power
Project (Credit 1127-IND, signed June 1975). Construction of the first
phase Suralaya Units I and II was undertaken with Bank assistance under the
Eighth and Ninth Power Projects (Loans 1708-IND and 1872-IND, signed June
1979 and June 1980 respectively). To accord with the 1976 Presidential
instruction (para. 2.2), the power units (initially 2 x 400MW) were
designed to burn oil and/or coal (dual-fired).



- 2 -
2.3      In 1976 and following the Presidential Instruction, the State Coal
Mining company requested Bank assistance to rehabilitate the Bukit Asam
coal mining operations in South Sumatra. Initial GOI thoughts for
rehabilitation were modest and through Bank financed technical assistance
(Engineering Loan S-9, signed May 1978), a series of studies were
undertaken to investigate rehabilitation of the Bukit Asam coal area to
develop to a coal production level of 3.0 mtpy to feed the Suralaya power
units I/HI (2.4 mtpy) and to service other domestic industry coal
requirements (0.6 mtpy). The studies effectively addressed major physical
issues relating to assessment of available coal reserves and coal quality,
mine system and technology selection, and the selection of an optimal
transport system to carry coal through South Sumatra and across the Sunda
Straits to West Java and the Suralaya site.
2.4      With the growth of domestic demand for oil outpacing the increase
in oil production ir. the late 1970's and oil exports showing a declining
trend, GOI recognized the urgent need to increase investment in the
dsvelopment of other energy sources, particularly coal, to ensure continued
and, if possible, increased petroleum export earnings critical to
Indonesia's economic position. GOI and Bank staff identified (1978/79) the
benefits of developing the Bukit Asam coal mine and of developirg and
integrating related transportation to carry the coal to Suralaya. The
components of the project were appraised in Octooer and December 1980 and a
post-appraisal mission was undertaken in June/July 1981.  Funds (US$5
million) were provided to initiate coal exploration around Bukit Asam and
elsewhere in Indonesia. Utilization of these funds is referenced in the
Project Completion Report dated May 4, 1989 for the Coal Exploration
Project (Loan 215$ IND).
3.       Project Obiectives and Descrixtion.
3.1      The key project objective was to assist GOI to move away from a
mono-energy policy and to invest in an alternative (non-tradeable coal)
energy development to free scarce petroleum resources and increase related
export earning potential.
3.2      The development of the Bukit Asam Coal Mining and Transportation
Project - involving the development of the Bukit Asam coal mine in South
Sumatra, rehabilitation and renewal of rail facilities, development of a
coal terminal, and provision f a ship to transport coal to the Suralaya
power plant on Java - was a first-step in meeting this objective. The key
project components were:
(i) engineering, procurement, and construction of an openpit coal
mine, and related mine infrastructure, to produce 3.0 mtpy coal to feed
Suralaya Units I/II and local industrial consumers;
(ii) engineering and procurement for rehabilitation and renewal of
405 km. of rail track from the mine to a proposed coal terminal on the
southern coast (Tarahan) of South Sumatra;
(iii) turnkey engineering, procurement and construction of a coal
terminal at Tarahan; and



(iv) engineering and procurement of a self-unloadirg 9,200 DWT
coal ship to transport coal across the Sundra Straits to Suralaya.
3.3      Other project components included development of a mine townsite,
rehabilitation of the existvig coal terminal at Kertapati (Palembang)
through which coal delivery to Suralaya could be initiated pending
completion of Taral-an, and develnpment of a short-term Muara Tiga mine
adjacent to Bukit Asam that could generete early coal pending full coal
production at Air Laya (Bukit Asam).
4.       Project Design and Organization
4.1      The conceptual fokindation for the project design was developed
through extensive pre-feasibility and feasibility study programs prepared
by international consultants and financed under the Engineering Loan S-9.
These studies were reviewed by Bank staff and GOI agencies and the concepts
were shared and understood mutually by all concerned parties. The scope
and scale of the project were appropriate and particularly timely in light
of the objective of supplying coal to the Suralaya power plant and local
consumers.
4.2      The roles and responsibilities of the government institutions and
agencies responsible for the project were clearly defined and understood.
However, the Bank and the Borrower were not in full agreement, at the time
of appraisal and at loan negotiations, regarding the most appropriate
institutional structure for project control, coordination, and monitoring
(see also paras. 8.2 and 9.3). Bank staff held the view that gc.vernment
should place the project under the direct control and supervision of a
senior government official or Authority in order to ensure full
coordination across the mining and transport sector components of the
project, and to ensure that overall project implementation was effectively
controlled and that any implementation issues received the attention of
personnel in a position to make valued and quick corrective decisions. GOI
preferred to permit individual entities (mine, rail, terminal and ship) to
control their own implementation activities including schedule and costs,
and that overall project coordination be placed in the hands of a Steering
Committee, chaired by the Secretary General of Communications with the
Director General of Mines as Deputy Chairman, and assisted by a government
Project Monitoring Group that would track progress by individual entities
and ensure integrated scheduling and efficient cost control, thus providing
an early warning system in the event schedule slippage or cost overruns
developed. This arrangement was accepted by Bank management.
4.3      In practice, this organizational structure was ineffective:
project monitoring and cost control analysis, which depended on monthly
reports from individual entities, was typically 3-4 months behind time and,
therefore, of little value in quickly identifying implementation
difficulties and issues; reports on monitoring were informative rather than
issue- and action-oriented; and the Steering Committee, although attentive
to the concerns of Bank supervision missions regarding implementation
issues, was ineffective in controlling the project and ensuring that
corrective action was quickly taken or that issues were raised to a high
enough level in Government to ensure rapid resolution of them.



- 4 -
4.4      It was the above aspect of project organization and design that
mainly delayed project implementation. The eventual attainment of the
primary project objective of supplying 200,000 tonnes of coal per month to
Suralaya is a tribute to the dedication of successive President Directors
of the individual project entities.
5.       Project Implementation
5.1      The most notable variance between planned and actual project
implementation was the progressive cumulation of project delays. The
original target date for full coal movement from Bukit Asam to Suralaya was
June 1985, a target that was achieved only in July 1989, an overall project
implementation delay of 49 months. Even by that date, project construction
was not completed (critical mine and rail workshops and warehouses remained
in construction) and the Bukit Asam (Air Laya) mine will need to be
augmented by coal production from adjacent contract mine areas (not
included in the project scope or cost) until at least end 1990. Project
delays were many and varied, and dogged the project from the outset of
implementation, and throughout construction and early years of operations.
The main reasons for project slippage included:
o deficiencies in project control, coordination and monitoring
o inadequate qualifications of project entity staff
o cumbersome and biased procurement procedures
o poor performance of local contractors
o protracted negotiations with cofinancing agencies
o delayed land acquisition
o delays in mobilizing local currency
o inadequate original ground investigations
5.2      A more candid dialogue with government representatives during loan
negotiations could have led to improved organizational arrangements for
Project control and therefore, improved project implementation (para 8.2).
At appraisal, project staff recognized that project entities would need to
upgrade the qualifications and experience of key staff by appropriate
recruitment and trainin-. Unfortunately, implementation was plagued by the
inability of project entities to recruit personnel with the requisite
skills to assimilate project technology. Proposals developed by the
entities and their international consultants to facilitate recruitment
efforts by the development of appropriate compensation packages for the
project, more in line with private sector packages, were not in line with
existing Ministerial scales and were found unacceptable by GOI. During
appraisal, allowances were made for the likelihood of Drocurement delays
but the lengthy deliberations and apparent bias of the GOI central
procurement agency (SEKNEG), and its complex procedures, were not
anticipated by project staff or indeed, by project entities. Local
contractors were frequently selected on other than a lowest evaluated
basis, and unit contract rates were frequently negotiated downward, with
the result that many local contractors were selected that lacked the
requisite physical, human, and financial resources to undertake their work
program. A more thorough review of government procedures and approval
processes for local procurement would have sharpened Bank appreciation of
this issue and led Bank staff to initiate discussions with GOI regarding



- 5
the benefits of streamlining procuLement and bid evaluation procedures to
preserve project benefits. GOI incurred various implementation delays
through drawn-out cumbersome negotiation with cofinanciers.  Initially,
many delays were occasioned by development of a GOI Counter Purchase
Policy. At the inception of the project, a 10 month delay occured in
finalizing the Tarahan contract and the project master schedule had to be
substantially revised at this early stage of   *lementation.  Similar
delays occured subsequently.  Land acguisitii.t was a major issue during the
early years of the project. At both the mine and rail sites, cumbersome
and time-consur. ^ inventorization and compensation procedures led to
substantial e...tlys -n completion of mine service facilities and development
of a rail con -:ii. into Tarahan.  OI faced increasing budget constraints
throughout prc.J,.t implementatior and scheduled equity and local budget
injections into; the mine and rail components of the project were typically
delayed or deferred. Project entities repeatedly felt obliged to defer
local works and the mining company was obliged to seek commercial loans at
interest rates not included in project costs. Deferral of study of bridge
abutment conditions by the rail company continue, to this day, to impact
the timely and efficient transport of coal from Bukit Asam to Tarahan.
Project implementation identified weaknesses in original ground
investigations. At the mine site, a major mine equipment (excavator)
redesign was required because of the unexpected conditions of overburden
and coal and major equipment downtime, not anticipated or scheduled by
project consultants ox Bank staff, occured. Serious settlement problems at
Tarahan were experienced by the original Tarahan contractor. This resulted
in a protracted soil investigation and legal investigation that finally led
to GOI dismissing the contractor and to the procurement of a second turnkey
arrangement. The project cost of the terminal consequently exceeded
estimates by US$34 million equivalent.
5.3      Project risks were defined at appraisal.  These related to
anticipated problems in project coordination and management, procurement
delays and availability of local funds. The definition of these risks was
accurate, in principle, but their impact, in retrospect, was
underestimated. Technical risks were considered few due to the well-known
technologies involved. However, the high technological nature of the mine
sub-systems selected, proved to require a substantially longer learning
curve than predicted and proposed by project consultants or allowed for in
the Bank appraisal. Sensitivity analysis undertaken at appraisal
identified the impact of various factors (delay, project costs and prices)
but did not adequately consider the impact of extended delays and a
substantial deterioration of international coal prices, or the possibility
of a combination of these factors, which the project actually incurred.
5.4      A serious project risk, inadequately addressed auring appraisal,
was that the opportunity cost of importing coal might not develop in
accordance with official Bank projections.   The sensitivity analysis
undertaken by Bank staff did not fully quantify the risk that falLing
international oil and coal prices would seriously affect financial
projections and project viability.
5.5      A number of aspects of the project design contributed to project
implementation delay. First, the project design was of a complex
integrated nature involving mine development, railway rehabilitation and



renewal, construction of a coal terminal and design and procurement of a
coal ship. Such 'a project configuration was ambitious and more complex
than any other project previously implemented by GOI. The design of the
mine sub-system selected from alternatives elaborated by project
consultants was technologically complex compared to alternative systems. In
addition, the mine sub-system had not been successfully operated in other
LDC's within the time frame envisaged by the consultants. Organizational
arrangements for the railway sub-system were complex involving two parts,
one for which the State Railway retained responsibility and another, for
which the State Railway retained responsibility but supported by extensive
technical assistance. This arrangement led to confusion of
responsibilities and inconsistent implementation arrangements. Although
the design and construction of the Tarahan coal terminal was placed in the
hands of a turnkey contractor, unforeseen ground conditions led to severe
settlement, necessitating long investigations and the eventual dismissal of
the contractor and the appointment of a second turnkey contractor. This
construction delay was the longest single project slippage of 41 months.
6.       Project Results
6.1      The primary project objective of developing the Bukit Asam mine
and related transport infrastructure to supply fuel requirements of
Suralaya power plant was met in July 1989, with the start of delivery of
200,000 tonnes coal per month to the power plant. The major variance
between planned and actual project implementation schedule occurred due
primarily to delays occasioned by sub-optimal organizational arrangements,
procurement difficulties and delays, delays in mobilization of local funds,
delays in railway track upgrading, and settlement problems at Tarahan
terminal (Section 5).
6.2      The installed project cost at project completion is estimated at
US$811 million, 28% below the appraisal estimate of US$1123.9 million. The
three principal reasons for the cost reduction are devaluation (cumulative
186%) of the local currency against the US$ over the project implementation
period; competitive costs for imported equipment, obviating the need to
utilize US$ 140.9 million physical and price contingencies; and a maximum
austerity program initiated by GOI during detailed engineering.
6.3      However, despite the project cost reduction, delays in project
implementation, slower than planned build-up of coal production and
transport to Suralaya and other domestic consumers, and a continuing weak
international coal market which depresses the price for project coal, the
project financial rate of return is estimated ar 3.4%.I/  This compares
with the estimate at appraisal of 11.7%. Similarly, the economic rate of
J/ The Borrower has calculated a financial rate of return "in the
neighbourhood or 6%" (Part II, para. 3.5.16). This calculation was
based on an allocation of part of the capital costs of the railway
component of the Project to a "within the Project" scenario. This
procedure follows that of the Bank's SAR but, due to the quite
arbitrary nature of the investment split, was not included in the
Bank's calculation of the estimated FRR at Project completion.



- 7 -
return is estimated at 2.2% compared to the appraisal estimate of 12.2%.
The financial distress that the project caused to the State Mining Company
led the Bank and Government to review the company's financial structure.
GOI propose to reduce the debt/equity position of the company from the
originally proposed 60:40 to 35:65 by the assumption of certain of the debt
incurred through project development. The Bank has supported this
proposal, in principle, which will enable the company to operate in a
positive cash environment in the future without further subsidy. A final
financial structure will be reviewed by GOI at project completion when full
project costs are evaluated.
6.4      Even recognizing the lower than anticipated financial and economic
benefits of the project and the need for GOI to restructure financially the
mining company, the project has facilitated GOI's move away from its
earlier mono-energy policies. Through recognition of the reasons for the
lower than anticipated project benefits, GOI remains committed to the
utilization of coal for thermal power generation and, supported by the Bank
in this position, is continuing to encourage specific public and private
sector plans for expansion of coal mining, subject only to financial and
economic viability, and domestic coal market requirements.
6.5      The project has contributed to human and regional resource
development providing substantial employment and training opportunities.
Although the technology selected for the project was relatively complex,
project entities committed themselves to its effective operation and
maintenance, and this has raised Indonesia's technological capacity in both
the mining and transport sub-sectors. Strengthening of state mining and
transport entities has been considerable and the capability of these
entities to undertake similar projects with much reduced technical
assistance has been considerably enhanced. The critical importance of
effective project organization and project coordination and monitoring of
complex integrated projects is now more fully appreciated by GOI agencies.
7.       Proiect Sustainabilitv
7.1      Following financial restructuring of the mining company, the
project is likely to sustain an acceptable level of net benefits throughout
its economic life. The ability to sustain net benefits is the main risk
factor and depends on completion of mine and rail maintenance facilities
and the fine-tuning of mine, rail and coal terminal operational planning
practices. Technical assistance is still being provided to secure this
position. Planned expansion of the Bukit Asam project to supply future
phases of power development, if financially viable and competitive with
alternative domestic and international sources of coal, could enhance the
position of the project entities.
8.       Bank Performance
8.1      The main strengths of the Bank performance were in assisting GOI
thoroughly to identify, prepare and appraise the project; to provide,
through its supervision effort, constructive assistance during project
construction and initial operations to define implementation issues and



options for their quick resolution; and to ensure that critical
implementation issues were escalated within GOI to expedite their
resolution.
8.2      Ths main weaknesses of the Bank's performance relate to (i)
inadequate emphasis during appraisal and loan negotiations on the
importance of effective organizational arrangements for project control and
coordination, (ii) an inadequate assessment of the sensitivity of
international coal price projections during appraisal, and (iii) an
inadequate focus on environmental matters during project supervision. In
relation to (i) above, Bank staff and regional management should have
pressed, during negotiations, for project monitoring and control
arrangements that would have expedited project implementation, rather than
accepting GOI preferences. The Bank has a considerable amount of experience
in this critical area which should have been capitalized on. In relation
to (ii) above, greater care should have been exercised in undertaking
sensitivity analyses of Bank commodity price projections, particularly in
light of established relationships between the supply/demand and pricing of
oil and coal. In relation to (iii) above, supervision missions should have
been planned to include environmental specialists to assist to define and
implement action programs to ensure controlled mine drainage, effluent
discharge, and recontouring/reafforestation of mine excavation areas.
9.       Borrower Performance
9.1      The Borrower's performance during project preparation and
appraisal was one of total commitment and led to fundamental agreement on
project scope and the need for extensive technical assistance. Project
entities were totally committed to ensure their thorough understanding of
the project components and of implementation issues that could be
anticipated.
9.2      The Borrower and project entities took a number of successful
initiatives at critical stages of project implementation, the most notable
of which were (i) the GOT decision in 1983, faced by deteriorating oil
prices and an increasingly high debt service burden, to review the benefits
of contiuing or delaying the project and to implement a Maximum Austerity
Program, which effectively minimized capital requirements while retaining
the basic project objective and targets; (ii) the development of interim
coal loading facilities at Tarahan to enable initial coal movement to be
undertaken following settlement at the main terminal site that seriously
delayed completion of permanent facilities; (iii) recognition of delays in
mine technology development and implementation of contract mining around
Bukit Asam to ensure timely initial coal delivery to Suralaya; (iv)
recognition of serious construction and training delays in the development
of mine workshop and materials management facilities and decision to
recruit additional international assistance to expedite operational status;
(v) recognition of deficiencies in the development of rail operations
planning and recruitment of additional international assistance to ensure
sustainable full coal transport; and (vi) GOI recognition of deficiencies
in project coordination and monitoring and establishment of a new and
action-oriented Steering Committee (Team Keppres 35/87) in 1987.



- 9 -
9.3      The main weaknesses of the Borrower's performance were (i) lack of
initial recognition of the importance of developing an effective structure
for project control and coordination that would have enabled issues to be
identified quickly and resolved; (ii) cumbersome and bureaucratic
procurement procedures within the project entities and ineffective
processing within the GOI procurement system; (iii) cumbersome and biased
GOI decision making in relation to procurement issues and lack of
appreciation of the time-value of money; (iv) difficulties in recruiting
staff of adequate qualifications and experience, particularly to be
assigned as counterparts for international technical assistance groups and
for operational training, and (v) a lack or focus on environmental matters.
9.4      There are two main lessons of experience for the Borrower
regarding the implementation of high capital cost and integrated projects.
First, the critical importance of developing an organizational structure
for project implementation that focuses on the establishment of an
effective project coordination and monitoring body that can refer issues to
a high enough level in GOI so that implementation, procurement and other
key issues can be addressed and resolved without delay. Secondly, a
thorough review of government procurement procedures is critical to ensure
that procurement processing focuses on the benefits of the selection of
competent local contractors and their expeditious selection, rather than
minimizing unit costs. In addition, the importance of thorough project
preparation and preliminary engineering, particularly in relation to
necessary ground investigations, cannot be overstressed.
9.5      In retrospect and in the event GOI would consider a future project
involving complex technology and cross-sector components, some benefit
might be gained by a full turnkey or BOT (Build, Operate, Transfer)
contract arrangement. Alternatively, considerable care would need to be
taken in the future by GOI and any supporting lending institutions to
review complex technology that has not been proven in an LDC environment
and to simplify project components and projects of an integrated nature.
The importance of effective organizational arrangements for project control
cannot be overstated and is probably the key lesson to be learnt from the
Bukit Asam project
10.      Project RelationshiR
10.1     The main strength of the Bank-Borrower relationship during project
implementation was the continuing mutual desire to identify action plans
for the resolution of implementation issues. Unfortunately, the main
weakness of that relationship was the difficulty in identifying mechanisms
within the government system to implement action plans quickly and to
escalate decision making to a level within government where the importance
of early resolution of issues could be fully appreciated.
10.2     The Bank and GOI agencies maintained close working relationships
with key cofinanciers who typically participated constructively in project
preparation and appraisal and in Bank supervision of the project.



- 10 -
11.      Consulting Services
11,1     Consultants played a substantial role during project preparation,
financed under Loan S-9, taking lead responsibility for all feasibility
study assessments. The consultants performed well, particularly bearing in
mind the complex and inter-sectoral nature of the project Engineering
companies played a major role during project implementation, participating
in the engineering, procurement, construction, and initial operations of
the mine and rail components; acting as owner's engineer in supervising
construction of the Tarahan terminal; engineering of the caal ship; and
project monitoring. Generally, their performance was satisfactory.
However, training components of the construction and operations phase of
the project were not as successful as anticipated. On the one hand,
project entities faced difficulties in providing personnel of adequate
background and experience who could benefit from the training programs; on
the other, engineering companies did not organize their training efforts
appropriately for a project of this size and complexity. In a number of
cases, consultants failed adequately to bridge the "cultural gap" with the
implementing agencies. The general implication of the involvement of
consultants, engineering companies, contractors and suppliers was positive,
and resulted in a considerable transfer of technology; nroject entities are
now so positioned that similar projects could be implemented with a lower
level of international support.
12.      Project Documentation and Data
12.1     Legal agreements for the project were adequate throughout the
implementation period and no particular lesson can be learnt from this
aspect of the project
12.2     The Staff Appraisal Report proved an invaluable reference document
throughout project implementation, especially for project entities, and in
view particularly of the complex and cross-sectoral nature of the project.
This document enabled the Borrower and the Bank to maintain a clear focus
on the project objectives and to identify progressively, conceptual
difficulties that bad not and, in many cases, could not have been foreseen.
12.3     Data relevant to the Project Completion Report were readily
available. However, because of the complexity of the project and the time
scale from project preparation through project completion, considerable
time was necessary to assimilate technical and cost project data.



- 11 -
REPUBLIK INDONESIA
TIM PENGARAH
PROYEK PENGEMBANGAN PEMBANGKIT TENAGA LISTRIK
(TIM KEPPRES 35/87)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART    11
BUKIT ASAM COAL MINING DEVELOPMENT
AND
TRANSPORTATION PROJECT
Prepared by:
Suralaya Working Team
PTDA
PT Pelayaran Bahtera Adhiguna
PJKA
PT PANN
Assisted by:
REDECONI
Gedung Patra st Floor, J. Jend. Gatot Subro  32-34 Jakart 1210
Phone: (021) 510215;511821.511824; 513927. Fax:(021) 515133, Telex: 82182 REWOCN IA



- 12 -
PREFACE
This paper is Part II of the Bukit Asam Coal Mining D-elopment and
Transportation (BACOMDAT) Project Completion Report   'ared by the
Government of Indonesia (GOI) as the Borrower to fulfill .. obligation in
accordance with Loan Agreement 2079-IND between the GOI and the World Bank
(IBRD). This report describes the implementation and the initial operation of the
Project, the cost summary, the benefits derived or to be derived from the Project,
the performance of the Borrower and the Bank, and the attainment of the loan's
objectives.
The GOI appreciates the contribution made by all parties in the preparation of this
report. It is the GOI's intention that this report is to be used as a reference by all
Govermnent Agencies involved in similar projects and by the IBRD as it exercises
its supervisory activities on projects in Indonesia.
HIGHLIGHTS
The BACOMDAT Project is an integrated project whose main objective is to supply
2.4 MTPY of coal to the Suralaya Steam Power Plant Units 1 and 2. To meet this
objective, the coal mine at Bukit Asam was to be developed to produce another 2.4
MTPY of coal in addition to the present 0.6 MTPY Bukit Asam had been producing
for the local market, the 420 km railroad between the mine and coast was to be
upgraded to sustain unit trains with an 18 tonne axle load, a coal terminal was to-be
built to receive and ship the coal, and a 9,200 CDWT self-unloading bulk carrier
vessel was to be purchased to transport 2.4 MTPY coal from Tarahan across the
Sunda Strait to Suralaya.
The Project's objectives are in line with the GOI's policy on energy diversification.
These goals are to shift from the use of mono-energy based on oil to poly-energy
based on coal, natural gas, hydro power, geothermal, solar, and other appropriate
sources. It is a complex project in terms of its costs, the diverse sources of fnanci9g,
and the necessity that many Government agencies, regulatory bodies, State owned
companies, contractors and suppliers integrate their activities and timetables to
meet the Project's objectives.
The GOI and IBRD originally agreed that the Project infrastructure would be
completed and that Suralaya would begin receiving 2.4 MTPY of coal in June 1985,
however full production was not achieved until July 1989 and the remaining
infrastructure i.e. mine service facilities, railway workshops and permanent
telecommunications system will not be complete until January 1990. The Project
was forecasted to cost Rp.319 billion and  JS$674 million. Project delays have
increased costs, however the increased costs were offset, in part, by the
Government's Maximum Austerity Program (MAP). The Project is now forecasted
to cost at completion (not including deferred costs or costs of substitute fuel for
Suralaya) Rp.532 billion and US$519 million. The delays in the Project are due to
the following factors:



- 13 -
-    Lack of project coordination and project control.
-    Poor performance of contractors and consultants.
-    Inadequate survey, design and technology selection.
-    Governmental regulations and bureaucracy.
-    Constraints on local funding due to the condition of the National Economv.
-    Failure to recruit and train qualified personnel.
-    Inadequate preparation for the system's operation.
In spite of the delavs, the Project has been completed and the GOI has derived the
following benefits:
-    A working prototype of an integrated system for supplying power p'ant steam
coal;
-    The development of a 'state of the art' continuous coal mining system using
Bucket Wheel Excavators;
-    A modern terminal facility capable of handling more than 3.0 MTPY of coal;
-    420 km of 18 tonne axle load railroad track;
-    A 9,200 CDWT self-unloading vessel to transport 2.4 MTPY of coal to the
Suralaya Steam Power Plant;
-    Coordinating teams and regulatory bodies experienced in planning and
managing major development projects; and
-    A work force trained in the construction and operation of an integrated coal
mining and transportation system.
With additional investment, relatively small compared to original investment, these
facilities and resources can be easily upgraded to supply 4.4 to 5.1 MTPY of coal to
Suralaya Steam Power Plant Units 1 through 4. The experience gained on. the
BACOMDAT Project is directly transferable to other development projects in
Indonesia and abroad.



- 14 -
1.   INTRODUCTION
This report compares what was achieved by the BACOMDAT Project to the initial
plans. Tlh,e report is issue oriented rather than a chronological description. The
issues were selected for their ultimate influence on the Project's scope of work,
schedule, costs, and financial performance. The issues are categorized as "Problem
Issues" and 'Notable Successes'.
This report is based on data collected from the principal Project entities PTBA,
PJKA, and PT PANN, the Project Monitoring Group and Steering Committee, and
Project records. The contents have been reviewed carefully by all Project entities,
the IBRD, and the steering committee to ensure that it is comprehensive and
accurate.
This report is organized f"i follows:
o     The Introduction describes the purpose and the methodology of the veport;
o     The Project Description presents background material to explain the
Project's origin and objectives;
o     The Project Implementation focuses on the negative and the positive issues
of the Project; and finally,
o     The Conclusion consists of a summary of the report and a description of the
key elements which should be applied to other projects in Indonesia.



- 15 -
2.    PROJECT BACKGROUND
The BACOMDAT Pro ect is a continuation of the IBRD Engineering Loan S-9,
which was included in IBRD Loan No. 2079-IND. The scope of work of Loan S-9,
as quoted from MCS Project Services Contract, is ".... a feasibility study and the
design and partial engineering of an optimized rining and transportation system for
the development of Bukit Asam coal mines located at Tanjung Enim on South
Sumatera and the delivery of its product by rail and sea to Sura!aya on the western
tip of Java." Loan 2079-IND was signed on January 22, 1982 following a 1980
feasibility study and a 1981 IBRD appraisal report.
2.1   Objective
The BACOMDAT Project is an integrated project whose main objective is to supply
2.4 MTPY of coal to the Suralaya Steam Power Plant UIidts 1 and 2. To meet this
objective, the coal mine at Bukit Asam was to be developed to produce another 2.4
MITY coal in addition to the present 0.6 MTPY coal Bukit Asam had been
producing for the local market, the 420 km railroad between the mine and coast was
to be upgraded to sustain unit trains with an 18 tonne axle load, a coal terminal was
to be built to receive and ship the coal, and a 9,200 CDWT self-unloading bulk
carrier vessel was to be purchas(d to transport 2.4 MTPY coal from Tarahan across
the Sunda Strait to Suralaya.
2.2   Scope
The scope of work is based on the 1980 Feasibility Report and the 1981 IBRD
Appraisal. The Project was implementea by three entities which were divided into
seven sub-systems. The three entities are the mine (PTBA), the railway (PJKA) and
the sea transport (PT PANN).
PTBA, a government owned coal mining company was to establish or upgrade, own
and operate the Air Lya Mine, Muara Tiga Mine, Mine Townsite, Tarahan
Terminal, and Kertapati Terniinal. PTBA's Scope of Work was as follows:
Air Wva Mine
Purchase and install five BWE's, supporting belt wagons, two spreaders, one
stacker/reclaimer, one train load out facility, approximately 30 km of belt conveyor,
and supporting facilities. Construct the Mine Service Facility and purchase and
stall its equipment. Construct a stockpile facility.
Explore and mine coal from the Muara Tiga Kecil mine.
Mine Iowniake
Construct approximately 2460 houses, 96 dormitories and, power and water supply
facilities for PIA employees.
Taraban Teriminal
Construct and install the rotary car dumper structure, pri nary and secondary
crusher, stockpile area, coal jetty, and purchase and install a shiploader and its belt
conveyor.
Kehabati Terminal
Rehabilitate the coal handling equipment and construct the terminal building.



- 16 -
PJKA (the Indonesian state railway) was to improve and operate the railway in
South Sumatera; its scope of work was as follows:
Rehabilitate and renew 420 km of railway track and strengthen the railway bridges
to sustain 18 tonne axle loads. Const. uct the mine and terminal rail loops.
Purchase and install a permanent telecommunications system and construct towers
for the telecomnmunicatiorns system. Purchase 259 coal wagons (assembled in
Indonesia) and 15 locomotives with 18 tonne axle load and construct wagon and
locomotive maintenance facilities.
The above scope of work will be carried out by PJKA's project management called
KP3BAKA and the operation of the coal transportation from Tanjung Enim to
Tarahan will be executed by South Sumatera Region of Indonesian State Railway
(ESS).
PT PANN, the National Fleet Development Corporation was to purchase the self-
unloading vessel and lease it to PT Pelayaran Bahtera Adhiguna for operation.
2.3   Schedule
The original Project Master Schedule of the Project was approved by
POKKORLAK in July 1982 and issued in MCS Overall Project Implementation
Report - August 1982. This Schedule stated that the system should be ready for coal
movement to Suralaya through Tarahan in June 1984 and come into full design
capacity operation (produce and transport 200,000 TPM of coal) in June 1985.
The key completion dates for the Project were as follows:
Original
Sub-system                 Key Activities                    Schedule
Air Laya Mine:       - Ready to begin operation              01 Jun 1984
of coal load-out station
- Start operation of                   01 Oct 1984
first mine sub-system
- Mine Service Facilities complete
Muara Tiga Mine:     - Begin coal production                 01 Jan 1984
Tarahan Terminal:    - Ready to receive                      01 Jun 1984
and stockpile coal
- Ready to start operation             01 Aug 1984
(handling capacty of
200,000 tonnes/month)
Kertapati Terminal:    - Complete terminal upgrading         01 Nov 1983
Mine Townsite:       - Complete 2460 houses,                       1988 2)
96 dorms and townsite facilities
Railway:             - Ready to begn coal                    01 Jun 1984
transport to Tarahan
- Commence operation at                01 Apr 1985
200,000 tonnes/month



- 17 -
Sea Transport:      - Self-unloading coal                  01 Aug 1984
carrier available
Suralava:           - Commence Unit 1 on                   15 Aug 1984
Project coal at
100,000 tonnea/month
Note:   1) Not included in Original Schedule.
2) Original Schedule did not specify month.
2.4   System Design
An IBRD financed engineering study (Loan S-9) was completed in 1980. The main
purpose of the studv was to find alternative for rmining system to optimize the
development Bukit Asam coal mines (BWE vs shovel and truck) and, railway
transportation route i.e. northern route (via Kertapati/Palembang) vs southern
route (Lampung bay). The proposed design was accepted by GOI and IBRD had no
objection to the proposed design. The accepted design was then used as a
benchmark during the construction stage. The design consists of four major items:
o     Use 5 Bucket Wheel Excavators in a continuous mining system to mine the
Air Laya coal deposit.
o    Transport the coal to the coast by the southern route using 4 sets of train per
day, each carrying 40 wagonm ioaded with 50 tonnes of coal and hauled by 2
locomotives.
o    Construct a coal terminal in Tarahan consisting of a rotary car dumper, a set
of belt conveyors and a ship-loader.
3    Purchase a specially designed self-unloading coal vessel which fits the coal
jetty in Suralaya.
2.5   Location
The Air Laya coal deposit in the Bukit Asam area, Tanjung Enim, South Sumatera
was seiected for development. This decision was based on previous study performed
by PN Batubara and Shell Minjbouw N.V. in June 1975. This study proved that Air
Laya mine contain massive deposits capable of producing up to 3.0 MTPY of coal
for more than 30 years. The location for coal terminal was selected in Tarahan,
approximately 7 kms south of Panjang harbour in Lampung.
2.6   Organization
Prior to the project implementation of engineering study (Phase I) the Department
of Mines and Energy and Department of Communications agreed to set up a
Steering Committee with the Secretary General of the Depacament of
Communications as its chairman. Twenty eight members were selected representing
all Government agencies involved in the Project. This committee's charter was to
establish guidelines for Project implementation. Hence, the Steering Connittee swt
up an implementing body called KP5BA to coordinate the engineenng study whose
member consists of representatives from the Department of Mines anid Enzqgy.
Departmer.t of Communications, state owned Coal Mining company called PNTB
and PJKA and other respective government agencies. Ater the compietion of
engineering study, KP5BA was replaced by POKKORLAK and the chairman of
KP5BA became the Permanent Secretary of POKKORLAK  The main assignment



- 18 -
of POKKORLAK was to coordinate the activities of the Project's sub-systems, to
identify and assist the entities to resolve problems, and to act as Project monitor.
This included tracking Project progress and costs against budgets, schedules and
technical specifications. The members of POKKORLAK consisted of the President
Directors from the newly created state owned Bukit Asam Cola Mining Company
(PTBA), the railway, and the sea transport entities. The position of POKKORLAK
chairman was rotated every 6 months among the President Directors of the entities.
Daily work was handled by a Permanent Secretary assisted by 7 professional staff.
In October 1987 the original Steering Committee was replaced by a new Steering
Committee called Team KEPPRES 35. Following the creation of Team Keppres
35/87, the Department of Communications and the Department of Mines and
Energy dissolve POKKORLAK.
Team KEPPRES 35/87 is headed by the Minister of Research and Technology, and
consists of 6 ministers. The Steering Conumittee's responsibility has been expanded
to include the coordination and supervision of Indonesia's power plant projects and
the management of their fuel sources.
Team KEPPRES 35/87 set up three working teams which are coordinated bv the
Secretary of Team KEPPRES. These working teams are Suralaya Working ream,
Paiton Working Team, and Gresik Working Team. The Suralaya Working Team,
replacing the previous coordinating body of POKKORLLk  is responsible for the
Suralaya Steam Power Plant which includes the Bukit Asam Mine, railway and ship
as the plant's irtain source of coal.



- 19 -
3.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
3.1   Project Master Schedule
The first contractor was on site and working in the last quarter of 1981. The
effective date of the IBRD loan was April 1982. Th( original Project Master
Schedule (PMS), dated August 1982, stated that the system should be readv for coal
movement to Suralaya through Tarahan in June 1984 and come into full design
capacity operation in June 1985. However, as a result of a 10 month delay in *.he
procurement of the first Tarahan Turnkey Contract due to lengthy financing
negotiation, the PMS was revised effective August 1983. The revised schedule
called for coal movement to Suralaya to start April 1985 and full d(.sign capacity
coal movement on 01 June 1986.
The actual completion of the key activities as compared with the revised Project
Master Schedule is as follows:
Revised
Sub-System           Activity                  Schedule          Actual
Air Laya Mine:     - Ready to begin operation    10 Dec 1984   26 May 1986
of coal load-out station
- Start operation of       01 May 1985   01 Nov 1985
first mine sub-system
- Mine Service              01 Jun 1985      Jan 1990 1)
Facilities complete
Muara Tiga Mine:   - Begin coal production     01 Jun 1985   01 May 1986
Tarahan Terminal:  - Ready to receive          04 Apr 1985   15 Aug 1988
and stockpile coal
- Ready to start operation  04 Jun 1985   01 Nov 1988 2)
(200,000 tonnes/month)
Kertapati Terminal: - Complete terminal        15 Mar 1985    01 Oct 1986
upgrading
Mine Townsite:     - Complete 2460 houses,            1989    31 Jul 1989 3)
96 dorms and townsite
facilities
Railway:           - Ready to begn coal        04 Apr 1985    01 Jun 1986
transport to Tarahan
- Completion of 18 tonne                  29 Dec 1987
axle load
- Transport 200,000         01 Jun 1986    01 Jul 1989
tonnes/month
Sea Transport:     - Self-unloading coal       01 May 1985   01 May 1985
carrer available



- 20 -
Suralaya:          - Commence Unit I full
commercial operation on:
'Project coal             01 Jul 1985    01 Jul 1987 4)
'Non-Project coal                      15 Nov 1985
- Commence Unit 2 full
commercial operation
'Project coal            01 Jun 1986    01 Jan 1989 5)
'Non-Project coal                  -   07 May 1986
Note:    1) Forecast completion.
2) Actual coal throughput of 200,000 tonnes/month was achieved
in July 1989
3) The revised schedule did not specitf the month. The scope
of work was reduced and onlly 275 houses were built.
4) Receive 100.000 connes/month of Project coal.
5) Receive 200,000 tonnes/month of Project coal.
3.2   Technical Deviations
The original technical specifications have been modified several times over the life
of the Project. Certain of the modifications are technical deviations which reflect
additional information on physical conditions, others are management decisions to
compensate for problems and delays elsewhere in the Project, while other
modifications reflect tight financial constraints imposed by the GOI's Maximum
Austerity Program (MAP). The principal modifications are listed below.
O     Develop and expand Muara Tiga Mine to supply coal during construction
and initial coal movement of Air Laya Mine.
o     Decrease the number of townsite houses to be built and implement a home
ownership program.
O     Eliminate the ballast plant for the railway.
o    Eliminate the concrete sleepers plant.
O     Rearrange mine mud removal contracts.
O     Revise the dumper pit foundation and relocate it to the other side of the
Tarahan Terminal rail loOp.
o     Implement an interim coal movement program.
In 1983 the GOI implemented its MAP following a major drop in world oil prices.
Portions of the Project dependent on Rupiah financing were reexamined and in
many cases reduced, delayed or eliminated. For example, the decisions to eliminate
the concrete sleeper and ballast plants and to reduce the number of townsite houses
were based on a MAP analysis. Other deviations from the original technical
specifications were in response to the availability of additional information and to
compensate for delays elsewhere in the project.
3.3   Capital Costs
The foreign portion of the capital costs for the Project is lower than originally
projected; however, the Rupiah portion is higher. In equivalent dollar terms, the
total Project cost has decreased by approxmately US$393.7 million or 33.2%. This
deviation is due in part to the transfer of budget items such as PTBA spare parts
from foreign currency loans to Rupiah loans (USS10.0 million), the GOrs MAP



- 21 -
(US$12.2 million), transfer of certain capital costs to start-up operating accounts
(USS43.2 million), and devaluation of the Rupiah (US$328.3 million).  A
comparison of original estimates to current forecast is shtown below.
PROJECT COST REPORT
Original        Current       Deviation
Description                        Budget         Forecast        (%)
Mine Townsite         LOC        54,981.00       31,605.00       42.52%
FOR         1,179.00           0.00       -100.00%
TOT       32,596.71        18,060.00
Air Lava Mine         LOC       127,455.00      201,718.00        58.27%
FOR      405,248.00       260,842.00       -35.63%'
TOT       478,079.43      376,109.43
Tarahan Terminal      LOC        22,868.00       32,885.00        43.80%
FOR       43,656.00        89.500.00       105.01 
TOT        56,723.43      108.291.43
Kertapati Terminal    LOC         1,018.00        6,190.00       508.06%
FOR        2,480.00         3,042.00        22.66%
TOT         3,061.71        6,579.14
Muara Tiga Mine       LOC          636.00         13,867.00     2,080.35%
FOR       25,367.00            0.00       -100.00%
TOT        25,730.43        7,924.00
PTBA Management       LOC         4,912.00        18,780.00       282.33%
FOR            0.00          280.00
TOT         2,806.86       11,011.43
Total PTBA            LOC       211,870.00       305,045.00        43.98%
FOR      477,930.00       353,664.00       -26.00%
TOT       598,998.57      527,975.43
Railway               LOC       103,460.00       186,741.00        80.50%
FOR       161,319.00      132,343.00       *17.96%
TOT       326,855.00      239,052.14
Sea Transport         LOC          1,404.00        1,249.00       -11.04%
FOR        31,293.00       16,710.00       -46.60%
TOT        32,095.29       17,424.71
Project Monitoring    LOC         2,462.00         2,430.00        -1.30%
FOR         3,636.00        5,357.00        47.33%
TOT         5,042.86        6,745.57
Total Project Cost    LOC       319,196.00       495,465.00        55.22%
FOR       674,178.00      508,075.00        -24.64%
TOT      1184,892.00      791,197.86
NOES:
LOC (Local Financin&)    = Million Rp
FOR (Foreign Financmg) = Thousand USS (1 US$ = Rp.1750)
TOT (otal inancing)    = Thousand USS (1US$ - Rp.1750)



- 22 -
3A   Notable Successes
The BACOMDAT Protect was not without problems. However the GO0, the
IBRD, and the Project s management staff were able to minimize the negative
effects of many of these problems. Notable Successes describes the way in which
many of these problems were handled.
3.4.1 Decision on Development of Non-Air Laya Mines
As it became apparent that production from the Air Laya Mine would be delayed, it
was recommended that other coal resources should be developed to fulfill coal
demand for the first four years of the Project. Therefore, a sub-system called Muara
Tiga Mine (later called Non-Air Laya Mine) was set up to produce up to 1 MTPY of
coal. This arrangement provided coal ior the Suralaya Steam Power Plant in 1984,
two years before the Project w as able to deliver coal at design capacity via the
Tarahan Permanent Facilitv and five years before the Air Laya mine would be able
to produce 200,000 TPM. - This arrangement has been expanded to include cnal
from Kelawas Mine and Air Petai Mi;ne. which were later included in the Non-Air
Laya Mine.
3.4.2  Decision on Interim Coal Movement and Facility
In September 1985, as a result of settlement problem in Tarahan Terminal, Project
management agreed to implement a program  on Temporary Coal Mining,
Transportation and Handling Facilities. The program was to build a temporary
facility at Tarahan to handle coal shipments until the Tarahan Terminal Permanent
Facility could be completed, installation of wooden sleepers on the bottom of coal
wagons to carry 60% of the design capacity weight, and adjustment of Muara Tiga
Mine coal production to meet this program.
The temporary facility consisted of a car unloading station, a set of belt conveyors
connecting the unloading site to a stockpile and the shiploader, and a stockpile with
a capacity of 60,000 tonnes. This facility could handle a maximum of 100,000 tonnes
per month and received coal on 13 tonne axle load trains from the Non-Air Laya
Mline. The Project was able to move approximately 60,000 tonnes/month through
the temporary facility for a total of 1.8 MT coal from June 1986 to September 1988.
This arrangement was running for more than two years before the commencement
of full design capacity operation. After the completion of Tarahan Terminal
Permanent Facility, with small modifications, the equipment was used for an
expansion of Suralaya oil jetty to become coal jetty.
This decision, coupled with the decision to develop the Non-Air Laya Mine, reduced
the amount of coal purchased for Suralaya from non-Indonesian sources and was a
major source of MA revenue during constructionL
3.4.3 Operational Constraints and Equipment Deficiencies
The Mine implemented an action plan on Operational Constraints (OC's) and
Equipment Deficiencies (ED's) in May 1987.  The plan identifies 26 areas
operational constraint and 7 equipment deficiencies. The priority of this task was to
resolve the problem of the lake mud removal contract, completion of mine service
facilities, award of additional contracts for auxilliary overburden removal/removal
of old dump material/removal of overheight material, improve recruitment and
staffing, and reduce break-downs of bucket wheel excavators. This program was



- 23 -
instrumental in overcoming problems with the poor performance of the rnine's main
equipment. Problems with the lake mud remova; contract and other delayed
contracts were resolved by reducing the incompetent contractor's scope of work and
appointing a new contractor to complete the remaining work. This action plan is
still being followed.
3.4.4 Decision to Restructure the Coordinating Body
The Government's decision to change the composition and responsibility of the
coordinating body has improved management response to changes in Project
progress. The Committee for Indonesian Coal Development Program, which acted
as Steering Committee for BACOMDAT Project, was replaced by a new Steering
Comnmittee, Team KEPPRES 35/87 consisting of 6 ministers. The coordinating
board, POKKORLAK was dissolved and the Project coordinating function was
taken over by the Suralava Working Team under the coordination of the Team
KEPPRES 35/87 Secretary.
The new steering committee takes a more active role in identifying problems and
encouraging the implementation of solutions. However, the restructuring of the
coordinating body was taken place after most of the construction work has been
completed. The advantage of the new arrangement is the existence of an official
who consistently monitors Project progress, coordinates the Project entities and has
direct access to decision makers at the ministerial level. However, the steering
committee still needs the optimal support provided by full time staff and
consultants.
3.4.5 Management of Entities
The early overall Project implementation has been adversely affected by the
performance of key personnel in each of the Project's entities. Some Directors of
PTBA have been reassigned and PJKA has replaced key personnel in KP3BAKA
and ESS.  The changes have increased management effectiveness in both
organizations and have contributed to an improvement in Project performance. The
new coordination system by the new management of PTBA and PJKA improved the
cooperation between the entities in implementing the coal transportation. The new
coordination system held two regular monthly meeting i.e., task force meeting and
management meeting. This meetings has improved relatonship between entities
and increase coal transportation from Tanjung Enim to Tarahan significantly.
3.4.6  Blanket Inurance
PTBA elected to carry blanket insurance protecting both PTBA and its contractors
from substantial loss due to non-performance. This blanket insurance covers all of
PTBA construction activities both in the mine as well as the Tarahan Terminal.
This decision has proved to be sound as evidenced by the problem of the first
Tarahan Turnkey contractor. PrBA and the turnkey contractor filed claim to the
insurance company and received compensation for the losses due to settlement
problem with the terminal.



- 24 -
3.4.7 Decision on Second Tarahan Turnkey Contract
The settlement was first detected in the beginning of 1984.  Hence, major
construction delays were caused by an inability to resolve a dispute over the
responsibility for redressing the effects of ground subsidence during the initial
phases of the Tarahan Terminal construction. PTBA's decision to terminate the old
contract and appoint a new contractor was a significant event on the Project.
Contract termination was agreed by PTBA and the first contractor on 4 February
1987.
The new contract was signed on 21 August 1986, but the construction started in
February 1987 due to delay in financing negotiation between GOI and the Dutch
government. The terminal design was revised and the new contractor did an
excellent job completing the second Tarahan turnkey contract on schedule.
3.5   Problem Issues
Problem Issues are broader than the ones successfully dealt with in Notable
Successes. The problems described in this section tend to be institutionalized in the
GOI's bureaucratic practices and in many cases were outside the control of the
Project's managers. We believe that the inability to deal with the following issues
stems in large measure from the lack of a central entity responsible for managing all
aspects of the Project.
3.5.1 Inadequate Survey and Investization
In general, the Survey and Investigation for the engineering design was not
adequately performed.  This deficiency caused unexpected problems during
construction and during the initial operation of the Project.
Survey and investigation on soil conditions in the mine was inadequate. The Project
was based in part on mine soil condition data from an earlier coal exploration study.
However, minimal site survey and investigation was performed to support the data.
BWE design specifications were not applicable to the hard soil and coal conditions
and seasonal changes at the mine site. The BWE's required extensive redesign as a
consequence.
The original Tarahan turnkey contractor elected to minimize the number of soil test
holes drilled before construction. The spread footing system selected proved to be
inadequate and failed to prevent settlement of loadout facilities. Eventually, the
contract was canceled at a significant cost to the Project.
Funding for the survey of the bridges' sub-structure condition was eliminated early
in the project. Cracked piers and abutments were found on 92 bridges during the
initial operation. These will require repair or replacement which wiU have to be
funded  out of the railroads operaing  costs, and which are expected to be a
disruption to efficient coal movement for years to come.



- 25 -
3.5.2 Inaccurate Technical Design
Several of the Project's subsvstems and technical designs have been found to be
inappropriate curing the initial operation, though they were selected based on a
*ariety of factors such as soil conditions. weather, and personnel availabilitv. For
example, the BWE's experienced more problems than anticipated and the operators
required a longer training pe ' d than planned before becoming proficient. Major
adjustments and modifications uiad to be done during initial operation such as
reinforcement of BWE's bucket, C-frame and ring girders, and redesign of BWE
bucket teeth.
Simiar problems occurred with railway sub-svstem, for example the need to grease
rail track curves, reinforcing the coal wagon's center plates, upgrading wheei
bearings, and the revision of wheel sDecifications to Compensate the roundness and
material problemrs due to faults in technical design.
3.5.3  Land Accuisi
The land acquisition for Panjang extension rail track to Tarahan North was time
consuming and was compounded by the time taken for evacuation. The local
government's disagreement with the original plan necessitated the redesign of the
route and additional time to acquire the land, which contributed to the delay in the
completion of the railway.
The problem of land acquisition in the mine sub-system was occured in some
portion of mining area, i.e. the acquisition for the main mine equipment stockyard.
The delay of land acquisition in the mine did not affected the overall Project
schedule, but the total costs were increased because PTBA had to provide
temporary stockyard for the incoming main mine equipment.
3.5.4 Procurement
Prior to Project implementation, the World Bank identified possible problems with
procurement for supply and service contracts. GOT Counter Purchase Policy,
procurement procedures, centralized governmental bid reviews involving price
negotiations with non-lowest bidders, and poor bid specification preparations were
some of the problems that were identified. In general, the adverse effects of the
procurement procedure were greatest during Project start up. Inappropriate
procurement practices added significantly to the delays of the Project, thus
Increasing both direct and indirect costs.
An "Early Warning System" was set up by the Project to monitor the progress of
supply and service contract procurement.  This system flagged contracts for
management action which had exceeded a six month period from tender issue to the
target effective date. This system did not work because Project management did not
react to wamings from the system and were unable to implement effective
procurement actions to correct the delays.  Few  contracts completed the
procurement process in a timely manner.
Thc. financial aspects of procurement/contracting process contributed to the 10
month delay before the first Tarahan Terminal turnkey contract became effective.
The delay caused the revision of the original Project Master Schedule.



- 26 -
The centralized governmental bid review policy involving price negotiations with
non-lowest bidders created problems for a number of supply and service contracts.
For example, the railway sub-system ballast and wooden sleeper suppliers were
forced to decrease their unit price below the market price. Consequently, the
suppliers were unable to complete the contract which contributed to the delays with
trackwork.
3.5.5 Insufficient Rupiah Financing
The Project was not able to draw sufficient Rupiah from the GOI during the
implementation phase to finance its local contractors.   PTBA obtained a
commercial bank loan on 5 June 1984 to finance critical tasks, and was forced to
postpone several other works projects which were dependent on local financing.
PJKA had to delay several work projects and was finally forced to obtaining a
subsidized loan from the Bank Of Irndonesia.
3.5.6  Delay of Obfsore Finang
Some of the offshore financing institution followed time consuming procedures and
required cumbersome conditions. This caused a delay ir. the start up of several
offshore contracts. The first Tarahan Turnkey Contract was delayed ten months
because of the procedures followed by one of the lending institution; and the second
Tarahan Turnkey Contract was delayed four month for the same reason. The
potential savings that may have resulted from the protracted negotiations were far
outweighed by Project delay costs such as PTBA's loss of revenue from coal sales,
the cost of the negotiations, and increased IDC fees.
3.5.7 Poor Contractor Performance
Contractor performance was critical to overall BACOMDAT Project success,
unfortunately several contractors failed to comply with either the conditions of the
contract or with good business practices. Contracts were awarded to firms who had
little applicable experience, and inadequate resouices. The bidding process did not
allow tor an adequate system of liquidated damages or a bonus system to reward
timely or early completion of project tasks. The Project entities and their
consultants did not consistenlsy practice effective supervision of contractor
performance, and in most cases failed to intervene promptly when key performance
indicators were missed. Intervention to assist delinquent contractors was generally
done only after the contractor was so far behind that there was little hope of ever
meeting deadlines.
In the mine subX-tem, the performance of Mine Service Facility contractor is a
glaring example. The contractors have incurred a total 55 month delay thus far due
to both construction and equipment rehabilitation (forecast completion in January
1990). The delay caused by SE/SW Lake mud removal contractor slowed down the
movement of bucket wheel excavator and forced modifications of the mine plan.
In the railway sub-system, the supply of ballast and wooden sleepers for trackwork
was assigned to a contractor who had insufficient resources or incentive to meet
contractual deadlines.  The failure of this contractor caused the trackwork
contractor, who was dependent upon these key materials, to fall behind schedule.
The net effect was a delay in the Project's ability to operate at 18 tonne axle load.



- 27 -
3.5.8  Ineffective Use of Consultants
The supervision of the PMS implementation relied heavily on the performance of
the Project's consultants. Both the mine and the railway used consultants with
varying degrees of success.
The mine sub-system retained a project management consultant to manage the
engineering procurement and construction of the subsystem.  Several ongoing
aspects of the Project were turned over to the owner's staff on contract completion.
TIhe consultant and owner had not adequately prepared for this transfer,
consequently materials management and purchasing remain a problem area which
may adversely affect mine production.
The railway sub-system retained a consultant for the trackwork program both as a
project control and engineering consultant. However, the Project arrangement was
confusing and the railway sub-system did riot use the consultant effectively.
3.5.9 Inadequate ProietCoordination
Both PTBA and PJKA's initial management organization structures were not
designed for construction project management. Responsibility and authority were
not clearly allocated, consensus on relatively straight forward decisions was difficult
to obtain and to implement.
No single institution was fully responsible or could be held accountable for overall
Project performance. The coordinating body set up in the beginning of the Project
to synchronize Project implementation did not perform effectively. Nor did the
Project monitoring team that was installed to assist the coordinating board. Project
monitoring reports submitted two months late were of little use in identifying and
resolving pressing problems. Furthermore, the coordinating board was not given the
responsibility and authoritv to define and resolve problems and was not able to
maintain an effective communication between the two Ministries.
The replacement of the original Project Monitoring structure with a more unified
arrangement has produced promising results and appears to be a better model for
Project coordination.  However, the Team  Keppres 35/87 is required to be
supported by profesional consultants.
3.5.10 Problems in Training Design and Application
The long term success of the Project rests on the effective application of newly
implemented technology throughout the Project's entire coal mining and
transportation system. The mine sub-system's traimng program suffered from basic
defects in design and application. People were selected For training programs for
the wrong reasons, received the wrong training, were given inappropnate role
models on how the new technology was to be applied, and were not given adequate
time to become' proficient before assuming full responsibility for production.
Project maLi-gement frequently adopted short term solutions to the long term
training and development problems. TMere was not a consistent management policy
to guide consultants' training and to ensure that all PIBA employees and local
contractors benefited from the unique opportunities for technology transfer. The
consultants' performance varied widely as there were few incentives for them to do
more than make a superficial effort to comply with contractual training obligations.



- 28 -
Additional training is still required before mine sub-sector's personnel will be able
to make efficient use of the Project's mining system.
The long unit train transportation svstem is the first to be operated in Indonesia and
it is operated outside Java in a former low traffic area. Long unit train operation
requires high disciplir' from section managers, train operator and other support
staff. The recruitment and training programs that have been followed may not
provide the high level of technological expertise and discipline required.
3.5.11 Problems in Staffing and Recruiting
The Mine sub-svstem was plagued by an inability to recruit personnel with the
requisite skills to assimilate rapidly the new technology and accept responsibility for
the new systems. The official policv was 'o keep P'TA's saiaries low and increase
them only after the orgasization had proved it was financially viable. This policv
was compounded by the problems inherent in recruiting good personnel for
assignment in a remote location. Surveys conducted erly in the Project nighlighted
these issues as well as a basic image problem that coal mining had with the target
employee population. Once new personnel were selected, training and promotion
was often based on loyalty to employees of the old organization and nepotism rather
than PTBA's long term needs.
The mine's employees felt that there was a wide imbalance between wages paid and
responsibility held, especially in the case of the personnel charged with operating
and maintaining the main mine equipment.
MBA staffing and recruiting initially fell far behind schedule disrupting contract
management and training schedules. To resolve this problem, PTBA hired a
consultant for recruitment, and extended the mine construction consultant's contract
with an operational and training assistance (OTAS) contract. However this was not
a satisfactory solution as no one consultant was fully responsible for carry out
recruiting, staffing, and development.
3.5.12 Train Traffic Management Problems
PJKA is responsible for the staff development as well as the operation of the coal
transportations system. In the begining of operation, one of the key position i.e.,
traffic control management in ESS required more training. In addition, the delay of
completion of telecomunication installation caused a more hurdle in traffic
operation. However, this problem will be resolved at the time the training and the
telecommunication installation completed.
3.5.13 Lack of Attention to Environmental Issues
An environmental study was conducted for the mine sub-section in the beginningof
the Project, but received little attention during the construction phase.  The
information contained in the follow-up report is not supported by an environmental
action plan, a trained staff and an operating budget. The principal area of concern
is water quality standards at the mine.
Environmental standards were not built into supplier and subcontractor contracts.
For example, PTBA lacked the means to properly ensure that the mud removal
contractors provided adequate safeguards.



- 29 -
3.5.14 Deviation in Coal Price Forecast
At the beginning of the Project, forecasts were made which now appear to have
been extremelv optimistic. Coal prices followed oil prices as they dropped. The
price difference between forecasted and actual is now approximately 50%. This has
had a drastic effect on the overall financial performance of the Project, especially as
it concerns the Government's ability to recoup the original investment. In addition,
delavs have reduced  TBA's earnings and the ability to pay for basic services such
as the transportation tariff to PJKA and PT Pelayaran Bahtera Adhiguna.
3.5.15 Delay on C;oal Sales and Transportation Agreements
The coal sales and transportation agreements are as follows:
-    Coal Sales Agreement between PTBA and PLN,
-     Coal Transportation Agreement between PTBA and PJKA, and
-     Coal Transportation Agreement between PTBA and PT Pelayaran Bahtera
Adhiguna.
*     Lease agreement between PT PANN and PT Pelayaran Bahtera Adhiguna.
These agreements are short term and were signed after the coal has been
transported from Tanjung Enim to Suralaya, either via Kertapati or the Tarahan
Terminal Temporary Facility. At the time of Project completion the railway tariff
calculations had not been refined.
3.5.16 Financial Performance
FTBA's financial position is much worse than onriginally forecasted. This is due to
the substantial drop in coal prices and the long delay in Project completion, in terms
of both loss of revenue and additional costs such as coal transportation tariff,
interest accrued, etc. Much of the interest is at commercial rates rather than the
preferred rate included in the forecast. The Interest During Construction (IDC) is
now estimated at around 20% of the total Project costs. The IDC will be e principal
cause of PTBA long term financial problems. The Project's financial rate of return,
in real terms, is now calculated in the neighborhood of 6% compared to 11.7%
calculated in the IBRD Staff Appraisal Report October 1981. However, the GOI
has agreed to restructure PTBA  debt/equ   position from  60:40 to 35:65.
Furthermore, considering the GOI intention to increase the capacity of the project
to transport 4.4 million tons/year of coal to supply Suralaya Power Plant unit 1 thru
4, the long term financial performance of this project will be improved.
The Project's financial performance would be much worse if the cost of imported
coal required by Suralaya to make up for PMBA shortfalls were included in the
calculations.



- 30 -
4.    BANK PERFORMANCE
In general, the Bank's performance through the Supervision Mission has been
positive. The focus of their efforts has been to identify problem areas and work with
the respective Governmnent orgarizations to identify and implement constructive
solutions.
The current coal price is approximately 50% lower than the coal price forecast in
the IBRD Staff Appraisal Report. This has resulted in significant problems with the
mine sub-sector's internal rate of return. The IBRD Supervision Missions has been
effective in reducing the short term effects of the problemns stemming from the
difference in coal price. The Bank's support to MA financial restructuring and
willingness to participate in Phase II of the project is indicative of their long term
support for the Project.



- 31 -
5.   CONCLUSION AND LESSON TO BE LEARNED
5.1   Conclusion
The GOI has acquired an integrated system for feeding 2.4 MTPY of coal to the
Suralaya Steam Power Plant. Tis system is comprised of a continuous coal mining
system based on BWE technology capable of producing 3.0 MTPY of coal for more
than 30 years; a 420 km railroad track with 18 tonne axle loads; and a 9,200 CDWT
self-unloading bulk carrier vessel to transport coal from Tarahan Terminal across
the Sunda Strait to Suralaya.
All stages of the Project were completed behind schedule. Overall Project
completion was delayed by more than 2 years, increasing the fuel cost for Suralaya
and the cost of the Project. The financial viability of the Project was also reduced by
the drop in world energy prices and the effect on the economy of Indonesia.
The delays in Project completion was due to several factors, principally procurement
delays, poor contractor and consultant oerformance, insufficient Rupiah financing,
delays in offshore financing, Project management's inability to anticipate and make
timely reactions tO deviations in the PMS, an inadequate system for Project control,
nd insufficient site survey and investigation.
The Project's poor financial performance is a direct result of delays in completing
the Project, higher investment costs including interest, problems with production
and transportation, and coal prices far below those projected. However, the efect
was mitigated through restructuring the debt equity ratio to become 35:65.
The initial system established for the Project's management was cumbersome and
lacked the means to make timely changes in schedules, budgets, procedures,
contractors, and personnel. However, this deficiency has been resolved by forming a
more action oriented project coordinating board.
5.2   Lessons to be Learned
The following elements were selected as Lessons as their inclusion in the Project
design and management methodology would have prevented many of the delays and
reduced associated costs.
5.2.1 Technial Design
The Government of Indonesia makes every effort to advance industrial technology,
however the preparation to receive the new technology was inadequate. The delay
in construction of Mine Service Facilities and Mine Townsite has proved to be the
inadequate preparation of the Project. Manpower recruitment and training should
be performed prior to the arrival of the equipment. Other infrastructure facilities
i.e. workshop and housing for the workers should be ready at the same time the
mining equipment ready to operate.



- 32 -
5.2.2 Maximum Austerity / Value Engineering
The MAP has proved to be an effective way to maintain a sound economic
condition during Indonesia's recent recession. However, the economic impact of
this austenrty program to the project should be evaluated on a case by case basis.
Major curtailments of programs, such as elimination of concrete sleepers and ballast
plant, and reduction the number of houses to be built, should be first evaluated by
reasonable Value Engineering programs which might include material substitution,
technical redesign, and other methods to achieve major cost savings without the
sacrifice of the entire program.
5.2.3  Project Prartion Team
Projects of this size and complexity should be prepared by a team consisting of
competent government officials supported by competent national and international
engineering construction firms with extensive experience in mining and
transportation and in working in a third world country. This team should be able to
forsee the availability of manpower, training and other resources.
5.2.4 Proiect Organization Structure
The Project definition should be inclusive of all associated elements if possible.
Under ideal conditions the Suralaya Power Plant should be included in the
BACOMDAT Project unlike the previous organization structure where the Suralaya
Power Plant is separate from the BACOMDAT Project. Project Management
should have an unified organization structure with a single chain of command, so
that resource and schedule conflicts can be readily resolved by the next highest level
in the organization. In addition, Project management can be extended to carry on
the responsibility of managing the entire coal supply required by the Suralaya Power
Plant. Overall management responsibility may rest with a keyv Government official
who oversees multiple projects, however day-to-day management responsibility
should be assigned to one decision maker supported by an experienced project
management staff. Project audits and monitoring should be done by an outside
orgamzation, independent from project management but responsible for timely
input to problem identification and resolution.
5.2.5 Response to Changes in the Project Master Schedule
Management by exception procedures should be set up and followed for all
deviations from the Project Master Schedule and budget. Sensitivity analysis should
be incornorated into the process to anticipate the ripple effect of delays and
proposed remedies. Decisions should be evaluated in terms of the effects on the
project schedule, project costs, and on the post-construction operating requirements.
5.2.6 Recruitment. Selection and Traininy Programs
Project staffing and training must be a critical path activity on all projects with a
high technology transfer content. Human resource studies are an important part of
project feasibility phase enabling Govermnent officials to evaluate the long term
cost of labour and the probability of recruiting qualified staff for the project and to
be trained to operate the mine once it has been completed. The contractors' ability
and willingness to trair. must be included as an important part of the contractor
selection criteria. Consultants and contractors have a responsibility to ensure that
the personnel selected for training art, capable of learning and applying the relevant



- 33 -
skills. Project management must be notified when agreed upon selection criteria is
changed and when personnel who have been trained are not assigned to the jobs for
which they are qualified. Ultimately the contractor and consultant's performance
must be evaluated based on the ability of the client's staff to assume responsibility
for the operation of the mine.
5.2.7 Procurement Procedures
Projects of this size and complexity may require special regulatory mechanisms to
expedite the selection of contractors, consultantc and suppliers; finalize purchasing
agreements for materials and services; and which comply with World Bank
guidelines on procurement. Exception procedures should be prepared which will
trigger prompt intervention by senior government officials to resolve impasses
between government entities and curtail protracted negotiations.
5.2.8 Time Value of Money
The BACOMDAT Project Managers, consultants, contractors, and suppliers
appeared to make a good faith effort to comply with project schedules and
contractual obligations on an incremental basis.  However, there was not a
corresponding effort to ensure that the collective entities, supporting Government
agencies and lending institutions adhered to the aggregate objectives defined by the
Project Master Schedule. The net effect was that financial and scheduling decisions
were made at the individual contractor and transaction level with little regard for
optimizing the overall project activities and costs. Examples cited in the Problem
Issues section include training programs which were forced to start on time but
without qualified trainees due to a lack of decisions on compensation policy, sub
contracts negotiated with no bonuses for timely completion or safeguards against
inferior work and delays, key materials supplier contracts finalized with no margin
of profit thus no incentive for completion, and protracted negotiations over tenths of
a percent which cost the Project tens of thousands of Dollars in delays.
The key elements common to most of the Project's problems appears to have been
an inability to recognize the significance of any and all delays; to build in protective
mechanisms for anticipating and identifying problems which will create delays; to
quantify the full cost of all delays; and to take timely corrective actions which are
optimal for the entire Project.



- 34 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF XNDONESIA
COAL MINING AND TRANSPORTATION ENGINEERING PROJECT (LOAN S-9)
and
DUKIT ASAM COAL MINING DEVELOPMENT AND TRANSPORTATION PROJECT (LOAN 2079-IND)
PART III
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Loan/Credit                              Year of
Title           Purpose               Approval     Status    Comments
CR 399-IND     Third Power Project         1973        Completed    -
CR 1127-IND    Fourth Power Project        1975        Completed    -
LN 1708-IND    Eighth Power Project        1979        Completed    -
LN 1872-IND    Ninth Power Project         1980        Completed    -
LN 2153-IND    Coal Exploration Project   1982         Completed    -
2. Proiect Timetable
Date              Date                Date
Item                           Planned           Revised             Actual
Identification/Preparation      03/76              N/A               03/76
Pre-Appraisal                   01/80              N/A               01/80
Appraisal                       07/77               08/80            10&12/80
Post-Appraisal                  N/A                N/A               06/81
Loan Negotiations               10/81               11/81            11/81
Board Approval                  12/81               01/82            01/82
Loan Signing                    01/82              N/A               01/82
Loan Effectiveness              03/82              N/A               05/82
Loan Closing                    09/87              09/88             09/89
Loan Completion                 03/88              03/89             03/90
3. Loan Disbursements (Cumulative) USS million
Financial Year              1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  19O
Appraisal Estimate          30.5  67.7 122.6 176.0 184.5 185.0
Actual 1J/ /                 7.0  33.5  62.7 103.3 122.5 152.5 164.6 169.2 178.7
Actual as % Estimate        23.0  49.5  51.1  58.7  66.4  82.4  89.0  91.5  96.6
Date of Final Disbursement        04/04/90
1/ US$1.139 million cancelled 08/86.
2/ US$5.107 million cancelled at loan closing 04/90.



- 35 -
4. Proiect Completion
Indicators                         ADDrrisal Estimate       Actual/PCR Estimate
Available Funds                             1                         2
Project Management                          1                         2
Development Impact                          1                         1
Overall Status                              1                         1
5. Project Costs and Financing
A. Proiect Costs
(US $ million)
--Appraisal Estimate--      --------Actual--------
Local   Foreign             Local  Foreign
Costs    Costa    Total    Costs   Costs    Total
Air Laya Mine                 136.3   308.6      444.9    151.5  258.1      409.6
Muara Tiga Development          3.8    11.4       15.2       7.8     -        7.8
Mine Townsite                  39.8    12.0       51.8      17.7     -       17.7
Kertapati Terminal              1.1      2.9       4.0      4.0    3.0        7.1
Tarahan Terminal               19.0    39.2       58.2     21.9   89.5      111.4
Railway/Communications         79.5   136.8      216.3     90.9  143.1      234.0
Ship                            1.4    22.5       23.9      0.0   16.7       16.7
Project Monitoring              3.4      3.2       6.6       1.4    5.8       7.1
Total Base Cost               284.3   536.6      820.9    295.2  516.2      811.4
Physical Contingencies         44.3    37.0       81.3        -      -          -
Price Contingencies           117.8   103.9      221.7            -            -
Installed Costs               446.4   677.5    1123.9    295.2  516.2       811.4
Refinancing of S-9 Loan          -      10.0      10.0        -     7.0       7.0
Working Capital                41.3      8.4      49.7      13.4     -       13.4
Interest During Construction  27.3   125.0       152.3     69.3  143.3      212.6
Total Financing Required      515.0   820.9    1335.9    377.9  666.5    1044.4
Comments:
1. Incremental working capital for PTBA only. Breakdown into foreign and local
costs not available.
2. Installed cost of US$811.4 million is approximately 2.5% higher than that
computed by the Borrower (Part II, para. 3.3). This factor and specific
differences in individual foreign and local cost elements are attributable to
(i) differing treatment of foreign and local costs; (ii) different exchange
rates for the conversion of local costs into US dollars; and (iii) the
transfer of certain capital costs into start-up operating costs in Part II.



- 36 -
B. Proiect Financing
(US $ million)
Planned
Loan
Sources                                   Agreement                     Final
Equipment                                      51.1                       54.1
Consultants' Services                          75.7                     114.9
& Training
Coal Exploration                                5.0 2                      2.7
& Engineering
Refinancing of S-9 Loan                        10.0                        7.0
Unallocated                                    43.2                        _
Subtotal                                   185.0                     178.7
Other External Sources                        389.2                     508.2 3
Domestic Sources                              766.7                     360.1
Total Financing                             1340.9                     1047.0
Comments:
I/ Allocated the Coal Exploration Engineering Project  (Loan 2153-IND).
21 Includes US $0.5 million financed under IBRD Loan 1250.
6. Proiect Results
A. Direct Benefits
Estimate                Estimate
Appraisal                 at                   at Full
Indlcators                   Estimate              Closina Date            Develement
Project Coal Production      3.1 mtpy              2.0 Dtpy^'              3.1 +
Rail Transport to
Suralaya                   200,000 tonslmonth   270,000 tonsbmonth_      200,000 tons/month +
Coal Terminal throughput     200,000 ton3smonth   200,000 tonsimonth       200,000 tonslmonth +
Ship Transport               200,000 tonslmonth    200,000 tonslmonth      200,000 tonslmonth +
Project Revenue_l            US$260 millionlI      US$73 million           US$88 million
a/  Supplemnted by in excess of 1.0 mtpy contract minimn of non-project coal.
kb Facilitated by rolling stock procured for project expansion to 400,000 tonslmonth.
c/ Based on coal sales to Suralaya only.
_i Based on US$108 per tonne (1989) estimated at appraisal.



- 37 -
B. Economic Impact
Appraisal
Estimate      Actual
Economic Rate of Return            12.2         2.2
Assumptions
Incremental basis                  Yes          Yes
Same cost streams used for
financial rate of return           Yes          Yes
Exclusion of import duties         Yes          Yes
Shadow pricing of diesel and
electricity                        Yes          Yes
No shadow pricing of labor
and other local costs              Yes          Yes
Benefit stream based on the
cost of coal import from
Australia adjusted for
difference in calorific value      Yes          Yes
C. Financial Impact
Estimate
Appraisal              at
Estimate          Completion
Financial Rate of Return                       11.7                3.41/
Other Financial Indicators
FY89 Bukit Asam Coal Sales (mt)                 3.0                2.3
FY89 Coal Price for Delivered
at Suralaya (US$/t)                             108                 34
FY89 Coal Sales Revenue
from Bukit Asam (US$ million)                   312                 72
FY89 Cash Operating Costs
(Rp bil)                                        129                116
1/  Borrower's calculations indicate an FRR in the neighbourhood of 6% (Part I,
footnote to para. 6.3, and Part II, para 3.5.16).



- 38 -
7. Status of CoverAnts
Covenfnt                                     Subioet                                   Status
Ltom As:                                  PT Buklt Asa
3.01        Prompt provision of dequate funds to PTBA, PT Pann, PJKA              In Compliance
3.02         Coal sales to Suralaya according to specifled price meclanism
3.03         Ensure interlm power supply
3.04         Ensure timely land acquLsition
3.05        Hire consultants per Bank guldellnes                                         U
3.06        Provide adequate insurance for foreign goods, use restriLtions
of goods to Project for Bank-financed goods
3.07        Reportlng requirements:
(a) Provlde plans, speclfLcations, reports, contract documents and
construction and procuremcet scheduless                                 S
(b) MaLntaLn records for monitoring, allow Bank supervision of Bank-
financed aspects, provide Bank regular reportsl                         S
(c) Provide Bank with procurement LnformatLon on awarded contracts;
(d) Prepar. completion report. 
3.08        MaLatain records in accordance with acceptable and consistently              S
applied ccounting princLples
4.01        Bank loan is safeguarded against other loans and liens                       U
Project -Ar,
2.01         Due diligence in carrying out Project                                 in Compliance
2.02         Employ consultants accordLng to Bank guidelinest  (a) Sr. Technical
Advisor and TeobnLcal service advisorst (b) Project Management
Consultants (c) Owner's Engineers for terminalst (d) PMC for
townsite
2.03        Procurement of Bank-financed goods accordlng to Bank guidellnes
2.04         Provide insurance for foreign goods; use restrictions of Sank-
financed goods to Project



- 39 -
Covenant                                     Sub ect                                   Status
troeet Aar.                            8ukitt Asam (Cont'd)
2.05        Reporting requirements:
(a) Provide plans, speclflcations, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules                            In Compllance
(b) Maintain records for monitoring, allow Bank supervisLon of Bank-
financed aspects, provide 8ank regular reports
(c) Provide Bank with procurement informatlon an awarded contracts
(6) Prepare completion report
(e) Allow Bank supervisLon of all facilitLes, records
2.06         Comply with Subsidiary Loan Agreement                                       S
2.07         Exchange views with Bank on ProJect progress and inform Bank of             a
foreseen difficulties
3 01        Maintain suffLeLent project insurance                                        a
3.02        Provide Bank wlth operations assLstance contract at least 12 months
before estimated operational acceptance of flrst mLuLng subsystem       v
3.03        Prepare vater pollution control guLdelines  nd monltor environmental Inadequately
aspects of Project                                                 addressed
3.04        Prepare land reclamation plan
Pro-lect Astr,                            PJKA (ESS)
2.01         Due diligence in carrying out Project                                 In Complance
2.02         Employ consultants according to Bank guidelines:  (a) to                    a
implement financial and management accountLng system In ESS
(b) PNC for management, training and operational assistance             S
2.03         Use restrictLon of Bank-ftnanced services to Project                        a
2.04        Reportlng requirements-
(a) Provide plans, specifLcations, reports, contract
documents and construction and procurement schedules                    S
(b) Maintain records for moanltoring, allow Bank supervision of
Bank-financed aspects, provide Bank regular reports                     5
(c) Provide Bank with procurement information on awarded
contracts                                                               a
(d) Prepare completion reports                                              S
(e) Allow Bank supervlsion of all facilitLes, records                       S
2.05         Exchange views with Bank on Project progress and inform Bank of
foreseen difficulties



- 40 -
Cven nt                                      Sublect                                    Status
Projset Ar                                PJKA (ESS tCcnt'd)
2.06         Implement finuncial end mcaagement accounting system by April 1,
1983                                                              In Compliance
2.07         Review level of coal beiAg transported and take steps to ensure
timely and efficlent operations
3.01         Maintain sufficient project insurance 
3.02         Beginning April 1984, maintain minimum operating Inventories and
cash balances of at least 16S of previous year's working expenses 
S            Enter Into coal transport contract vith PTBA                                 a
4.01         Maintain records in  ccordance with acceptable and consistently
applied accounting principles                                            a
4.02         Provide Bank  n--nl audited financial statements not later than
6 mnths after the end of each fiscal year, and supplementary
financial data as requested                                              a
4.03         (a) During 1984-86, set railway tariff at not less than 251 of               N
delivered price of coal at Suralaya
Cb) From 1987 onwards, set annual tariff to allow ESS to obtain       Tarlff in line
annual rates of return on net fixed (project) assets of not        with overall
less than 132                                                      Project FRR
Pro ect Aar.                              PT Pan
2.01         Due diligence in carrying out Project                                  In Compliance
2.02         Employ consultants according to Bank guidelines for design,
construction and delivery supervision, and training                      0
2.03         Use restrictions of Bank-financed goods to Project                           a
2.04         Reporting requirements:
(a) Provide plans, specification, reports, contract documents
and construction and procurement schedules                               N
(b) Maintain records for manitoring, allow Bank supervision of
Bank-finaned aspects provide Bank regular reports                        6
(c) Provide Sank with procurement information on awarded contracts           S
(d) Prepare completion report                                                a
(e) Allow Bank supervision of all facilities, records
2.05         Comply with Subsidiary Loan Agreement
2.06         Exchange views with Bank on Project progress and inform Bank of
foreseen difficulties                                                    a



- 41 -
Subiect                                   Statu
Protet Agr.                               PT Panm (Cont'd)
2.07         Lease ship to ship operator acceptable to the Bank                    In Compliance
3.01         Maintain sufficient project insurance
4.01         Maintain records in accordance with acceptable and consistently
applied accounting principles
4.02         Provlde Bank annual audited financial stateinmts not later than
6 months after the end of each fiscal year, and supplementary
flnanci-a data as requested
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff nvuts
IX&k   m   8x ms  mI   MO r     XL  l  M& 8  -81  FY84  MS  PY86                FY89  FY0    TOTAL
L8SP  108.6  40.2  25.6 123.3 24.8                                                            322.5
LEM                           100.0  46.6                                                     146.6
12DI                                 11.9                                                       11.9
LOP     3.0   2.8   0.1   1.0   6.2   9.7                                                      22.9
SPY                                  22.6  35.3  29.4  28.2  34.1  30.3  20.0  28.6    0.2  228.7
PCR                                                                              1.4    4.0     5.4
PAD                                   0.2   1.4   1.5   0.9   1.7   1.3   1.4                   8.5
TOTAL 111.6  43.0  25.7 124.3 131.1  91.0  36.7  31.0  29.1  35.8  31.7  21.4  30.0    4.1  746.5
Lahnd 
LEP - Preparation
-IMA - Appraisal
LENl - Negotiations
LOP - Loan Proceasing
SPN - Supervision
FCR - Project Completion Report
PAD  - Project Admiulstration



42  -
Stage of           Month/  humber of   Days    SpecialisatLon   Performance Rating   Types of
PZiuuse Cycle         -sta.   Persons a       Fileld Rflveaented ai      Status b/  pblem c1
Through Appraisal     03/76       2          -      H
06176       3         -       M.P
09/76       1         -       M
03/77       5         -        t,F,P
05/77       6         -       N,H4E
08177       3         -       M,F
06/78       4         -        t,F
09/78       3         -       M,F,ME
02179       1         -       HE
05/79       3         -       M,F,)IE
06/79       6         -       M,F,R,ME
12/79       6         -       H,F,SA,R,NE
01/80       6         -       M,F,SA,R,ME
03/80       6         -       M,F,SA,R,ME
05/80       2         -       FA,R
Appraisal through
Board Approval      10/80       7         -       X,F,R,L
12/80       1         -       ME
01/81       1         -       H
06181       5         -       H,F,SA,R
Board Approval
through
Effectlvess           03182       3          12      X,SA,R                2/1            E,S,P,C
Supervision
Mission  1            08/82       5          12      M(2),F,E,R            2/2            S,P,C
2            12/82       1         12      H                      2/2            S,P,LA,CF
3            06/83       4         14      M(2),F,R               2/3            S,P,LA
4            11/83       3         is      m(2),R                 2/3            S,P,LA,F
S            03/18       3         16      X(2),P                 2/3            S,P,LA
6            12/84       1         4       M                      3/3            S,P,LA
7            03/85       1         5       M                      2/1            P
8            07/85       3         13      H,P,R                  1/2/2/2        P
9            02/86       3         15      H,SA,R                 2/2/2/3        P.?
10            09/86       5         23      M,F,SA,R,L             1121212        PM,1
11            03/87       1         8       M                        -            S,P,Pl,I
12            06/87       2         9       M,P                    1/4/3/4        S,P,PM,F
13            02/88       2         21      M,F                    1/3/3/3        S,PH,F
14            0588       1         8       M                        -            S
15            10188       2         13      H,P                    1121212        S,F
16            12188       1         14      M                      2/2/2/1        8,P,F
17            05/89       4         20      N(2),F,R               2/1/111        F
a/  H - Mlning Engineer; F - Financl Analysts E - Economists 8^ - Staff Assistant,; R -
Railvay/Port Engineer L - Lawyers P - Power Engineers HE - Marne Engineer.
ki Through 3/85, performance rating is Trend/Status, through 12/88 rating are Available
Funds/Project Management/Development Impact/Overall Statust 1989 rating is Overall
Status/Project Development/Compllance with Loan Covenants/Project Man-gement/AvaLlabillty of
unds.
t B - Loan Effectiveness; 8 - Implementation Schedule; P - Procurements C - Project Costs; LA -
Land Acquisition, CP - Cofinancing F - Financiai; PH - Project Manageentg I - InstLtutional.
Energy Division
AsLa Technical Department
June 1990



