Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3173-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR THE
BUKIT ASAM COAL MINING DEVELOPMENT AND TRANSPORTATION PROJECT
December 11, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1           =    Rp 625
Rp 100         =    US$0.16
Rp 1 million   =    US$1,600
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I metric ton per year (tpy)    =  1,000 kilograms per year
1 kilometer (km)               =  0.6215 miles
1 megawatt (MW)                =  1,000,000 watts
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAMCO      -  Bukit Asam Mining Constructors
BAPPENAS   -  National Planning Agency
CIDA       -  Canadian International Development Agency
EDC        -  Export Development Corporation, Canada
ESS        -  Eksplotasi Sumatera Silatan, the South Sumatra
railway subsystem
GOI        -  Government of Indonesia
KfW        -  Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
KP3BAKA    -  Entity within PJKA responsible for implementing the railway
component
MCS        -  Joint venture between Montreal Engineering, Canadian
Pacific Railways and Swan Wooster
MOC        -  Ministry of Communications
MME        -  Ministry of Mines and Energy
ODA        -  Official Development Assistance
PJKA       -  Perusahaan Jawatan Kereta Api, the state railway of Indonesia
PLN        -  Perusahaan Umum Listrik Negara, the national power utility of
Indonesia
PNTB       -  Perusahaan Negara Tambang Batubara, the state coal agency of
Indonesia
POKKORLAK  -  Organization for project implementation coordination
PTBA       -  PT Tambang Batubara Bukit Asam, state-owned coal mining
company
PT BAHTERA -  PT Pelayaran Bahtera Adhiguna, state-owned bulk products
shipping corporation
PT PANN    -  PT Pengembangan Armada Niaga Nasional, the national fleet
development corporation
REPELITA   -  Five-Year Development Plan of Indonesia
INDONESIA's FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
BUKIT ASAM COAL MINING DEVELOPMENT AND TRANSPORTATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiaries:    PT Tambang Batubara Bukit Asam (PTBA, a state-owned coal
mining company), Perusahaan Jawatan Kereta Api (PJKA, the
state railway of Indonesia) and PT Pengembangan Armada
Niaga Nasional (PT PANN, the national fleet development
corporation).
Amount:             $185 million equivalent
Terms:              20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at
11.6% per annum.
Onlending Terms:  The proceeds of the loan to be onlent from the Government
to PTBA and PT PANN will be at an interest rate of 13.5% per
annum for 15 years including a 5-year grace period. The
foreign exchange risk will be borne by the Government.
Project
Description:    The objectives of the project are to provide indigenous coal
as a substitute for oil (mainly for power generation in West
Java) and improve the institutions involved in Indonesia's
coal mining sector.  The project will consist of the
following investments related to mine development at Bukit
Asam and transport of coal to West Java: development of a
three million tons per year coal mine at Bukit Asam in South
Sumatra, including housing and social infrastructure for
mine employees; extension and upgrading/development of the
railway link to the port of Panjang; construction of a new
coal loading terminal near Panjang and upgrading of the
existing one near Palembang; construction of a ship to carry
coal across the Sunda Strait to the Suralaya power plant in
West Java; and provision of consulting services, including
project management, training and operational assistance for
all implementing agencies. In addition, the project will
provide $5 million in start-up funds for a coal exploration
project.
There are no unusual technical risks associated with this
project although its economic viability depends on timely
implementation. As a result, establishing appropriate
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
organizational and managerial arrangements has been a focus
of project preparation. In particular, given the
multisector nature of the project, adequate coordination
arrangements have been developed.
Estimated Costs (Mine and Transport Investments):          Local   Foreign   Total
…---- ($ million) -----
Mine system and townsite             179.9    332.0    511.9
Railway                               79.5    136.8    216.3
Terminals                            20.1      42.1      62.2
Ship                                   1.4     22.5      23.9
Project monitoring                     3.4      3.2       6.6
Subtotal Base Costs              284.3    536.6    820.9
Physical contingencies                44.3     37.0      81.3
Price contingencies                  117.8    103.9    221.7
Total Project Costs              446.4    677.5  1,123.9
Incremental working capital          41.3       8.4      49.7
Interest during construction         27.3    125.0    152.3
Refinancing Engineering
Loan S-9-IND                        0.0      10.0      10.0
Total Financing Requirements   515.0    820.9  1,335.9
Financing Plan (Mine and Transport Investments)
Local   Foreign   Total
…---- ($ million) -----
IBRD                                     -      180.0    180.0/a
Export Development Corporation           -       100.0    100.0
Canadian International Dev. Agency    -          33.0      33.0
Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau           -       48.0      48.0
Netherlands                              -         2.5      2.5
Other External Financing                 -      205.7    205.7
Government                             515.0    251.7    766.7
Total                         515.0    820.9  1,335.9
/a The remaining $5 million in Bank funds will be allocated toward start-up
expenses for a proposed coal exploration project.



- iii -
Estimated           Bank FY         1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
Disbursements:
Annual         30.5    37.2    54.9    53.4        8.5      0.5
Cumulative    30.5    67.7   122.6   176.0   184.5   185.0
Rate of Return:    12.2%
Staff Appraisal
Report:           No. 3468-IND, dated December 11, 1981.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO. THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA FOR THE
BUKIT ASAM COAL MINING DEVELOPMENT AND TRANSPORTATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $185 million to help
finance the Bukit Asam coal mining development and transportation project and
provide start-up funds for a forthcoming coal exploration project. The loan
would have a term of 20 years, including five years of grace, with interest at
11.6% per annum. The proceeds of the loan would be onlent to PT Tambang
Batubara Bukit Asam /1 (PTBA) a state-owned coal mining company, and PT
Pengembangan Armada Niaga Nasional (PT PANN) the national fleet development
corporation, and provided as equity to Perusahaan Jawatan Kereta Api (PJKA),
the state railway of Indonesia. The project involves about $183.5 million in
cofinancing from Canada, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Netherlands and
about $205.7 from a number of other sources, including export credit agencies.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /2
2.        A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social
Progress and Development Prospects (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979),
was distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979. An updating
country economic memorandum, "Indonesia: Long-Run Development and Short-Run
Adjustment" (No. 2788-IND, dated February 20, 1980), was distributed to the
Executive Directors in 1980 and a further country economic memorandum,
"Indonesia: Development Prospects and Policy Options," (No. 3307-IND dated
April 6, 1981) was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 13, 1981.
Annex I gives selected social and economic indicators for the country.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is an archipelago of more than 13,000
islands covering a land area of about two million sq km. With over 145 mil-
lion people /3 it is the world's fifth most populous nation. The population
density exceeds 650 persons per sq km on Java, where 62% of the population
live, but averages less than 30 persons per sq km in the rest of the country;
/1 A PT is a limited liability company in Indonesia.
/2 Substantially unchanged from the President-s Report on the Eleventh Power
Project (No. P-3132-IND), circulated under cover of R81-276, dated
October 22, 1981, and approved by the Executive Directors on November 10,
1981.
/3 Preliminary results of the 1980 population census.



- 2 -
over 80% of the population live in rural areas. GNP per capita is estimated
to be $430./1
4.        The economy has grown at an annual rate of almost 8% for over a
decade - the highest sustained growth rate of any low-income country. Until
about the end of the First Five-Year Development Plan, Repelita I (1969/70 to
1973/74), this rapid growth was largely due to effective recovery from the
severe dislocations of the 1960s. The Government of Indonesia (GOI) took
effective action to restore and then maintain macroeconomic stability,
liberalize the economy and provide incentives for investment. There was a
major rehabilitation of the neglected infrastructure, and the investment rate
doubled to 18% of GDP. Since then growth has been greatly assisted by
international developments, in particular the dramatic increase in oil prices
and the commodity boom. Net oil exports increased from $0.6 million in
1973/74 to over $10 billion in 1980/81 and as a result the balance of payments
moved into current account surplus - of $2 billion in 1979/80 and almost $3
billion in 1980/81 - for the first time in over two decades. Although
production linkages with other sectors have been very weak, the oil enclave
has had an important influence on overall growth through the infusion of
foreign exchange resources into the economy. Growth has been well diversi-
fied, with sectoral growth rates varying from 4% per annum in agriculture to
12% per annum in manufacturing and construction. However, despite the
favorable growth performance, the economy is still underdeveloped, with a
share of manufacturing in GDP of less than 10%, and a persistent deficit on
the nonoil current account. Present projections of supply and demand for oil
suggest a decline in net export revenues of the oil sector in relation to the
growing needs of the economy in the second half of the decade. For viable
long-run growth the economy will have to undergo significant structural
changes during the 1980s, to effect a broad-based expansion of industrial
production and of both industrial and agricultural exports.
Incomes and Poverty
5.        Average incomes per capita have been growing at 5% per annum, but
Indonesia remains an extremely poor country. It is estimated that almost 50%
of the population, some 65 million persons, were living in conditions of
absolute poverty in 1978. Household expenditure surveys indicate some
reduction in poverty incidence in the 1970s, especially in urban areas, but a
widening in rural urban disparities. The core of the poverty problem
continues to be in rural Java, where landless laborers form a large proportion
of the population.  Here the number in poverty appears to have increased to
almost 50 million by the end of the decade.
6.        The availability of productive employment is a key determinant of
incomes.  Total employment has been increasing at 3.3% p.a. during the 1970s.
In 1977/78 open unemployment was less than 2% in rural areas and about 6% in
urban areas.  There was, however, a particularly heavy incidence among young
/1 Estimate for 1980.



- 3 -
educated males - 30% for urban males aged 20-24 with secondary school educa-
tion.  In the period 1971-78, manufacturing provided only 6% of the increase
in employment, and mining almost none, while the more labor-intensive agricul-
ture and tertiary sectors provided 42% and 52% respectively. Agriculture
still accounted for 61% of total employment at the end of the period.  Because
the oil sector has played a leading role in economic growth, thereby
encouraging a fast growing tertiary sector, the relative lack of industrial
employment has not had serious consequences in the past.  However, in the
future, the growth of the industrial sector will be of critical importance for
the direct and indirect provision of employment.  It is also clear that
increasing remunerative employment in agriculture, for example in cash crop
production, will have a major role to play in poverty alleviation.
7.         Significant progress has been made in the social sectors.  Universal
primary enrollment will be achieved in the near future, and an adult literacy
rate of 62% compares well with an average of 50% for other low-income coun-
tries. However, secondary and higher education is comparatively less well
developed, and this has been a major factor behind the current shortage of
skilled manpower. With respect to health and demographic indicators, there
have been significant declines in both crude birth and death rates. An effec-
tive family planning program helped reduce fertility rates on Java and Bali,
while the 46% reduction in the crude death rate between 1960 and 1979 was only
exceeded by seven developing countries. However, the level of provision of
services remains underdeveloped, and only 12% of the population has access to
safe water, compared with 29% for all low-income countries.
Policy for Structural Adjustment
8.         Indonesia's past growth performance has been good, but the country
is now faced with the need both to put the nonoil economy on to a viable
long-run growth path and to effectively improve the basic needs situation of
the poor. The three primary goals of the Third Five-Year Development Plan,
Repelita III (1979/80 to 1983/84), are equity, growth and the maintenance of
national stability. The fact that Indonesia's resource position is likely to
be favorable for the first half of the 1980s presents the country with an
unusual opportunity to take effective policy action to bring about the
adjustments required to realize these goals.
9.         Although the main concern for the allocation of the resource wind-
fall is with long-run development, the maintenance of short-run stability is
also important. The channeling of the foreign exchange resource into the
economy, not least via the GOI budget, is already putting pressure on
domestic markets and encouraging a rapid expansion of liquidity. There is a
risk that medium-term supply responses will be too slow to prevent an
acceleration of inflation and an erosion of international competitiveness.
This emphasizes the importance of a distribution of incremental expenditure in
favor of improving sectoral supply responses. In particular, it is important
that a reasonable expansion of credit to the private sector be maintained - in
the past this has been excessively squeezed to maintain monetary stability.
This could entail a slower rate of expansion of GOI expenditure.



- 4 -
10.       The performance of the industrial sector will be of critical impor-
tance to long-run development. GOI is planning a program of large-scale
industrial investments, in refineries, LNG, petrochemicals, fertilizer,
cement, pulp and paper, basic metals and mining, with an estimated investment
cost of $15-20 billion. This will broaden the industrial base, but will have
very limited employment implications. Of greater importance for employment
is the encouragement of small- and medium-scale private manufacturing. The
1978 devaluation from Rp 415 to Rp 625 per US dollar significantly improved
the profitability of labor-intensive import substitution and export
industries and was accompanied by a system of export certificates (tax
rebates) to provide additional incentives. The trade regime is still
characterized by a wide variation in rates of effective protection, but GOI
is taking measures to rationalize the system. However, the private sector
also suffers from a heavy regulatory burden, especially in the area of
investment licensing, and limitations on the availability of credit. These
will require further policy reforms to create an environment conducive to
private investment.
11.       Despite the abundance of energy resources, Indonesia faces a
potentially serious long-run energy problem. Oil and gas now account for 98%
of domestic consumption of commercial energy and demand has been growing
rapidly. If Indonesia is to avoid a serious reduction in foreign exchange
earnings from the oil sector in the 1990s, it is essential to diversify
energy usage, in particular through the development of the coal, hydropower
and geothermal potential. This will require both a major investment program
in this decade and measures to encourage interfuel substitution and more
efficient energy use. The most important policy measure required is the
gradual elimination of the subsidy on some petroleum products that is now a
major distortion in the system.
12.       Agriculture will continue to be of great importance for export reve-
nue (agriculture accounted for 75% of 1979 non-oil export revenue), food pro-
duction and employment. Rice production has been steadily rising to a record
level of around 20 million tons in 1980, compared with 13 million a decade
earlier, largely as a result of irrigation expansion and the dissemination of
new agricultural technology. Future investment in physical infrastructure,
especially irrigation and roads, combined with a favorable market environment
will be the main determinants of further growth in food production. Tree
crops have suffered from relative neglect, and the age structure of the trees
is now very old, but GOI has a highly ambitious program of rehabilitation and
replanting. This will require substantial investment in manpower and
improved organization of distribution and marketing.
13.       To sustain rapid economic growth and reduce poverty, substantial
investment in human resources development will be critical. The lack of
skilled manpower affects almost every sector. Shortages are largely due to
the poorly developed secondary and higher education system, although the high
rates of unemployment amongst secondary school leavers suggest a major



--5 -
mismatch between supply and demand at this level. In the short run there is
scope for better utilization of existing manpower through stopgap training
schemes, while available foreign exchange resources could be used to finance
fellowships abroad and, in the interim, to purchase foreign skills. There is
also a strong justification for the use of incremental resources in the health
sector. However, increased outlays on health infrastructure will have to be
complemented by the development of innovative approaches to identifying and
tackling health problems, involving the participation of local communities.
The successful family planning program provides a good model.
14.       The public sector has been of growing importance, with central
government expenditures now accounting for around 30% of GDP. A significant
fraction of incremental resources, about 50% in 1980/81, has gone directly to
public and private consumption in the form of increased civil service and
military salaries from initial low levels, and subsidies on commodities.
Subsidies on petroleum products, food and fertilizer have grown very rapidly
to a budgeted level of over $3 billion in 1981/82. Although this has shielded
the economy from sudden shocks, the long-run impact on inflation is likely to
be limited and consumption data suggest that the main beneficiaries have not
been the very poor. Resources for development have also risen rapidly, to the
extent that it now appears that the financial constraint is often less
important than nonfinancial constraints, including the availability of skilled
manpower, the capacity of the construction industry and limited administrative
capability. The administrative framework for project implementation was
greatly improved in 1979 by the introduction of simplified appropriation
procedures and the adoption of post-expenditure auditing practices. However,
recently introduced restrictions in eligibility of certain smaller contracts
to small firms controlled by economically weak groups is likely to delay local
project implementation. Wider issues of administration, including the
question of decentralization, are also under review. Finally, there is a
continuing need to increase allocations to maintenance of public investments,
notably in irrigation and roads.
Domestic Resource Mobilization and External Capital Flows
15.       The external resource surplus has greatly helped GOI's budgetary
position. However, in order to reduce the dependence on oil revenue and lay
the foundation for long-term resource mobilization it is important to maintain
the domestic effort. Domestic revenue is of particular value since expendi-
ture from this source has a smaller inflationary impact than expenditure from
oil revenue. Non-oil tax revenue as a proportion of nonmining GDP actually
declined from almost 10% in 1978/79 to less than 9% in 1979/80 and 1980/81.
It is important that the capacity of the tax system be increased through
expanding the tax base, eliminating loopholes, and improving administration.
There is also great scope for mobilization of resources through reduction of
the subsidies on petroleum and other products. A steady rise in domestic
petroleum prices to the international level during the 1980s would have a
major impact on budget savings.



- 6 -
16.       External financing of GOI expenditure is budgeted at $2.4 billion in
1980/81 or 20% of the development budget, compared with almost 40% in 1978/79.
Total disbursed and outstanding external public debt was about $15 billion at
the end of 1980; including undisbursed amounts, external public debt totalled
almost $24 billion. The Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia remains the
principal source of external capital, including Official Development
Assistance (ODA), to the country. New commitments in 1980 were almost equal
to the $2.1 billion recommended in the Bank's 1980 economic memorandum on
Indonesia. Public sector commercial borrowings are estimated to have reached
$1.7 billion in 1980. With the increased availability of foreign exchange, in
the near term capital inflows are not required on resource grounds. However,
during the disbursement periods of projects currently being considered, a
resource gap will re-emerge in Indonesia. In addition, there is still an
urgent need for support of policy and institutional changes embodied in
foreign loans. It is anticipated that ODA will continue at a reduced real
level, and on harder terms, in the first half of the 1980s. It is of
particular importance that external finance be used to support policies
designed to prevent the re-emergence of a serious resource deficit toward the
end of the decade. It is anticipated that the public debt service ratio, with
oil exports on a net basis, will remain in the region of 9-10% for the first
half of the 1980s.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA /1
17.       As of September 30, 1981, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits
totalling $931.8 million, and 59 Bank loans amounting to $3,814.0 million.
IFC investments totalled $132.5 million. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1979 was
about 9.5%, and the share of debt service about 4.7%. By the end of 1980,
these ratios are estimated to have increased to around 10.8% and 6.7%, respec-
tively. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC
investments as of September 30, 1981, as well as notes on the execution of
ongoing projects. Given the critical importance of agriculture (including
transmigration) for employment, food security and exports, over one-third of
Bank Group supported projects have been in this sector. In addition, loans
and credits have been extended to virtually all other sectors of the economy,
including transportation, education, urban development, water supply, rural
development, nutrition, industrial development financing (including
small-scale industry), power, telecommunications, population and technical
assistance.
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President-s Report on the Eleventh Power
Project (No. P-3132-IND), circulated under cover of R81-276, dated
October 22, 1981, and approved by the Executive Directors on November 10,
1981.



- 7 -
18.       During Repelitas I and II, and in line with the objectives of these
first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Bank Group lending was
directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then the expansion of
infrastructure and production facilities. Special attention was also given
to meet the shortage of skilled manpower and technical assistance was pro-
vided for preinvestment studies and project execution. Repelita III,
published in early 1979, stressed the need for continued high growth and
stability, but departed from p.avious plans by placing special emphasis on
more equitable income distribution and poverty alleviation. This focus,
which was fully in line with the conclusions of the basic economic report,
required greater attention to employment generation (particularly in the
industrial sector) and to improvements in basic public services. While Bank
lending was already consistent with these objectives, increased emphasis is
being given to GOI's new priorities.
19.       The resource surplus discussed in Part I of this report provides
GOI with a unique opportunity to accelerate its development effort. This
will require both effective policy reform, notably in improving the policy
environment for private investment, and major investments in industry, infra-
structure, treecrop development and human resources development. The Bank's
program of lending and economic work is being geared to support the required
measures. Since the resource constraint has been alleviated, at least
temporarily, the primary emphasis of Bank involvement will be on policy and
institutional development and technical assistance in the key sectors. This
will involve a close integration between sector work and lending and the
gradual broadening of lending to the subsector and sector level in order to
assist with policy issues at this level.
20.       The only significant shift in the composition of lending involves
a rapid expansion planned in the education sector, a direct response to the
severe shortage of skilled manpower. In the industrial sector, in-depth
sector work has focused on the promotion of labor-intensive export-oriented
growth, and it is planned to follow this with a series of industrial projects.
In energy, new sector work and continued lending will concentrate on policies
to diversify Indonesia-s energy base, rationalize pricing and improve sectoral
planning. Irrigation and treecrops will continue to absorb a substantial
portion of lending in view of the importance of these sectors, and continued
support for transport is anticipated. Increased lending is planned in the
areas of provision of social services, in population, health and nutrition,
urban development and water supply. In these areas there will be increased
emphasis on institut-Lonal support and the develpoment of innovative low-cost
solutions. For exa.mple, the proposed health project will focus on improving
the working of th.~ whole health care system at the level of a specific
province.



21.       For about the last two years the Bank and GOI have made a major
effort to improve disbursement performance. Many of the problems appear to
be related to GOI s cumbersome budgetary, procurement and payment procedures,
including issuance of tender documents and opening of letters of credit.
These problems are further compounded by the severe shortages of both
managerial and technical manpower. A number of steps have been taken by GOI
and the Bank to address these issues. Several special Bank missions have
visited Indonesia to analyze the problems and make recommendations for
simplifying budgetary and financial procedures. The GOI and the Bank have
also instituted formal and regular joint review procedures to identify general
and project-specific problems and work out corrective measures. The first of
these reviews was held in June 1979 and subsequent reviews were held in
September 1980 and October 1981. In addition, procurement seminars were held
in Jakarta in September 1979 and November 1981. As a consequence of these
discussions, GOI has taken several measures to streamline some of the complex
budgetary and financial procedures affecting project implementation.
Finally, to reduce initial project implementation difficulties, many
operations are now being presented for Board consideration at a later stage
in the project cycle. Indications are that, as a result of these efforts,
improvements are taking place. This was reflected in an increase in
disbursements from $204.0 million in FY79 to $277.8 million in FY80, and to
$373.5 in FY81. While it is important that the Bank and GOI maintain their
efforts, these trends are encouraging.
22.       From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through IDA.
Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following the commodity and oil
price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group's subsequent lending has
been through IBRD loans, with a modest amount of IDA lending being justified
primarily on poverty grounds, as the per capita GNP was well below the IDA
cutoff of $625. Given Indonesias much improved balance of payments position,
IDA lending was discontinued in FY80.
23.       The proposed project constitutes the fourth lending operation pre-
sented to the Executive Directors this fiscal year. Previously approved
loans include the Jakarta Cikampek Highway, Second Seeds and Eleventh Power
projects. Projects under advanced stage of preparation and appraisal include
the tenth education, rural roads, sixteenth irrigation, East Java Province
irrigation and second fertilizer distribution projects.
PART III - THE ENERGY AND TRANSPORTATION SECTORS
The Energy Sector
24.       Overview.  Indonesia is a country richly endowed with energy
resources. It has about 10 billion barrels of proven oil reserves, proven
natural gas reserves comparable to those of oil, hydropower potential roughly
estimated at 31,000 megawatts (MW), proven geothermal resources of 900 MW



- 9 -
GOI Expenditures for the Transport Sector
25.       Within each of the three Five-Year Development Plans the alloca-
tions to the transport sector have accounted for about 15% of the total
development budget. Of these allocations, about half have been for the road
subsector. During Repelita I and II emphasis was placed on rehabilitation
of the existing transport infrastructure rather than new construction. As
an increasing proportion of major road links have been brought into service-
able condition, larger resources have been provided directly to the lower
levels of government for development of infrastructure, especially rural
roads.
26.       Under present policies, development and operation of the transport
sector is subsidized by other sectors of the economy, and this is an important
issue in the Bank's ongoing discussions with GOI. The largest subsidy is
that given for gasoline and diesel fuels. Even following the 50% increase
in fuel prices in May 1980, the retail prices of gasoline and diesel (Rp 150
and Rp 45 per liter, respectively) were 36% and 76% below their respective
world market prices in June 1980. The economic subsidies for petroleum
products used in transport alone are estimated to have been Rp 750 billion
in 1980, comparable to the total transport development budget or about 2% of
the GNP.  Fuel pricing is a major focus of the Bank's ongoing work on the
energy sector and an important issue in the Bank's continuing dialogue with
GOI. The sector is also subsidized in the sense that, although revenues
from user charges and taxes apparently cover the estimated maintenance and
operating costs of the national, provincial and kabupaten road system, they
do not also cover the full expenditures by GOI in developing the transport
system. However, the incidence and equity of the taxes pose problems in
that commercial vehicles are subject to extremely low taxes with the result
that they contribute only about 2% of the cost of developing and maintaining
the road infrastructure while accounting for almost 80% of the total road
traffic. Under a covenant in the Fifth Highway Project (Loan 1696-IND), GOI
is committed to formulating and implementing a program to increase road user
charges; a consultant study to assist GOI in this effort is now underway and
is being carefully monitored by the Bank.
The Road Network
27.        The nonurban public road network totals more than 300,000 km,
including about 200,000 km of village roads. The public roads above the
village level are administratively classified as "national" (about 12,000 km),
"provincial" (about 27,000 km), and "district" (about 67,000 km), indicating
their relative importance as well as the level of government primarily
responsible for development and maintenance. Of the kabupaten (district)
roads, which are the focus of this project, it is estimated that 42% are
paved, 14% gravel, and 44% earth. About 60% of these roads are in poor to bad
condition.
GOI Organizations Concerned with the Road Subsector
28.       Primary responsibility for the development and maintenance of the
road system rests with the Directorate General of Highways (DGH) within the



- 10 -
Ministry of Public Works (MPW). However, at the provincial and kabupaten
levels substantial responsibility for roads is given to integrated public
works agencies (DPUPs and DPUKs respectively) which are administratively
controlled by the provincial and kabupaten governments under the authority
of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) and which receive technical support
from MPW. Other GOI agencies involved in the subsector are the Ministry of
Communications (MOC), which establishes transport policies, and the National
Planning Agency (BAPPENAS), which reviews sector development plans and
prepares jointly with the Ministry of Finance (MOF) the development budget.
Vehicles and Traffic
29.        Indonesia's motorized vehicle fleet has been growing rapidly in
the last decade: about 11% p.a. for four-wheel vehicles and nearly 20% p.a.
for motorcycles.  In 1978, registered vehicles totalled about 0.9 million
four-wheeled (or more) vehicles and 1.9 million motorcycles. Almost all
trucks have payloads under four tons. Nonmotorized vehicles ranging from
animal-drawn carts to bicycles also play a very important role in the
transport of people and goods, especially in rural areas where the roads are
often not passable by large vehicles.
30.        Systematic traffic counting has been carried out on the national
and provincial highways since 1970. The growth rate of truck traffic has
been about 15% p.a.; for buses, about 11-14% p.a.; and for cars, 20-25% p.a.
No comprehensive traffic counts have been made at the kabupaten level,
although sample counts indicate traffic levels vary from about 2,000
vehicles per day (vpd) to less than 10 vpd, with motorcycles accounting for
perhaps half of motorized vehicles and with substantial numbers of
nonmotorized vehicles.
Administration and Planning
31.       DGH is responsible for planning and implementing a five-year roll-
ing program of major road works.  It also coordinates the rehabilitation
and maintenance and minor construction programs which are carried out by the
DPUPs and DPUKs with central government funds. The new Subdirectorate for
Rural Roads (SDRR), established in 1979 within DGH, is responsible for: organ-
izing road inventories and other data needed to support provincial and
kabupaten road development programs; analyzing local road transportation and
traffic; standardizing planning; developing construction programs; and
developing standard technical procedures, standards, manuals and organiza-
tion and equipment requirements. Long-range planning for road development
is done by the Directorate of Housing and Urban/Regional Development (Cipta
Karya) within M1PW.  This agency, directed by a GOI Steering Committee,
carried out the preparation of this rural roads project.
32.        DPUPs and DPUKs report directly to the chiefs of the provincial
and kabupaten governments (the Governor and Bupati, respectively) which are
under the authority of MHA.  DPUPs have a functional relationship with MPW,
which provides them with technical direction and some senior staff.  There



- 11 -
is no direct line of communication between the DPUK and the DPUP, and DPUK-s
requests for assistance must go through the Bupati to the Governor's office
to the DPUP. Thus, although DPUPs review the DPUKs' road plans, the DPUKs
receive very little technical assistance from the higher level agencies.
GOI intends to issue a joint instruction from MHA and MPW to provide a
formal channel of communication from DPUPs to DPUKs.
33.       Responsibility for planning the program of road works at the lower
level is shared between the DPUPs and DPUKs on the one hand and the Provin-
cial and Kabupaten Planning Boards (BAPPEDA I and BAPPEDA II, respectively)
on the other. Coordination among the kabupaten, provincial, and central
agencies involved in the kabupaten road programs is undertaken by the
Development Bureau of the Provincial Secretariat.
Implementation of Road Works (Engineering, Construction, and Maintenance)
34.       DGH's design work is done by the Directorate of Planning, which
has demonstrated its capacity to produce acceptable designs for a wide range
of road and bridge construction and to supervise a large volume of design
work by consultants. In addition, the design office provides technical
assistance on request to DPUPs and DPUKs. Design work for kabupaten roads
is the responsibility of the DPUKs. Due to lack of trained staff and equip-
ment, designs are usually simple. In some cases, only a line diagram and
cross sections are used for contracting; soil investigations are normally
not used. For bridges under 30 meters, structural design is done by the
DPUKs, usually following DGH standard designs and sometimes with DPUP
assistance. Bridges over 30 meters are approved by the DPUP and, in special
cases, by DGH. In general, assistance by DPUPs is limited because the DPUP
must use its own budget when providing assistance to the DPUKs.
35.       Responsibility for construction lies with DGH for national high-
ways and some major works on provincial roads, with DPUPs for provincial
roads and some minor works on national highways, and with DPUKs for
kabupaten roads. The works are executed under a variety of arrangements.
Most typical for minor construction is the use of small contractors who
supply labor and local materials but use equipment and manufactured
materials supplied by the involved road authority. Supervision of these
contractors is often weak due to lack of trained staff, especially at the
DPUK level. Some DPUPs have force account construction units for road
building.
36.       Maintenance of the national and provincial roads is carried out by
the DPUPs partly with provincial funds and partly with central government
funds through the DGH and MHA budgets. In addition, maintenance is suppor-
ted by allocations by DGH to the DPUPs of equipment, bitumen, steel, and
other materials. Maintenance activities are divided into three budget
categories: maintenance; rehabilitation; and support works. "Maintenance"
covers only routine works on "stable" roads, i.e., those that can be kept in
good condition by predictable and modest expenditures. While the categories



- 12 -
"rehabilitation" and "support works" are essentially similar (equivalent to
periodic or heavy maintenance in other road systems), the former applies only
to "stable" roads and the latter to "unstable" roads, which represent the
bulk of Indonesia-s system at present. Although substantial progress has
been made since Repelita I in restoring the road network to serviceable
condition, there are many deficiencies in the organization and execution of
maintenance by the DPUPs. The DPUP improvement programs, financed under the
Fifth Highway Project (Loan 1696-IND) for eight provinces and extended to
Jambi province under this project, seek to correct these deficiencies in
organization, practice, funding arrangements, supply of materials, and
deployment of staff.
37.        Maintenance of rural roads is the responsibility of DPUKs
except for those kabupatens in uhich the DPUK is not capable of handling
this work. The concept of "stable" and "unstable" roads is applied also at
the kabupaten level, and most work falls into the category of "support
works." GOI has recently decided to allow use of central government funds
for "maintenance" at the kabupaten level.
Manpower Planning and Training
38.       DGH staff has about doubled in the last five years and now exceeds
4,000. DGH has developed a long-term manpower plan with the assistance of
consultants financed by the Fourth and Fifth Highway Projects (Loan 1236-IND
and Loan 1696-IND). DPUK staff average about 200 permanent and 65 temporary
employees per kabupaten.  Perliminary, short-term manpower plans for the 25
kabupatens covered by this project have been developed. At all levels, the
lack of qualified and experienced staff remains an important problem and
therefore training is an essential part of manpower development. DGH
training programs have expanded rapidly with support from the Third (Credit
388-IND), Fourth, and Fifth Highway Projects. Training for kabupaten-level
staff is now being provided by DGH training programs in road maintenance,
equipment operation and maintenance, and related trades. Through its Local
Government Training Project, financed in part by USAID, MRA has recently
started training for BAPPEDA I and BAPPEDA II staff.
Financing of Road Works
39.       DGH-s road works are financed entirely through the Central Govern-
ment budget. DPUP-s works are financed from both provincial revenues and a
comprehensive development grant from the Central Government called Inpres /1
Propinsi.  The chief sources of funds for the DPUKs are grants from the
Central Government (Inpres Kabupaten and Inpres Jalan) and revenues from
/1  Acronym for Instruksi President which refers to grants from the Central
Government to lower levels of government given on the instruction of the
President and included in the MRA budget.



- 13 -
and weaknesses in the competitive position of some services, particularly on
Java. GOI has also failed to increase tariffs sufficiently to offset
increases in operating expenses and PJKA has had large operating deficits. A
comprehensive program of modernization and rehabilitation formed the basis of
the Bank's Railway Project (Loan 1005-IND) but its objectives were only
partially attained and PJKAs financial performance remains poor. However,
the Project Performance Audit Report dated January 30, 1980 did show a
satisfactory economic rate of return and some operational and institutional
improvements.
36.       PJKA's development plan for the 1979-88 period emphasizes the
marketing of rail services based on realistic traffic projections, improved
maintenance of permanent way and rolling stock, and operation of larger and
more reliable trains. Given Indonesia's geographic and transport needs,
the railway will have to play an important economic role in specific areas and
services, such as long-distance movements of passengers and transport of bulk
commodities. The proposed project will assist in enabling it to perform this
function efficiently on its South Sumatra regional network, Eksplotasi Sumatra
Selatan (ESS).
37.       Maritime Transport.  As an archipelago, Indonesia relies heavily on
interisland shipping. While about two thirds of the deadweight tonnage of
the domestic shipping fleet is used in petroleum trade, another quarter is
used by companies in the Regular Liner Services that carry about half of
the seaborne interisland cargo movements. The Bank has already assisted two
projects in this subsector (the First and Second Shipping projects, Credit
318-IND and Loan 1250-IND). Rehabilitation of part of Regular Liner Services
was carried out under the first project and the provision of additional and
some replacement vessels is underway in the second. The Project Completion
Report for the First Shipping project, issued on April 30, 1981, indicated
that that project failed to meet all its objectives because the cost of
rehabilitation of individual ships was underestimated at appraisal, but the
project had a satisfactory economic rate of return and assisted the borrower
in organizing ship procurement for interisland shipping.
38.        The Directorate General of Sea Communications within MOC is respon-
sible for maritime operations within Indonesia. Among the other key agencies
involved in the maritime sector is PT Pengambangan Armada Niaga Nasional (PT
PANN). This state-owned commercial company was created in 1974 to acquire and
lease or sell ships on time payment. PT PANN is well managed and profitable.
It now owns 41 ships (about 80,000 tons total capacity) and has received funds
from Norwegian Aid and from the Bank under the Second Shipping project. The
ship financed under the project will be owned by PT PANN and leased to PT
Pelayaran Bahtera Adhiguna (PT BAHTERA) which was formed in 1971 as a
government shipping company to handle oceangoing general cargo and domestic
tug and barge operations. The company now operates eight ships and while its
technical and accounting operations are satisfactory, improvements are
required in a number of management areas. These will be one focus of the
training provided under the project (para. 46).



- 14 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.       The project is part of Indonesia-s strategy to diversify its oil
dependent economy by increasing the use of coal, especially for power
generation. The project was identified and prepared by GOI with the assis-
tance of consultants financed largely under a Bank engineering loan (para. 33
above). It was appraised by missions in October and December 1980 and in
June/July 1981. Negotiations were held in Washington from November 17-24,
1981. The Indonesian delegation was led by Dr. Saleh Affif, Deputy for
Economic Affairs, BAPPENAS. Supplementary data are provided in Annex III.
The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 3581-IND) is being circulated separately to
the Executive Directors.
Project Objective and Description
40.       The objectives of the project are to provide indigenous coal for the
dual-fired power plant being built at Suralaya /1 in West Java and vital
technical and managerial experience for agencies involved in Indonesia's coal
mining sector. The project comprises two parts. The investments related to
developing and transporting the coal resources at Bukit Asam include:
(a) development of a 3 million tpy coal mine at Bukit Asam in South
Sumatra;
(b) development of an adjacent townsite including social infrastruc-
tures for the mine employees;
(c) extension and upgrading/development of about 405 km of the ESS
railroad network from the mine to the port of Panjang in order to
eventually handle up to 5.6 million tpy of coal; acquisition of
locomotives and wagons for coal transport adequate to handle the
coal output of the expansion of the Bukit Asam mine to 3 million
tpy; and establishment of a new, integrated telecommunications
system;
(d) construction of a new coal loading terminal at Tarahan near
Panjang to handle the transhipping of most of the Bukit Asam mine
output to Java; and upgrading the existing Kertapati coal terminal
at Palembang to handle local steam coal sales and small levels of
anthracite exports;
(e) construction of a self-unloading special-purpose ship of 9,200
dead weight tons to carry about 2.4 million tpy of coal from
Tarahan across the Sunda Strait to the Suralaya power plant; and
/1 As noted in para. 33, the development of Suralaya power plant is being
financed under the Eighth and Ninth Power projects (Loans 1708-IND and
1872-IND).



- 15 -
(f) provision of consulting services including project management,
training and operating assistance as needed for implementing
agencies.
In addition, the project will provide $5 millon in start up funds for coal
exploration in Indonesia. In view of projected long-term demand for coal
(para. 26), GOI wants to move forward with an expanded exploration program
under MME.  The proposed investment would provide the funds required to hire
consultants and make down payments for equipment in order to implement an
appropriate exploration program of favorable areas in South Sumatra and
Kalimantan. The entire exploration program (estimated to cost about $45
million) was appraised in October 1981. Arrangements for implementation by
MME have been agreed and by providing funds under this project the long-term
developmental program should be accelerated. With the exception of the pro-
curement and disbursement paragraphs, the remainder of this report will focus
on the Bukit Asam investments.
Project Preparation
41.       As part of the feasibility and preliminary design studies financed
under Loan S-9-IND (para. 33), a technical optimization of a variety of
alternatives for producing and transporting the output of the Bukit Asam mine
was carried out. Subsequently, cost and economic studies were undertaken.
Some four alternative mining systems, two railway alternatives, 10 port
alternative locations, and over 30 shipping systems were examined. Two
particular areas of concern which arose during the work involved the most
efficient technology for mining the coal and the best route for coal movement
to Suralaya. After extensive investigation of alternate mining systems, the
study concluded that the optimal system for Bukit Asam would be a bucket wheel
excavator mining system. This system is superior when efficient bulk handling
is feasible, as in the case of this mine.  On the question of coal transport,
two main alternative routes exist: via the east coast or via the southern end
of Sumatra.  The initial analysis of this issue showed that the difference in
the 30-year present value of capital, replacement, and operating costs between
the alternative routes was within the uncertainty range of the cost estimates.
GOI, taking into account various risks and the greater range of expansion
possibilities available via the southern route, proposed that the southern
route be utilized. An analysis subsequently carried out by Bank staff
concluded that while the total discounted costs for the eastern route are some
12-15% lower than for the southern route at 2.5 million tpy (the capacity
required under the first phase of expansion of Bukit Asam), the costs would be
higher at 5.6 million tpy (the projected levels of coal shipment in the late
1980s). In view of this, and also considering nonquantifiable risks related
to river transport, it was decided that GOIs route selection was appropriate.
Implementation
42.       Mine.  the mine component will be carried out by PTBA.  Since this
is a newly created institution and expertise in coal mining is very limited in
Indonesia, PTBA will employ a project management consultant and technical
advisors to assist in implementation. Detailed mine design, detailed engine-
ering of support facilities, procurement, supervision of construction, erec-
tion and commissioning of all mining operations will be the responsibility of



- 16 -
a project management consultant. This consultant will also undertake training
of the mine management and workers. Bukit Asam Mining Constructors (BAMCO), a
joint venture of Rheinbraun Consulting of Germany and Morrison-Knudsen of the
US, has been selected for this assignment by GOI on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank. About 3,530 man-months of internationally recruited
staff will be needed at an average cost of $9,100 per man-month. In addition,
technical advisors will be hired on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank to assist in contract supervision and provide technical advice. Bechtel
of the US has been selected by GOI for this assignment on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank. About 75 man-months of services will be provided at
an average all inclusive man-month cost of $12,000.
43.       Townsite and social infrastructures.  This component will be imple-
mented by PTBA with an engineering firm providing required support services.
A local engineering firm, PT Encona, has been selected by GOI to provide these
services on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. About 270 man-months
of work will be necessary at an average cost of $900 per man-month. One
concern of the Bank during preparation was the need to ensure appropriately
planned development at the townsite and terminals. To address the issue, an
urban impact study will be completed before the mine community layout is
finalized and an environment impact study of the terminals will be completed;
the results of these studies will be forwarded to the Bank for comment
(Section 3.05 of the draft PTBA Project Agreement).
44.       Terminals.  Construction of the Tarahan terminal will be carried out
under a turn-key contract as this was viewed as the most efficient approach.
It will be supervised by PTBA with the help of consultants acting as owner's
engineer. MCS, a joint venture between Montreal Engineering, Canadian Pacific
Railways and Swan Wooster, all of Canada, has been selected by GOI, on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank, to provide these services (MCS was
formerly the prime contractor for the feasibility study financed under Loan
S-9-IND). About 145 man-months will be needed at an average cost of $11,300
per man-month. The winner of the turn-key contract will be required to train
Indonesian staff and to prepare an operational assistance program for the five
years following the start up. Upgrading of the Kertapati terminal will be
entirely the responsibility of PTBA. If some assistance is required, MCS will
provide services on an ad hoc basis.
45.       Railway.  The GOI has created a special entity within PJKA called
KP3BAKA to be responsible for the execution of the railway component. KP3BAKA
has been satisfactorily organized and staffed. KB3BAKA's structure has been
designed so that primary responsibilities can be shared by Indonesian staff
and a consultant firm. The selected consultant firm will also execute the
railway training program and provide operational assistance to PJKA; Canadian
Pacific Consulting Services has been chosen for this assignment. About 2,800
man-months of internationally recruited and locally hired staff will be needed
at an average cost of about $7,400.



- 17 -
46.        Ship.  Design, construction-and delivery supervision for the ship
are the responsibility of PT PANN which will employ a consultant firm as
owner-s engineer. Marine Consultants and Designers of Canada/US has been
selected as the owner's engineer for PT PANN; it will also establish a
training program for staff from PT PANN and PT BARTERA, the ship operator.
This contract will involve 151 man-months at an average cost of $9,500 per
man-month. PT BAHTERA will lease the ship from PT PANN and be responsible for
the ship's operation under the project. If the ship is not properly operated
the lease can be transferred to another operator. These arrangements will be
similar to those being successfully utilized under the Second Shipping project
(Loan 1250-IND).
47.       Coordination.  In view of the multisector nature of this project,
proper coordination between agencies is crucial for efficient implementation.
To address this concern a Government Steering Committee was formed at the
start of project preparation in 1978; it will continue its role of coordina-
tion and control during implementation. This committee consists of senior
officials of the government agencies involved in the project, is co-chaired by
the Secretaries General of MME and MOC and has performed adequately in the
past. In addition, at the operational level a coordinating group, POKKORLAK,
has been established to resolve day-to-day problems and monitor progress.
POKKORLAK will be adequately staffed and receive its budgetary allocation in a
timely manner (Section 3.01(d) of the draft Loan Agreement). It consists of
the President Directors of PTBA, PJKA and PT PANN, a Permanent Secretary and
professional and support staff on a full-time basis. The Permanent Secretary
and his staff will be supported by a project monitoring consultant; MCS has
also been selected for this job by GOI on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank. In view of their past involvement with preparing the feasibility
study, they are an appropriate choice. MCS will provide 254 man-months of
assistance at an average cost of about $7,200 per man-month.
Implementation Schedule and Operations
48.       Project preparation is well advanced.  Preliminary works--basic
system selections, preliminary engineering, cost estimates, coal production
schedule, staffing plan, training program and procurement documents--are now
complete. All the consultants needed for the project implementation have
already been selected. Bids for the Tarahan Terminal turn-key contract were
opened on July 31, 1981, and suppliers/contractors for the major procurement
packages of the mining component have been prequalified. While a realistic
implementation schedule has been agreed by all parties concerned a number of
problems have been identified where action is needed. One potential
constraint to adhering to the implementation schedule is land availability for
the various project investments. To address this, GOI and PTBA have agreed
that all land required for the project will be made available in a timely
manner (Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement and Section 3.06 of the draft
PTBA Project Agreement). A second potential constraint is the need for an
interim power supply at the mine site. Pending construction of a 130 MW
coal-fired plant at the mine mouth, the feasibility study indicated that there



- 18 -
would be interim requirements of about 20 MW. GOI has agreed to a realistic
interim power supply implementation schedule in order to address this problem
(Section 3.03 of the draft Loan Agreement). Finally, the timely establish-
ment of a construction camp at the mine site is crucial to implementation.
To address this concern PTBA will furnish to the Bank an action plan for the
provision fo housing and infrastructure at the mine site by April 1, 1982
(Section 2.05(a) of the draft PTBA Project Agreement).
49.       Adhering to the agreed schedule will result in the new mining
equipment being in operation by October 1984; full production capacity will be
reached three years later. After project completion and for the initial years
of mine operation, a firm will be hired to provide operational assistance
through counterpart staffing at all levels of PTBA. The draft contract for
this operational assistance will be submitted for Bank review and approval not
later than 12 months before operational acceptance of the first mining sub-
system (Section 3.02 of the draft PTBA Project Agreement). The railway compo-
nent is expected to be complete by November 1985. As timely coal movement is
crucial to the success of this project, GOI and PJKA have agreed to take all
measures necessary to ensure efficient coal movement by ESS. Should ESS fall
short of transporting the required coal efficiently, PJKA will promptly enter
into arrangements, after consultation with the Bank, to correct such a
situation (Section 2.07 of the draft PJKA Project Agreement). The railway
contract will be based on PTBA retaining ownership of the coal; this contract
between PTBA and PJKA will be satisfactory to the Bank and will cover coal
transport to Tarahan, tariffs and the scope of PTBA and PJKA responsibilities
(Section 3.08 of the draft PTBA Project Agreement and Section 3.03 of the
draft PJKA Project Agreement). The ship is scheduled for delivery in late
1984. Assuming these schedules are met, the Bukit Asam mine will not be able
to fully address Suralaya-s requirements until early 1987. In view of this,
and given GOITs desire to utilize coal at Suralaya (while the plant is dual-
fired, coal is more economic than oil), GOI had decided PTBA should develop a
small coal deposit at Muara Tiga adjacent to the Bukit Asam mine. GOI will
provide the funds necessary for the development and PTBA will establish an
action plan for the exploitation of the deposit and review the investment
needed annually with GOI and the Bank (Section 3.07 of the draft PTBA Project
Agreement).
Cost and Financing
50.       Total project costs are estimated at $1,335.9 million of which about
$820.9 million is in direct foreign exchange. Total costs include physical
contingency allowances of 11% on average and price escalation allowances
as follows: 9% for FY81, 8.5% for FY82, 7.5% for FY83-85 and 6% from FY85
onward on foreign costs; and 18% for FY81, 14% for FY82 and 10% for FY83
onward on local costs. The project agencies are exempt from tax and duties
under the project.
51.       Financing for the Bukit Asam mine and related transport investments
includes $180 /1 million of the proposed Bank loan (about 15% of total project
/1 As noted earlier, the remaining $5 million in Bank funds will be allocated
toward start-up expenses for a coal exploration project.



- 19 -
costs), two loans from Canadian sources for a total of $133 million equiva-
lent, a loan from the Federal Republic of Germany (administered by
Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau KfW) expected to total $48 million equivalent,
a loan from the Netherlands expected to total $2.5 million equivalent and
$205.7 million to be raised through export credits and other foreign sources.
Considering the items to be procured under the export credits (mainly ship,
conveyors, and equipment) availability of financing should pose no problem.
The balance of $766.7 million (57% of total project cost) will be provided by
the GOI. The Bank loan will be for 20 years including 5 years of grace at
11.6%. The $33 million equivalent loan from the Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA) is expected to be for 50 years including 10 years
of grace at no interest while the $100 million loan from the Export Develop-
ment Corporation (EDC) of Canada is expected to be for 10 years including
3 years of grace at 9% interest. The loan from KfW is expected to be for
30 years including 10 years of grace at 2% interest and the loan from the
Netherlands is expected to be for 30 years including 8 years of grace at 2.5%
interest.
52.       Cofinancing by the Bank, CIDA/EDC, KfW and the Netherlands will be
on a parallel basis. As the major role of the Bank has been as a catalyst for
mobilizing other lenders and as Bank supervision will focus on overall project
implementation, a decision has been made to allocate the Bank loan to finance
engineering, project management, training and technical assistance for all
components and some mine-related equipment. Bank involvement in all compo-
nents is viewed as essential to ensure overall project coordination and
supervision. The CIDA/EDC loans are expected to finance foreign exchange
costs for the turn-key contract for the Tarahan terminal, equipment, and most
of the civil works and erection of the railway/communication system. The KfW
loan is expected to finance parts of the bucket wheel system for the mine and
the Netherlands funds are expected to be utilized for railway signalling.
To the extent that export or other financing is not forthcoming in the amounts
required for timely project implementation, GOI will provide the necessary
funds (Section 3.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
53.       The proposed Bank loan will be to the GOI which will also bear the
foreign exchange risk. In line with current Indonesian practice, GOI will
provide the equity funds required to ensure an adequate debt/equity structure
for PTBA. This implies that GOI will provide about $440 million in equity
to PTBA and lend approximately the same amount (including a portion of the
Bank funds) at a 13.5% interest rate per annum for 15 years including a five-
year grace period. The 50:50 debt/equity structure previously agreed with PT
PANN for financing of ships under the Second Shipping project will be adopted
under this project. The GOI will therefore lend about $20 million to PT PANN
(including a portion of the Bank funds) on the same terms as to PTBA and
provide an identical amount as equity. The onlending arrangements for Bank
funds would be satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Loan
Agreement), and the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements between GOI
and PTBA and between GOI and PT PANN will be a condition of effectiveness
(Section 6.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). In view of PJKA's financial



- 20 -
position and in line with GOI practice, the $310 million of project costs
allocated to PJKA will be entirely passed on by GOI through the budget
allocation in a timely manner.
Financial Position of Implementing Agencies
54.       With the proposed pricing system (para. 32) and the agreed GOI
equity participation (para. 53), financial projections indicate a sound
financial position for PTBA. Internal cash generation is projected to be
positive by the time full production is reached and will cover all annual cash
requirements thereafter, including recurrent fixed assets replacement and debt
service requirements. To ensure a sound financial position after project
completion: (a) PTBA's debt equity ratio shall not exceed 60:40 (Section 4.04
of the draft PTBA Project Agreement); (b) PTBA will maintain a debt-service
coverage ratio of at least 1.3 (Section 4.05 of the draft PJKA Project
Agreement); and (c) PTBA will maintain a current ratio of at least 1.3
(Section 4.06 of the draft PTBA Project Agreement). Finally, in order to
ensure that PTBA's efforts are focused on the Bukit Asam expansion, it has
been agreed that PTBA will not undertake nonproject investments or incur new
debt exceeding $20 million per annum without the prior review of the Bank
(Section 4.07 of the draft PTBA Project Agreement). During project
preparation, PTBA's accounting system has been reviewed by consultants and the
development of a new system recommended. Design and implementation of this
system will be carried out by BAMCO and a local consultant and an adequate
financial and management accounting system will be adopted and operating by
April 1, 1984 (Section 4.01 of the draft PTBA Project Agreement). PTBA's
annual financial statements will be audited and submitted to the Bank within
six months after the end of the fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank (Section 4.02 of the draft PTBA Project Agreement).
55.       Taken as a specific cost center, ESS has constantly had weak
financial performances, largely due to the fact that tariffs do not reflect
costs. Given the complexity of the PJKA/ESS financial problems, the proposed
project's financial goals have focussed on a number of key problem areas.
Specifically, GOI and/or PJKA will ensure: (a) that coal tariffs are esta-
blished which will be not less than 25% of the delivered coal price to
Suralaya during production build-up (FYs84-86) and which thereafter will
ensure an annual rate of return of 13% on the revalued assets acquired for the
project (Section 4.03 of the draft PJKA Project Agreement); (b) that ESS has
sufficient funds and inventories to meet working capital and emergency repair
needs (Section 3.02 of the draft PJKA Project Agreement); and (c) that an
appropriate accounting system will be developed and placed in operation by
April 1, 1983 which will, inter alia, allow ESS to develop adequate cost
control mechanisms and produce the information required for coal tariff
calculation (Section 2.06 of the draft PJKA Project Agreement). ESS accounts
will be audited and submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of each
fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. (Section 4.02 of
the draft PJKA Project Agreement).
56.       As noted above, PT PANN is a well managed company; it is presently
earning a profit on ongoing operations. The leasing arrangements to be
employed under the project will be consistent with its ongoing operations;



- 21 -
the lease will be to a ship operator acceptable to the Bank under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank (Section 2.07 of the draft PT PANN Project
Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursements
57.       Procurement for all the major equipment items financed by the Bank
for both the Bukit Asam investments and the coal exploration effort will
follow international competitive bidding procedures according to the Bank-s
procurement guidelines. As some participation by Indonesian manufacturers is
possible, a 15% preference on the c.i.f. price, or prevailing duties, if
lower, will be applicable. Procurement of items financed by CIDA/EDC, KfW and
the Netherlands will follow the respective procurement procedures of the
institutions involved. Efficient procurement procedures will be followed for
the remaining Bukit Asam items to ensure reasonable prices. Given the com-
plexity of the Bukit Asam investment and to ensure that delays resulting from
GOI procurement review are minimized, an early warning system will be adopted,
whereby POKKORLAK will inform the Steering Committee and the Bank whenever:
(a) a bid evaluation has not been completed with six weeks after bid closing;
(b) the bid award has not been completed within six weeks after bid
evaluation; and (c) a contract has not been approved and signed within six
weeks after bid award.
58.       The Bank Loan will be disbursed against the following items involved
in Bukit Asam: (a) equipment - 100% of foreign expenditures; and (b) consult-
ant services and training - 100% of expenditures of locally hired firms and
100% of foreign expenditures otherwise. In addition, the Bank loan will be
disbursed against 100% of the start-up expenditures for the coal exploration
project. Finally, promptly after the effective date for this project the Bank
will refinance the principal balance and any unpaid charges from Loan S-9-IND
from this Loan (Section 2.02(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). Since down-
payments were required to declare the various technical assistance contracts
effective, it is recommended that retroactive financing totaling up to $9 mil-
lion be allowed (Para. 4 of Schedule 1 to the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Justification
59.       The financial rate of return for the Bukit Asam project calculated
on an incremental basis is 11.7%. The economic rate of return is estimated to
be 12.2%. These are in line with returns on similar-type projects in other
countries. However, as some of the large infrastructure investments related
to the project have been developed in order to provide a basis for a substan-
tial increase of coal movement beyond this phase of the mine expansion, these
returns do not fully reflect project benefits. Assuming that a new mine of
3.5 million tpy is brought on line by 1988, the incremental economic rate of
return of this project increases to over 15%. In addition, the project is
expected to yield substantial benefits through (a) increased foreign exchange
earnings; (b) major institution-building in a critical sector; (c) creation of
about 1,700 new jobs at Bukit Asam and Tarahan; and (d) provision of basic
services for about 1,600 families at Bukit Asam.



- 22 -
60.       The project has been thoroughly prepared and there are no unusual
technical risks. Major delays in the implementation could, however, have
serious implications on project financial and economic viability. For this
reason, presenting the project has been delayed until all technical assistance
is in place and a major part of the Bank's project preparation and appraisal
activity has been spent setting up safeguards against this risk. The terms of
reference and staffing of all implementing and coordinating entities have been
reviewed with GOI in detail. In addition, to minimize delays in procurement
approval an early warning system has also been set up (para. 57).
Environmental Aspects
61.       Contamination of water is the main ecological hazard connected with
the project. Adequate measures have been proposed to avoid this; continuous
monitoring of water pollution levels will be carried out at both the mine site
and the terminals, and steps will be taken to ensure that these levels will
not exceed specified guidelines (Section 3.03 of the draft PTBA Project Agree-
ment). An appropriate allowance has been included in the project operating
costs for the purpose of land reclamation. PTBA has also agreed to prepare
and implement a land reclamation plan acceptable to the Bank once the detailed
mine plan is completed (Section 3.04 of the draft PTBA Project Agreement).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and
the Bank, the draft PTBA Project Agreement between the Bank and PTBA, the
draft PJKA Project Agreement between the Bank and PJKA, the draft PT PANN
Project Agreement between the Bank and PT PANN and the report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions
of the project are referred to in the text and listed in Section III of
Annex III. Of particular interest are the two conditions of effectiveness:
(a) receipt of a letter of intent on coal purchases between PTBA and PLN
(para. 32); and (b) finalization of on-lending agreements satisfactory to the
Bank between GOI and PTBA and PT PANN (para. 53).
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
December 11, 1981
Washington, D.C.



-23 -                                            ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
IN ONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SREET
INDONESIA                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV    ES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. lM.)                                                             - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)L.
TOTAL           1919.3                                          MOST RECENT       LOW INCOME        !MDDLE INCCKE
AGRICULTURAL     286.4                   1960  /b    1970 /b      ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC       ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                       80.0       140.0            370.0            232.3                 1136.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)          130.1       128.4            237.1            499.4                 1150.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)      94680.C    116143.0         142870.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)      14.f        17.1             19.8             17.3                   40.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                                 219.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                                   388.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                             2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                            49.3        60.5             74.4            153.6                 373.1
PER SQ. K1M. AGRICULTURAL LAND        355.9       417.9           487.3             360.3                2382.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTLRE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                              40.7        44.0            40.8              37.4                  39.8
15-64 YRS.                              56.2        53.5             56.3             59.2                  56.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                        3.1         2.5              2.9              3.5                    3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                   2.1         2.0              2.3              2.1                    2.3
URBAN                                   3.7         3.6              4.0              3.4                    3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)          46.7        40.8             36.2             27.7                   29.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)          24.8        17.7             13.3             10.2                   7.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                   3.0         2.8              2.3              2.5                    1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)            ..       181.1           2216.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)         ..         0.2             27.1             20.4                  44.1
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)               93.0       102.0            103.0            107.1                  123.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                        89.0        92.0            105.0             98.6                 112.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)               41.0        41.0            47.0              56.9                  62.5
OF WhICH ANIMAL AND PULSE             6.0         6.0              6.0             14.2                   19.7
CHILI (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE          31.2        20.4             13.7             14.6                    4.8
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)         39.0        46.7             53.0             57.7                  64.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               159.0       126.0            120.0             89.1                   50.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OP
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    ..         3.0             12.0             30.1                - 45.9
URBAN                                    *-        10.0             35.0             65.8                  68.0
RURAL                                    ..         1.0              6.0             20.1                  34.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   ..         12.0             15.0             17.6                  53.4
URBAN                                    ..        50.0            60.0              71.0                  71.0
RURAL                                    ..         4.0              5.0              4.8                  42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              46778.7     26498.5         13644.4            3857.7                4428.7
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON              ..      7672.8          8851.9            6411.8                2229.7
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                1364.1      1644.6          1606.0            1132.8                 588.5
URBAN                                 251.8          ..           697.3             322.3                 579.6
RURAL                                    ..          ..          3159.0            5600.5                1138.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                ..          ..             22.4
hOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                   4.4         4.8
URBAN                                   4.9         5.3
RURAL                                   4.3         4.7
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                    ..         1.5
URBAN                                    ..         1.6
LRBAL                                    ..         1.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TUTAL                                   ..           ..
URBAN                                    ..          ..
RURAL                                   ..           ..



-24-                                           ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                           REFER1CE GIIWPS (WImIGHTED AVERAGES
- HOST RECENT ESTIMiATE)
ItOST RECENT     LOW INCCltE          IDDLY Il
1960  /b    1970 /b      ESTIMLATE Lb   ASIA & PACIFIC       ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                     71.0         78.0             94.0             85.9                    99.8
MALE                      86.0        83.0            100.0              94.4                  100.6
PFEALE                    58.0        73.0             89.0              64.5                   98.8
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                       6.0         16.0             22.0              38.0/ca                53.5
MALE                      10.0        21.0             27.0              34.6/ac                58.4
FEMALE                     3.0        11.0             18.0              18.07                  48.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (S OF SECONDARY)       20.0         22.0             20.0               3.8                   21.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMALRY                               39.0         29.0             30.0              32.8                   34.2
SLCONDARY                              14.0         13.0             17.0              19.9                   31.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)             39.0        56.6             62.0              52.8                   86.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                              1.0          2.1              3.5               1.7                   12.7
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                              7.2         22.0             38.5             35.3                   174.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                              0.1          0.8              7.3              3.7                   50.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                         ..          ..             17.7              14.6                  106.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA         ..          ..              0.8              3.4                     4.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)         34752.5      41034.6          50929.1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                       27.9         31.0             29.5             29.3                    37.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                  74.8         66.3             59.1             69.8                    50.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                      8.4          9.7             11.8             14.1                   21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                    36.7         35.3             35.6              39.7                   40.2
MALE                                     54.2         49.5             50.1              51.5                   49.8
FEMALE                                   20.0         21.6             21.1             23.3                   31.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                   1.2          1.3              1.2               1.1                    1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGiEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS          ..         33.7/c           23.5
HIGhEST 20 PERCENT OF HOIJSEHOLDS        ..         52.07           49.4
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS          ..          6.87w           6.6
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS          ,.         17.37E           14.4
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                    ..           ..            136.0            134.1                  248.6
RURAL                                    ..           ..            112.0            111.6                  193.7
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USs PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                    ..           ..            119.0               ..                  249.8
RURAL                                    *-           *-            98.0                ..                  234.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                    ..           ..            28.0              41.7                   21.2
RURAL                                    '-          '-              51.0             51.7                   32.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/aa  China included in total only.
Lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Income recipients.
May, 1981



- 25
AMNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DMPINITIiiMS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
goses:  AlthougSh the datear  dreta ftI.s co...ac generlly  Iudgd the  -et  uhorf.ita -o and ta1ieble.  it ahould alc he noted that they say no  he Itte-
fa otly  o1asl  harns  tfteltho   tnaria    efttn                     "dcocPIc nee  h  ditftetco.            rl      ntnlctt   the data. -Th  data .... none-
theles, nefol o dear tO  erdea otaantnuda.gtdtrte tend.,sad  harerenle  certin sjor dffetgteeIetaInL ouarlee
ThIenec   rusae()teca   orr   ro  u   h   njr   onr   w   2   rutygopwt   nsntthge   ong   noeta   h   uor   tu
ofiheeuhjetttouorf'onter   for "CpItal1 Surlu'Ol   Peotee     -gnP ch-r  "Middle Intone North Atfric  and Midlta' in thrat  baase I                  ttn
sejoriY If the tttrciregnp n           ow  daafonha t ictt              Inc  th,  oerg f        foore  acttelt    tt  depndsIo  the  viaIit   fdt
one indicator at a risc e-n  the cr-try and rfrec   r-pe..                                                                      -Y        ~       P'        h    1
Total - Totl  nr1   r  areaf toapI'llg 1o  aeaan Inlnd   cae-        a                            ura..n.url.dvdd.yt.e   eeeineduhrv   oapit-ni heda.j
for coops. Pe--ne, -kehc  sod kitchen geId.r. yr to tic fallow: 1978 data.                      hbhil ltatotwct.Aelal   r   eahtbetapr atl   tfe
tolete  bn sae   inerlc  sethod sa Scold Mawkit It. (19117-79 blae). 19h,                        and sedica1 te Ia  tot Pr.at_ntl  anetind%yaphysoeF                hth 
190, etd 1979 data.                                                                             wedtll-I aatn    nca.adaf,eo 1cth offe  In-aIen   Ict--
ENERGYi CONSUMPTIOA ff1 CAPiT-A - annual co-upti-r cftoac              enry(0-1                     tlce . u.  ee       a ..s tla inlude WHOs pri.inopal/gental h,spitlel,
and litt.petroens  naura  tw  end bydro-,                    . ulered tw-thersa  alc-sdcoahnpil  hoalo  crl    pit.lc an4 ead itaI                               ndstw
Itricity  iw kilotceIv calauleln  per capita; 19h0  1910. and1979                                  ates    ipnclelieed hospital, ate included   ty  nda  toal
dat.                                                                                            udnlenl... Oct  p-iteI Mad -  cTal  nubhw  if Iedniaslo     trot dicth-ctc
fran huapitwie dildad by the nasb- of hed..
POPUiLATiII ANDO VITAL. STTaISTICS
Total  fonolatlo..  Mid-Seer (bou- -dal - IA of Ju1p 1; 1960, 19701..sd 1979                  HOUINGil
dat.                                                                                         dAlle,   trof HnuashoId iec                IIc honeehldi - total  u'gr b   d, ur,
IrhawPvoaetio  Icerentof ital)- Matt  of uio. n to iraAouaio;hhnaod  reaso;   grop oF Indodaa h   bt  livin Runr
dt'fener  defln:ielana, of Iulsores  say affet  capaahility of dts                             end their sm   seal.  A hoarder cc lodger soy cc saY not he included in
1onuatlu  Proicciun                                                                          Ioosfn.ewfprus  e   un-oa1, -cbaw, gnd rote1-Aeaeos
Population in ysar 2000 - Curran  Ppoplatloc  tuailr  urn ha...d on 19M0                         her of parents yen coos in al  ubn.ad  uIlocuied cretne
tonal popu1atiocby sgr end ena and th,in   otli   n   ep  1lptig                             dLelllws., reee...    el.      Pelosetlde  rnpeste   ncutuecad
Proleotin p             Iaeet   o  an Iiaiy rIns  onpis  of threelee II     u                uocuied curia.
Inglf  en.c.ny.t.I.hin .r..ggt .                 oncy'     Iprcpira       --.A_   Inca     ucect  flettciftyIeciufdglicl-rn.aha adrw-
lee.aaesl   tMecettraal.lting  r77                 Iper . Th: par-                     Co-revitonal de11irga uith electricity it licing qua-er
netreAr  lentil iry rae  ls  tau  tbh-  la-rl  aw....nng declite in                       vI coral1, orban, ad coral danul i.,.eeeniey
feeit y soodi.g to Itono leveler   pac  faily plan..iig perfonw-..
Eat  Ivuic   Ia hen u_ai9nd one of thac. wIne o-Ibi-tano-  or  -u lity                   EDUCATION
and farnilimy trca odefo  pnunciowpcoc.Ajn Ed tnn11-et taIos
th.'icthca.te Ieeq-1to the  degireeh   cndelwurh.eSgMnanue                     e.c,etohlgeatec.nrivla    wrwteso  csrrn
wieoonen.T~h!is In acIeve  owyfeIn        n   lpmt  decineiv                          pPsc    cho-5     ocultI.ne lc          -ll  icldee child-te  agd-Il
of goner replateg ital  ..enactly.  The cletionac y pupulstioose   w                           chncccn  un__celadocnin  en..                nn ..   y   acce  lIf P..cr-n
-eIlsI;d or  he bacie of Ihe pnu(ncred ch'- teie-        c  of ibe popoenioro                   ainc  none ppils are hels on above the official ichoci_eta
ivn hey_ulfl, undchecoer. ofd-olive of f-tilieyrscercorIple-                                 Secndry thIl-Inelteactdfeel-totpu-td.. eshv,eodwny
soo  level.                                                                                     eduatotoqicsu   Fc                   . fo  peaef approvd pci.say irtto  In
Y-a  tninr                        ..ultltonenld - The y-u  ohnn gitj ...Iy pccuiotJcr             pnocidwg.   rri,     ntncul   rtuhctatoplnctcgfrppih
elan ha. beet  -achtd.                                                                         ....i  o  1  noI17year  ofnc;croa dnnc   oca  eagnrlY
Pupolation banalliy                                                                                 ...cl.ded.
note1 u-r., 1960, 197c and 1979 dsa                                                            ic loda tethvts,        vutl  cotepotaawich .pear  lodI'pe-d-
Peri.bc aniunrlinni - C.wyo-d ssohove for sgrlcunuti-  1ud                                        cnnly  cn  deparneent  ofaoodc  iSatItui_
only; l96I, 1970 and 1970 dar.-                                                              PupIl-recher ratIt-ciayanseod yTtsat                             a troIled iv
Pupulaton useSnouttpa macent) -Childrno  (I-lI years).  vrln-an   I-                      pe ty and Iec_rdary level  dicide   hr' uswc  o  techr  tn the
6hO... paste,sdi retIrd(5ygnad   -ow)  aspraignof eid-yer  .pup-                                  correponding le-ele
I.inlo; 196.190   wi17  danaIAdltl lIIeIt  tanlccet   - Liferee adults (.bshInet  read and art i)
Poultirurvwth Mat  (--cen I- Itona  - Manul gronth Ieew  of tota  nil-                        san   ecnvtSaofIviul adult popolation aged 15 years .d 00cr.
pant popisr   funI1950-hi. .90-00.Iad19701-9.
PvuslnIroeth Rui-  (mc--vi  - u-bac - Manual growt  came. of urhrppo                   CONSUMAPTIONI
uItt.ns fIc 1950-60. 1960-70, sod 1970-79.                                                   Puenevee  lun I. rr- thousan d          itc nan) . .......e  ce-  c.Iep-nin  actOr
Crude MIrth Mace (per thouca.nd) - MAnua   ic         h  par   ....e.d or wid-prur                terernln   lees that right pIne.v.l ew loden eehuls--a  heusan
pplto;1910,  91970,an  179 data.                                                         al 'haY ohcl
Crude twath ln(prtosnd) -                 IAwuldarha pe-  ih-...oda of nid-yerOdn-eecr R                         (o- ih-usvdicoltin   - All rypew  of   uec Ie  o  radio
Iopul:i-nc   19A.1. .1970, sod 1979d datn                                                      Iod resin nc ge       Io puhbilt per_nhcoead of popular  -Ic ,,ttld enon
Crvsalrrudutiortan-uvegee bohcudauhtcavosv-lhe-iIiccerceor IrunlesdvYea.,. ereh snra_tniirFrndio
h,rnor-Inepcudoccivw yeniodlifshe.pelnISrrwcg-w-p_oifirac Ietewe   ineff.-i;da...orf oec   yrsra  aynothbco-pw-bleelcn-
,ility cI_na  owP ...Iy floe-year syines.dgin,t  1960, 19701..sd 1979.                         won t     icovttroes ahoihsd 1licenaiw.N
F,ll  IlvIuaOce,          re.Maol(t1hou....da)-Mna.             ubpo   cetc                    TI etras(c  th                 -1ar  rrusiow -    ...rcton  iotrod     ow
of bInh-cctro  Iwoien oden  oapita cOetuvel fellyplatIng protrd.                   Intra p-hit-  yedn yhuueew ph. lilt  enloe Tnl .....sd 1TV  ecluno
ofp  cid-hteIfle    (1-1yas   ho oct birth-c-t-o  da-icer-woctrCicuo  o   orinao  pcliIn      hn he  trertn
Indan cf rood Producioo per Cents. )19h9-71-100) - loden of ccc -,pt- sonol                    Cuwesa ... Mualut-edao- Per Capt ccYrn-  oedoIhe Iohw  c
prdcio,       ful  odrI.dtng    rdcnt   rcue   ce   wtea   o                                                                                                  _ceesoddrotteyir tlolgaeinoa_diennlcs
In o  cln ncyarhdu.   Coi,d. It-n-coor  priarygod-   (e.g. tI            "Iar                n   tcil  codd'lc    Ih
Itnao    un)hIchuredblhiavn tI.noucle -nIt  -off..tard
ineonocucluded)., AetnaMat  produttc ofbpc.ou             -tinhnd cv                       MaItO FORCt
naloaa EcanPId..r. p,lcr ogte;1961-5 11971. and 1919 dsta.                            Tnna1 lahoc Fopce ithons.Anda  - tEvo-i-cll  union  -eon.-  i-co "uiI
far cacinu aurtli of calories (retract of  rolwet)-Conru-d tIca                                a      I..dtu.ca  and otplcysd hut oatcludioghoswveaoen                 t
,urrgYe1qulialc-  uf nan Ovid gopple,      v  lhwucutycrcpn cnonc'Y                                irt Pop.  tnoo   l  ngew9:.9lililD          sinorlu  cotrla 
von day.  baIlable auppiten conpriwedonwl   rouinot   oP.c"s  an                   onot  oas  1h960lIO1970td17G              ae
eno_ a  accsinignc.vrsplunuld.nslIa,na,                                                     PeAale(percen) - resle lnhu  fcrcee p9          cwag   fita   aordr
nuaoniciesuwad  It fod pcicegstvg. and  oanew  Or dlacclbutun. Maqulre  Ignicultre iraccect) - Laho  forcedup _art(P., I.ent.y, boctloenv
not   en   ainated by FAG bha..rd onphyailocglc-  tend  lot  -ona  -ci-                ff.hire as  Iacncr  of  IcII labor force;1960, 1970 aud 1979 data.
cit  sd hralih coiwd-cc    --l aviroccs  _eep.....e. body uwlthtl   c                   nutr   cre    I.ab- force  i It inrg,  .o...uc..           c  waw-fa-tnig
aId se  dlitrohati.Ioof rIpuM   cr n  allnig              __1  . pa .et   .ca.eonsd eacr tut                    ar   andguasp.......nane of-ttu  luho  finon  1960,
boebId Iae; 19h1-65S, 1970. avd 197) dar.11.ad119dt
farcaitu  _ eorl  of ttocl  (,trts ran du)-rocII'lo  otn  citrari'rei  Rca In un  (coccer)                                     - nu .sat and fasl.      -P-  toprlcc
vetsoply of fo   r   a         c   npYf L odi dlIe   s  ho                                  atIliyrg        "Iaa 0ccapoid.en toal  sl, ard iteal  lwhc   Ir..u.
9ulct.ave fo  allcounries-s-aliehrd hy  SOS  -rivde tot Inivio...ecareo  total,tle  n   ntPopinto   Ir all eten"I                                            tto
allc  n_oec     gastco   proteinI rrsud tcn faonolutd                                        1960, 1970,ardl1979 dacs     n. Thwar   hsa-dot. LO'e  parroipatlonrtasY
misc. yrtoti, of oh)ch 10 gonawoud  eanwl  prott-loT-%  P"       Th...wind-                  rfetig M-sntuccaIi the populnti-  wtd Ico    rice  -ico.A
1rwanovrrhaoh-n  of ?T ....rafew   oivapct-ivu-d 23graocIF                             Ieetsintc   raaloancc
oc lProati wnoaerg I        op the world, y       e  byfull Ic iSa Third               fooncNseoec   ul                   taic of population  uvden   bsd 65 ard coa
.oId1 rood tanor;719671-6,19'11 and 17    t                                                  on  the c--i .0)  b1c  Icroc
Percacra  roror  otc   On  aTsa  urd. cuiw   - Protwin Oupply ci fiod dn-
cle   rwai"ol  sod irseIn grate Ic  day. 1961-65, 1970 tond 19)) dwc               SnntiIT)h)i
Child (sa   1-4   relr   ac(a   huad   A-.u.I d-anh.n e  th-usadu ricour-f rm                                           n  un(colh or ,ou  not cr00        Ic-ucot
ICOALP                                                                                         rosn-T  TARICET C-tcc
orbcl 916.1970 cd 1979 data                                                            urd should It inIcep--od nlthc....id-rehlneu.....
of age Pen thousnod 11cr hieths.                                      O~Ab.lnout  povery ilotou  leve  In that inton   1-e  brIny uhlih a oliewi.
Accrneo hasOtr(rcaro   orti0)roa.o                            t a:nd= coral - hne-               noiivlydseede   lanevilntlu    rornouI  r
her  f pcci  (tral.orho, nd crwi  vii  rewonblraccwroeyc                If_rdahi.n.1      ~~   i,1              -.   t-.d-~-e-i 
wae   api   ucc n   caednranseeeo   ctetdho   ooraIaa                                   tincdhltFoPvri  von  ee    t  rrooce   oInaI    ua 
santrnchueth..      tro  pcocectndhoeuIa,        prns -    rd aultroeiisOr)lwoepvtyoon                                             oeIie-ldrte eptcsie
ouisnorswnparlcao   Otncothr1(   otr  Occhue_a  h                                        oddwt   dosso   o  hinhcr cotofdrIgloo-I ww
do 001 huocin spcr.ooctottcncoonntc  pod  nf ct lay or  hr kir  o
tucrccu toarnal (ceoncor  f t-chlofl,o-lb-ou-1 Ifa, sod coral 
Oanbtrii- cccln(rthul, ..  .b.-...hooucroieofeuh-ye..reIa.d.lepcea--
peoceotsgee of....I 'hh'epct     rpluhn.. tw....  d. soet say hloolude
tbco _etloiiavddlIhepvsnl.cut-hooulptputirtate-bvo  ,dfhusun.rvcbtte
t.ciaaualiefcwwdiaeto                   lla-,vocheinlo...
Poroltlon  rc hoalno   nsco- ..cdlwiondlodsdy by b-he of    practIcing ,J-1
calend ..iinslecduorcoored_,  prac tIca          __ugr   an w_ eornncs



-26 -ANNEX I
-                                     ANNEX ~~~~~~~~Page 4 of 5 pages
Population      :  147.4 million (mid-1980)
GNP per Capita:  US$365 (1979)
INDONESIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount                                    Annual growth rate (Z)
(million US$ at                               (at constant 1973 prices)
current prices)                     Actual                                    Projected
Indicator                              1979            1975    1976    1977    1978  1979       1980   1981    1982    1983    1984   1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /a          49,211             5.0    6.9      8.8    6.8    4.9       7.1     7.2    7.3      7.3     7.4    7.4
Agriculture                      14,678             0.0    4.7      1.3    5.2      2.2     3.5    3.5    3.5       3.5    3.5      3.5
Industry                         16,003            5.6    11.1    14.2      5.9     5.5    9.0      9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0        9.0
Services                         18.531           10.1      5.9   12.0    8.9       6.9    8.5    8.5    8.5    8.5    8.5    8.5
Consumption                        34,686             6.9    6.4      7.9     8.5     5.8    12.4    8.7    7.8    8.1        7.6    6.8
Gross investment                    11,103           14.6    6.0    16.0    15.0      5.6    12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0
Exports of GNFS                     14,788           -9.7    12.5   22.4    0.1    8.9   -2.8         5.6    8.7    9.1    0.0        2.1
Imports of GNFS                    11,366             7.9    8.1   22.2    15.6    10.6  10.1        13.1    14.6   15.4    2.6    5.6
Gross national savings              12,400         -19.7    12.0   33.3   -2.1    43.3    19.3        7.2    9.6    9.0    7.4   12.3
PRICES
GDP deflator (1973 = 100)                             166     190    214      232     309     368    423    473    519    569    621
Exchange rate                                         415    415      415     442     623     625     625    625    625    625    625
Share of GDP at market prices (%)                             Average annual increase (Z)
(at current prices)  lb                                 (at constant 1973 prices)
1960   1970   1975   1980   1985    1990          1960-70      1970-75      1975-80     1980-85     1985-90
Gross domestic product         100     100     100     100     100     100          3.9           8.4         6.9          7.3         8.2
Agriculture                   54      47      32      29      24      19         2.7           4.1          3.4         3.5          3.5
Industry                      14     18      34      33       36      41         5.2          12.0          9.1         9.0        11.2
Services                      32      35      35      38      40      40         4.8           9.7          8.4         8.5          8.0
Consumption                   91      89      79      74      76      77         4.1           8.4          8.3         7.7          8.7
Gross investment               8      14      20      24      29      31         4.8          18.3         10.8        12.0         10.0
Exports of GNFS               13      13      23      33      29      23         3.6           9.2          8.7         5.3          3.3
Imports of GNFS             -13    -16    -22    -30    -34    -32               3.2          22.1         14.0        10.0         6.8
Gross national savings         8       9      17      24      25      22         6.1          23.1         19.3         9.5          5.9
As % of GDP
1960            1970            1975            1979
PUBLIC FINANCE /c
Current revenues                                                              11.7            10.1            10.5            20.6
Current expenditures                                                          14.0             8.4             9.3            12.5
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                                    -2.3            +1.6            +7.1           +8.1
Capital expenditure                                                            n.a.            5.0            10.7            12.4
Foreign financing                                                              0.2             3.5             3.7             4.3
1960-70          1970-75              1975-80         1980-85           1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (X)                                 4.5               7.6                 6.3              7.7              8.1
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (%)                      2.4               5.1                 3.9              5.3              5.7
Annual energy consumption growth rate (X)                  2.9             16.0                 15.0             11.0             10.7
ICOR                                                       2.2              2.2                  3.4              3.5              3.7
Marginal savings rate                                      0.30             0.48                 0.68             0.36             0.24
Import elasticity                                          1.2              2.8                  0.7              1.4              0.8
/a  At market prices.
7T   Projected years at constant prices.  Owing to favorable terms of trade developments the resource gap's share of GDP at
current prices is significantiy less than at constant prices.
/c Central Government only, on an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
East Asia and Pacific Programs
August 11, 1981



ANNEX I
- 27 -                                              Page 5 of 5 pages
Population         147.4 million (mid-1980)
GNP per Capita:  USS365 (1979)
INDONESIA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(Millions US$ at current prices)
Actual                             _          Projected
Indicator                         1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1985    1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS /a
Exports of goods and services              7,425   9,384  11,056  11,650  17,797  23,320  27,624  33,600  40,645  49,391  79,726
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.           7,283   9,213  10,861  11,353  17,488  22,414  26,375  31,967  38,555  46,430  75,623
Imports of goods and services            -8,279 -10,186 -11,746 -12,785 -15,813 -20,407 -24,862 -30,398 -37,365 -46,967 -88,148
Of which:  Merchandise c.i.f.          -7,362  -8,807 -10,150 -10,907 -13,579 -17,569 -21,769 -27,028 -33,573 -42,230 -79,790
Net transfers                                 75       61       66      46       52       76      100       50      50       50       50
Current account balance                    -779    -741    -624  -1,109   2,046   2,989   2,862   3,252   3,329   2,473  -8,372
Private direct investment                    454      287     285      271      217      170      170     200      250      300      500
MLT Loans (net) lb                         1,800   1,895   1,131       660      604   1,768   1,788   1,857   1,579   1,273   3,316
Official - source (net)                    514     836      752      771      515   1,128   1,644   1,949   1,912   1,646         947
Private  - source (net)                 1,287   1,059       379    -110        89     640      144      -92    -333    -373   2,391
Other capital                            -1,839    -442    -140        888  -1,075  -2,417  -2,204  -1,511  -1,267    -738   1,368
Change in reserves                           364  -1,001    -651    -708  -1,690  -2,510  -2,616  -3,798  -3,892  -3,308   3,188
Net official reserves                        556   1,557   2,208   2,916   4,606   7,116   9,732  13,530  17,422  23,981  25,991
Reserves as months imports                   0.8      1.8     2.3      2.7      3.5      4.2     4.7      5.3      5.6      6.1     3.5
Memorandum Items
Net exports of goods and
services of the oil sector            3,138   3,710   4,445   4,010   6,974  10,577  12,295  12,466  16,523  20,481  27,029
Net foreign assets of the
banking system                          556   1,557   2,623   3,372   6,906  11,078  15,900  21,297  26,489  35,209  35,885
Total reserves /c as months imports    0.8         1.8      2.7      3.2      5.2     6.5      7.7      8.4     8.5      9.0      4.9
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT /b
Gross Disbursements                     2,152   2,332   1,956   1,641   1,945   2,758
Concessional Loans                        503      488      442      494     445      968
DAC                                     378      365      354      429     405      830
OPEC                                      -        -       27       29       5       22
IDA                                     107       99       49       29      30       56
Other                                    18       23       12        6       6       59
Nonconcessional Loans                   1,649        1,844    1,514   1,148   1,501   1,790
Official export credits                  15      267      221      305      88      111
IBRD                                     57      157      191     168      199      355
Other multilateral                        3       !1       16       12      46      100
Private - source                      1,574   1,409   1,086       663   1,168   1,223
External Debt (fixed-term)
Debt outstanding & disbursed /d    8,014  10,018  11,671  13,128  13,326  15040
Official - source                   5,006   5,913   7,077   8,434   8,512   9,657
Private  - source                   3,008   4,105   4,594   4,694   4,814   5,383
Undisbursed debt                      3,703   4,533   4,481   5,832   7,514   8,029
Debt Service
Total service payments                  517      775   1,266   1,463   2,107   1,804
Interest                              165     318      441      485      772      815
Payments as % exports of goods
& services /e                         7.0     8.0    11.5    12.4    11.8         7.7
Average Interest Rate on New Loans
(%)                                     8.3      7.5     6.3      7.3      6.6      8.8
Official - source                       6.5      7.0      5.5     4.7      4.9      5.5
Private  - source                       9.3      8.1      8.6    10.8      8.9    13.5
Average Maturity of New Loans
(Years)                                12.7    14.9    20.5    21.2    19.9    18.1
Official - source                      21.3    20.2    23.9    30.1    25.7    23.5
Private  - source                       8.1      8.3    10.4      9.3    11.4    10.3
As % of debt outstanding at end of 1979
Matuirity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                                                       30.2
Maturities due within 10 years                                                                      64.6
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest duie within first year                                                                      4.0
/a  On an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
/b  Excludes private nonguaranteed loans.
Ic  Includes foreign assets of denosit money banks in addition to official reserves.
7d  At end of period.
T-_  Oil exports treated on gross basis.
Easr Asia and Pacific Programs
August 11, 1981



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 28 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1981)
US$ million
Loan/                                                              Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                              (less cancellations)
Number   Year              Purpose                       Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
Seven Loans and thirty Credits fully disbursed           357.0   453.30        -
300     1972   Population                                        13.20        0.45
387     1973   Third Education                                   13.50        3.03
400     1973   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea                 7.80        3.51
428     1974   Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate                     16.50        8.56
451     1974   Fourth Technical Assistance                        5.00        0.95
479     1974   Bali Tourism                                      16.00        3.97
480     1974   Fisheries Credit                                   6.50        0.51
514     1975   Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension                    30.00        9.16
785     1978   Small Enterprise Development Project              40.00        9.93
827     1978   Rural Credit                                      30.00       16.67
869     1979   Polytechnic                                       49.00       45.55
898     1979   Fifth Technical Assistance                        10.00        8.96
919     1979   Transmigration II                                 67.00       49.72
946     1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                      12.00       11.29
984     1980   Smallholder Rubber Dev. Project                   45.00       42.15
995     1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                              45.00       41.25
996     1980   National Agriculture Extension II                 42.00       41.48
1014     1980   National Ag. Research Project                     30.00       29.95
1049     1975   Five Cities Water Supply                  14.50                1.47
1100     1975   Sixth Irrigation                          65.00               14.79
1179     1976   Agricultural Research & Extension         21.50                5.99
1197     1976   National Resource Survey & Mapping        13.00                5.45
1236     1976   Fourth Highway                           130.00               36.99
1237     1976   Fourth Education                          37.00               10.94
1250     1976   Second Shipping                           54.00               16.30
1254     1976   Third Fertilizer Extension PURSI IV    70.00                   0.03
1259     1976   Fifth Power                               90.00                5.08
1267     1976   National Food Crops Extension             22.00                3.91
1268     1976   Seventh Irrigation                        33.00               10.14
1318     1977   Transmigration and Rural Development   30.00                   8.17
1336     1977   Second Urban Development                  52.50                8.83
1337     1977   Tanjung Priok Port                        32.00               11.40
1363     1977   Second PDFCI                              15.00                1.06



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 28 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                               Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                               (less cancellations)
Number   Year              Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
1365    1977   Sixth Power                              116.00              37.89
1373    1977   Nutrition Development                     13.00               8.52
1433    1977   Teacher Training-Fifth Education          19.00              12.57
1434    1977   Eighth Irrigation                         63.00              41.49
1435    1977   Ninth Irrigation                          35.00              12.26
1437    1977   Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO III)  40.00                  1.26
1472    1977   Second Population                         24.50              14.83
1486    1978   Non-Formal Education                      15.00               8.12
1499    1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I        65.00              37.36
1513    1978   Seventh Power                            109.00              52.35
1578    1978   Tenth Irrigation                         140.00            123.60
1579    1978   Eleventh Irrigation                       31.00              22.82
1604    1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders II    65.00                62.36
1645    1979   Twelfth Irrigation                        77.00             59.78
1653    1979   Third Urban Development                   54.00             39.45
1691    1979   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control         50.00             44.11
1692    1979   Second Agricultural Training              42.00             37.74
1696    1979   Fifth Highway                            130.00            107.48
1703    1979   Fourth BAPINDO                            50.00             26.48
1707    1979   Transmigration II                         90.00             90.00
1708    1979   Eighth Power                             175.00            139.74
1709    1979   Second Water Supply                       36.00             34.29
1751    1980   Nucleus Estates and S'holders III         99.00             83.96
1811    1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                    116.00            111.78
1835    1980   Nucleus Estates and S'holders IV          42.00             39.37
1840    1980   Nat. Ag. Research Project                 35.00             35.00
1869    1980   Third Population Project                  35.00             35-00
1872    1980   Ninth Power Project                      253.00            240.22
1898    1981   S'holder Coconut Dev. Project             46.00             45.21
1904    1981   University Development Project            45.00             45.00
1950    1981   Tenth Power Project                      250.00            250.00
1958    1981   Swamp Reclamation Project                 22.00              22.00
1972    1981   Fourth Urban Development Project          43.00             43.00
2007    1981   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V         161.00            161.00
2011    1981   Second Small Enterprise Development   106.00               106.00
2049    1982   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway /1               85.00             85.00
/1  Not yet effective



- 30 -                      ANNEX II
Page 3 of 28 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                               Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                               (less cancellations)
Number   Year              Purpose                        Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
Total Bank loans and IDA credits              3,814.00  931.80
less cancellations                            -23.13   -1.65
Total                                         3,790.87  930.15
of which has been repaid                      -92.24   -2.89
Total now outstanding                         3,698.63  927.26
Amount sold to third party            28.24
Amount repaid by third party         -27.21      -1.03
Total now held by Bank and IDA /a             3,697.60  927.26
Total undisbursed                             2,457.84  327.09   2,784.93
/a Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 28 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1981)
Fiscal                                Type of             Loan    Equity    Total
year          Obligor                business            ---- (US$ million) ----
1971   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement              10.6       2.5       13.1
1971   P.T. Unitex                   Textiles             2.5       0.8        3.3
1971   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles                2.0       0.5        2.5
1971   P.T. Kabel Indonesia          Cable                2.8       0.4        3.2
1972   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.          Textiles             4.5       1.5       6.0
1973   P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism                11.0         -       11.0
1973   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement               5.4       0.7        6.1
1974   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles                2.0       0.3        2.3
1974   P.T. Monsanto Pan             Electronics          0.9         -        0.9
1974   P.T. PDFCI                    Devel. Fin. Co.        -       0.5        0.5
1974   P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles             2.4       0.6        3.0
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement               5.0       1.5        6.5
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement                 -       1.1        1.1
1977   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.          Textiles             0.4         -       0.4
1977   P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles             1.3       0.2        1.5
1979   P.T. Daralon                  Textiles             0.9         -        0.9
1980   P.T. Papan Sejahtera          Capital Market       4.0       1.2        5.2
1980   P.T. Indo American
Industries            Glass Dinnerware  11.1        0.9       12.0
1980   P.T. Semen Andalas            Cement and
Indonesia             Construction
Material           48.0        5.0      53.0
Total gross commitments                            114.8      17.7      132.5
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled                 74.2       3.4       77.6
Total held by IFC                                   40.6      14.3       54.9
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)   53.1           0.9       54.0



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 28 pages
C. STATllS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
As of September 30, 1981
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Page No.
Agriculture
Irrigation (514, 1100, 1268, 1434, 1435, 1578,                              6-9
1579, 1645, 1691, 1811, 995 and 1958)
Other Agriculture Production (358, 400, 480, 1318,                          9-13
1707/919, 1499, 1604, 1751,
1835, 984, 1898 and 2007)
Agriculture Support Services (1179, 1267, 996 and 1840/1014)               13-14
Rural Development (946)                                                     14
Agro-Business and Credit (785, 827 and 2011)                                  15
Education (387, 869, 1237, 1433, 1486, 1692 and 1904)                        16-18
Energy (1259, 1365, 1513, 1708, 1872 and 1950)                               18-20
Industrial Development and Finance
Industrial Estates (428)                                                   21
Development Finance Companies (1363, 1437 and 1703)                         21
Population and Nutrition
Population (300, 1472 and 1869)                                            22
Nutrition (1373)                                                           23
Technical Assistance (451, 898 and 1197)                                      24
Transportation
Highways (1236, 1696 and 2049)                                            24-25
Marine Transport (1250)                                                     25
Ports (1337)                                                               26
Tourism (479)                                                                 26
Urban Development (1336, 1653 and 1972)                                      26-27
Water Supply (1049 and 1709)                                                  28
/1  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



-33 -                        ANNEX II
Page 6 of 28 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
AGRICULTURE
Irrigation
Credit No. 514 Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension: $30 Million Credit of
October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Initial organizational difficulties, extensive changes in the design
of project works and delays in awarding civil works contracts are expected to
substantially delay project completion by four years. All major contracts
for civil works have been awarded, and the last of these is expected to
be completed by mid-1984. The total project cost is currently estimated
to be about 90% over the appraisal estimate. The credit is expected to be
fully disbursed by December 31, 1982, the new closing date.
Loan No. 1100   Sixth Irrigation:  $65 Million Loan of April 10, 1975;
Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is currently expected to be completed by March 1985,
about four years behind the original completion date. This is mainly due to a
delay of more than one year in the completion of bidding documents, followed
by a delay of about two years due to delayed land acquisition, delayed
payments to contractors and the effects of the 1978 Rupiah devaluation.
Another year's delay has been added lately by the constant postponement of
drainage works in both Rentang and Cerebon subprojects due to overall budget
constraints imposed by the GOI on the Directorate General of Water Resources
Development annual budget during the last three years. Disbursements are
currently about 73% of the appraisal estimate. It is possible that because
of the continuing delays in this project that the closing date will have to
be postponed.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation:  $33 Million Loan of June 4, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The main components of the project are tertiary development on an
area of 100,000 ha served by irrigation systems rehabilitated under previous
credits and the construction of 6,000 ha of a new irrigation system in the
Sadang area of South Sulawesi. The construction of tertiaries has progressed
well and gained such a momentum that the scope of work was increased to
115,000 ha. About 85,000 ha have been completed and the balance will be
completed by the end of 1981. The construction of North Sadang has suffered
a delay of about three years due to design revisions and late award of
contracts. All of the remaining works of the project will be completed by
July 1983. Disbursements are currently 25% behind the appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation:  $63 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The main components of the project are rehabilitation of the Madiun
Irrigation System serving an area of about 75,000 ha in Stage I including
30,000 ha of tertiary development, pilot ground water scheme for 2,800 ha in



- 34 -                    ANNEX II
Page 7 of 28 pages
the Madiun-Solo area and the improvement of flood control, drainage and road
networks on 5,700 ha of coastal land in the Ciujung subproject. The Madiun
Irrigation and pilot ground water scheme components have made satisfactory
progress and are expected to be completed by the end of 1983. The Ciujung
drainage component has suffered the most delay caused by the late completion
of feasibility studies and inaccurate maps and some difficulties with land
acquisition. Disbursements are currently about 75% behind the appraisal
estimate largely due to initial delays but are expected to improve in 1982
when all of the contracts for the Ciujung drainage component will be under
implementation.
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation:  $35 Million Loan of June 6, 1977; Effective
Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project consists of three components: (a) the Sedeku Irriga-
tion and Drainage Subproject; (b) the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung Irrigation Project;
and (c) various studies and investigations. Progress on these components is
as follows: (a) consequent on GOI-s decision not to construct the Jragung
Dam, the down river drainage works and designs are being reviewed. Delay in
completion is currently estimated to be about three years; (b) all the
contracts of the Stage I area are awarded and the project is estimated to be
completed by mid-1982, a delay of about one year. Problems of land clearing
and land shaping on about 3,000 ha to convert to sawahs (wet rice fields) are
unresolved and might delay early benefits. The Stage II area was appraised by
the Bank in September 1980 and due to a low economic rate of return it was not
recommended for further Bank consideration; and (c) feasibility studies of ten
systems have been completed. Three projects were recommended for Bank
assistance under the proposed sixteenth irrigation project, two were financed
by KfW and one is proposed to be financed by the Asian Development Bank.
Three ongoing projects would be completed fully by GOI financing. Disburse-
ments are at about 58% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1578   Tenth Irrigation:  $140 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
The project includes: (a) rehabilitation and improvements of about
34,700 ha of Kali Progo irrigation system; (b) improvements of about 19,900 ha
of Way Seputih; (c) improvements and expansion of about 63,100 ha of Way
Sekampung irrigation projects; (d) studies and detailed designs of two dams
associated with (b) and (c) above; (e) studies of Dumoga and Gumbasa irriga-
tion projects; and (f) consulting services for the above and also studies of
two dams in the Kali Progo project area, extension of irrigation to Bekri,
West Rumbia, Way Kandis and Way Ketibung in Lampung Province. The Kali Progo
project is behind schedule by 12 months whereas the Way Seuptih and Way
Sekampung projects have slipped further and are behind schedule by 24 months.
The status of down river works of the latter two irrigation systems,
associated with the two dams, was reviewed by the Bank in April/May 1981 and
the GOI was informed that the rehabilitation and extension of irrigation
systems would only be justified if the two dams are built; alternatively the
program under the current project has to be curtailed. Subject to resolving
the issue within six months and if there are no slippages, the current



35 -                        ANNEX II
Page 8 of 28 pages
estimated completion is December 1985; a delay of two years. Disbursements
are currently 33% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1579   Eleventh Irrigation:  $31 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Due to slow progress the project is currently estimated to be
completed in June 1983, a delay of about one year. The Hydrologic
Measurement Program has been delayed by about 2-1/2 years due to a setback in
the program for procurement of equipment and selection of sites for gauging
stations. Studies for a master plan for the development of the Cimanuk River
Basin have been completed and a final report has been submitted to the Bank.
Detailed designs of flood control works of the Lower Cimanuk, Cipanas and
Ciwaringin Rivers have been completed and construction is proceeding under
Loan 1691-IND. Due to unfavorable foundation conditions at the dam site and
GOI-s decision not to construct large dams on Java this component is
indefinitely postponed and it is proposed that these funds be utilized for
feasibility studies of Glapan Barrage and Tuntang River and upgrading of
irrigation systems. Disbursements are about 39% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1645   Twelfth Irrigation:  $77 Million Loan of December 29, 1978.
Effective Date: May 10, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
The Jatiluhur Tertiary Development on an area of 186,000 ha is
proceeding on schedule; construction on 103,731 ha has been completed and
the balance of the area would be covered in two fiscal years 81/82 and
82/83. The Cisedane drainage works have been delayed; two small contracts of
about $2 million were awarded in January-February 1981, and are about 30-40%
completed. Tenders for three major contracts, aggregate $30.4 million,
received in March-April 1981, are expected to be awarded in November 1981.
Right-of-way acquisition is also behind schedule. This subproject is
currently estimated to be completed by March 1985, a delay of two years over
appraisal estimate.  All studies are expected to be completed by July 1982.
Disbursements are about 35% of the appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1691   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control:  $51 Million Loan of
May 7, 1979; Effective Date: October 16, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
The main components of the projects are flood protection levees,
bank stabilization and river training works on the lower Cimanuk river,
widening of the Rambatan Channel and construction of a hydraulic control
structure at Bangkir, the Cimanuk river estuary study and the flood control
operating and flood forecasting study.  Good and satisfactory progress has
been made on the civil works and various studies.  Civil works are expected
to be completed by the end of 1983. Disbursements are currently about 50%
behind the appraisal estimate largely due to initial delays and lately due to
the late award of contracts caused by the review required by the GOI's
procurement committee.



- 36 -                        ANNEX II
Page 9 of 28 pages
Loans No. 1811 Fourteenth Irrigation Project: $116 Million Loan of April 3,
1980; Effeative Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: January 31, 1986
The main components of the project are construction and rehabilita-
tion of drainage and flood protection works on the Serang River to reduce
flooding of some 61,000 ha of farm land, rehabilitation of Madiun irrigation
systems serving about 65,000 ha area of Stage II and tertiary development
serving 120,000 ha in the Pemali Comal and Pekalen Sampean Sub-projects. The
project is in the initial stages of mobilization for the Serang River. Works
in Madiun area and tertiary development are progressing well ahead of
schedule. Consultants contracts are being finalized.
Credit No. 995 Fifteenth Irrigation Project: $45 Million Credit of April 3,
1980; Effective Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: January 31, 1985
The project includes: (a) the completion of the Kosinggolan
irrigation system on about 5,500 ha and construction of the new Toraut
irrigation system on about 6,600 ha; (b) catchment protection and a nature
reserve on an area of about 100,000 ha; (c) institutional support to the
Directorate General of Water Resources Development (DGWRD) through consultancy
services and training; (d) strengthening of mapping capabilities; and (e)
studies and investigations of four irrigation systems. A contract for the
construction of the Toraut headworks and the first two kilometers of the main
canal commenced in early 1981 and two major contracts are programmed for award
in FY81/82. A start has yet to be made on the nature reserve component by the
appointment of personnel and the construction of the headquarters.
Consultants for the studies and institutional support of the DGWRD have been
appointed. The project is currently about 6-8 months behind schedule.
Loan No. 1958 Swamp Reclamation Project: $22 Million Loan of Match 31, 1981;
Effective Date: July 9, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
This loan was declared effective on July 9, 1981. The project
assists GOI's effort to reclaim and settle swamps by implementing a 9,000 ha
swamp reclamation and settlement project at Karang Agung, South Sumatra. In
addition to physical works, the project comprises the preparation of future
swamp investments, an ecological impact study, an investigation of groundwater
for drinking and project monitoring.
Other Agriculture Production Projects
Credit No. 358 North Sumatra Smallholder Development: $5 Million Credit
of February 14, 1973; Effective Date: August 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The 9,000 ha planting program under the project is now completed.
Rubber and oil palm continue to show very satisfactory growth with the
1974/75 plantings of rubber and oil palm coming into production. Control of
weeding and general maintenance standards will require close supervision up
to 1982/83 when all plantings reach maturity.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 28 pages
Credit No. 400 Smallholder and Private Estate Tea: $7.8 Million Credit
of June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project provides credit through Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) and
extension advice through a Project Management Unit for improvement of
Indonesian smallholder and private estate tea. Of 13,200 ha, 60% was to be
rehabilitated and 40% replanted. Participants have preferred more costly
replanting and the target area has therefore been changed to 10,500 ha, and
the proportions reversed. The project is making a substantial contribution to
the smallholder tea industry with over 7,000 participants (appraisal forecast
7,700); five private tea estates (four factories) making fair to excellent
progress; one of two new major tea factories to be built; and 16,000
smallholders helped by excellent village and research institute training.
However, disbursements continue to be behind target due to a combination of
early sluggish progress in implementation combined with continued delays that
occur between BRI branch disbursements and submission of applications for
withdrawal.
Credit No. 480 Fisheries Credit: $6.5 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: January 8, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Initial delays have put the project about 18 months behind schedule.
The marine fishing complex at Ambon is completed, making a promising start
with twenty fishing boats operating, ten by GOI's skipjack tuna enterprise
and ten by a cooperative; two 100 gross ton catcher/carriers have been ordered
and are due to be delivered late 1981. The quality of fishpond lending by
Bank Rakyat Indonesia suffered early deficiencies, but is now completed; loan
arrears worsened statistically since mid-1980 although they improved
slightly in the first quarter of 1981. Coverage is much less than appraisal
forecast (31% of farmers, 60% of area) and details not yet available, but
inflation and the inability of smaller owners to participate are probably the
reasons. The skipjack tuna enterprise has improved markedly following a
management change, and catches could improve still further. Although not
a profitable enterprise, it is expected to improve in FY81/82.
Loan No. 1318   Transmigration and Rural Development:  $30 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Although the project is still about 2 years behind schedule, it has
progressed considerably since July 1980. To date about 4,300 families have
been settled in Baturaja, which is 95% of the target. About 200 water
supply reservoirs have been built at Baturaja. The pasture development
program is well established and 4,800 cattle have been distributed. Rubber
development at Baturaja is behind schedule and 1,900 ha need to be planted in
1981/82 to complete the program. The cropping system trials continue to
progress satisfactorily. Disbursements have now reached 62% of appraisal
estimates.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1707   Transmigration II:  $90 Million Loan and $67 Million Credit of
(Cr. No. 919)   June 1, 1979; Effective Date:  October 4, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
There have been delays in the implementation of the project. Land
clearing and road construction are now about six months behind appraisal
estimates due to:  (a) the rejection of large areas identified for site
development in the appraisal report due to unsuitability for the agri-
cultural development proposed; (b) weak overall project organization and
management; and (c) delays in contractor-s and consultant-s engagement.
More recently, significant numbers of unauthorized settlers have been found
in areas presently identified for site development, and the GOI has proposed
some changes to design criteria for the large areas already prepared.  These
matters are being reviewed with GOI but will likely take some time to resolve.
Consequently, completion of project works and settlement of families are now
expected to lag at least one year behind appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1499   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I:  $65 Million Loan
of November 18, 1977; Effective Date: January 12, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The nucleus estates have planted about 7,000 ha of rubber for
smallholders, constructed about 1,400 settler houses and settled about 850
families. In their own estates, the nucleus estates have rehabilitated 18,400
ha of rubber; planted 7,200 ha of rubber; 3,300 ha of coconuts, and 5,600 ha
of oil palm and are about to complete construction of three rubber
factories and one palm oil mill. Start-up delays are, however, unlikely
to be made up, and the loan closing date may have to be extended at some
future date.
Loan No. 1604   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders II:  $65 Million Loan of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date: September 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
After a slow start in 1979 due to labor shortage, budgetary cons-
traints and procurement difficulties, good progress was achieved in the last
twelve months. Further improvement is expected in project implementation.
All major project components are, therefore, expected to be completed as
originally planned, except the rubber replanting component in Jambi Province,
which has run into unexpected difficulties due to the reluctance of small-
holders to participate in the replanting scheme.



- 39 ,
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1751   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders III:  $99 Million
Loan of August 13, 1979; Effective Date: November 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
All implementing agencies have made good progress. Although some
components are slightly behind schedule, the overall project is on or slightly
ahead of schedule. About 7,500 ha of rubber have been planted, half of which
is for smallholders. About 420 recently completed settler houses were fully
occupied in April 1981. A PNP Estate being upgraded under the project is to
take over responsibility for completing the Alue Iemerah smallholder component
under NES I (1499-IND) in 1982 from another PTP which has no estate in that
area.
Loan No. 1835   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders IV:  $42 Million
Loan of May 16, 1980: Effective Date: August 11, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
After an initial delay due to lack of maps the project's small-
holder development component is off to a good start and is expected to be on
schedule by 1982. The Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V (Loan 2007-IND)
start-up component has progressed well and, largely because of this, the
FY8l/82 development targets are likely to be achieved in the major compo-
nent supervised. Other project components are approximately on schedule.
Credit No. 984 Smallholder Rubber Development: $45 Million Credit
of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: May 23, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
The project continues to make satisfactory progress, but at a pace
somewhat slower than envisaged at appraisal.  The shortage of vehicles and
suitable access road is impeding project implementation. It is anticipated
that the planting program for 1981/82 (about 6,000 ha) will be substantially
achieved. Disbursement in FY82 are expected to be on target at US$7 million.
Loan No. 1898   Smallholder Coconut Development Project:  $46 Million
Loan of August 25, 1980; Effective Date: November 25, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
The project has got off to a satisfactory start in spite of
delayed establishment of the project entity and late release of funds.  There
are no major problems with the project at this stage and the planting
and rehabilitation targets set for June 1981 should exceed appraisal
estimates by approximately 50%.



ANNEX II
- 40 -                    Page 13 of 28 pages
Loan No. 2007   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V:  $161 Million Loan of
June 26, 1981; Effective Date: October 21, 1981;
Closing date: June 30, 1988
Smallholder development program to establish 53,000 ha of tree
crops (rubber, oil palm, coconuts), food crops and house gardens in West
Java, West Kalimantan and Bengkulu provinces with public sector estates as
implementing agents.
Agriculture Support Services
Loan No. 1179   Agricultural Research and Extension I:  $21.5 Million
Loan of December 19, 1975; Effective Date: February 23,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Overall progress continues. Under the Agency for Agricultural
Research and Development, civil works in Pangragajian, Baruajak and
Margahayu (all highland vegetable) have been completed, while in Sungei
Putih, Sembawa (both rubber) and in Sukamandi (Phase I and II rice and
palawija crops) are behind schedule due to shortage of laborers and delay in
procurement. Civil works are expected to be completed in Sungei Putih,
Sembawa and Sukamandi (Phase I) by July 1981 and in Sukamandi (Phase II) by
December 1981. Most of the field and workshop equipment, furniture and
vehicles has been received. A contract has been awarded for laboratory
equipment and chemicals for Margahayu and bids for the same for Sungei Putih
and Sembawa are being evaluated. The fellowship program is continuing
satisfactorily. Under the Agency for Agricultural Education, Training and
Extension, all equipment, furniture and vehicles have been received and
distributed to ten completed agricultural information centers (AICs).
Preparation of tender documents for two additional AICs at Aceh and Ambon
is completed. Extension materials are being produced and distributed from
AICs. Disbursements under the project are improving.
Loan No. 1267   National Food Crops Extension; $22 Million Loan of
June 4, 1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project management unit is functioning at full strength at the
senior level, four other positions are part-time staff. Over 90% of field
extension workers have been appointed, while appointments of subject-matter
specialists have exceeded target. However, there is an imbalance in that
appointments in the Other Islands is comparatively lower than in Java. Of the
projected civil works program of 64% of the new Rural Extension Centers have
been constructed and 80% rehabilitated. The entire program is expected to be
completed by December 31, 1981. Procurement of vehicles, equipment and
furniture and the training program, both inservices and overseas, are
progressing satisfactorily.



- 41 -                       ANNEX II
Page 14 of 28 pages
Credit No. 996 Second National Agricultural Extension: $24 Million
Credit of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
The project is the second phase of the national program for
strengthening extension services covering transmigration areas, estate crops,
livestock, inland fisheries, soil conservation activities in addition to food
crops in 26 provinces. All six Assistant Directors are in position, one
Assistant Director, one Divisional Chief, and two Sectional Heads are working
on part-time basis, the rest being on full-time basis. 57 new Rural Extension
Centers (RECs) have been constructed and 31 renovated; 103 jeeps have been
procured against the target of 96 during 1980/81. It is proposed to complete
the construction and renovation of all RECs during 1980/81. Adequate
provision has been made in the budget for planned civil works (procurement of
64 jeeps and provincial and village equipment package), inservice training of
791 field extension workers, 120 extension subject matter specialists and
overseas fellowships during 1981/82.
Loan No. 1840   National Agricultural Research:  $35 Million Loan and $30
(Cr. No. 1040)  Million Credit of May 16, 1980;  Effective Date:  July 16,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1990
The project is the second phase in the strengthening of the overall
institutional framework of the Agency for Agricultural Research and Develop-
ment for agricultural research in fruits, lowland vegetables, livestock,
fisheries, forestry, estate crops other than rubber and industrial crops.
A Ministerial decree announcing the appointments of directors for the Central
Research Institutes and Research Institutes and Centers already approved by
the Minister of Agriculture, became effective in March 1981. The project
secretary and one head of office are yet to be appointed. Of civil works at
six locations planned for 1980/81, four have been tendered and a contract for
one awarded. Civil works at twelve locations have been programmed for
1981/82. Fifty candidates for long term local fellowships have been
selected. A consulting firm for technical assistance is expected to be
appointed in July 1981.
Rural Development
Credit No. 946 Yogyakarta Rural Development: $12 Million Credit of
August 13, 1979; Effective Date: December 5, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Project implementation continues to run behind schedule, but staff
development and collection/analysis of basic data have made good progress,
and physical construction and field operations within the agricultural
component show encouraging advances, despite adverse conditions (protracted
nonpayment of project staff salaries because of late release of funds and
unavailability of transportation). However, an assurance given by the
Provincial Government to bridge any financing gaps for payment of staff
salaries, due to belated arrival of project funds, from its own budget,



42 -ANNEX II
Page 15 of 28 pages
should put staff remuneration on a more regular schedule.  The expeditious
procurement of project vehicles, the absence of which is more acutely felt
as field operations grew in number and scope, remains a major concern.
Project completion is presently expected for mid-1987, implying a delay of
about nine months.
AGRO-BUSINESS AND CREDIT
Credit No. 785 Small Enterprise Development: $40 Million Credit
of April 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project provides financial and technical assistance to
strengthen Bank Indonesia-s (BI) small credit programs, KIK/KMKP. Despite
start-up difficulties, BI has now established and staffed all project
management units. The three field units in Central Java, East Java, and West
Sumatra are developing new lending approaches and assisting handling banks in
project promotion and preparation. The training and studies components of the
project are progressing satisfactorily. On the whole, progress under this
project (SEDP I) has been satisfactory. The credit component of the project
has been fully disbursed, but the technical assistance component will not be
fully disbursed for two years. The undisbursed proceeds of this credit are
being used for technical assistance to the Ministry of Industry. The closing
date has been postponed to enable disbursements for the technical assistance
component to be made.
Credit No. 827  Rural Credit:  $30 Million Credit of June 23, 1978.
Effective Date: November 3, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
This project provides long-term credit to about 40,000 smallholders,
primarily for fisheries, perennial crops and livestock, and technical assis-
tance to Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) for program development, training
in term lending, credit procedures and accounting and management information
systems. Due primarily to delays in obtaining consultancy services,
the project is about nine months behind schedule. Following extension
of the project to cover additional provinces and commodities, it is
rapidly catching up.
Loan No. 2011   Second Small Enterprise Development:  $106 Million Loan of
June 26, 1981; Effective Date: October 16, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31,1984
From the three regions covered under SEDP I (Credit 785-IND) this
project would be expanded to cover all 27 regions in Indonesia where the Small
Investment (KIK)/Small Permanent working Capital Credit (KMKP) program has
been in operation since 1974. In addition to credit and technical assistance
to the banking system, the project provides for the strengthening of



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 28 pages
nonfinancial support services for small scale enterprises (SSEs) by the
Ministry of Industry. This is being financed by $1 million from the proceeds
of this loan and the undisbursed credit proceeds of SEDP I (Credit 785-IND).
EDUCATION
Credit No. 387 Third Education. $13.5 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: August 29, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
This first textbook project is an ambitious undertaking under diffi-
cult circumstances. Since the start five years ago, over 150 million books
have been printed, 120% of the appraisal target, and about 430,000 teachers
have been upgraded, or 23% over the original target of 350,000. About 100
million books have been distributed to schools. Textbook distribution to
schools continues to pose problems and quality control of textbooks cannot
be maintained by the present number and quality of staff.  Printing of
Grade 5 texts will start soon and the Project Implementing Unit has been
asked to take steps to ensure an adequate supply of paper for production
of Grade 6 texts as well as reprinting of other texts. Project costs have
increased due to the increased scope of the project and inflation since 1973.
Credit No. 869  Polytechnic:  $49 Million Credit of December 29, 1978;
Effective Date: May 11, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This credit is helping to finance: (a) the establishment of a
technical Education Development Center (TEDC), six polytechnics and four
accountancy development centers (ADCs); (b) related technical assistance and
associated studies - as required to meet the project-s objectives of:
(i) establishing a new system for training engineering technicians;
(ii) improving accountancy training; and (iii) strengthening educational
planning and management. Implementation of physical components is being
initiated somewhat behind appraisal schedule but is progressing well and
should be completed by July 1982, well before the closing date.
Implementation of technical assistance is progressing on schedule for the TEDC
and the polytechnics, but lags about 16 months behind schedule for the ADCs.
Five studies financed under the project are also behind schedule, in some
instances by as much as 24 months. The total project cost is close to
appraisal estimate and disbursements exceed appraisal forecasts.
Loan No. 1237   Fourth Education:  $37 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: June 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
The loan is helping to finance physical facilities and related
technical assistance for: (a) two faculties of technology at existing teaching
training colleges (FKITs) and four new centralized workshops for technical



44                          ANNEX II
Page 17 of 28 pages
training (TTCs) for the Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC); (b) 17 new
vocational training centers (VTCs), an existing instructor training center and
25 mobile training units for the Ministry of Manpower (MOM); and (c) new
premises for the National Institute of Administration (LAN), the country's
principal civil service training institution. In the NEC subproject
construction of all institutions has been completed and all are in use though
operating under some difficulties since about half of their equipment needs
have still to be received. The MOM and LAN subprojects are progressing about
two and a half and three years behind schedule respectively and the Closing
Date has consequently been extended by two years. Delays have been
occasioned, initially, by slow site acquisition and, subsequently, by belated
release of funds and prolonged consideration of claims for the adjustment of
contract prices to compensate for the 1978 devaluation of the Rupiah. The
underlying cause has been weak management. The total project cost is likely
to exceed the appraisal estimate by about 50% in local currency terms but only
slightly (perhaps 3%) in terms of US$ equivalent (due to the change in the
exchange rate during implementation). The rate of disbursement is improving.
Adequate steps are being taken to staff new institutions as they are
commissioned and a national skill standards s-stem is being developed.
Loan No. 1433   Teacher Training:  $19 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project is now progressing satisfactorily. About 36% of civil
works have been completed. Phase I is 95% completed. Phase II is
approximately 75% completed. Tendering for the third and final phase has
begun and construction is expected to be finished in April 1982. Furniture
is being supplied to completed buildings according to schedule. Equipment
procurement is about one year behind schedule. The first cycle began
in July 1981 and will finish in mid-1982. Four hundred administrators are
being trained and will conduct local seminars. Project studies are to be
completed mid-1981. While disbursements are currently only 31% of appraisal
estimates, it is expected that they will accelerate considerably during
the coming months. Despite earlier delays and the low disbursement
level, the project is expected to be completed as planned.
Loan No. 1486   Non-Formal Education:  $15 Million Loan of
September 14, 1977; Effective Date: November 4, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project aims at strengthening the Department of Education's
nonformal education programs in seven provinces. Financing would cover civil
works to renovate two existing and establish four new provincial centers,
instructional equipment and vehicles, in-service training, materials
development, a basic learning fund, and related technical assistance. Of the
six Balai PENMAS (directorates for out-of-school education) centers, five have
been completed. Construction at the remaining two centers is 50% completed;



ANNEX II
Page 18 of 28 pages
both centers will be ready by August, 1981. All furniture and equipment have
been ordered; 80% is already on site and the rest is due to arrive later this
year. About 90% of the staff training program is meeting appraisal targets,
production and distribution of pretested learning materials is accelerating.
The technical assistance program is on schedule; local staff are gradually
replacing foreign consultants.  Disbursements will increase substantially this
year and are expected to reach 90% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1692   Second Agricultural Training:  $42 Million Loan of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: July 31, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project constitutes the second phase of GOI s long-term strategy
to improve the quality and supply of middle level agricultural manpower.  Good
progress continues to be made. Although some slippage has developed in the
physical implementation, it is not yet serious.  Costs are tending to rise.
The project also provides technical assistance for the improvement of
curricula, education planning and evaluation; this technical assistance has
started, and fellowship utilization is up to schedule.  Efforts to redress
a shortage of teachers outside Java are making steady progress. Through its
national schools, the Agency for Agricultural Education, Training and Exten-
sion is having significant impact on improving the efficiency of regional
and private schools, as planned. Little progress has been made on evaluation,
tracer or manpower studies; specialist assistance is expected to stimulate
these activities.
Loan No. 1904   University Development Project:  $45 Million Loan of
November 13, 1980; Effective Date: January 22, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This Loan was declared effective on January 22, 1981. The project
is the first phase of a long-term university development program. Its main
objectives are to increase the output of high level manpower in the fields of
engineering, science, agriculture, and economics (including business
administration and accountancy), improve the quality of university education
in these four fields, and strengthen the management of the overall university
system.
ENERGY
Loan No. 1259   Fifth Power:  $90 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date:  September 20, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
Implementation of the project is proceeding satisfactorily to
completion. Disbursement targets for FY81 were substantially (98%) met and
the loan is expected to be drawn down within the extended closing date
(December 1981), six months later than scheduled at appraisal. Installation
of 80% of medium voltage (20 kV) cables and 50% of the 20 kV overhead lines
has been completed. This represents satisfactory progress as the scope of



46 -                         ANNEX II
Page 19 of 28 pages
these items of the project was considerably increased as a result of
favorable prices obtained during bidding. Progress on construction of the
low voltage networks has been slow (about 40%) but it has been programmed to
complete the rest of this work by lMarch 1982. Construction of the project
should be substantially completed by mid-1982.
Loan No. 1365   Sixth Power:  $116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977;
Effective Date: June 6, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
Construction work on the project is reaching its final stage. The
slow performance of the electrical and mechanical contractor has delayed
progress on construction and slowed down disbursements, as the main
expenditure now is on this item of work. Firing of the boiler for Unit 4
has been delayed; steam admission will also be delayed, but it is expected
that the unit will be in commercial operation during the latter half of 1981.
Unit 5 is expected to be commissioned by end-1981. There are no other
problems of significance at the power station. There is concern, however,
that the 150 kV ring around Jakarta (not Bank-assisted) will not be
strengthened in time to run the power station at its full capacity (700 mW),
although the electricity authority (PLN) is making a concerted effort to
complete ongoing work on the transmission lines and substations involved.
The delay in commissioning of Units 4 and 5 is estimated at about nine months
and six months, respectively.
Loan No. 1513   Seventh Power:  $109 Million Loan of February 3, 1978;
Effective Date:  June 30, 1978; Closing Date:  December 31,
1983
All contracts have been awarded at highly competitive costs with
a substantial reduction in foreign costs and, therefore, $15 million of the
loan has been cancelled. The latest cost estimate update indicates that a
further saving will be realized compared to appraisal estimate. Subsequently
therefore, the Bank has agreed to the inclusion of the following additional
studies in the scope of the project: (a) Sunda Strait submarine cable
feasibility; (b) optimization of location of future thermal plants: (c)
power sector management information system design; and (d) energy pricing
study. Construction work at the site has been delayed by the need to devise
a new method of pile driving to avoid soil displacement. This work has now
been completed and installation of the main plant resumed. The boiler has
been received at site and is under erection. The turbo generator is expected
to be received during the latter part of 1981. Although work of the civil
works of the substations and associated transmission lines has been delayed,
it is progressing satisfactorily. The feasibility study of the Turan
coal-fired thermal power station site in East Java has progressed to the
point of selection of a site for detailed investigations; these are in
progress. Contracts for the additional five studies mentioned above have not
been signed, but proposals for (a) and (c) have been received and are being
evaluated.



-47                         ANNEX II
Page 20 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1708   Eighth Power:  $175 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: November 5, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project is now about eight months behind schedule due to
(a) slow progress of work by the piling contractor in site improvement;
(b) delay in finalizing various critical contracts; and (c) delay in final-
izing designs and tender documents for the marine works. The most signifi-
cant contributory factor in the delays is the cumbersome procedures for
evaluating bids and approval of contracts that have been introduced as a
result of Presidential Decrees 10 and 14A (procurement procedures). Also,
the GOI's budgetary process makes it difficult for the electricity authority
and the project management to have flexibility in the deployment of Rupiah
funds.  The Bank is continuing to pursue these problems with the GOI.  Dis-
bursements are much slower than projected. Project cost estimates are now
based on available contract and tender prices and the total cost of
contracts being financed by the Bank loan amount to $140 million, plus
contingencies.  Present indications are that there will be a saving of
about $20 million in the loan amount.
Loan No. 1872   Ninth Power:  $253 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Effective Date: October 24, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1985
This project is experiencing delays. However, the commissioning
date of the second unit of Suralaya is still not affected. Tenders for EHV
lines, substations, transformers and reactors were received in November-
December 1980 and as of the last supervision mission in July 1981, were
expected to be finalized in October 1981. Commissioning date for the EHV
lines and substation is now estimated to be June 1982, which would be ahead
of the commissioning of the first Suralaya unit in August 1984, though six
months behind the appraisal schedule. Progress in land acquisition is
satisfactory, the land for all substations has been purchased.  Also,
negotiations for the purchase of land for tower locations is in progress.
Tenders for control and communications equipment were issued in April 1981.
Loan No. 1950   Tenth Power Project:  $250 Million Loan of March 6, 1981;
Effective Date: April 23, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1987
This loan was declared effective on April 23, 1981. The project
would utilize the hydroelectric potential of the Citarum River to meet
Java-s growing demand for economical electricity.



- 48 _                     ANNEX II
Page 21 of 28 pages
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Industrial Estates
Credit No. 428 Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate: $16.5 Million Credit of
September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate is now scheduled for completion
in 1982. Of 415 ha of raw land now earmarked for acquisition, 358 ha had been
purchased as of mid-1981, 164 ha of developed land reserved for factory use
has been sold to 210 firms, with employment currently estimated at around
9,700; at full capacity production employment is expected to be around
23,000 workers. Despite the slow development of the estate resulting in
protracted disbursement of the credit, and substantially higher cost than
estimated at appraisal, PT JIEP-s financial performance has been
satisfactory. Some adjustments of its dividend, cost and price policies
were nevertheless called for and were recommended to PT JIEP during the last
project supervision mission. GOI has agreed to designate 22.5 ha of the
Pulo Gadung industrial estate as an Export Processing Zone (EPZ) with PT
JIEP as the sole administrator. The closing date of the credit was
therefore postponed by two years to December 31, 1982, reallocating the
remaining funds for the establishment of the EPZ. However, the loan docu-
ments have not yet been amended because the required Presidential Decree and
subsequent operating license by the Department of Trade and Cooperatives
have not yet been issued.
Development Finance Companies
Loan No. 1363   Second PDFCI:  $15 Million Loan of January 28, 1977;
Effectave Date: April 21,1977; Closing Date: December 31,1981
The project is proceeding satisfactorily. PDFCI has deliberately
spread Bank funds over as large a number of subprojects as possible to match
its resources from Bank Indonesia. The loan is now fully committed and
disbursements are expected to be completed by the Closing Date.
Loan No. 1437   Third BAPINDO:  $40.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effectave Date: September 23, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981
The project is being implemented satisfactorily. The loan was fully
committed by the end of 1979 and $36.1 million was disbursed as of March 31,
1981. The loan is expected to be fully disbursed by the present closing date.
Loan No. 1703   Fourth BAPINDO:  $50 Million of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: September 25, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983
This project is being implemented satisfactorily. Commitments
have increased rapidly since the last supervision mission in May 1980. As
of March 31, 1981, 73% of the loan had been committed. Disbursements have
also caught up and it is now expected that the loan will be fully committed
by September 1981 and fully disbursed by the closing date.



- 49 -                       ANNEX II
49          ~          Page 22 of 28 pages
POPULATION AND NUTRITION
Population
Credit No. 300 Population: $13.2 Million Credit of April 20, 1972;
Effective Date: November 2, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project is nearing completion. The family planning program
continues to show outstanding performance. Annual targets of new contracep-
tive acceptors for the period 1972/73-1980/81 were nearly all exceeded.
Current contraceptive users as a proportion of married women of reproductive
age increased from 27% in 1979 to 36% in 1981. The birth rate is estimated to
have declined from about 44-46 per 1,000 population in 1971 to around 32-34
per 1,000 population in 1980. All the activities financed out of project
savings have been completed, except the utilization of two overseas
fellowships and the installation of the computer.  Two officials of the
National Family Planning Coordinating Board have been nominated for the
fellowships to undergo training during this year. Installation of the
computer is expected to be completed shortly and conversion of existing
programs and testing are scheduled to also be completed shortly.  All
activity connected with the computer should be completed by the end of
August 1981. Disbursements are expected to be completed by the scheduled
closing date of December 31, 1981.
Loan No. 1472   Second Population:  $24.5 Million Loan of July 6, 1977;
Effective Date: August 4, 1977; Closing Date: April 30,
1983
The implementation of the second population project is proceeding
satisfactorily.  The construction of all buildings has been completed.
The major issues outstanding are (a) expediting the implementation of the
contraceptive raw materials study, (b) implementation of the community
incentive scheme, and (c) acceleration of the rate of disbursement.
Regarding the contraceptive raw materials study, the mission was assured
that all obstacles will be overcome and progress should be faster in the
coming months. The community incentive scheme has been redesigned and the
National Family Planning Coordinating Board (BKKBN) undertook to prepare
an operational plan for review. This is expected shortly and we expect
implementation to start on schedule early 1981. Progress on these aspects,
coupled with timely submission of withdrawal applications, should
contribute to the acceleration of the rate of disbursement. The BKKBN is
also reviewing the costs of the project in order to determine the extent of
savings. We expect to receive the revised costs as well as proposals for
utilization of project savings, if any, shortly.



- 50 -                      ANNEX II
Page 23 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1869   Third Population:  $35 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Effective Date: September 10, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
This loan was declared effective on September 10, 1980 and a
smooth start to project implementation has begun. A Ministerial Decree
establishing a steering committee and appointing a project coordinator has
been signed. Civil works constitute the largest component of this project
and considerable attention is being given to this component so that delays
will not occur; the mission recommended that the staff entrusted with the
handling of this project be brought to at least the strength of that
provided for the second project (Loan 1472-IND).
Nutrition
Loan No. 1373   Nutrition Development:  $13.0 Million Loan of March 14,
1977; Effective Date:  March 31, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Despite initial difficulties which resulted in an overall delay of
about 1-1/2 years, project implementation is being improved and sustained.
Due mainly to the devaluation of the Rupiah and revised construction
standards, project cost is considerably less than anticipated at appraisal.
A partial reallocation of funds between components and categories has thus
been proposed. This measure, along with 18 months postponement of the
completion date, would allow virtually all appraisal targets to be
achieved as well as a modest expansion (beyond those targets) of existing
activities of the more successfull components, and would not alter project
concept, objectives or content. With regard to present project status, the
Center for Research and Development of Nutrition (CRDN) is now operational
and a long-term research program is under preparation. Food Technolgy
Development Center (FTDC) staff have moved to the new campus. The pilot
plant is still unfinished, but should be functioning by the end of 1981.
Village food storage is fast becoming an important area for further trials
and development. Nutrition Academy enrollment has been increased to 24,
with consequential staffing and space requirements. Consultants on the
Nutrition Improvement Pilot Project (NIPP) have produced an interim report,
reintroducing a positive, promotive program which accords with the views
expressed by previous Bank missions. Nutrition Education consultants have
submitted two reports on communication and behavioral change; pre-tested
materials are ready for reproduction. All NIPP villages will be covered.
Arrangements have been made for radio and television airtime. The Nutrition
Anemia Pilot Project (NAPP) has continued on schedule and shows favorable
returns on investment. No advance has been made in the preparation of a
master plan for home garden improvement.  The closing date has been post-
poned by one year to March 31, 1983.



- 51 -                       ANNEX II
Page 24 of 28 pages
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 451 Fourth Technical Assistance: $5 Million Credit of
January 2, 1974; Effective Date: February 15, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Progress under the project is satisfactory.
Credit No. 898 Fifth Technical Assistance: $10 Million Credit of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: September 5, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Progress under this project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1197   National Resource Survey and Mapping:  $13 Million Loan
of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The National Coordinating Agency for Surveys and Mapping
(BAKOSURTANAL) complex at Cibinong is completed, and most of the cartographic,
photographic processing, including color photo processing equipment and
printing equipment required to produce maps, is installed. Computer equipment
for resource analysis including a topographic data bank and flatbed plotter
has been installed. Various resource evaluation activities have been
undertaken using these facilities. Recruitment and training of new staff,
particularly at junior and middle level has recently been accelerated. The
new photography operation financed under the parallel Canadian Project was
delayed as a result of which the Bank agreed to extend the project until end
of 1983. The photography operation is now expected to start in July 1981 and
completed at the end of 1983.
TRANSPORTATION
Highways
Loan No. 1236   Fourth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: August 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project has been under implementation for four and a half years.
Because of slow execution, the closing date has been postponed by two years to
December 31, 1982. The only component still ongoing is the road betterment
program and the related consultancies for works supervision. Other
consultancies have been completed satisfactorily, sometimes with substantial
delays. Design changes by the Directorate General of Highways (DGH) geared to
speeding up construction works were reviewed by the October 1980 supervision
mission. Most of the changes were accepted but reinstatement of the original
standards in a few specific cases is now being finalized by DGH. According to
estimates there is expected to be a surplus of up to $10.5 million in the loan
account. Ways in which to use this surplus are under discussion; one option
is to increase the volume of road betterment by including new sections in the
project.



- 52 -
ANNEX II
Page 25 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1696   Fifth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date:  August 28, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Project implementation, which started nearly two years ago, is
substantially behind schedule. The causes for delay are: (a) the ambitious
project objectives, which translate into program-type components and numerous
consultancies; (b) overcentralization of the Directorate General of Highways
(DGH); (c) a shift of senior staff within DGH; and (d) new development
guidelines of the GOI under Repelita III emphasizing the spread of investments
over a larger number of projects with reduced standards. The latest
supervision mission noted a marked improvement in project execution, with all
components now actively pushed forward by DGH, and the project should be
completed with a total delay of only one year. The road betterment program is
well underway. The major issue of reoptimization of road betterment standards
is now solved satisfactorily and DGH should soon send to the Bank the contract
amendments legalizing the agreed changes. Tendering for the first batch of
bridge replacements should start soon. The Provincial Departments of Public
Works programs of support works for 1981 have just been submitted to the Bank
following several revisions. $6.8 million of the loan amount has been
cancelled due to misprocurement of road maintenance equipment.
Loan No. 2049   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway: $85 million Loan of October 9, 1981;
Not yet effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1987
The project would increase road capacity between Jakarta and
Cikampek (about 70 km to the east) by construction of a new toll road and by
improvements to the existing highway.
Marine Transport
Loan No. 1250   Second Shipping:  $54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project is part of the first phase of the Government's Inter-
Island Fleet Development Program and is designed to modernize, expand and
improve the efficiency of the inter-island fleet. Demand for general cargo
ships in the Regular Liner Service (RLS) expected at appraisal was slow in
materializing due to (i) slow scrapping of obsolete ships with consequent
reduced replacement demand; and (ii) effects of the rupiah devaluation on the
price of replacement ships. Conditions considerably improved in 1979 and 80%
of the loan has now been committed. The project entity, P.T. PANN, is
reasonably well managed; the operation and maintenance of its ships is being
regularly monitored and no major financial problems exist in its Bank-financed
operations. P.T. PELNI, the state-owned shipping line, accounting for about
half of the RLS, continues to incur substantial losses. On January 27, 1981,
Motor Vessel Tampomas operated by P.T. PELNI caught fire and sank while
carrying passengers from Jakarta to Sulawesi. The purchase of this ship was
financed in part from the proceeds of this loan. The circumstances of the
accident are the subject of an ongoing GOI Court of Inquiry.



- 53 -                  ANNEX II
Page 26 of 28 pages
Ports
Loan No. 1337   Tanjung Priok Port Project:  $32 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 3, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The Government-financed works in Basin III, delayed due to the
impact of the 1978 Rupiah devaluation, are completed, and the Basin III civil
works finance by the Bank loan, also delayed due to the devaluation, are 85%
completed. Civil works financed by the Bank loan in the Regional Harbor, are
62% completed. The work is now three months in arrears and a revised
construction schedule is being prepared. These delays will probably postpone
overall completion of the project but it is too early to estimate the full
effect of delays on project cost. Several Bank-financed studies which are
underway or have been completed, will enable the Government to identify
components of a further ports project suitable for Bank financing.
TOURISM
Credit No. 479 Bali Tourism: $16.0 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date: June 30,
1982
With the exception of the amenity core and the extension of some
utility services, infrastructure at Nusa Dua is complete. The access road
to Nusa Dua from the airport and the Denpasar bypass road were completed and
opened for traffic in December 1980. The preparation of additional infra-
structure improvements and possible participation by the Bali Tourism Deve-
lopment Board (BTDC) in hotel investment for Nusa Dua utilizing the uncom-
mitted portion of the credit is underway. On the other hand, the Ministry
of Transport is proposing to use additional funds from the credit to cover the
cost overrun incurred on the already completed access and bypass road
component. The allocation of the uncommitted funds to the two agencies is
under review by the Government. The market for tourism to Bali has held up
well in 1980/81. Hotel occupancies in international standard hotels in Bali
exceed 80%. The construction of a first hotel (450 rooms) by Garuda at Nusa
Dua is progressing well for completion in December 1982. The negotiations
with Club Mediterranee for a holiday village has been finalized and the
construction is expected to start in early 1982.
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1336   Second Urban Development:  $52.5 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project consists of provision of basic infrastructural
facilities including footpaths, drainage, water supply and human waste



ANNEX II
54 -                Page 27 of 28 pages
disposal to about 3,000 ha of densely populated slum areas in Jakarta and 374
ha in Surabaya. Community health workers are to be trained under a pilot
program in both cities. Except for small carryover items (filter plant, deep
wells and health clinics) and the conduct of a proposed urban transport study
for Jakarta under the technical assistance component (Jakarta transport study,
Semarang and Surabaya drainage studies), the project progress is essentially
complete. Upgrading costs for the program have been within the appraisal
estimates. About 3,435 ha of kampungs in Jakarta and 441 ha of kampungs in
Surabaya have been covered so far, benefitting a total population of about
1.4 million. About 180 community health workers in Jakarta and 93 in
Surabaya have been trained and are working in the improved kampungs.
Loan No. 1653   Third Urban Development:  $54 Million Loan of January 31,
1979; Effective Date: September 26, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project provides basic infrastructural facilities including
roads, footpaths, water supply, and sanitation to impoverished, low-income
kampungs (neighborhoods) in the cities of Jakarta (750 ha), Surabaya (580 ha)
Ujung Pandang (375 ha), Semerang (310 ha) and Surakarta (170 ha), benefitting
a total population of about 2.25 million. A comprehensive solid waste
management program is also included in Jakarta and Surabaya, together with a
drainage program in Surabaya. About 775 community health workers are to be
trained in the above two cities to work in the improved kampungs. The kampung
improvement is proceeding satisfactorily in all project cities. The
implementation progress of solid waste management and drainage components has
improved during this fiscal year (FY80/81) compared to last year. This
technical assistance component is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1972   Fourth Urban Development Project: $43 Million Loan of
May 8, 1981; Effective Date: September 9, 1981;
Closing Date: September 30, 1986
The loan has not yet been declared effective. The project expands
the Bank-s assistance to GOI s basic shelter programs evolved in earlier
projects and concentrated mainly in Jakarta and the major cities of East Java
to nine provincial capital cities spread throughout Indonesia. Basic infra-
structure and housing facilities will be provided through slum impovement and
sites and services developments on a total of over 2,000 ha benefitting an
estimatad 800,000 persons. Improvements to citywide infrastructure
deficiencies in main drainage; water supply and solid waste disposal will be
studied and implemented in three cities. A national urban mapping program
covering 125 cities will be undertaken providing base data for future city
planning, land registration and valuation programs. Institutional develop-
ment is a prominent feature and technical assistance for management, training
and feasibility studies to various urban authorities and agencies will be
provided.



ANNEX II
Page 28 of 28 pages
WATER SUPPLY
Loan No. 1049   Five Cities Water Supply:  $14.5 Million Loan
of October 31, 1974; Effective Date: May 21, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is about two and a half years behind schedule. Time was
lost because of delays in design work, tender evaluations, awards and contract
processing. All equipment supply and all major civil works contracts have
been completed or are under execution. Pipelaying is the only remaining major
work in progress and is delayed by the slow supply of special fittings. A
cost overrun of about 45/ is expected.
Loan No. 1709   Second Water Supply:  $36 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: February 29, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project is 9-12 months behind schedule due to delays in loan
effectiveness and in tendering and award of contracts.  Most procurement
contracts for equipment have been awarded except for the water meter contract.
The civil works bidding documents for the construction of water treatment
plants were approved during the last supervision mission and were tendered
in September 1981.  A problem affecting the Directorate of Sanitary
Engineering (DSE) in managing the project is its delay in employing management
consultants to develop the administrative capacity of the seven beneficiary
water enterprises (WEs) and to employ a management specialist for DSE's own
organization; both actions have been delayed and DSE's staff is not adequately
monitoring the WEs because of inexperience and heavy workload. Additional
staff have been employed for this purpose and are being trained.



ANNEX III
Page 1
INDONESIA
BUKIT ASAM COAL MINING DEVELOPMENT AND TRANSPORTATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetables of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project           Three years
(b)  Project prepared by                      : GOI and consultants
(c)  First presented to the Bank                 1976
(d)  Departure of the Appraisal Mission          October 1980
(e)  Completion of Negotiations                  November 1981
(f)  Planned Effectiveness                    : March 1982
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
A Bank engineering loan S-9-IND was used to finance completion of the
feasibility study for this project.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Agreement on a cost pricing principle for coal which will ensure a
13% return for PTBA subject to the conditions that prices would not
exceed long-term international coal prices adjusted for quality
differences and transport costs or fall below 80% of those prices
(para. 32).
(b) A letter of intent between PTBA and PLN on coal purchases (condition
of effectiveness, para. 32).
(c) Agreement on an implementation schedule for the interim power
supply (para. 48).
(d) Finalizing on-lending arrangements between GOI and PTBA and PT PANN
(condition of effectiveness, para. 53).
(e) Implementation of an accounting system for PTBA (para. 54).



- 57 -                         ANNEX III
Page 2
(f) Railway tariffs for coal movement which will be not less than 25%
of the delivered coal price during production build-up and which
thereafter will ensure an annual rate of return to ESS of 13% on
the revalued assets required for the project (para. 55).
(g) Implementation of an accounting system for ESS (para. 55).
(h) Monitoring of water quality and preparation and implementation of a
land reclamation plan (para. 61).






IBRD 13232R1
o100                       1020                                 IALAN50South Ch1na Sso        (,54HiLIPPINES
A  A      BRUNS°
\t>¢vs  \,  Mine  Y             ,9,>      tnd;ftt Ocaew~~4                %           Oc.4M aR
;Solokr > .y X 10
"~~~~~    ~ ~~~~~~~~~ ''  KIMANTANi
00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
P~-----+  NE  TRtL ANCKe EXESO                                                                   
aaOOSn, -AAop O                                                   " /Qem a g
*     POWER PLANT AN     LOADG 7    ACLTerminal                            s(
'  '     '4  T R        ' '     '> S          "                            \
- -- -  RNSMSSONSJ LINE                                                                    Alt
- - AND  -TORANSPOTPQE                                           eubtnXai
-*--PROVINCIALBGUNOARIES                                            Teral
ROADS                           0               /      LabLubklingga
14*                        10? 1A4N                                                  10F I
-   -  -.PROVINDONSIA                                                             1981
KJII'                 102e;E104T,I10I`MARHR198



